OUR PEOPLE PEOPLE PROVIDE THE ESSENTIAL ATTRACTING TALENT Beyond our own FMCG sector, LinkedIn Our status as the No.
1 Graduate Employer continues to be a key channel for attracting TALENT AND ENERGY TO FULFIL of Choice in the FMCG sector among our and engaging external talent.
target universities was maintained in 2015 relationship with LinkedIn was further Attracting, developing and retaining the across 34 countries.
This compares to just enhanced with the launch of LinkedIn very best people is critical to ensure that three in 2009 and 32 in 2014.
Elevate, a new content-sharing platform we succeed in our vision of accelerating which allows our people to show the world This result reflects our digital engagement growth in our business while reducing our their Unilever by sharing relevant content with students via social media and environmental footprint and increasing across their own social networks.
Our flagship our positive social impact.
initiative is the Future Leaders League While we work hard to ensure that we We rely on our people to deliver against an international competition among are attracting the right talent, internally our USLP commitments a challenge that universities which send teams to our global we monitor attrition regularly and are requires great endeavour, expertise and event, and which provides the opportunity committed to providing an environment energy on their part.
to interact with our senior management in which our people can balance work and and gain first-hand insights into business life in a way that makes sense for them.
The fundamental priorities of our approach and leadership.
The overall attrition rate in 2015 was 8.2%, to developing our people havent changed down 0.1 percentage points compared and underpin everything we do: Our status reveals our activities are to 2014 white collar population.
At successful in engaging with talented build depth of capability and leadership: management level the attrition rate graduates who recognise Unilever as live our values and build a performance was 7.2%, down 0.1 percentage points a place that is doing well by doing good culture: and compared to 2014. and where their career potential can be build an agile, flexible and diverse realised.
Our commitment to sustainability organisation.
is becoming an ever more important These priorities are supported by our reason why people are attracted to investment in our peoples well-being and Unilever as a career choice.
our leading-edge approach to advancing human rights, while we continue to make progress in the diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce.
WE ARE SAFETY MOBILE PHONES IN VEHICLES BUILDING A SAFETY CULTURE ACROSS OUR ENTIRE BUSINESS At Unilever we are committed to responsible growth and that means safe growth for our people.
We are therefore committed to a vision of zero fatalities and zero workplace injuries.
MOMO MOTOR ON MOBILE OFF IS OUR CAMPAIGN PROHIBITING MOBILE PHONE USAGE WHILE DRIVING.
MOMO INCLUDES HAND-HELD AND HANDS-FREE DEVICES.
28 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 LEARNING and will enable everyone to fulfil their Within Unilever, our supply chain is where Unilever operates in highly competitive potential and create important competitive the bulk of Unilevers people work and markets so recruiting, retaining and advantages for the Group.
The content has so is a big focus for our training activity.
developing skilled people are critical.
been refreshed, rationalised and made This number of people requires us to Our skills need to align to our strategy so more relevant with user reviews supporting focus on self-directed learning via the revenues grow and productivity improves a renewed focus on quality.
use of effective systems and core skills while our people grow professionally.
This year we have updated New mobile-enabled content will be the Learning Management System and To achieve this we improved and sharpened developed further during 2016.
The Hub all the core curricula, which cover over our learning strategy in 2015.
A priority uses digital technology and collaborative 1,300 individual online courses.
was to deliver the right learning at the right tools to meet the demands of modern, time in a form easy to use wherever and multilingual working.
Our face-to-face training still plays a key whenever needed.
Here we drive skills that develop deep But we are not restricted to our own functional understanding, with more than Our learning material also needs to keep internal approach.
Our leadership 15 new programmes being developed pace with the changing nature of working development includes a consortium across the whole of our supply chain, life where office-based work is a constantly programme where we partner with including Procurement, Planning and changing environment while many of our the worlds leading establishments.
We use WebEx extensively and people are on the move, working through The consortium programme is one way specifically on more general supply chain mobile devices.
At the same time, skills that we bring the learning outside-in, training, having reached more than 30% need updating ever more rapidly so our to invite our suppliers, customers and of our supply chain management team.
learning strategy must deliver professional like-minded companies to learn together.
education that is mobile, engaging, easy We also use face-to-face programmes to We selected topics and programmes to consume and on-demand.
drive professional supply chain leadership which, when learnt together with external development and have run programmes To achieve this we launched the Learning parties, enrich the learning process.
that cover the senior leadership teams in Hub in late 2015 which hosts all Unilevers These included Women Leadership, more than 60 of our factories globally.
We want to bring together Learning Professionals Program IMD, all business, leadership and functional Sustainability Cambridge in 2014 and We have further strengthened our skills in a single framework with all skills INSEAD in 2015, Asian Leaders IMD Manufacturing Training programme with the clearly aligned to our business strategy.
in 2016 and developing Asian Finance implementation of a new system specifically Extensive internal and external research Talents TMS Academy and Wharton to manage the driving of manufacturing has identified six business skills that are in 2016.
We have already included some skills of blue collar staff as part of our World crucial to Unilever in the 21st century programmes in the Four Acres curriculum.
OUR SAFETY RECORD Based on our Vision Zero strategy we WCM to create a stronger safety travel incidents, which is an area of focus updated our mission in 2015 to build programme overall and ensure the highest for the Group following the introduction an interdependent safety culture that level of safety and accountability for our of the global Safe Travel standard.
Safe protects the well-being of our employees, manufacturing teams.
We also appointed a travel incidents are recordable events visitors, contractors and assets to help dedicated process and construction safety that occur on the roads when our deliver responsible growth.
We also director to focus on large-scale risks.
employees drive designated vehicles on rolled out our Motor On Mobile Off company time or business and have a Unilever reports safety data from October campaign which bans the use of mobile collision with other road users, animals to September.
Our Total Recordable devices hands-free and hand-held or stationary objects.
Secondly, the Frequency Rate TRFR from 1 October while driving on company business.
acquisition of new companies with 2014 to 30 September 2015 increased to different safety cultures.
Thirdly, a major In our supply chain in 2015, we began 1.12 accidents per 1 million hours worked, transformation project that involved the integrating our behavioural-based up from 1.05 in 2014.
There are three main closing down of sites in the US.
BeSafE safety programme and World reasons for this increase.
Firstly, safe Class Manufacturing WCM methodology.
This provided the opportunity for the safety and manufacturing teams to work more closely in delivering continuous safety improvement in full alignment with WCM.
It also allowed us to combine the best elements from both BeSafE and Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 29 OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED ORGANISATION DEVELOPMENT and REN, which form our new Prestige To that end we became the first company Previously we have focused on the Fit to Win business within Personal Care.
We also to adopt the UN Guiding Principles programme to be leaner and more agile acquired the Camay and Zest brands, and Reporting Framework and in June 2015 alongside Project Half for Growth to simplify added Grom, the premium gelato business, we were the first company to produce a the organisation and our processes.
All in all we detailed, stand-alone report using the welcomed more than 2,300 new employees Framework entitled Enhancing In 2015 we have focused more on to the Unilever Group.
continuous improvement and being equipped to maximise growth Another significant project has been This is Unilevers Human Rights Report, opportunities.
Importantly, we have the formation of the Baking, Cooking which can be read at www.
com looked at addressing organisational and Spreads business within the Foods .
design principles as enablers to deliver category, which has created a more It focuses on Unilevers eight salient a leaner structure that is organised dedicated, focused organisation to human rights issues those at risk in the most efficient and effective way, bring greater speed and agility to of the most severe negative impacts driving speed and agility.
through a companys activities or Growth opportunities have also come business relationships.
HUMAN RIGHTS through acquisitions and we welcomed Business flourishes in societies where The report highlights challenges and key several new businesses requiring different human rights are respected, upheld and areas of progress, including Unilevers support to ensure new colleagues can advanced.
People are our greatest asset work to empower women, the fight against integrate and benefit from Unilevers size and empowering them is not only the right sexual harassment and how we are and scale while ensuring their growththing to do, but also ensures a sustainable addressing health and safety issues focused, entrepreneurial cultures future for Unilever.
building and, where needed, effective To make this a reality, in 2014 Unilever Notable acquisitions have included remedy are vital to these efforts.
formalised its commitment to respecting four premium skin care businesses, human rights as part of the USLP and Dermalogica, Murad, Kate Somerville announced it would implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and undertake to report publicly on progress.
860 employees trained as ambassadors for human rights.
19, 000 WE ARE people trained on ending sexual TAKING ACTION harassment and related topics.
FOCUSING ON HUMAN RIGHTS ON HUMAN RIGHTS ACROSS OUR SUPPLY CHAIN In 2015 we published our first Human Rights Report which included a spotlight on our efforts, including training programmes, to end sexual harassment at the Kericho tea estate in Kenya.
30 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 EMPOWERING WOMEN BY 2020 WE WILL EMPOWER 5 MILLION WOMEN In 2015, with UN Women, we announced our commitment over the next three years to expand economic opportunities for women in our value chain, help reduce unpaid care work and improve safety for women and girls.
OUR KONYA ICE CREAM FACTORY IN TURKEY, WHICH PRODUCES CORNETTO, MAX AND TWISTER, IS A LEADING EXAMPLE OF HOW THE GENDER EQUALITY OF OUR WORKFORCE IS IMPROVING.
32% 40% OF ENGINEERS EMPLOYED ARE WOMEN.
Women make up a large number of our consumers and 32% of our workforce, so are crucial to the future sustainability of Unilever as a business.
Empowering women includes access to new opportunities and better working conditions, including improved safety, training and education, career progression and better pay.
It also describes key areas of focus for DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Report and Accounts, the number the future.
Unilever cannot succeed alone We believe in a diverse workforce to serve increases to 536 males and 146 21% and being honest about the challenges our diverse consumer base.
50% six out of 12 of the Board is crucial to progress.
Therefore we will the foundation of a sustainable, strong is female, compared with 36% in 2014. continue to address human rights issues culture.
We want our people to feel Of our total workforce of 168,921, 114,975 beyond first-tier suppliers, taking a confident, comfortable and able to reach 68% were male and 53,946 32% were commodity and geographical focus, and their potential regardless of gender, age, female at the end of 2015. collaborating with other organisations in ability, background or sexual preference.
order to influence systemic change.
We We will continue to work to improve these Our attitude to diversity and inclusion also will also ensure that we track progress performance statistics.
We are committed reflects our wider values as a Group, which robustly, by building frameworks for to creating opportunities for women and to define how we do business and how we improved data collection, verification empowering them in a way that goes interact with our colleagues, partners, and analysis.
beyond our own operations and into our customers and consumers.
Our four core wider stakeholder communities through We want to go beyond respecting values are: integrity: responsibility: our supply chain partners particularly to actively promoting human rights, respect: and being pioneering.
embedding this into every part of On gender equality we continue to make our business.
We have the clearly articulated ambition progress, although work remains.
By the of empowering 5 million women by 2020 end of 2015, 45% of our total management WELL-BEING through our USLP, helping women and the were women, up from 38% in 2010 and Our work to help our people learn and communities in which they live and work 25 countries have reached their gender contribute to our growth is underpinned by to improve their livelihoods.
Each To encourage more women into market has a comprehensive plan which At the most senior levels, however, the management, we have partnered with incorporates physical and mental plus ratios are not as high.
Among the top 101 INSEAD since 2013 on the INSEADemotional and purposeful well-being.
In executive managers, 23 23% were women Unilever Women Leadership Program 2015 we built and rolled out internationally compared with 18% in 2014.
If you include which is delivered at our Four Acres our well-being workshop, Thrive, which is employees who are statutory directors campuses.
The role of Four Acres in available to all.
By the end of 2015, 17,000 of the corporate entities whose financial London and Singapore is to provide the employees across Unilever in all markets information is included in the Groups 2015 best learning available to ensure that we had attended a Well-being programme.
consolidated accounts in this Annual develop leaders who will play an active role for Unilever and society at large.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 31
