Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 36 Strategic report We are Vedanta Sustainable development report Our strategy to sustainable development Commit, Connect, Care.
Alongside delivering high-quality assets and Our Approach to Sustainability low-cost operations, our Sustainable Development Model is integral to Vedantas core business strategy and helps us conduct our business in line with our values of trust, entrepreneurship, innovation, excellence, integrity and sustainability.
Responsible It is made up of three pillars Responsible Stewardship, Stewardship Building Strong Relationships and Adding & Sharing It is our responsibility to respect natural and Value, based on our strategy to deliver long-term human resources, at all stages of a project.
sustainability as shown in the diagram.
In FY2015 we added a fourth pillar: Strategic Communications, this reflects our dedication to transparency and to engage with all stakeholders.
All these pillars capture Strategic the steps we must take to ensure a long-term, successful future for our business meeting our Communications strategic goals of growth, long-term value and sustainable development.
The development of our Sustainable Development Framework over the last Adding and few years provides us with a robust structure to Sharing Value Building Strong deliver this supported by our Sustainable We have a purpose beyond Relationships profit and make an Development Model pillars.
Connecting with important contribution stakeholders helps us to socio-economic build a business t development Our model and framework is aligned to global for the future.
best practice standards, including the United Nations Global Compacts UNGC 10 principles, the International Finance Corporation, the International Council on Mining and Metals and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development.
This consistently rigorous approach has helped us win over 40 awards from external agencies during the year, which are detailed in our Sustainable Development Report 201415.
We are committed to partnering nations in their journey of growth, by exploring the potential of Implementing our strategy We have created a management framework natural resources.
In doing so, we are committed to put our Sustainable Development Model to ensure a zero harm culture for our planet into practice.
We are committed to ensuring and people.
Our transparent and continuous this Framework is followed and managed in engagement with our stakeholders connect all our operations and new projects as part of our sustainability journey.
Our goal is for the working partnerships and builds long-lasting Framework to be delivered by all employees and relationships with our stakeholders.
We care embedded in every decision we take, ensuring by demonstrating a purpose beyond profits.
what we do is safe, ethical and transparent.
Highlights of the year 1 4.0 million COMMIT CONNECT beneficiaries of our community investment CARE 2014:4.1million Sustainable Development Report 201415 US$42 million invested in community development Visit our interactive online Sustainable 2014:US$49million Development Report 201415 at sd.
com  40 million tonnes of CO equivalent 2 carbon footprint 2014: 37 million tonnes of CO equivalent 2 1 Some beneficiaries may have been involved in more than oneproject.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 37 Our sustainability approach reflects the local needs advocacy, child and forced labour have become Looking ahead and requirements of our communities and includes more prominent issues over the year, while other Publish a tax report in stakeholder feedback.
Continuous internal auditing priorities remain consistent with the previous year the next financial year is fundamental to keeping us on track and the and therefore we have focused on providing Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme greater detail on these issues in our SD Report.
VSAP drives compliance with the Framework.
Expand leadership Results and action plans are reviewed by our A fair and transparent business training in ethics Executive and Sustainability Committees.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code and integrity provides a set of principles to guide our employees, Going forward, global partnerships such as our while our Sustainable Development Framework Build more partnerships involvement with the World Business Council for outlines best practice standards that drive with best practice Sustainable Development, UNGC and the Global improvement consistently across all operations.
organisations such as Reporting Initiative will become increasingly the UN and WBCSD important to challenge ourselves to go further.
The Code covers issues from human rights, insider We also intend to share more experiences with trading and political contributions: to competition, Join collaborative sector peers and other global businesses.
conflicts of interest and confidentiality.
It provides industry initiatives to guidelines for all businesses to assist employees share best practice Sustainability governance in meeting high standards of personal and Embedding sustainability into day-to-day business professional integrity.
Training in our Code is requires leadership from all levels, and ultimate mandatory for all new hires.
In total 24,068 man accountability lies with the Vedanta Board.
The Board hours of training in Human Rights and Code of oversees and reviews sustainability performance of Business Conduct and Ethics was given to all our the Group through its Sustainability Committee and employees and contractors.
The committees Chairman and Group CEO regularly updates the Board on its A key focus is absolute intolerance to fraud, bribery progress.
Our policies and guidance notes are and corruption and we welcome the Indian available to all employees through the corporate Governments policy in recent years to confront this.
website, subsidiary portals and through periodic Despite our predominant presence being in India, awareness-training sessions.
we are held to account by laws in the United States, United Kingdom and Europe, due to our dual listing.
Our business gives rise to a number of social and Therefore, if we suspect malpractice anywhere in environmental impacts, both positive and negative.
our operations, we undertake a rigorous Along with our stakeholders, we prioritise which of investigation under the UK Fraud and Bribery Act.
these issues we will tackle, and when.
The process by which we determine what is material, i. e. what We report to global standards of excellence is most significant to our stakeholders and our In line with the Strategic Communications pillar business is referred to as completing a materiality of our Sustainable Development Model, our review, detailed in our Sustainable Development reporting is transparent, credible and rigorous.
It covers the full scope of our operations: is aligned to the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 and In FY2015, we repeated our materiality review to is externally verified.
It also integrates all 10 understand if stakeholder priorities had changed.
principles of the United Nations Global Compact We found that ethics and integrity, community and all eight Millennium Development Goals.
engagement and impact, public policy and 0.46 US$61.5 million 0 lost time injury frequency rate 2014:0.54 invested in environment initiatives category 4 or 5 severe environmental 2014:US$57 million incidents 2014: 1 2 US$4.6 billion 88% 100% tax payments to exchequers 2014:US$5.3million.
of sites certified to ISO 14001 environmental of subsidiary businesses have biodiversity standard 2014: 83% management plans in place or in preparation 2014: 63% 2,325 4,635 full-time female employees 2014:2,329 55% village meetings held 2014: 3,538 non-hazardous waste recycling rate: 2014:74% 100% 756,643 periodic medical examinations for 100% allapplicable employees 2014:100% safety training hours delivered to all staff 2014:810,000 Assurance of all sites by our internal audit 2 This includes direct and indirect taxes.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 38 Strategic report We are Vedanta Sustainable development report continued Safety and health Protecting the safety, health and wellbeing of Responsible stewardship those who work for us is a business imperative.
Our stakeholders recognise this and have rated Objectives and targets Status Performance Objectives and targets safety and health as our highest strategic priority.
FY2015 FY2015 FY2016 Occupational health and safety In a geographically diverse business like ours, Achieve zero fatal 8 Fatalities 5 In India and 3 Achieve zero fatal where attitudes to health and safety can vary, accidents.
fostering a culture of zero harm is no easy Loss Time Injury LTIFR Vedanta : 0.46.
Our Sustainable Development Frequency Rate LTIFR performance as per Framework points us to the highest recognised to be less than or recently released ICMM equal to 0.51. reporting guidelines global standards, while continuous auditing and and enable future decisive leadership drive compliance.
In FY2015, 756,643 hours of safety training Behaviour-based safety Successfully rolled out Implement Safety were delivered to employees and contractors training module to at HZL.
Interactions at two be rolled out to other businesses in addition on subjects including working at height, permit businesses.
to work, job safety analysis, first aid, incident Environment reporting and safe behaviour.
Water Savings Early commissioning Water Saving: 2.49MCM.
We are seeing tangible outcomes of this recovery initiatives and safety drive, with fewer fatalities and lost time implementation of water resource management plan injuries.
However, any unsafe incident is entirely has led to a water saving of unacceptable and tragically, eight employees 7.38 MCM.
died due to work-related causes over the year.
Energy Savings Internal benchmarking Energy Saving: Five were in India and three in Africa.
and technological process 0.88 Million GJ.
has been fully investigated with each subsidiary intervention has led to an energy savings: 0.92 Million GJ.
companys Chief Executive or Chief Operating Officer presenting a detailed appraisal of the root By 2015-16, all sites All our sites have either BMP By 2015-16, all sites to have Biodiversity in place or are on course to to have Biodiversity causes of each fatality to the Boards Sustainability Management Plan in meet our FY2016 target.
Management Plan in Committee and updating them on action plans place.
Achieved Not achieved In progress During the reporting year, all sites conducted medical examinations for staff.
In Liberia we conducted screenings for Ebola and supported employees and their communities with aid parcels.
A further 87 sites became OHSAS 18001 certified FY2014: 85% for occupational health and safety management.
What we focus on: Looking ahead Achieve zero fatal accidents Re-establish LTIFR base performance as per Environment recently released ICMM reporting guidelines and enable future reduction in LTIFR targets Implement safety performance standards: 75% of critical elements in the standards to be implemented across the business Implement Safety Interactions at two Safety Responsible businesses in addition to HZL Water and health stewardship Environment We are conscious that our operations give rise to negative environmental impacts, from gas and particulate emissions and hazardous waste, to water extraction and landscape modification.
We Energy and manage our footprint to the most stringent global standards throughout the project life cycle and, climate change over FY2015, invested US$61.5 million to research new and innovative ways of protecting the environment and to bring efficiency savings to our bottom line.
Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 39 We have developed specific environmental objectives and targets and review performance The right to water particularly with regard to energy and water management.
We are proud to report zero serious A staggering 1.8 billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water, environmental incidents over the year compared while 4 billion are without adequate sanitation.
In India, the Government to one in FY2014.
Our goal is to obtain ISO 14001 has announced that all households will have complete sanitation by 2019. certification at all sites and 46 52 operations are now certified.
All subsidiary businesses have been In 201415, we pledged universal access to safe Water, Sanitation and assessed with environmental gaps identified in Hygiene WASH in the workplace, an initiative of the World Business Council energy, water management, greenhouse gas for Sustainable Development, which brings businesses together to create a emissions and biodiversity management plans.
Going forward, we will be using a modified version of the Action plans are now in place to address these.
WASH water tool appropriate to our operations.
Water It has been highly valuable to have Vedanta Resources on board the As well as championing the universal right to WASH Pledge.
The Company is at the forefront of leadership on WASH water, we also strive to reduce our operational issues not only in the Indian business space but also in its industry.
Our mining, smelting and refining Company is sending a strong message to the global business community processes use considerable quantities of water, that business can and should make a concrete contribution to the societal often in regions of drought.
goals surrounding water, sanitation and hygiene.
Joppe Cramwinckel, Director of the WBCSDs Water Cluster Our approach is outlined in our Water Policy and delivered through our Water Management Standard.
We facilitate the integration of water Green House Gas Emissions tonnes of Co equivalent 2 management into decision-making processes for new and existing projects, which helps ensure all Scope I Emission tCO e Scope II Emission tCO e 2 2 necessary measures to avoid, minimise or, in some Sector 2014-15 2013-14 2014-15 2013-14 cases, compensate for the impacts of our projects that are in place.
This includes an obligation for Zinc India 4,774,105 4,576,813 160,924 174,083 all our subsidiary businesses to conduct a water Zinc International 48,019 40,034 703,955 770,296 screening assessment to identify sensitive water Aluminium 19,450,763 18,317,289 583,164 15,419 resources, aquatic habitats and any known or Copper India Australia 1,221,132 1,230,907 74,175 174,593 suspected water resource constraints in proximity Copper Africa 107,597 110,512 5,460 13,513 to each operation.
Total water conservation levels reached 7.38 million cubic meters MCM, against a countries where sources of renewable energy are target of 2.49MCM for FY2015.
limited, we fully support the global campaign to reduce GHG emissions.
The management plans and Most of our operational processes have been improvement projects are in place to address this COMMIT designed to be zero discharge, where the challenge.
We calculate and report Green House Gas CONNECT CARE generated waste water is treated and recycled inventory i. e. Scope 1 process emissions and other Sustainable Development Report 201415 for cooling and other applications.
In addition to direct emissions and Scope 2 purchased electricity these initiatives, effluent and sewage treatment as defined under the World Business Council for plants are installed at many locations for reusing Sustainable Development WBCSD and World water at primary locations.
Resource Institute WRI GHG protocols.
Energy and climate change During FY2015, we conducted internal As an extractive industry, we have a profound benchmarking on energy consumption among responsibility to address the planets undisputed all our subsidiaries, and we are pleased to report warming and to adapt to future impacts.
It that we met our energy targets over the year, remains a high-profile challenge, with many of our saving 0.92 million gigajoules.
operating countries such as India, Australia and African nations predicted to experience the worst impacts of a changing climate.
Looking ahead Implement actions identified in each Our Energy and Carbon Policy mandates that all businesss environmental management plan subsidiary businesses must apply global best practice to minimise greenhouse gas GHG emissions and Implement biodiversity management plans For more information about energy use, looking to energy management at all sites our environment and impacts, standards such as ISO 50001, and deploying the approach and mitigation Implement WASH pledge action plan latest technology to optimise efficiencies.
Although strategy, please refer to our Explore potential further global or industry reducing our GHG emissions is a challenge as the online Sustainable partnerships to share best practice majority of our operating sites are in developing Development Report 201415. http: .
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 40 Strategic report We are Vedanta Sustainable development report continued Stakeholder engagement We stand by our philosophy of transparency and Building strong relationships believe that anyone should be able to voice their opinions: that they should be listened to: and that Objectives and Targets Status Performance Objectives and targets they can expect a considered and constructive FY2015 FY2015 FY2016 response.
This is the basis for connecting with Community relations others and building strong relationships.
Implementation of SEP Needs base assessment All sites to complete to be monitored.
All sites completed at major Indian needs assessment.
To illustrate the importance we place in this, we to review their needs and sites whereas remaining impact assessments.
Pilot social impact have added Strategic Communications as a fourth assessment for Indian pillar to our Sustainable Development Model.
reflects the emphasis we place on  of Community Grievance Roll out of SAP working and also global trends of consumerism in grievance systems to be Management system at all based programme emerging markets meaning that more people than monitored.
management tool for ever have an interest in commodity production.
community grievance We have identified six stakeholder groups that development and stakeholder have a significant interest in our operations, engagement.
formally consulting with every group on other Ensuring 100% coverage of Code of Conduct Human Capacity building and issues throughout the year.
Human Rights and Code of Rights training for all new refresher courseCommunities Conduct training for all new starters undertaken as part E-Learning module on hires.
Code of Conduct to be Shareholders and investors implemented.
Industry suppliers, customers, peers Employees Civil society non-governmental and other organisations Our ongoing dialogue with those Governments affected by our presence is now firmlyembedded in our Sustainable Looking ahead Development Model.
Two-way Conduct an externally-moderated stakeholder engagement workshop on communication, humility and sustainability transparency help us connect with Consolidate all stakeholder engagements stakeholders and build a business fit through a centralised IT system for the future.
Human rights Our Human Rights Policy is aligned to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights What we focus on: and includes strict prohibition of child and forced labour either directly or through contract labour.
Additionally, our Code of Conduct commits us to comply with all relevant national laws and Community regulations, underpinning our approach to engagement protecting the fundamental rights of our employees and contract workforce.
Human rights training is an integral part of our Sustainable Development Framework with around 27,068 man hours of training on Human Rights and the Code of Conduct given in FY2015.
We support Child Human Building Strong collective bargaining and recognise unions, with labour rights Relationships systems for employee development, remuneration and grievance redress.
Our rigorous Environmental and Social Impact Assessments ESIA include the obligation to undertake human rights screening in all new acquisition activities none in FY2015.
Land and Under the leadership of the Vedanta Sustainability Committee, we carried out internal due diligence resettlement on the UN Human Rights principles for all Vedanta operations.
This included risk assessments to Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 41 identify potential human rights and child labour related risks.
The assessment confirmed that the Human Rights Policy is being effectively implemented by all units.
The assessment further highlighted the need for periodic internal capacity building around implementing our human rights standards.
Protecting children and indigenous people Despite operating in countries where the risk of child labour may be high, during FY2015 no instances of child labour in our operations came to the Groups attention.
We ensure that contractors and vendors understand our expectations with guidance provided to sites to eliminate any breach.
We also carry out periodic inspections of our Vedantas biggest-ever community remote mine locations and require age proof identification for all contract workers.
needs assessment, India The Groups standards and guidance note on Understanding community needs and expectations is a complex and the subject was rolled out to support the sensitive process.
In FY2015, we completed our most comprehensive, implementation of our related technical standard.
structured and collaborative community engagement to date.
In partnership The core aim of the standard is to enable our with governmental and non-governmental organisations, a detailed needs project teams to engage, negotiate and partner assessment was carried out for every community adjacent to our sites.
with these vulnerable groups in a manner that avoids negative impacts and risks for all Drawing on dedicated local personnel to act as conduits between business stakeholders, especially the indigenous peoples and community, we undertook around 3,500 village and community meetings and vulnerable tribes.
It also outlines our desire to and around 260 panchayat meetings village self-governments.
Each create opportunities for positive economic and community group had the opportunity to voice their opinions: the main social development, within the context of the concerns we heard were around livelihoods and the environment primarily unique requirements of these groups.
Community engagement Going forward, we will be working with communities to help them We are privileged visitors to some of the worlds understand our business better, including a focus on environmental hazards.
most remote and underdeveloped regions.
We A challenge will be managing expectations arising from this consultation.
For have a duty to respect, learn from and create a example, where we cannot provide employment we will explore vocational shared understanding with those who host us.
training, entrepreneurship options focusing on women and other Connecting with our communities is not just the employability routes.
The needs assessment will be repeated in three to four right thing to do, it is fundamental to our licence years time.
It will be followed with rigorous assessment of projects against to operate.
the needs of the community.
We believe local communities, particularly indigenous peoples, have the right to participate in No category 4 or 5 incidents were recorded in decision making about access to natural resources FY2015, although lower-level incidents such as and engage with them through Group meetings, village road blockages and strikes were recorded, public hearings, grievance mechanisms, cultural particularly related to employment and contractor events, and philanthropical activities via The issues, infrastructure projects and some operational Vedanta Foundation.
issues including land and traffic management.
Our community grievance processes are a key step in preventing concerns from escalating into significant issues or disputes, risking the viability of operations.
COMMIT Our community grievance processes are a key CONNECT CARE step in preventing concerns from escalating into Sustainable Development Report 201415 significant issues or disputes, risking the viability of operations.
All public grievances are resolved as per our Grievance Redressal Technical Standard.
All community incidents and grievances are For more information on how recorded and categorised as negligible 1, minor we engaged, material aspects 2, moderate 3, serious 4 or disastrous 5, and identified and the progress we captured on a monthly basis.
made on these material aspects, please refer to our online Sustainable Caption: Need base assessment exercise at TSPL, Punjab.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 42 Strategic report We are Vedanta Sustainable development report continued Economic value We make an important contribution to socioAdding and sharing value economic development through job creation, taxes, access to commodities and infrastructure, Objectives and Targets Status Performance Objectives and targets community empowerment and social mobility.
FY2015 FY2015 FY2016 In doing so we demonstrate that our business has Human Resources a purpose beyond profit.
Roll-out of Technical Pilot assessment To include 1,000 eligible ACT UP in all Group completed for two skill employees for the Employees companies for the sets Smelting & Mining Technical Assessment.
Around 82,000 people work hard at Vedanta every specified technical in Sterlite Copper and roles.
day to make it the success that it is.
Every single employee can expect to be inspired to meet their Roll-out plan for other skill potential: to feel empowered and united under sets in all the businesses shared values.
Identification of next set of Phase I of the programme Phase II planned Our strategy is to build a culture of high- 50 stars for an intensive successfully completed covering the next 50 performance, entrepreneurial innovation, while programme preparing the including 50 high-potential high-potential stars for next generation for stars in a structured the next development caring for and supporting everyone who works with leadership roles.
To safeguard our future competitiveness, we also seek to identify and develop leadership skills: 25% of Vedanta Board Ms Zotova joined Vedanta 25% of Vedanta to be female by Board this year.
Board to be female create a fair workplace free from discrimination: 201516. by 201516 all and respect human rights above all else.
appointments to be made on merit.
We are proud of the diversity of backgrounds we Continue to focus on 15% of women recruited Continue to focus come from different perspectives help us solve diversity with an were at a professional on diversity with an the complex challenges we face and make us objective to ensure 15% level.
objective to ensure 15% of women recruited are of women recruited more responsive to future risks and opportunities.
at a professional or are at a professional or Creating an inclusive workforce starts in the graduate level.
community and continues through our talent and development programmes.
It means focusing specifically on equal opportunities for women, where we know we need to significantly improve our performance.
It is beneficial for our business to hire people who understand the market and can engage effectively We care by demonstrating with contractors and suppliers.
Ensuring managers a purpose beyond profit.
are from the local area is particularly important in helping us relate to the issues faced by neighbouring communities, thus connecting What we focus on: our business and sustainability strategies.
Over the reporting period, across our business, the total percentage of senior management who are Economic locally hired is: India 87%, Australia nil, Zambia 67%, Namibia nil, Ireland 100% and South value Africa 75%.
We believe that we must invest in developing and retaining key talent to drive innovation and efficiency within the business.
In this regard, our attrition rate has remained stable Broader and this year was reported at less than 5%.
Community economic Adding and impact benefit Community impact Sharing Values The communities in and around our operations should get a fair share of the benefits, whether through employment, trade and enhanced infrastructure, or greater empowerment to voice opinion.
Succession planning Supply chain Our community investment strategy focuses on Employees management Training and health, education, livelihoods and environment.
development In FY2015, we invested US$42m benefiting around 4.0m people globally through building hospitals, schools and infrastructure, developing Labour rights and relations employability skills, and engaging in community programmes.
Please refer to our online Sustainable Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 43 Development Report 201415 to find details and activities on areas of focus over the year.
We believe that volunteering is a means of contributing to our local communities and a way to engage our employees, particularly when employees co-create community initiatives.
Employee volunteering has brought many additional advantages: it has fostered a greater sense of responsibility among our staff and helped create a more motivated team and united culture.
Our role in industry As the largest producer of aluminium, crude oil, copper and zinc-lead in India we make a significant contribution to the development and maturity of many markets.
Due to the scale of our operations, we generate opportunities for downstream Championing women industries and support services, which has led to the growth of other industries which are entrepreneurs, India capitalising on the increased availability of domestic raw materials.
Sterlite Copper has been creating and supporting Sakhi self-help groups forrural women for 10 years and has formed 1,056 groups over this period, Sourcing locally benefits local economies and reaching 15,251 women participants.
The Sakhis bring together governments, contributes to reducing our carbon governmental organisations and six non-governmental organisations footprint and can improve skills development and NGOs under Vedantas vision of developing women entrepreneurs to training in areas such as health and safety, as well create social mobility and economic empowerment.
as making improvements to local infrastructure.
Training is offered in book-keeping, leadership and decision-making, and All our activities are focused on ensuring customer members receive assistance to grow income-generating enterprises needs are met in an appropriate and timely ranging from prawn pickle processing to dried flower production: candle manner, including assisting our customers with making to rabbit rearing.
technical issues and product development for first use.
Customer satisfaction surveys are conducted Groups are based on principles of fairness and democracy and are born periodically by external third parties.
out of a needs assessment to understand the issues and barriers facing women.
For example, many women have reported a lack of access to In FY2014, SAP Supplier Relation Management credit as a barrier and thus microfinance has become a key focus of Sakhis.
systems were rolled out across the business.
No cases of non-compliance with relevant regulations, As a result of these self-help groups, women are earning an average of anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, monopoly US$48 a month more than they were previously, a relatively large sum in and voluntary codes concerning the health and rural Tamil Nadu.
Furthermore, many have secured loans ranging from safety impacts of our products and services were US$800 to over US$6,000 to grow their enterprises.
Similarly, no significant fines for nonof the Group during the reporting period was US$642,000, a milestone in compliance with laws and regulations concerning the Sakhi goal of being self-sufficient in funding.
the provision and use of products and services were reported.
Our role in society Positive relationships with our shareholders and lenders ensure that we are able, through access to a progressive dividend that was increased in nine finance, to expand and grow our business.
As many out of 10 years and held constant for one year.
lenders are aligned to the Equator Principles and International Finance Corporation standards, At a broader level, we are committed to our Sustainable Development Framework and contributing to the development of democracy and Model act as important tools.
democratic processes in the countries where we operate.
We do this in a number of ways, including In order to meet the economic commitments through membership of industry organisations and that the business has with its finance providers, international bodies.
In addition to contributing we invest in projects and businesses to drive the US$4.6 billion to host governments in tax revenue development of the Group asset base and increase over the year and employing around 82,000 people production, and therefore sales.
directly and indirectly, we also supported governments in building infrastructure such as We have a progressive dividend policy and have roads, housing, sanitation and healthcare facilities.
returned US$1.6 billion in dividends to shareholders since the IPO in 2004.
Since our IPO at 390 pence in Caption: Sakhi Women self-help group December 2003, shareholders have seen a Total members at Sterlite Copper Tuticorin Shareholder Return of over 200% and we have paid http: .
