Corporate Vedanta Resources plc Strategic governance and Financial Additional Annual report and accounts FY2015 report Directors reports statements information 101 Sustainability Committee report This Report provides details of the role and responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee and the work it has undertaken during theyear.
Vedantas business model is to deliver operational excellence while demonstrating world class standards for governance, safety and social responsibility in the locations of the operations.
This approach is fundamental to gain and maintain our license to operate and is vital to capture loyalty and insulate the company against crisis.
The Sustainability Model, comprising of three pillars: Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships and Adding & Sharing Value was further strengthened this year with the addition of a new fourth pillar Strategic Communications, that reflects our commitment to complete transparency and emphasises our principles of community dialogue and mutual respect, including Euan Macdonald, Chairman, Sustainability Committee free prior informed consent to access natural resources.
The Sustainability Model guides us to ensure a long-term, sustainable future of our business operations, meeting our growth targets, and creating long-term value for all our stakeholders.
The Vedanta Sustainability Framework has enabled significant improvements in the way we do business.
The Groups vastly The Vedanta Sustainability improved safety performance is testament that robust practices Framework has enabled significant and processes can have a direct impact on performance.
In 2014-15, we began to see tangible outcomes of our safety drive, with far improvements in the way we fewer fatalities and lost time injuries.
However, any unsafe incident dobusiness.
is entirely unacceptable and I am deeply saddened that eight people lost their lives while working at Vedanta.
Each subsidiary companys Chief Executive presented a detailed appraisal of the root causes and action plans to the Committee.
We maintained our focus on containing our impact on air, water and land use, to achieve our target for Water savings and Energy savings this year.
As the businesses have met many of our goals, we have set escalated benchmarks.
As we enter a new phase of our sustainability journey, the Committee recommended businesses to join WBCSD WASH pledge, Global Compact Network Women Empowerment Principles and other charters, to contribute towards establishing formal partnerships with national and international bodies on the cause of Sustainable Development.
The Committee also advocated the internal committee to review gap assessment against UN principles of Human Rights and recognised that the subsidiary businesses need to improve their stakeholder engagement and management processes.
We are using the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme VSAP as our internal sustainability risk management tool to ensure framework compliance.
As a result of follow up audit process, review and implementation of action plans each of the business operational sites and mines have made the SMART objectives in line with our framework requirements and now monitor the performance at a regular intervals.
I take this opportunity to thank the management across our businesses for their commitment to VSAP, which has been a demanding exercise.
com Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2015 102 Corporate governance and Directors reports Sustainability Committee report continued Membership and attendance CSRacted as secretary of the Committee and groups subsidiary The Sustainability Committee comprises the following Directors and companies Chief Executives or their representatives were invited to met on four occasions during the year.
Number of The main responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are: meetings Percentage attended attendance To advise on sustainability policies and framework, clearly setting out the commitments of the group to manage matters of Euan Macdonald, Chair 4 4 100% sustainable development effectively: Tom Albanese 4 4 100% To review and approve targets for sustainability performance and Kishore Kumar 4 4 100% report to the Board with respect to their appropriateness and assess progress towards achieving those targets: The President Group Communication, Sustainable Development To recommend initiatives required to institutionalise a and CSR acted as secretary of the Committee and all invited CEOs sustainability culture through involvement of leadership, or their HSE representatives attended the meetings.
employees and communities at all levels: To review and report to the Board, the performance of the Group Responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee and the Group companies with respect to the implementation of The responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee are set out in its the Vedanta Sustainability Framework through the Sustainability terms of reference which are available on the Companys website Assurance Programme so that sustainability and reputation www.
com from the Company Secretary.
The related risks are assessed, controlled and managed effectively: and President, Group Communication, Sustainable Development and To approve the Sustainability Report prior to publication.
Sustainability Committee activities during the year The main areas of activity of the Sustainability Committee during the year are summarised below: Area of Responsibility Item Sustainability Framework Review and update Sustainable Development Policies: Providing oversight of the progress made on the development of the sustainability model andframework: Review the implementation of the action plan emerging from Vedantas Sustainability Assurance programme VSAP : Review & approve sustainable development objectives and targets: Review & approve sustainable development initiatives, charters and partnerships.
Health and Safety Review of safety incidents and performance: Overseeing the implementation of action plans with respect to fatal accidents: Ratification of Groups safety performance standards: Review of High Potential Incidents and other leading indicators.
Environment Overseeing the Groups initiatives for reduction in specific water and energy consumption: Monitoring and follow ups of higher category environment incidents: Review of fly ash management plans and statistics: Review of biodiversity initiatives and action plans.
System development systems Reviewing the implementation of IESC close-out audit recommendations of URS final report and performance reporting October2013 : Overseeing the implementation of Group wide SAP-EHS IT Solution: Review of performance evaluation of the Sustainability Committee and review of terms of reference: Review and approval of the Groups Sustainable Development Report 2013-14.
Community relation Ratification of the Groups community relation framework: andengagement Overseeing the implementation of strategic CSR projects: Review the progress on the Groups Human Rights programme and initiatives: Review of important stakeholder engagements.
Details on each of the above initiatives can be found in the Companys Sustainable Development Report 2014-15 and on the Companys website at www.
Euan Macdonald Chairman, Sustainability Committee 13 May 2015
