62 Vesuvius plc Section Three Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our Responsibility People and Community The dedication and professionalism of our people is the most significant contributor to Vesuvius success.
Talent Management Ensuring management bench-strength and succession is a key requirement in Vesuvius and one for which senior management takes personal responsibility.
Following the appointment of a Talent Management Director in 2014, talent management at Vesuvius has received considerable emphasis.
The talent available in our organisation is our key differentiator it has a unique DNA which clearly separates us from our competitors.
Talent generates our solutions, our products and our service offerings: it serves our customers and the communities in which they are located.
It is therefore critical to the sustainability and growth of our organisation that talent at every level within our organisation is continuously developed.
Vesuvius recognises the value of accurately identifying and developing the most talented people to be our future leaders.
Those individuals identified as having high-potential undergo assessment to enable the Company to pin-point their specific development needs.
A suite of professional assessment tools is used to support this process, removing as far as possible the subjectivity often found in high-potential identification processes.
These tools fit into a Group-wide competency framework, which focuses on Overall Learning Agility.
This examines five specific areas of agility: mental, people, results, change and self-awareness and differentiates between those with a clear preference for depth experts and individual contributors and those with a clear preference for the breadth of broader management roles.
This is supplemented with a multi-rater assessment tool which is used by management for development purposes.
Combining all of this provides an integrated approach to talent identification, development and support within Vesuvius.
Vesuvius Global Mobility The success of Vesuvius is significantly influenced by how effectively we can deploy and integrate individuals into high-functioning teams to support our overall business goals and objectives.
Thus global mobility plays a key role in supporting the Companys growth.
It ensures we can maintain consistency in strategic markets and enables future leaders to gain vital international experience and exposure.
We currently have 73 expatriates working outside their home countries, 32 of whom are designated as long-term assignees.
Vesuvius started the Columbus Programme in 2011, the objective of which was to recruit a number of graduates each year to build technical capability within Vesuvius.
During 2015, five employees from Mexico and Poland, the fourth cohort of Columbus graduates, completed their assignments.
For 2016, graduates will be recruited from South Africa and South Korea.
By recruiting and giving graduates the opportunity to work on projects outside their home country, we meet our objectives of establishing a pipeline of talent, embracing diversity and developing our potential leaders for the future.
Our Responsibility 63 Training and Development During 2015, more than 1,200 employees from around the world attended one of 73 internal training courses offered.
Training is an invaluable part of the Companys activity as it develops the skills of our people at all levels within the organisation helping to ensure they remain current and Vesuvius maintains its competitive edge.
HeaTt, the Vesuvius Technical University, successfully trained 395 employees across 20 events during 2015.
HeaTt delivers tiered courses from in-house experts, that are available to all employees across all Business Units.
Vesuvius also runs a middle-management development programme called Wings, held at Vlerick University in Belgium.
In 2015, 25 employees successfully completed the programme.
Vesuvius in the Local Community One of our values in Vesuvius is cooperation, by which we commit not only to the success of our community of colleagues and customers, but also to our interactions and support of the wider communities in which our plants, offices and facilities are located.
Throughout 2015 a range of locally-generated activities supporting our communities were undertaken, where our people have chosen to show our value of cooperation and the importance we place on understanding Vesuvius role in society.
Such activities have included a sponsored bike ride for the Heart and Stroke Foundation in Canada: Vesuvius Mexicos support of a campaign helping young cancer patients: Vesuvius Bloom Societies in Suzhou China that provide support for disadvantaged primary school children, building their teamwork and confidence: and activities in Brazil to raise awareness in school children of social and environmental issues.
Employee Diversity In order to assist in addressing the issue of gender balance and other areas of bias, during 2015, four unconscious bias awareness courses were held in the UK.
Eight employees were trained as trainers and a further eight employees attended as delegates.
This training will continue into 2016.
This disclosure is to comply with regulatory requirements.
It includes directors of dormant companies and those with multiple directorships.
Employees by employment type Employees by region Employees by business unit C G F F A D E A E A D C B C B B A.
Flow Control 4,204 D. Shared Services 826 B.
Hourly 6,069 B. Europe 4,592 F. South America 1,021 B. Foundry 2,881 E. Head Office 40 C. Temps 800 C. India 739 G. South Asia 304 C. Advanced Ref 2,345 F. Tech Services 616 D. NAFTA 2,198 Governance 64 Vesuvius plc Section Four 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Section Four Governance In this section 66 Chairmans Governance Letter 67 Governance Report 74 Audit Committee 80 Nomination Committee 82 Remuneration Overview 83 Directors Remuneration Report 94 Remuneration Policy 103 Directors Report 107 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 66 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance During challenging times it is essential that Chairmans Governance the Board retains a clear vision for the future, displays an unwavering adherence to the Companys Letter principles and values, and steers the Company towards future success.
John McDonough CBE Chairman Dear shareholder, Succession It has been a challenging year for the Company.
The Board has To ensure that the Company remains prepared for the future, continued to focus on the long-term success of Vesuvius, navigating 2015 saw an increased focus on succession planning for executive the changes impacting our markets whilst ensuring that our and senior management roles.
We considered and set further culture remains intact.
benchmarks and updated strategies for senior management In September 2014 the UK Corporate Governance Code was development.
Succession continues to form a fundamental part of the revised with changes made in respect of remuneration, risk and the Boards overall review of strategy and its successful implementation.
reporting of the longer-term viability of companies.
These changes Training came into effect for Vesuvius for the financial year under review.
As a Board we embraced the revised principles, and I can report As part of our ongoing training and development remit, the Board that the Company is fully compliant with the 2014 UK Corporate visited R&D and manufacturing facilities during the year, as well Governance Code.
Your Board continues to monitor and evaluate as GIFA METEC the worlds largest steel and foundry trade show.
best practice developments in corporate governance.
The Board was provided with a training schedule at each Board meeting and heard from external advisers on current topics at the Board Composition Board.
The Board also engaged directly with senior management, During the year the Board was augmented by the appointment of through business presentations at the Board, informal discussions Douglas Hurt, who assumed the role of Senior Independent Director outside the Board and through Board and individual Director visits and Chairman of the Audit Committee, and by the appointment of to operations.
We will continue to do this on an ongoing basis.
Hock Goh as an additional Independent Non-executive Director who Risk brings extensive knowledge of Asian markets and technical services to the Board, supporting major areas for growth.
In November 2015 The methods by which we manage our risks and assess their impact we welcomed Guy Young to the Board as Chief Financial Officer are constantly reviewed and tested as part of our ongoing risk and Executive Director, replacing Chris OShea.
In May, we also said management approach.
During 2015 these processes were enhanced goodbye to Jeff Hewitt, our previous Senior Independent Director again, supporting our work on viability and providing a welland Audit Committee Chairman, who we thank for his contribution developed approach that allows for regular Board input and attention.
to the stewardship and governance of the Company during his Looking Ahead tenure.
Each new Director has made an immediate and effective contribution to the leadership and governance of the Company, Your Board remains committed to the highest standards of and I am confident that your Board continues to be strong and governance for Vesuvius.
We operate with a robust and healthy effective.
I believe that the Boards composition continues to fulfil culture, receive the right support and follow appropriate processes our requirements for expertise, experience and diversity, and is well to set and communicate the proper tone, values and culture for equipped to set and manage the strategic direction of the business.
the business, whatever the condition of our end-markets.
We look Consequently, I encourage all shareholders to support the election forward to contributing towards and overseeing the development and re-election of our incumbent Directors at the 2016 AGM.
of Vesuvius over the next year and beyond.
Evaluation Yours sincerely In accordance with our established practice, in 2015 the John McDonough CBE Chairman Board commissioned an externally moderated evaluation of 3 March 2016 Board, Committee, and Director performance.
The results were satisfyingly positive, showing developments in the Boards dynamics, In this section: Also see: effectiveness and efficiency, and reinforcing the quality of the support Board effectiveness on p70 Risk on p24 we gain from the business and externally.
The Board continues Board accountability on p72 Principles on p56 to deliver an open forum for debate and considered decision Audit Committee report on p74 making.
The 2015 evaluation highlighted the unanimity of purpose of the Board on its key objectives of strategy, succession, talent Nomination Committee report on p80 development and risk, and reiterated the continuing need to manage the Boards agenda efficiently in the face of the ever-increasing Directors Remuneration Report on p83 regulatory burden.
Governance 67 Governance Report The Board of Vesuvius plc the Company is responsible for The Board the Groups system of corporate governance and is committed The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and to maintaining high standards and to developing governance delegates certain matters to its Committees.
It is anticipated that arrangements to comply with best practice.
This report describes the Board will convene on seven scheduled occasions during 2016 the Companys corporate governance structure and explains how, as well as holding ad hoc meetings to consider non-routine business during the year ended 31 December 2015, Vesuvius has applied the if required.
Main Principles of the September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the The Chairman and Chief Executive Code.
Throughout the year and up until the date of this report The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Vesuvius was in full compliance with the requirements of the Code.
Chief Executive is set out in writing and was reviewed during the A copy of the Code can be found on the FRC website at year as part of the Companys annual corporate governance review.
uk Our-Work Codes-Standards No amendments were required.
The interactions in the governance Corporate-governance .
process are shown in the schematic below.
Roles and Responsibilities of the Board Board Committees Ultimate responsibility for the management of the Group rests The principal governance Committees of the Board are the Audit, with the Board of Directors.
Each Committee has The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy issues written terms of reference, which were reviewed and updated and is responsible for the Groups long-term success.
It sets the where appropriate during the year.
These are available to view on Groups strategy, oversees the allocation of resources and monitors the Companys website www.
the performance of the Group.
It is responsible for effective risk For biographical details see Board of Directors overleaf assessment and management.
Board Governance Committees Administrative Committees Audit Committee A Chairman: In addition, the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to a Finance Committee and Share Scheme Committee, which operate in accordance To monitor the integrity of financial Douglas Hurt with the delegated authority agreed by the Board.
reporting and to assist the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk Membership: Finance Committee Chairman: management systems All independent To approve specific funding and John McDonough, Non-executive Directors treasury-related matters in accordance the Chairman with the Groups delegated authorities Membership: or as delegated by the Board R Remuneration Committee Chairman: Chairman, Chief Executive, To determine the appropriate Jane Hinkley Chief Financial Officer remuneration packages for the and Group Head Groups Chairman, Executive Directors, of Corporate Finance and Company Secretary, and to Membership: recommend and monitor the level All independent Share Scheme Committee Chairman: and structure of remuneration for Non-executive Directors To facilitate the administration of the Any Board member other senior management Companys share schemes Membership: N Nomination Committee Chairman: Any two Directors To advise the Board on appointments, John McDonough, the or a Director and the retirements and resignations from the Chairman except when Company Secretary considering his own succession, Board and its Committees and review in which case the Committee succession planning and talent ischaired by an appropriate development for the Board Non-executive Director Membership: Chairman and any three Non-executive Directors Group Executive Committee The Group also operates the Group Executive Committee GEC, which is convened and chaired by the Chief Executive, and assists him in discharging his responsibilities.
The GEC comprises the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, the four business unit Presidents, the President Vesuvius North Asia, the Vice President Human Resources, the Chief Technology Officer, the President Operations and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The GEC met eight times during 2015 and is scheduled to meet five times during 2016.
Its meetings are held between the London head office and major operational sites.
68 Vesuvius plc Section Four Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Governance Report continued N Board of Directors Christer Gardell Non-executive Director Appointed: 31 October 2012 N John McDonough CBE Chairman Career experience: Christer was appointed as a Director of the Company on Appointed: 31 October 2012 31 October 2012 having previously joined the board of Cookson Group plc Career experience: John was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the in June 2012.
Christer co-founded Cevian Capital in 2002, and continues to Company on 31 October 2012.
John was group Chief Executive Officer of serve as Managing Partner.
On 3 March 2016, Cevian Capital held 21.11% Carillion plc, the support services and construction firm, for 11 years until he of Vesuvius issued share capital.
From 1996 to 2001, he was the Chief retired in 2011.
Prior to joining Carillion plc he spent nine years at Johnson Executive Officer of AB Custos, the Swedish investment company.
Prior to Controls Inc. working for the automotive systems division, initially in the UK, joining AB Custos he had been a partner of Nordic Capital and McKinsey & before moving to become Vice President of the divisions European operations Company.
He served as a Non-executive Director of AB Lindex until December and ultimately to Singapore to develop the business in Asia-Pacific.
He then 2007 and of Tieto Corporation until March 2012.
returned to the UK as Vice President of the integrated facilities management Other appointments: Christer is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital, division for EMEA.
John served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Vice Chairman of the global Finnish technology and services company of Tomkins plc from 2007 to 2010 and as a Non-executive Director of Exel plc Metso Corporation.
John was awarded a CBE in 2011 for services to industry and is a British citizen.
Hock Goh Independent Non-executive Director A N R Other appointments: He joined The Vitec Group plc in March 2012, Appointed: 2 April 2015 and has served as its Chairman since June 2012.
He is also a Director of Career experience: Hock was appointed a Director on 2 April 2015.
Hock Cornerstone Property Assets Ltd, Sunbird Business Services Ltd and a Trustee has more than 30 years experience in the oil and gas industry, having spent of Team Rubicon UK.
25 years with Schlumberger, the leading global oilfield services provider.
His roles included President of Network and Infrastructure Solutions in London, Franois Wanecq Chief Executive President of Asia Pacific, and Vice President and General Manager of China.
Appointed: 31 October 2012 From 2005 to 2012, Hock was a Partner of Baird Capital Partners Asia, the Career experience: Franois was appointed as a Director of the Company private equity arm of the US investment bank Robert W Baird & Co. Based in on 31 October 2012.
He previously joined the Cookson Group plc board in China, he focused on the industrial, business services and healthcare sectors.
Franois has been the Chief Executive of Cooksons Engineered He is a graduate of Monash University, Australia, and is a Singaporean citizen.
Ceramics division, now Vesuvius, since October 2005.
Prior to joining Cookson Other appointments: Hock is Chairman of MEC Resources Ltd and he held a series of senior management roles at Arjo Wiggins Group and Advent Energy Ltd, and is a Non-executive Director of AB SKF, Santos Ltd, served as an Executive Director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc from 1999 until Stora Enso Oyj, and KS Distribution Pte.
From 1985 to 1995 he was Managing Director of the technical ceramics division of the Saint-Gobain Group.
Franois graduated from the A N R Douglas Hurt Senior Independent Director cole Polytechnique and cole des Mines fide Paris and is a French citizen.
Appointed: 2 April 2015 Career experience: Douglas was appointed as a Director of Vesuvius plc Guy Young Chief Financial Officer on 2 April 2015, and assumed the roles of Senior Independent Director and Appointed: 1 November 2015 Chairman of the Audit Committee at the close of the Vesuvius plc 2015 Career experience: Guy was appointed as Chief Financial Officer of Vesuvius Annual General Meeting held on 14 May 2015.
Douglas has significant plc on 1 November 2015.
Prior to joining Vesuvius plc, from January 2011 to financial experience, having served as Finance Director of IMI plc, the global November 2015, he served as Chief Financial Officer of Tarmac and latterly engineering group, from 2006 to 2015.
Prior to this he held a number of Lafarge Tarmac, the British building materials company.
Prior to his role at senior finance and general management positions at GlaxoSmithKline plc, Tarmac, from 2007 Guy held a number of senior financial and business which he joined in 1983, previously having worked at Price Waterhouse.
development positions at Anglo American plc, having joined that company His career has included several years working in the USA and significant from Scaw Metals Group, the South African steel products manufacturer, experience in European businesses including periods as a Chief Financial where he held the position of Chief Financial Officer from 2004 to 2007.
Officer and as an Operational Managing Director.
Douglas is a Chartered Guy is a British and South African citizen, and he qualified with the South Accountant and a British citizen.
African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Other appointments: Douglas is a Non-executive Director and Chairman A N R of the Audit Committee of Tate & Lyle PLC and a Non-executive Director Nelda Connors Independent Non-executive Director of the British Standards Institution.
Appointed: 1 March 2013 Career experience: Nelda was appointed as a Director of the Company Jane Hinkley Independent Non-executive Director R A N on 1 March 2013.
She served as President and Chief Executive of Tyco Appointed: 3 December 2012 International, Electrical & Metal Products division renamed Atkore Career experience: Jane was appointed as a Director of the Company on International in 2010 from 2008 to 2011, prior to which she spent six 3 December 2012.
Jane became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee years at Eaton Corporation in a number of international management roles, in June 2013.
Jane spent a large part of her career working at Gotaas-Larsen which included nearly four years based in Shanghai.
Nelda spent much of Shipping Corporation, the LNG shipping specialist which was listed on both her early career in the automotive industry working for Ford, Chrysler and the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
She served as CFO from 1988 Mogami Denki, a Toyota supplier.
During this period she undertook roles in to 1992, and as Managing Director until 1997.
In 1998 Jane was appointed general management, engineering, quality, customer service and strategic Managing Director of Navion Shipping AS, a company majority owned by planning and worked in the US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
She was a member Statoil, the oil and gas company, a position she held until 2001.
She previously of the Independent Takata Quality Assurance Panel focused on the US airbag held the position of Non-executive Director of Revus Energy ASA, a Norwegian investigations.
Jane is a Chartered Accountant and Other appointments: Nelda is a Non-executive Director of a British citizen.
Blount International, Inc. Echo Global Logistics, Inc and Boston Scientific Other appointments: Jane is Chairman of Teekay GP L. L. C and Non-executive Corporation and sits on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Premier Oil plc.
Sheis Chairwoman and Founder of Pine Grove Holdings, LLC.
Committee membership N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman
