Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Sustainable business Sustainable business Our significant global footprint combined with the power of our communications technology can help transform peoples lives.
This enables us to align our business growth with ourgoalto be a sustainable business.
Communications technology is acknowledged The efficiency of our operations has greatly We are now working towards a new goal to be transformative in improving peoples improved, with emissions per base station for our carbon footprint: within three years lives and livelihoods, as well as driving at 9.9 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent we aim to enable our customers to reduce economic growth and development.
Our total their carbon emissions by twice the 2 Estimates show that a 10% increase in carbon emissions in 2015 were 2.8 million amount of carbon we generate through our mobile penetration in emerging markets tonnes of CO e, an increase on 2014 due own activities.
2 1 leads to a 4.2% rise in long-term productivity.
to newly acquired operations and the Vodafone contributes to the socio-economic expansion of our network.
We remain Financial inclusion development of our customers by using committed to reduce our energy consumption M-Pesa continues to evolve beyond technology to tackle some of the most as far as possible, through energy efficiency a traditional money transfer service.
It now pressing challenges faced by society today, measures and renewable investments.
enables people to save and borrow money, with significant contributions in the areas receive salaries and benefits, send and receive As a market leader in M2M solutions, we have of education and skills development, access money from overseas, and pay for goods and a great opportunity to help our enterprise to financial services and resource efficiency.
services, regardless of whether they have customers to cut their carbon emissions, a bank account.
Launched two years ago How we achieve our goals is critical while delivering them significant cost savings.
in Kenya, Lipa Na M-Pesa enables customers to the long-term success of the business.
Real-time tracking of vehicles, for example, to make cash-free payments for goods and Our approach is driven by a commitment helps fleet managers revise routes, saving fuel services on a day-to-day basis, whether they to operate in an ethical and responsible and emissions.
are paying a supplier, or shopping in a retail manner in all we do.
This report highlights our By March 2015, we had approximately nine environment, with over 80 million worth progress in four critical areas.
million active M2M connections with carbonof transactions enacted just in March 2015. reducing potential in the smart metering, Saving energy and reducing Our M-Pesa international money transfer fleet management and automotive sectors.
our carbon footprint service continues to expand and it is now We estimate that we delivered savings possible for people to send and receive Though we continue to extend the reach of our of 3.5 million tonnes of CO e for our customers 2 money between Kenya and Tanzania.
network to more customers, who are using from our M2M products and services, call Providing senders of cross-border money ever-increasing amounts of data, our own conferencing and cloud and hosting solutions, transfers with more choice gives our carbon footprint has remained relatively stable, in 2015 almost a million tonnes higher than customers a cheaper, more convenient despite significant acquisitions.
wayto send and receive money.
2 Tonnes of carbon emissions Carbon emissions millions of Vodafone Foundation: tonnes CO e 2 per base station mobilising the community, 15 3 mobilising social change 14.7 2.80 2.55 We believe that our communications 2.36 10 2 technologies can help to address some of the 9.7 9.9 9.5 worlds most pressing humanitarian challenges and thus improve peoples lives.
To achieve this, 5 1 the Vodafone Foundation invests in projects in the communities within the countries in which 0 2007 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 Vodafone operates, and is the centre of a network Scope 1 direct greenhouse gas GHG emissions of global and local social investment programmes.
Scope 2 indirect GHG emissions The total amount donated to the Vodafone Foundations in 2015 was 48.2 million.
Since its inception, Vodafone has donated over Notes: 1 Deloitte and the GSMA.
520 million to the charitable programmes led 2 Calculated using local market actual or estimated data by our Foundations.
sourced from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations.
Carbon emissions calculated in line with DEFRA guidance.
For full methodology see our Sustainability Report 2015.
KDG and 30 Ono data included for 2015 only.
Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 M-Pesa is at the heart of many of our We are also rolling out a mobile solution During 2014, Vodafone chaired the transformational solutions in other areas, to enable Anglo American, an international Telecommunications Industry Dialogue on particularly in agriculture and health.
A new mining company, to engage directly with local Freedom and Privacy of Expression, which collaboration with the National Rural Health communities on a monthly basis, in order continues to work in collaboration with the Mission and Rural Employment Guarantee to gain real-time feedback on the impact Global Network Initiative GNI to address the uses M-Pesa to disburse government benefits of their operations.
issues of privacy and freedom of expression as in the states of Bihar and Jharkhand in India.
they relate to the telecommunications sector.
In Tanzania, our collaboration with the Wherever we operate, we work to ensure Privacy and human rights Commercial Bank of Africa, enables M-Pesa thatwe do not infringe human rights through The amount of data and personal information customers to access interest-bearing savings our operations or business relationships.
transmitted over our networks continues accounts and small loans.
Our commitment to protecting We continue to work with our suppliers that information and respecting our customers and others in our industry to raise ethical, Enhancing our right to privacy and freedom of expression labour and environmental standards in our enterprise customers remains critical in retaining their trust.
We now enable some of our sustainability efforts suppliers workers to give direct, anonymous We are one of the first communications Our enterprise customers expect feedback on their working conditions, using operators in the world to provide a us to support their commitment to operate their mobile phones, in collaboration with country-by-country analysis of demands in a sustainable way.
In the 2015 financial Good World Solutions.
Responses to the received for access to our customers data year, over 1.5 billion worth of commercial surveys are aggregated anonymously and by law enforcement authorities, through bids and contracts included a sustainability provided directly to Vodafone and the supplier the publication of our Law Enforcement performance assessment.
to identify areas for improvement.
We are piloting and scaling mobile solutions This report explains our principles and through the agriculture value chain with three approach, as well as the policies and processes of our largest enterprise customers.
Together, we follow when responding to demands from we are exploring how mobile money and data, government agencies and authorities.
It also and M-Pesa specifically, can help to mobilise sets out the framework within which we believe distribution channels and create jobs, as well governments should act.
For more information as how it can improve the efficiency and see vodafone.
affordability of water distribution in rural India.
JustTextGiving Instant Classroom launched JustTextGiving by Vodafone is the headline During 2015 the Vodafone Foundation launched programme of the Vodafone Foundation in the Instant Classroom, a digital school in a box that UK.
It enables individuals and charities to collect can be set up in a matter of minutes, helping donations via text and is available to all mobile to give children and young people in some of the customers on any UK network.
Donors simply use worlds largest and most poorly resourced refugee a unique code to send donations via text and 100% camps the opportunity to continue their education.
of the amount donated goes to the UK registered The Instant Classroom is shipped in a case which charity.
JustTextGiving is now being used by around is equipped with a laptop, 25 tablets pre-loaded with 207,900 fundraisers and 21,600 charities and educational software, a projector, a speaker and has helped raise more than 27 million since its a hotspot modem with 3G connectivity.
The Instant Classroom was developed to support the continued roll-out of the Vodafone Foundations Instant Network Schools programme in partnership with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
These schools are solar powered centres which provide access Our Instant Network Schools programme to digital educational content and the internet via in Kenya, DRC and South Sudan have tablets.
So far, 16 Instant Network Schools have benefitted over 26,000 children been established in Kenya, DRC and South Sudan, benefiting over 26,000 children and 500 teachers.
Over the next two years the Instant Network Schools programme will be extended to support additional schools in refugee camps in Kenya, DRC and Tanzania with the aim of reaching 60,000 students.
