Strategic report SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Sustainable Solutions is the first of our three focus areas and supports how we deliver products and services which shape future performance, and which provide clear environmental and social benefits to society.
Shaping future performance FOCUS: Smarter fuel management functional performance can help to Our markets continue to be challenged the key to better CO2 performance improve fuel efficiency and lower the to achieve higher performance with Megatrends across our markets remain overall CO2 emissions of the vehicle.
less: less material, less energy, less strong.
None more so than reducing Victrex polymers have a proven ability waste, less noise, less time, less cost.
to meet critical performance This drives the need for innovative requirements and provide improved Underpinned by environmental designs using our materials and durability and a significantly lower legislation, the reduction of CO2 expertise to bring them to market.
moment of inertia, especially when emissions in Automotive, based on replacing metals such as steel.
The 6x With proven expertise and over 35 years increased fuel efficiency more miles lower density is an enabler for this of experience, our customers choose per gallon MPG, therefore remains enhanced performance.
to specify VICTREX PEEK in many of the dominant trend within the industry.
their applications, whether it be in Europe is at the forefront, following In addition, gears made of our Aerospace to fly lighter, in Automotive implementation of the Euro6 emission materials meet the demands of the to reduce wear and improve durability, standard, in striving to achieve the automotive industry and not only in in Electronics to deliver thinner, smaller target of 95g km 95grams of CO2 regards to sustainability targets.
To and smarter devices, in Energy to per kilometre, scheduled to fully accelerate adoption of our PEEK gear improve durability and recover more, come into effect in2021.
The US also proposition, Victrex is further enhancing or in Medical Applications to help has directives currently the Tier II its ability to provide complete integrated address an ageing global population.
directives whilst Greater China is also solutions following the acquisition of contributing to a greener environment the US-based polymer gears specialist One of our barometers of success this and has already implemented the Kleiss Gears, in June 2015. year was independently reviewing the Euro 5 emission standard in the method of measuring CO savings in 2 PEEK gears can enhance durabilityand Beijing region.
By 2023 we are targeting reliability, improve performance, and 1 a5 million-tonne reduction of CO in 2 According to one study powertrain offer up to 50% reduction in noise, these markets and already we are technologies offer the largest potential vibration and harshness NVH, when moving closer to becoming carbon for enabling enhanced fuel efficiency.
polymer gears are used rather than neutral by enabling our markets to Six of every seven litres of fuel put their traditional metal counterparts.
save more CO than weproduce.
2 into a vehicle are lost to inefficiency, The pairing of Kleiss Gears and a large proportion of that is due Beyond Victrex, we also focus on our highprecision gear design, plus its to frictional losses.
Particularly in the sustainable supply chain, including testing and manufacturing capability, highly compact, high efficiency engines our own upstream production assets with Victrexs materials technology, now demanded by the automotive manufacturing BDF in the UK, or our innovation focus, technical excellence industry, high performance materials non-Victrex BDF supply, constantly and global commercial scale, will enable such as VICTREX PEEK provide refining our ability to sustainably customers to bring robust solutions solutions for those regions of the source global raw materials as we tothe market faster.
This will help engine that are at higher temperatures move forward.
contribute to sustainable solutions or under higher load conditions.
and, subsequently, pave the way As a consequence, Victrex focuses togreater mutual success.
oncomponents such as rolling bearing 1 International Energy Agency IEA study elements, bushings, valves, and seal rings to name a few where improved Victrex plc 27 Annual Report 2015
