Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Our people The people behind our business Our people are behind every aspect of our strategy so it is important that we attract, develop and retain exceptional people so we can always deliver the best experience for our customers.
During the year we employed an average We provide information to our employees We believe this will help redress the gender 1 of 101,443 people and had 105,970 in a variety of ways, including our intranet balance in our business.
employees as of March 2015, as well sites, email, text and video messages, as well We believe in treating all employees equally as 25,267 contractors.
The number of people as through individual teams.
We also provide and offer equal opportunities in all aspects in our business increased during the year online platforms for employees to feedback of employment and advancement regardless following our acquisitions of Ono in Spain, their comments.
of race, nationality, gender, age, marital status, Cobra Automotive in Italy and Hellas Online sexual orientation, disability, religion or political in Greece, plus the purchase of over 130 Valuing diversity beliefs.
This years people survey showed that Phones 4u stores in the UK.
We believe that a diverse workforce helps 88% of employees believe that Vodafone us achieve our goals by helping us better The following sections highlight our progress treats people fairly.
understand and meet the needs of our in the key areas behind our people strategy.
We are both a multinational and Improving our customer focus a multicultural company and employ people Increasing employee All of our employees are expected to work from 130 countries, with 24 nationalities engagement in the The Vodafone Way.
This is about in our Senior Leadership Team our top ensuring that we work with speed, simplicity For our strategy to work we need our 224 managers.
and trust so that we can be customeremployees to believe in us.
Every year all Gender diversity is a key goal for us.
At the obsessed at all times.
We have run our employees are invited to participate end of the year we employed 67,657 men development workshops for all our senior in a global survey which allows us to measure 64% and 38,313 women 36%.
We have seen management for the fourth consecutive engagement levels, compare ourselves a slight decrease in the proportion of women year and will hold further workshops in the with other large companies and help in senior management top c. 1,600 managers, coming year.
us identify ways to improve how we do things.
now 23% compared with 24% a year ago, while Our employee engagement index measures the proportion in our Senior Leadership Team how committed our employees are, their Training our people has remained stable at 22%.
desire to continue working for us and We want people to grow their careers their willingness to recommend Vodafone at Vodafone and develop the skills and talent To help push our progress in gender diversity, as an employer.
The index remained stable this needed to grow our business.
We do this we launched a new maternity policy in March year at 77 points, still in the top quartile.
through formal training, on the job experience 2015 that provides mandatory minimum and regular coaching from managers.
maternity benefits as standard across all our Our employee turnover rate, measuring the markets, including 16 weeks full pay followed rate at which employees leave us, increased We have global training academies for key by full pay for a 30-hour week for the first to 18% reflecting the increased level areas such as marketing, technology, enterprise six months after employees return to work.
of acquisitions and integration in the business.
sales, retail, finance and supply chain.
Employees by location % Average number of employees Employee engagement index Spain 5% Italy 6% 120,000 100 Vodacom 7% 101,443 78 92,812 77 77 90,000 91,272 75 Other 34% Germany 60,000 50 14% 30,000 25 UK 16% 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 India 18% Employee turnover rates % Nationalities in top senior % Women in senior management % leadership roles 20 30 30 18 26 24 16 24 24 23 15 15 22 20 20 10 10 10 5 28 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2015 During the year we trained around 18,000 An ownership mentality is also a cornerstone Creating a safe place to work people in our Technology Academy, around of our reward programme and senior executives We know from experience that failing 13,000 people in our Retail Academy and are expected to build up and maintain to follow basic health and safety standards over 8,000 in our Enterprise Sales Academy.
a significant holding of Vodafone shares.
can lead to our employees, the people Next year we will introduce a Customer we work with and the people exposed to our Experience Academy to help transform our Simplifying and improving activities being seriously injured or killed.
our business We believe that accidents and injuries are We continue to move transactional and back preventable and we do our utmost to prevent Developing future leaders office activities to our shared service centres them by promoting a culture where safety We conduct regular talent reviews to identify in Egypt, India, Hungary and Romania, with is an integral part of every business decision high-potential future leaders and accelerate 16,800 employees and contractors in these across the Group.
the progress of high-potential managers centres, compared with 13,300 a year ago.
Our Absolute Rules help employees follow through our Inspire programme, which offers These centres allow us to standardise many best practice for safety and we focus on our top development and executive coaching and may of our support functions and deliver a more five risks: road safety, working with electricity, include an assignment to another Vodafone consistent and improved experience to our working at height, working with underground market or function.
These centres also support our cables and working with contractors where cost reduction goal as we benefit from lower Our Discover programme for graduates we have less control over safety.
accelerates the careers of high performing culture in Vodafone continues to improve with graduates, with over 600 people recruited the results of our latest people survey showing Doing whats right onto this programme during the year.
We also that 91% of employees believe that our We have a Code of Conduct that sets out our have an international assignment programme, Absolute Rules are taken seriously compared business principles and what we expect from Columbus which gives recent Discover with 89% last year.
employees to ensure they protect themselves graduates an international assignment.
Despite these measures, we greatly as well as the Companys reputation and regret to report that ten people died while assets.
We communicate these through our Recognising performance undertaking work on behalf of Vodafone Doing Whats Right campaign which covers We maintained our approach of rewarding last year.
Vehicle-related incidents involving topics including health and safety, antipeople based on their performance, subcontractors in emerging markets remain bribery, privacy, security and competition law potential and contribution to our success.
our main cause of fatalities and we continue to ensure that people know whats expected We benchmark roles regularly to ensure to implement safe driving programmes in all of them and managers know what is expected competitive, fair remuneration in every of our markets.
country in which we operate.
We also offer competitive retirement and other benefit provisions which vary depending on conditions Integrating our acquisitions and practices in local markets.
As we develop our business towards unified Global short-term incentive plans are offered communications we need to combine with the companies we acquire and ensure that all of our to a large percentage of employees and global employees have the new skills that we increasingly need, long-term incentive plans are offered to our such as cable engineering and door-to-door selling.
Our incentive arrangements are subject to company performance During the year we integrated around 5,000 Kabel Deutschland employees in Germany and around measures, comprising both financial and 2,500 Ono employees in Spain as well as employees strategic metrics, and individual performance from our acquisitions of Cobra Automotive in Italy, measures.
This ensures that variable pay Hellas Online in Greece and our purchase of over is demonstrably linked to both company 130 stores from Phones 4u in the UK.
and individual performance, and that poor When we acquire a company we look to include all performance is not rewarded.
new employees within Vodafone as soon as possible.
Just two months after the acquisition of Ono, all their employees had the same tools as Vodafone Around 7,500 employees integrated in Germany and Spain this year employees and within six months we had moved all of Onos headquarter employees into Vodafones main offices in Spain so we all sit under one roof.
Within eight months we had combined the management structure Note: so we are now truly one organisation.
1 Employee numbers are shown on a full time employee 29 basis.
A statutory view is provided on page 157.
