SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Victrex has a clear and proactive vision to inspire the next generation by supporting science, engineering, technology and maths education.
We further refined our focus this year to involve a greater number of employees and to getinvolved in a range of activities in the communities where we operate.
Our employees Victrex has depth and breadth in thetalent of our global workforce.
Employees Inan increasingly competitive global IN 1993 market, ensuring that we attract, motivate and retain our people remains an ongoing theme for Victrex.
We have an Organisational 60 Capability Strategy, which supports us to identify and develop the skills and experience we need to deliver ourbusiness strategy and shape our people strategy.
This is led by the Chief Executive, supported by the Group Human Resources Director andthe Managing Directors of each business unit.
IN 2015 Employee analysis Investment in skills and development remains paramount for Victrex.
This 768 year we recruited 126 new employees to the Victrex team, balancing this with Employees by regional breakdown promoting internal talent within the business.
Our workforce continues to strengthen and diversify, and our gender breakdown continues to showchanges across the business.
Approximately 73.8% 79% of our employees are male as at UK 30 September 2015: 607 and 21% female as at 30 September 2015: 161.
11.3% 6.6% 8.3% AMERICAS EUROPE Onour Executive Leadership Team, 25% ASIA-PACIFIC of the team are female.
InVictrex, diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, thinking style, experience and education.
We believethat the wide array of perspectives that result from such diversity promotes innovation Average number of people employed during the year and business success.
We operate an including Directors, by category equal opportunities policy and provide a healthy environment which will encourage good and productive working relationships within theorganisation.
We have a policy of giving full and Total: Total: fairconsideration to applications 681 742 foremployment from all backgrounds.
15 19 13 53 L15 19 12 54 L IN 2014 IN 2015 Administration 101 Administration 115 Commercial 132 Commercial 140 Technical 86 Technical 86 Operations 362 Operations 401 Victrex plc 32 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Development BestEngineering Skills This year has seen us continue to roll PaulParkinson awards made by out programmes globally across Springfields Training Centre.
10 different employee groups, and focus on developing leadership and our Wellbeing APPRENTICES currently on the teams.
This is in addition to our annual Over the last year we have started to apprenticeship programme.
focus on wellbeing services rather than medical treatment programmes.
This We continue to invest in our has included, for the UK sites, on-site apprenticeship programme at our medical checks, financial education Hillhouse manufacturing site in the sessions and defensive driving for UK, across a range of disciplines, company car owners and frequent withten apprentices currently on the travellers.
The health and wellbeing apprenticeship programme.
Lastyear, ofour employees remains a high two of our engineering apprentices priority and we promote this in based at Hillhouse, our UK headquarters, anumber of ways.
This year, health and private medical services ourapprentices repeated their success arealso available for all employees scooping theBest Engineering inall locations.
Programme OliverMahon and Victrex plc 33 Annual Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED As a business we continue to: 7% Voluntary employee turnover provide a clean, safe working environment which meets all legislative 1 2015 2014 2013 2012 requirements and to provide all the 7% 5% 2% 3% necessary training support for employees to operate safely within it: Overall, 100 employees participated and spent provide appropriate remuneration for 564 hours working in work carried out and equal opportunities 2 localcommunities.
for development and career advancement: Participation in employee share schemes be intolerant of any unacceptable working practices such as any form of discrimination, 3 bullying or harassment: prohibit illegal activities on our sites: and 87% 4 87 13 2015 2014 2013 2012 promote fair, ethical and transparent 87% 89% 86% 93% business practices both within our 5 business and in dealings with Excludes recruitment during theyear externalstakeholders.
Victrex plc 34 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report COMMUNITY ACTIVITY Our global marketing team at work cleaning up a local community area in the UK.
Involvement Victrex name is synonymous with good part of their team development.
Two-way communication is key to business, helping to establish our During the year, we refurbished a Victrex and involves our employees employer brand and reputation, in turn school garden, cleared up a community across the business.
We have a number helping us to secure the right skills centre and built play kitchens for a of channels to keep employees informed forour future development.
Overall, 100 employees on business news.
These include a Vision and targets have community participated andspent 564 hours global monthly business briefing to activity fully embedded.
keep employees aware of Company Following our targets being established At a national level in the UK, we remain performance, quarterly global staff last year, 2015 has been focused on actively involved in the Science Industry briefings with executive Directors continuing to get young people Partnership which was awarded 52m andmore formally through the interested and excited about science, to enable industry to take the lead in StaffCommittee and union technology and engineering.
A new area investing in the skills they need.
for us was to train eleven STEM and Risk and Compliance Director sits Our support for employee share Science Industry Partnership SIP onthe SIP Board and a number of ownership is unwavering and offers ambassadors who have then run a employees are actively involved in the opportunity to participate in share number of careers fairs, science days thesub-groups.
This year we ran a series of and mentor chemistry students at our briefing sessions to help our employees Business Class programme partner Charitable giving understand more about the range Fleetwood High School close to our In the UK, a proportion of the charitable ofshare schemes available.
We have also donations budget is distributed by the 30September 2015, approximately 87% continued to support the Catalyst Staff Committee mainly to local charities 2014: 89% of employees worldwide Discovery Centre in Runcorn, UK, chosen from nominations made by were participants in employee share through our fantastic Polymer Zone employees.
National or overseas charities schemes, principally as option holders and participated in science days there.
are supported where there is strong under the Companys employee share employee involvement.
The Group made For our local community activity, option schemes.
charitable donations of 140,958 increasingly our teams are choosing 2014:164,590 during the year.
We also sponsor pension plans for to take part in community activities as Nopolitical donations were made employees across most of our global 2014:nil.
Details of the Groups principal pension schemes are set out in note 15 to the financialstatements.
MANUFACTURING EXCELLENCE Thanks to our proactive approach in all of these areas, Victrex continues to Some of the have low voluntary employee turnover.
Victrex team at This has risen slightly during the last theSpringfields year as the global economy improved Training Awards.
and offered opportunities, although the rate is still low for both the chemical sector and for manufacturing-backed businesses.
Exit interviews are conducted with all employees who leave, to understand their reasons for departing.
This enables us to gain useful feedback SUPPORTING and address any specific trends.
EDUCATION Victrexs STEM Our communities ambassadors Being a good corporate citizen is supporting important to Victrex, both in terms Fleetwood ofour values and the opportunities HighSchool.
itoffers us as we seek to deliver long-term growth.
We have a clearer vision of how we will work with our local communities, ensuring that the Victrex plc 35 Annual Report 2015
