STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2015 EMPLOYEES AND DIVERSITY EMPLOYEES DIVERSITY The Group employs approximately 14,000 people, primarily WHSmith is committed to promoting a culture of equality and in the UK, and is proud of its long history of being regarded diversity through its policies, practices and procedures in all as a responsible and respected employer.
We were delighted divisions of the WHSmith Group.
We want to ensure that all our to be ranked second in the Glassdoor 2015 Top 10 UK employees receive equal and fair treatment, and this applies to Friendliest Workplaces survey, based on reviews by UK recruitment and selection, terms and conditions of employment, employees.
Information on our Employee policies is available at promotion, training and development opportunities and www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
To support our commitment, during the year, we have focused on EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES understanding the challenges faced by women within our business The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture and how WHSmith can better support them in their careers.
that is free from discrimination and harassment and will not permit We have also held employee focus groups to look at ways to further or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Company gives full develop our policies around exible working.
and fair consideration to applications for employment when these The Board has chosen not to set specic representation targets are received from disabled people and employs disabled people for women at Board level at this time although it does have due whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should an employee become regard for the benets of diversity within the overriding objective of disabled when working for the Company, we will endeavour to ensuring that its membership has the appropriate balance of skills, adapt the work environment and provide retraining if necessary experience and independence.
so that they may continue their employment and maximise their potential.
The table below shows a breakdown of the composition of the Board as at year end.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Tenure Male Female We recognise the importance of training and development to 01 year 0% Male 4 67% support employee satisfaction and promote a knowledgeable workforce.
Our programmes enable our staff to grow within 13 years 33% Female 2 33% the Company and develop their careers.
Succession planning is 36 years 33% emphasised across the Group and we continue to achieve high 69 years 33% Executive non-executive internal succession rates.
Our Retail Academy supports store staff Executive 2 33% in developing their skills and moving on to new roles, and targeted Non-executive 4 67% development programmes in head ofce helps to create a pipeline of talent to ll future vacancies.
These programmes support The tables below show the number and percentage of women and internal succession and enable us to continue to meet the objective men in the senior management team, the management team and that over 90 per cent of store manager appointments should be the mix of employees across the Group as at year end.
1 Senior Management team EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Women 3 19% Employee engagement is supported through clear communication Men 13 81% of the Groups performance and objectives.
This information is 1 This group comprises employees who are members of the executive committees whoare not cascaded through team briengs, large employee events, intranet also members of the Board.
This approach and the Groups 2 Management team open management style encourages employees to contribute to Women 331 41% business development.
The Company, when appropriate, consults Men 472 59% directly with employees and or employee representatives so that 2 their views can be taken into account when decisions are made This wider group includes store managers and senior Head Ofce staff who are not also members of the senior management team.
which are likely to affect them.
Employee mix across the Group EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP Women 8,521 64% The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs Approved SaveMen 4,749 36% As-you-Earn share option scheme Sharesave Scheme which provides employees with the opportunity to acquire shares in the The Strategic report on pages 1 to 25 of the Annual report has been Company.
Approximately 890 employees participate in the scheme.
approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive 15 October 2015 25  v36.
