William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE 68 THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CR COMMITTEE PROVIDED OVERSIGHTON A NUMBER OF IMPORTANT MATTERS DURING 2015, INCLUDING A REFRESH OF SOME OF THE COMPANYS CR POLICIES AND AREFOCUS TO ENSURE GREATER ALIGNMENT BETWEEN OUR CR OBJECTIVES AND OUR RESPONSIBILITIES UNDER OUR LICENSINGOBJECTIVES.
Ashley Higheld Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee Membership and meetings The Committee also receives a brieng, at D Duri urin ng g th the ye e yea ar r th the C e CR R C Co om mm miit tt te ee e least annually, from an external specialist pr pro ov vided ided addit additional ional o ov versigh ersight t t to o The following is the current membership consultant in respect of health and safety e en ns su ure we f re we fu ur rt th he er s r st tre ren ng gth the en ne ed d o ou ur r of the CR Committee together with the arrangements across the operations in the compliance compliance and and go gov vernance ernance frame framew work ork year in which membership commenced.
The Committee met on four occasions ar around ound t th he e Gamblin Gambling g Commission Commission s s Year of during 2015 and details of attendance at th thre ree l e liic cen ens siin ng g o ob bjje ec ct tiiv five es s:: Director appointment Committee meetings is set out on page 61.
Ashley Higheld, Chairman 2008 t to p o pr reve event g nt ga am mb bli lin ng g f fr ro om m b be eiin ng a g a Gareth Davis 2010 Role of the CR Committee s sour ourc ce e of c of cr riim me e o or r d diis sor ord fide er r, b, be eiin ng g Sir Roy Gardner 2014 a assoc ssociia at te ed d w wiit th c h cr riim me e o or r d diis sor ord fide er r, A full copy of the terms of reference for the o or r b be eiin ng g u use sed d t to o s su up pp po or rt c t cr riim me e:: Georgina Harvey 2011 Committee can be obtained via the website James Henderson 2014 t to o e en ns su ur re th e that g at ga amblin mbling g i is s at www.
com or by request to Imelda Walsh 2011 the Company Secretary.
The Committees c con ond duct ucte ed d i in a n a ffa aiir r a an nd d o op pe en n way:a way:an nd d principal responsibilities are to: James Henderson is the executive director t to o p pr rot ote ec ct c t ch hiilld dr re en n a an nd oth d othe er r review CR policies and practices for responsible for CR.
He is supported by the Group and set new CR policies vulnerable vulnerable p persons ersons fr fro om m being being various members of senior management harmed harmed or or e ex xploit ploite ed d b by y g gambling ambling.. as appropriate: throughout the business on the day-today management of CR related issues.
review CR performance across a range The Group Director of Corporate Affairs of performance metrics: provides effective co-ordination of CR ensure the business operates in a activities throughout the Group which sustainable way: helps to ensure effective collation and consideration of CR issues throughout advise the Board on environmental, theGroup.
This also enables a ow social and ethical matters: of high-quality information to the CR monitor CR risks as part of the Groups Committee.
The Company Secretary overall risk management framework: acts as secretary to the Committee.
and The CR Committee meetings are regularly attended by relevant members of the review and approve the annual CR Executive Committee team and by various report within this document.
managers, so that informed presentations The Chairman of the CR Committee are made by individuals responsible for key reports to the Board on the outcome areas such as human resources, health of meetings.
and safety, security and regulation.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 69 Governance Financial statements Main activities during 2015 Additional topics were also added as The Committee also discussed compliance standing agenda Committee items, with developments in statutory legislation, William Hill takes its responsibilities and including a more detailed report on in particular the Committee: obligations on CR seriously.
In order to arrangements for health and safety in provide a more detailed explanation of the noted a review which had been respect of all operations outside of the UK.
conducted of all construction policies key issues facing the business and how the Company is responding to them, a Other topics were reviewed and discussed to ensure full compliance with the latest during the year as appropriate, for example, regulations when working with third separate review is provided on pages 34 to43 of this Annual Report.
the Companys environmental performance party contractors across the Retail and the steps being taken to improve estate.
Contractor competence is also In order to ensure that the CR Committee energy efficiency.
The Company also has a assessed routinely and the results are reviews the most important CR issues, detailed engagement programme with key reviewed by the Committee: and theagenda for the CR Committee external stakeholders and the Committee includesstanding reports on a number considered the impact of the discussed and reviewed the engagement ofitems, including: introduction of the Modern Slavery programme regularly.
In 2016 the Committee will remains vital to any company and during health and safety: recommend a statement for approval the year the Committee considered a community activity, charitable donations by the Board on the steps that have report which assessed the Companys and related activity: been taken to ensure that slavery and reputation amongst key stakeholders, such human trafcking is not taking place in as Members of Parliament.
The outcomes issues in relation to employees, the business or the supply chain.
In the including employee recognition, of the report will help to further improve meantime, the Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys engagement and wellbeing: and has re-afrmed its statement on engagement with stakeholders and the security: Human Rights, which appears on page Committee will monitor the progress being 41 of this Annual Report.
compliance and interactions with made and will provide ongoing support to management.
regulatory authorities: and Ashley Higheld an overview on key CR performance Management continued to rene CR related Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee and trends.
These are primarily issues to improve their effectiveness and captured and reected in a CR also refreshed related policies within the dashboard, which is updated regularly.
business to ensure they remain relevant.
In particular, during the year the Committee The topics discussed and reviewed by the reviewed and approved revised policies Committee were also expanded to provide in respect of community engagement, more extensive oversight of a revised CR employee equality and health and safety.
governance framework, which provides Collation of information regarding health greater alignment with the licensing and safety, security and related incidents objectives required by the Gambling across the Retail estate has also improved Commission.
To further strengthen the link over the year and the Committee reviewed with the licensing objectives, during the the implementation of a database which year the Committee also monitored the supports the collation of such information progress being made on the introduction and which provides better analysis of the of algorithms for account-based games possible root causes of such incidences.
machine players and the use of behavioural science analytics to help further reduce the incidence of problem gambling.
