34 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY LEADING RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING CONTINUES TO BE A MAJOR FOCUS FOR THE GROUP AND WE HAVE TAKEN A NUMBER OF STEPS BOTH TO IMPROVE THE TOOLS AVAILABLE TO CUSTOMERS AND TO SHARE AND ENCOURAGE BEST PRACTICE.
Good progress in priority We created a Group Compliance In this years report, in addition to our areas in 2015 Committee and a Group Anti-Money regular updates relating to our customers, Laundering Steering Committee, and colleagues and communities, we are In 2015, we have worked on a crossimplemented a bespoke incident providing an in-depth view on four operator self-exclusion trial with a view management system to improve key areas.
to implementing nationally in 2016, rolled data management and analysis.
out our Linked card scheme for those staking over 50 on gaming machines and We also developed a new approach to developed gaming machine and online community engagement, Close to HOME.
behavioural analytics that support more This recognises that we are both an effective interaction with customers and international business and a very local one, using markers of harmful behaviour.
with homes in almost 2,500 communities across the UK, Gibraltar, Tel Aviv, Manila, Soa, Milan, Madrid, Sydney, Darwin and Nevada.
ENCOURAGING R R RE E ESPONSIBLE G S SP PO ON NS SIIB BL LE E G GA A AMBLING M MB BL LIN NG G Find out more: Page 35 PROTECTING OUR CU C CU US S ST T TO O OM M ME E ER R RS S S D D DA A AT T TA A A Find out more: Page 36 LEADING SPORTS BET B BE ET TTING INTE T TIIN NG G IIN NT TE EG G GR R RIT IT TY Y Y Find out more: Page 36 CONTRIBUTING TO OU O OU UR R R C C CO O OMMUNITIE M MM MU UN NIIT TIE ES S S Find out more:: Page 37 35 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements ENCOURAGING RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING On pages 18 and 19, we provide an In December 2014, the RGT published Online similarly operates daily, weekly overview on the changes we introduced research that showed it is possible to and monthly control reports to highlight in 2015 to continue improving our identify signs of potential gambling-related at risk customers.
All customers are responsible gambling measures.
harm, with 15 of the 19 markers applicable proled on either a two-year rolling period to gaming machine play.
In April 2015, or due to their activity on a particular day.
Responsible gambling remains a key we implemented the 50 journey, which priority for us.
Problem gambling is a We are continuing to assess and enhance requires customers staking over 50 on very complex area and the Responsible the effectiveness of these measures, a gaming machine to do so via accountGambling Strategy Board, continues to including identifying the optimum based play using our Linked card or by focus on dening gambling-related harm.
channels for communication and the staking OTC.
Using the data collated from We recognise that this is not confined to impact of multi-phase messaging.
account-based play, the RGT research addictive gambling but also extends to and in-house developed algorithms, it is During the year, we implemented at risk gamblers, who may simply spend increasingly possible to identify customers new responsible gambling training for too much time and money gambling.
displaying patterns of harmful behaviour.
This incorporates an In many cases, people experiencing This enables us to interact with both Retail understanding of the markers of harm, problems respond well to responsible and Online customers at an earlier stage.
how to approach a customer who gambling messaging and signposting exhibits any of them and the tools that to support services.
When a customer is logged in using their are available to them.
We invested 2m Linked card, their play is scored on a Research shows that any gambling on this training.
daily basis using the algorithm.
This covers product has the capacity to cause harm all levels of staking, recognising that to a minority of customers.
However, problems occur across all staking levels, we recognise the level of public concern and tracks behavioural change.
As part around gaming machines and have, of the monitoring process, we crosstherefore, not only ensured that we reference against marketing campaign are fully compliant with the Gambling activity and remove all players who are Commissions Licensing Conditions and currently under review.
In addition, we also Codes of Practice but also implemented review other session play across the Retail further responsible gambling measures, estate to identify customers who may be including the Codes adopted by the at risk and enable responsible gambling Association of British Bookmakers and interactions by the shop team.
OUR PRINCIPLES Our Group Compliance Committee has published all reasonably practical steps should be taken a Group Compliance Policy, which is available on to ensure that we do not accept money from our corporate website.
This outlines our approach customers who are using the proceeds of to compliance in all the regulated jurisdictions in crime to facilitate their gambling.
which we operate, which is governed by three In considering our approach to business fundamental principles: inaparticular jurisdiction, we will not just consider fairness and transparency for our customers, the relevant laws or regulations but will also look believing that customers should enjoy to apply these fundamental principles.
When we our gambling products having exercised consider that industry standards fall short of these informed choice: principles, we will actively campaign for the raising of those standards across the industry.
the children and the vulnerable, including at risk and problem gamblers, should be adequately protected from the potential harmful effects of gambling or excessive gambling: and 36 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROTECTING OUR CUSTOMERS DATA Cyber crime is now one of the key risks We have also implemented several As part of this, we have actively engaged facing companies, particularly digital innovative and leading-edge technology with the UK Government-sponsored companies who hold sensitive customer solutions in order to enhance our security Cyber Security Information Sharing data.
We take the security of our monitoring and response capabilities.
Partnership and participate in a cyber customers data very seriously throughout These have enabled us to respond threat-sharing forum for our sector.
the Group and have invested in an quickly to evolving threats.
We also work with a number of partners ongoing programme of security reviews Through awareness initiatives, we to manage these threats, which include and testing.
reviewed our information security denial of service attacks and unauthorised Both our Retail and Online operations practices in the Customer Services attempts to access our systems or are certied compliant with the Payment teams and have been embedding customer accounts.
Our dedicated Card Industrys data security standards.
secure development and security Security Operations team is alerted We undertake annual security audits for testing practices with our internal to and investigates suspicious activity.
our regulators and in 2015 extended our development teams.
In 2015, we successfully mitigated security compliance monitoring for key multiple cyber threats against our The external security threats that we face third-party suppliers.
are becoming increasingly sophisticated and rapidly evolve.
It is important that these threats are proactively assessed so that our response and controls can be adapted in line with the risk.
LEADING SPORTS BETTING INTEGRITY We strongly believe that licensed and These are reported to relevant regulatory We have established a number of regulated companies can help to address bodies and to ESSA, the sports betting memoranda of understanding with a wide range of potential gambling-related integrity body established by the leading individual sports governing bodies, issues, from fairness to problem gambling regulated sports betting operators to including the British Horseracing to underage gambling.
Authority, the Scottish Football Association, the English Football Sports integrity is one area in which the Reports made to ESSA by one operator Association and the Tennis Integrity regulated gambling industry is the first are assessed by the trading teams of Unit.
We support sports bodies in line of defence and we have invested in other operators within an hour to identify the sharing of best practice and have an integrated strategy to uphold integrity wider issues and determine a rapid hosted visits from a number of sports in sports betting.
ESSA also shares information to explain our procedures for identifying mechanisms, particularly within our with the relevant regulators and sporting suspicious patterns.
Trading teams, identify any unusual or authorities, and has information-sharing suspicious betting activity.
agreements with a large number of sports William Hill is a member of the Gambling government bodies, including the IOC.
Commissions Sports Betting Integrity Forum, which in 2015 published its Sports Integrity is a core part of the relationship Betting Integrity Action Plan and launched we build with sports bodies when we a new website to provide support and undertake sponsorship agreements best practice guidelines.
37 William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report Governance Financial statements CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES In 2015, we started to roll out our new During the year, we piloted nine We are taking the learnings from these community strategy.
Having largely community projects in the UK under our pilot projects to develop a framework to completed our goals under our major Close to HOME banner.
Teams from support other projects, both in the UK international project, Project Africa, we Aberdeen, Birmingham, Bristol, Glasgow and internationally, again building on the have refocused our resources on the Leeds, London and Swansea were work already enthusiastically undertaken local communities in which we operate, encouraged to engage with a local charity in many of our locations.
drawing inspiration from the work and support them either nancially or At the same time, we have engaged with alreadybeing voluntarily undertaken through giving time and help.
a number of other charities within our bymany colleagues from across the The wide range of projects included three priority areas.
Helping people get William Hill world.
supporting hospices and centres for into work is becoming a key theme, as is We have focused our efforts on the homeless and elderly, repainting support for sports like boxing which help three areas that draw on the passion a community hall, running customer local communities and young people.
and skillsets that already exist within service workshops for young adults with For instance, our William Hill Foundation WilliamHill: sport: skills and opportunities: learning difficulties, creating starter packs patron, Robbie Savage, is helping us and local community.
of household goods for former homeless support our partnership with Our Club, people moving into new homes and where we are working on employment fundraising to keep a boxing club open programmes in Swansea and, in due for the local community.
course, London and the North-East.
CLOSE TO HOME In 2015, nine UK teams came together tobuild relationships with charities in theirlocal communities as a pilot project.
The approach will be rolled out across theGroup in 2016.
