34 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model: Helping our customers prosper 35 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information World Duty Free Group CASE STUDY 1 World Duty Free Group is one of the worlds leading airport retailers, with over 500 outlets in 20 countries.
They aim to Transforming offer the ultimate airport shopping experience and provide an efficient the Heathrow service to high volumes of customers, even at peak times.
Terminal 2 shopping The challenge experience The airport retailer needed a payment partner that would help them to serve customers in the newly re-opened Heathrow Terminal 2 as quickly as possible but at the same time provide an exceptional level of service.
London With Worldpay Total Mobile Heathrow is the worlds busiest international airport and therefore they we can react to situations needed a flexible, cost-effective way for staff to take payments, not just at the till, very quickly depending on but throughout the store.
when and where we The solution get busy.
World Duty Free Group chose Worldpay Total Mobile, a payment app that can be installed on a tablet or mobile device which connects to a portable card reader.
World Duty Free Group This enabled shop assistants to roam the shop floor, assisting customers in their shopping journey and taking payments on the spot.
Worldpay Total Mobile also offers daily, monthly and weekly analytics for all card readers, allowing the retailer to better manage staff during peak times and improve their customers shopping experience in the future.
The solution has reduced queues and thenumber of lost sales, since purchases can be made quickly and easily when customers are in a rush.
In addition, the average transaction value in-store has increased by around 40% on the Worldpay Total Mobile devices compared with sales on the main tills, and fewer purchases are abandoned by customers who have run out of time to shop before boarding.
36 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model: Helping our customers prosper continued 37 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information China Southern Airlines CASE STUDY 2 China Southern Airlines operates the largest fleet, one of the most developed route networks, and the largest passenger Expanding payment capacity of any airline in The Peoples Republic of China.
Worldpay has been capabilities while working with the business since mid-2012.
protecting against The challenge China Southern Airlines needed a reliable fraud activity payments partner with global payment coverage to help them enter new markets.
They also needed a provider with experience in the airline sector to guide their payment strategy and defend them against fraud threats.
Worldpay provides us The solution with global acquiring Worldpay provides China Southern Airlines with its acquiring, alternative payments services and has helped us andrisk management services.
Specifically, expand our global reach to China Southern Airlines uses Worldpays RiskGuardian fraud management tool, a new markets for airline flexible solution that can be tailored to suittheir individual requirements.
helped to improve China Southern Airlines fraud and chargeback ratios by 85%.
At the same time, their transaction acceptance rates saw an increase of 3%.
China Southern Airlines Additionally, our expert analytics team have been able to provide access to data trends that determine how carriers like China Southern Airlines can improve their global payments strategies.
Worldpay has held multiple training workshops and refresher sessions with China Southern Airlines team to cover a multitude of topics from payment queries and dispute management to reconciliation best practices.
38 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our business model: Helping our customers prosper continued 39 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Smithy Garage CASE STUDY 3 Smithy Garage is a small business offering servicing and repairs for cars and vans.
The garage was started by Alan and Ellen Providing Moon 12 years ago and is based in the North West of the UK near Preston.
time-saving digital The challenge technologies to In the UK, small business owners can spend more time on financial administration than help small business they do on selling.
Alan and Ellen were looking for a payment provider to help chart their financial data in a simple and owners plan with informative way, to help them make sense of their cash flows and manage their confidence business more efficiently.
The solution Worldpays My Business Dashboard has helped Alan and Ellen to minimise time spent on financial administration so they We have a cash flow that can get back to what matters keeping we need to monitor closely.
I think the dashboard is The online tool is an intuitive online portal that helps small business owners excellent as you can look at make informed decisions through better what the credit or debit visibility of their data, while providing them with the same tools and insights that are card payments have been used by larger corporates.
It provides easy to our business.
to navigate downloadable reporting on card transactions, online invoices, cash flow overviews and sales trends, giving them instant access to the financial data they need to run their business.
