Sustainability Building a better business The Groups sustainability programme addresses Our people We value our people and are Wolseleys main sustainability issues, mitigating the committed to train and develop all associated risks and offering business opportunities to of our employees.
We understand, respect and value personal accelerate profitable growth.
The programme comprises and cultural differences and seven components which support the Groups strategy promote diversity.
Health and safety Our experience tells us that engaged employees deliver great levels of customer We provide a safe and healthy service a key driver of faster profitable growth.
We will continue to develop and working environment and we will motivate our people, embedding a strong culture of execution, to deliver our not compromise the health or improved business models.
To do this, we must above all keep our people safe safety of any individual.
Ethics and compliance Supplying our customers with products of ever-greater quality and performance We are committed to observing will gain us a greater share of their business.
Working closely with our customers to both the spirit and the letter of the select the energy-efficient materials they need deepens our relationships and opens laws of all jurisdictions in which we up new markets.
Running operations that consume less energy and fuel reduces operate, and to comply with our costs and improves margins.
During 2014 15, a comprehensive review of the Companys sustainability strategy was conducted.
A wide stakeholder group was consulted including investors, Environmental customers, suppliers, employees and senior management.
The review confirmed performance that we are focused on the right issues.
Further work is planned over the next three We run efficient operations that years to improve our performance in these areas.
consume less energy and fuel, produce less waste and reduce any negative effects of our business activities on the environment.
We explore opportunities to reduce the environmental impacts of our suppliers and customers.
Product integrity We work with our suppliers to maintain excellent standards ofproduct quality and safety.
We expect our suppliers, contractors and agents to adhere to our Code of Conduct and to adopt similar standards.
Sustainable Sustainability and strategy construction The symbols below are displayed on the following We will be a positive link in pages to indicate which of our strategic objectives are most directly supported by each sustainability the sustainable construction programme component.
The objectives are supply chain.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Community engagement Further detail on progress in 2014 15 and We voluntarily contribute our time objectives for 2015 16 and our financial support to the www.
com communities in which we work.
Additional information, including case studies www.
com Wolseley plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Wolseley.
These topics include employee Pricing Our people policies covering topics such as antiWe are investing in our pricing teams starting discrimination and a right to collective 1 2 3 4 5 6 with strong team leaders who can develop bargaining, health and safety, ethics and the strategy and champion the importance Maximising opportunities conduct.
All of these issues are managed of pricing so we can serve our customers Skilled, motivated and engaged through policies and programmes of work better.
These teams develop frameworks employees deliver excellent customer and are regularly monitored for compliance.
and conduct analysis of trends and data to service, develop strong supplier Business partners and suppliers are inform pricing strategy or to support new relationships, maximise operational expected to conform to Wolseleys Code initiatives.
The efforts of these teams are efficiencies and fast-track the of Conduct.
supported by regular communications about development of new business models.
our pricing philosophy and clearly defined Managing risks roles and responsibilities regarding pricing The behaviour of our employees decisions within the organisation.
For further underpins all of the Companys principal information on pricing management, see risks.
For more detail on Wolseleys page 14. principal risks, please see pages 44 to 51.
Sales effectiveness Progress against our All our businesses are focused on the objectives in 2014 15 development of consistently high performing sales managers.
Each sales manager must As part of our people and organisation be capable of expanding sales and profits.
strategy, we have identified the critical Specialised training Our reporting structure has been modified capabilities we need to drive the inFerguson so that sales teams receive feedback and evolution of our future business models.
Following the acquisition of HPProducts, direction from their own sales managers These include e-commerce, pricing and a distributor of janitorial and sanitation instead of through general management.
Development of these products, our business in theUSA We have communicated the objectives new capabilities presents opportunities provided specialist training to and expectations to the sales managers for our employees to learn new skills its employees.
as well as delivered extensive training so while supporting the future growth of that our employees are knowledgeable the Company.
Over 200 commercial Maintenance, and prepared to deliver on expectations.
Repair and Operation MRO sales We have created tools and metrics to drive E-commerce employees received a week of training market share growth, margin expansion and and hands-on experience of the products E-commerce is a relatively new capability for sales productivity.
A monthly dashboard at the HP Products headquarters in Wolseley and our businesses are at different showing performance and key performance Indianapolis, Indiana.
We have developed indicators at the aggregate and individual a framework and common language to Newly-hired MRO sales specialists also levels allow us to investigate individual describe each of our e-commerce roles and completed a week of training and spent performance issues as well as opportunities how our resource requirements will evolve time at the Ferguson headquarters to within our comprehensive sales process.
over time as the channel grows within each understand the US business processes.
This framework has enabled us to Particular focus was given to solution Human Rights build on lessons learned and plan for future selling and customer service to ensure Both the United Nations Global Compact skills requirements in terms of the number that Fergusons commercial MRO sales and Universal Declaration of Human Rights of resources required and the relevant hiring employees are well equipped to grow have been considered in determining the strategy and source.
human rights issues that are material to Wolseley plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability continued Gender diversity Injury, lost workday Health and safety andcollisionrates 2 3 Women as a percentage 2.1% improvement of the total: Maximising opportunities Injury rate A robust health and safety programme 1.43 per 100,000 hours worked 30% is aimed at protecting and motivating our Directors Board employees.
It also improves productivity 6.3% improvement by reducing the number of days lost Lost workday rate to injury and enhances profitability by 13% 47.28 per 100 employees reducing our liabilities.
Senior leadership Managing risks 9.6% improvement The principal risks relate to manual 23% Fleet third party collision rate handling, working at height, the use Total employees 15.38 per 100 vehicles of motorised equipment and vehicle The Senior Leadership group at Wolseley consists of managers collisions.
The Group has introduced drawn from business units and central functions with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities improved standards to mitigate of the Company.
Site-level internal audits of these risks.
health and safety compliance Diversity and inclusion Health and safety practices in over 700 Health and safety risks are addressed branches were reviewed by the Companys through implementation of the Groups According to the annual Davies Report, internal audit function during the year.
Minimum Standard for health and safety.
which charts the progress of companies The audits include health and safety matters, This provides a framework of expected in appointing women to their boards, taking into account both compliance with practices, while allowing standard Wolseley is the second most improved firm legal requirements and key aspects of the operating procedures to be adapted in the FTSE 100 and in the top 25 overall.
Groups Minimum Standard for Health and to local regulations.
Health and safety A number of diversity measures are regularly Safety.
Although performance is improving, performance is monitored quarterly via three tracked and gender diversity statistics are the results were disappointing and corrective key performance indicators and through presented below.
Our diversity and inclusion action is being taken.
Performance is reported policy statement can be seen on page 71. actions to improve training, standard quarterly to the Executive Committee and operating procedures, infrastructure and the Board.
Total men Total women Weaknesses identified are reported to the Progress against our Directors Board 7 3 Managing Director of each business and to objectives in 2014 15 Senior leadership 90 13 the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Our primary objectives for the year were to Total employees 30,938 9,404 Branch operational audits and rereduce our injury, lost workday and collision Total employee numbers of 40,342 are reported above.
The lower audits will continue on a rolling basis to rates by 2 per cent each and to embed number of 38,357 reported on page 7 is the number of Full Time ensure that all sites are assessed and Equivalent employees.
the Groups Minimum Standard for health improvements sustained.
We are pleased to report solid performance against these targets, although we remain dissatisfied with procedures in some areas of our front-line operations.
Work will continue to improve standards across all areas of our business and to further reduce our injury, lost workday and vehicle collision rates.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Denotes an objective which may be directly impacted by the risk identified see page 10 forstrategic objectives Wolseley plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Whistleblowing Strong performance in carbon Ethics and compliance and waste reduction We continue to encourage our employees 1 2 3 4 6 to raise concerns of any nature through our One year into our two-year target period, Group-wide confidential reporting system, we reduced carbon emissions by 10.5per Maximising opportunities Speak Up!.
Employees can disclose cent and tonnage of waste by 8.6 per Compliance with the letter and the information in any language, confidentially cent both per million of revenue.
spirit of the law and a commitment to and anonymously via an international hotline, We increased the percentage of waste sent high ethical standards strengthens our voicemail or web message.
for recycling from 23.5 per cent to 24.7 per reputation with customers, suppliers and cent.
Examples of how the businesses have other stakeholders.
improved their environmental performance Managing risks are detailed on the Wolseley plc website Environmental The business is exposed to risks of www.
Non-compliance with governmental regulations is one of 2 3 Carbon and waste data our principal risks.
For more detail, see accuracy continues to improve page50.
Maximising opportunities Data accuracy continues to improve with The reduced consumption of energy, only 12 per cent of carbon data being fuel and water and reduction of Progress against our based on estimated numbers in 2014 15 waste decreases costs and improves objectives in 2014 15 16 per cent in 2013 14.
Only 34 per cent both operational efficiencies and Our focus for 2014 15 was to continue to of waste data 42 per cent in 2013 14 was profit margins.
ensure that our compliance programmes based on estimated numbers in 2014 15.
Managing risks in relation to fraud, bribery and corruption  PwC were Rising energy prices and increasing and anti-trust laws are fully embedded in engaged in the previous year 2013 14 to green taxes can reduce Wolseleys business practice.
test the reliability of the Groups carbon and profit margins.
All business units have waste data and provided a limited assurance reduction targets in place to minimise Third party screening of statement at that time.
The Group has these rising costs.
continued to maintain its reporting discipline higher-risk business partners in 2014 15. Business partners providing services to Progress against our Wolseley businesses were risk assessed objectives in 2014 15 Carbon emissions and waste during the year.
Organisations regarded as Our objectives for 2014 15 were to reduce higher risk were screened by a third party 10.5% improvement carbon emissions and to better manage during 2014 15.
Carbon our waste in order to achieve our two- 32.9 tCO e per m revenue year reduction targets of 5 per cent tCO e 2 2 Compliance training carbon and 5 per cent total waste by programmes 31 July 2016 both per million of revenue.
8.6% improvement All Wolseley businesses provide training for We also have a two-year target to increase Total waste relevant employees on anti-corruption and the percentage of waste that is recycled 5.43 tonnes per m revenue anti-trust matters.
This is typically provided from 23.5 per cent to 29 per cent.
Face-to-face training is provided for selected employees 5.4% improvement on more complex topics such as anti-trust.
from 23.45% to 24.71% Training is provided for new employees % of total waste recycled on induction.
Total revenue of 13,919 million including discontinued businesses is used when calculating the relative carbon and waste performance.
The lower number of 13,300 million reported on the inside front cover is the revenue for the ongoing business.
Wolseley plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability continued oil and refrigerants.
Scope 2 emissions Carbon emissions and waste include purchased electricity and heat i. e. Wolseleys reported data includes all major district heating.
Scope 3 emissions include businesses and head office locations the road or rail-based transportation of with 25 employees or more, representing goods by outsourced transport providers, over 99 per cent of Wolseley Groups total road-based business travel in private employee numbers.
All Scope 1 and 2 vehicles and air and rail-based business emissions and selected Scope 3 emissions travel.
Further detail on the data provided are reported.
Scope 1 emissions include can be found in the Basis of Reporting vehicle fuel emissions from owned or document on the Wolseley plc website leased vehicles and fuels used for operation www.
Canada curbs fuel and including natural gas, LPG, diesel, petrol, energy consumption tCO2e m revenue Wolseley Canada moved a significant Carbon emissions 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 One-year variance proportion of its cross-country deliveries Scope 1 and 2 emissions 27.9 28.2 25.2 10.6% from road to rail during the year.
Scope 3 emissions 8.7 8.6 7.7 10.5% The change brings both supply chain efficiencies and environmental benefits Total emissions 36.6 36.8 32.9 10.5% as approximately 1,800 tonnes of carbon are avoided per year.
Total carbon emissions Total waste Tonnes of CO equivalent Tonnes Since 2013, lighting upgrades have Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Landlled Incinerated Recycled been taking place across the estate, 481,441 481,262 458,633 70,989 70,942 69,047 so far reducing carbon emissions by approximately 330 tonnes per year.
Any waste volumes for which it is unknown whether the waste is sent to landfill or is incinerated are included in the landfill totals.
Our approach to measuring carbon was developed in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG Protocol.
Emissions are calculated using DEFRA carbon factors and are reported as tonnes of CO2 equivalent abbreviated as tCO2e, based on the Global Warming Potential GWP of each of the basket of six greenhouse gases, as defined by the Kyoto Protocol.
Inaccuracies identified in prior year numbers resulted in immaterial adjustments to the 2013 14 carbon and waste data.
Due to rounding of the figures in the bar charts and table, there is not a precise correlation with the totals and accurate percentage performance figures.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Denotes an objective which may be directly impacted by the risk identified see page 10 forstrategic objectives Wolseley plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Sourcing timber responsibly Product integrity Wolseley has assessed its timber products 2 3 6 for a number of years and works with specialist business partners to ensure Maximising opportunities that the systems we have in place meet Sourcing and supplying safe, quality regulatory requirements.
products improves our margins, enhances customer satisfaction and confidence and enables branch employees to devote more time to sales Sustainable and customer service.
construction UK driving down Managing risks 2 3 emissions Product-related litigation is recognised The UK business attached tracking as one of our significant risks.
For more Maximising opportunities devices to its entire distribution centre detail on how we are managing the risk, Where the opportunity exists, we fleet resulting in a 20 per cent reduction in please see page 49. can gain market share by stocking fuel consumption.
The trackers measure sustainable construction products fuel consumption, idling time and driver and by offering training and advice to Progress against our behaviour.
Drivers are debriefed on our customers.
objectives in 2014 15 their performance in order to address Managing risks areas for improvement such as harsh The focus for the year under review was Suppressed market conditions and braking or acceleration.
The initiative to keep all businesses on track to meet pressure on margins are two of the also improved driver safety as drivers are their targets under the product integrity Groups most significant risks see pages more aware of their behaviours.
programme, and to share best practice 47 and 48.
These risks can be mitigated across the Group.
Besides fleet fuel efficiencies, the UK by opening up new market opportunities business continues to benefit from the and improving customer service.
Product Integrity managers installation of 8,000 solar panels on share best practice the National Distribution Centre roof in Progress against our Royal Leamington Spa.
The installation Product Integrity managers from across objectives in 2014 15 produced over 1.7 million kW of electricity the Group met in June 2015 to discuss in its first year, equivalent to the electricity The objective remains for our businesses to approaches and develop new ideas used by 522 homes in the UK during the continue to provide access to sustainable to comply with the Group minimum same period.
products and training, in line with the local requirements for product and supplier due Energy calculation based on the Ofgem average of medium market opportunity.
Significant progress has been home usage being 3,300 kW per annum.
made with processes and capabilities during the year, resulting in reduced risk to the Group.
All businesses continue to report against a standard set of KPIs every six months and progress is monitored by the Board.
Wolseley plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability continued Helping our customers to meet Community their carbon obligations engagement Through the sale of products and active 3 promotion of sustainable low carbon products, Wolseley businesses contribute Maximising opportunities to reduced energy consumption and Engagement with the communities consequently reduced CO emissions from 2 in which we operate promotes our customer buildings.
Additionally, Wolseleys business, attracts high quality recruits, sales teams offer information to customers teaches us about our customers on how to reduce energy consumption and enhances employee skills Nordic region mitigating through the use of more sustainable and and engagement.
risk in the supply chain Managing risks All sourcing teams across the Nordic Wolseley operates in a highly Leading by example and region have access to a bespoke competitive marketplace, with many upgrading our own estate supplier assessment tool to support locally established competitors.
more informed sourcing decisions and to Where possible, we install more energyCommunity engagement can enhance improve governance.
efficient products across our own estate our local reputation and allow us to to demonstrate to our customers that we compete more effectively.
The tool assesses a number of factors recognise the value of the more sustainable including the suppliers financial health, products within our ranges.
During 2014 15, ethical history, insurance protection Progress against our the UK business achieved a Building and product risk.
The total risk score objectives in 2014 15 Research Establishment Environmental generated for each supplier informs the Assessment Method BREEAM rating of Our businesses seek to be contributing level of approval or consultation required Excellent for the building management members to the communities in which they in order to trade with the supplier.
The Group also supports a number The dashboard generated for each centre in Milton, Ontario, won a National of charitable organisations both at a Group supplier supports local supplier Earth Award from the Building Owners and and a business unit level.
discussions and allows each Nordic Managers Association of Canada BOMA business to reduce the level of risk in their in the Light Industrial Building category.
During 2014 15, Wolseleys businesses UK helps installers to sell better contributed to a great number of charities, products including support for neglected and vulnerable children and provision of care for As part of an Energy-efficient installer sufferers of cancer and other illnesses.
scheme, the UK business unit provides sales-training to installers to increase end customer knowledge and purchases of Employee involvement higher efficiency products.
Wolseley UK Our employees engaged in a great number trains customers at its Sustainable Building of community and charity events.
Visit the Center, a showcase for commercial building Wolseley plc website www.
com products and construction methods with for examples of the events and schemes our enhanced environmental performance.
employees and businesses have supported over the last year.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Denotes an objective which may be directly impacted by the risk identified see page 10 forstrategic objectives Wolseley plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Monitoring performance Governance Business units monitor performance against Accountability our most important sustainability issues The overall sustainability programme throughout the year.
Performance reports is agreed by the Board and reviewed are submitted to the Executive Committee annually to ensure its ongoing relevance and the Board at regular intervals.
to business strategy, stakeholder For example, health and safety and expectations and international sustainability fraud metrics are reported quarterly.
The Groups General Counsel Product integrity and environmental data is responsible to the Board for the overall is reviewed at the half-year and yearsustainability programme.
The Group Risk, Compliance and Ferguson tackles labour Sustainability team monitor performance Implementation shortage in the USA across all areas of the sustainability With direction from the Board, the Ferguson is working to address the programme except for Our people which businesses define and execute local increasing lack of skilled labour in the is overseen by the Group HR function.
action plans according to their own USA.
The business is working alongside Wolseleys Internal Audit teams periodically particular level of development and several trade-specific organisations to test compliance with policy and adherence the greatest opportunities for progress change this growing trend and to offer to procedures.
The Group Risk, more opportunities for young people to Risk management Compliance and Sustainability team enter the industry.
Non-financial as well as financial risks Ferguson is a corporate founder and are assessed as part of the Groups a member of the  performance comprehensive risk management process.
Cooling Contractors Association Objectives and, where appropriate, These include fraud, corruption, product PHCC and for more than a decade quantified targets are set for all sustainability quality, employee, health and safety and has supported its educational programme components.
For some focus environmental risks.
For further information programmes and scholarships.
areas, Group-wide KPIs have been defined.
on the Groups risk management Additionally, Ferguson works with KPIs have not been set for all elements of programme, see pages 44 to 51. local vocation schools and community the programme as it is not always practical colleges in their headquarter state of to bring distinct local methods under one Virginia to develop solutions to address unified metric.
Improved performance is the the workforce challenge both short and primary goal.
Wolseley plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
