54 Strategic Report People Our talented people and their collective expertise help us to build a winning culture, exceed client expectations and meet our strategic objectives.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 55 People continued Our people are our competitive edge.
We remain focused on attracting people Overview Engagement into engineering careers from schools At Atkins, our people are our competitive Ensuring our people feel valued and and universities.
We trust them to go above and motivated at work underpins our ethos 400 new graduates in September 2014 beyond for the Group and our clients.
and supports our strategy for growth.
across all our regions and will be targeting Their individual talent and our collective We know there is always room for a similar number in our September 2015 expertise help us to exceed client improvement, therefore, we ask our intake.
There was also an increase in the expectations and meet our strategic people to tell us what they think and objectives.
percentage of female graduates in this then involve them in our plans for change.
years intake, which supports our diversity We review our people related activities agenda.
Our apprentice programme Every year we ask our people around continues to attract school leavers regularly and, as part of this process, the world to participate in our Viewpoint we consider a range of human resources choosing a career in engineering.
The details are provided in the United measures, such as headcount, retention survey comprises a series of strategically and employee engagement.
We also Kingdom and Europe business review important themed questions, aligned to page 27.
Our Group wide careers review progress against our Group and a pre-defined engagement model.
This sector people strategies, ensuring we website gives our people easy access to model measures our peoples relationship all our vacancies throughout the world are able to forecast the future skills with management and how they feel and resourcing needs to support our and helps to encourage internal mobility.
about their jobs and the Group.
In conjunction with developing our talent Group results are communicated both pool in local markets, we have a growing locally and via our Group wide intranet, Headcount number of people working on planned with presentations of results by business Headcount increased by over 970 in the international assignments across the arranged locally.
Group, either to supplement skills not There was a rise in the United Kingdom available locally by bringing specific Our 2014 survey included 80 questions and Europe, the Middle East and Energy, technical knowledge to bear or to help and was completed by 76% of our reflecting our strategy of organic growth resource the delivery of larger projects.
Our overall engagement score and targeted acquisitions.
These increases We completed a strategic review of our was 68, a really pleasing result.
Although were partly offset by a reduction in North requirements, policies and processes for this represents a one point decrease America, as the region continues to focus international assignments in the year from last year, it is still far higher than on operational efficiency and productivity.
to ensure that we remain competitive the global norm for organisations in the in this area.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 56 Strategic Report People continued It is evident that people across Atkins care about the success of our organisation.
Questions about carrying out work The Group operational leadership team Our senior leadership teams hold safely remain among our top scoring will continue to use the survey outputs meetings and open discussions to give areas, with 95% of people understanding to improve our employee engagement employees the opportunity to ask how to work safely.
Safety questions and is committed to developing a set questions about our strategy and future also account for our biggest increases of clear actions each year to address plans.
We also use webinars and all hands from last year, with 68% actively the feedback.
calls, to engage with our people and challenging unsafe behaviours and give them the chance to participate and 67% feeling that managers help them Day to day we maintain regular ask questions directly.
to take a proactive and visible approach communication with our employees to safety, an increase of 3% for both.
through a range of digital media, with Another popular communication channel It is also evident that people across content relating to our client wins, project is our CEO blogs, through which our Atkins continue to care about the successes, thought leadership and stories regional, Energy and Faithful Gould success of our organisation 94%.
about our people all available on our CEOs share informal thoughts, images Group wide intranet.
Areas where we have scope to improve online channels with face to face town further include our ability to retain hall meetings and line manager team our best people and give them a clear briefings.
To coincide with the career path.
announcement of our financial results, we provide updates on our Group performance via webinar for all colleagues.
Figure 1: Viewpoint Group engagement results as provided by Ipsos MORI What is engagement and why do we measure it?
Ipsos MORI has identified three components alignment, involvement and loyalty that can help us to understand and improve the experience of our employees.
Alignment Involvement Loyalty Overall score norm 2013 norm 2013 norm 2013 norm 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 59 63 57 60 68 70 70 69 66 69 69 68 Alignment is about how closely Involvement is about how Loyalty measures the emotional The employee engagement an individuals objectives, values involved people feel with their tie people have to the Group score is an average score against and aspirations match those job.
We measure this through as a whole, i. e. how proud they which employee engagement of the Group.
key questions around job feel, what their outlook is and can be measured across all satisfaction, motivation and how they would speak about three components.
Our employee engagement score for 2014 can also be measured against the Ipsos Global Sector Norm in other words, how we compare against the responses given by employees in other organisations in the professional services sector, both globally and regionally.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 57 People continued One of the key challenges for our industry is to develop the next generation of engineers.
We continue to engage with schools A discretionary bonus scheme covers Investment in people To achieve our vision to be the worlds and colleges to attract students into the wider Atkins population.
We expect studying science, technology, engineering to pay a bonus to around one third of best design, engineering and infrastructure project management consultancy, and mathematics STEM subjects and staff members, recognising individual encourage them towards careers in contribution and performance.
we need to develop and enhance the capabilities and performance of our our industry.
Employee share ownership is encouraged people.
The Groups annual training spend has increased to over 22m One of the key requirements of our across the Group, to align the interests growth ambition is the capability of our of our employees and our shareholders 2014: 18.5m.
people to get close to our clients and to and to enable our employees to share in understand their drivers and requirements.
the success of the Company.
In the UK, We have completed the roll out of our My Career system, which won Our worldwide sales excellence programme we operate a share incentive plan SIP has continued to strengthen the capability that provides a tax-efficient mechanism The Training Journal award for Best Change Programme 2014.
The system of our people in these areas.
A further for employees to become shareholders 1,000 staff attended programme modules through salary sacrifice arrangements.
automates the performance appraisal process across the Group.
We continue during the year.
Approximately 11.4% of eligible employees participate in the SIP.
to develop and simplify the process to provide greater clarity of objectives, Reward We have maintained our focus on the improve visibility and tracking, and also Pay movement across the Group varies strengthen the link between performance by business and geography.
This reflects management of our historic UK defined benefit pension liabilities.
The last triennial review and reward.
This has provided both the diversity of our businesses and an improved process for the targeting the variability in market conditions valuation of the Atkins Pension Plan was agreed in February 2014 and provides and delivery of training, at the same time between businesses and regions.
With allowing greater access to online learning effect from 1 April 2015, the average a stable repayment plan mechanism to manage our deficit contributions over and tracking of learning and compliance salary increase was 3.3% across the training.
Group, with significant variation by region.
One of the key challenges for our industry To inform the salary review and other is to develop the next generation of reward decisions, we conduct engineers to solve the challenges of comprehensive annual benchmarking urbanisation, climate change and energy studies across our regions.
This puts our graduate data to improve the competitiveness of and apprenticeship programmes at the our remuneration packages and to help heart of developing our talent for the line managers with pay decisions.
During the year in addition to our significant graduate intake, we recruited Approximately 1,000 senior leaders a further 71 apprentices.
We are a worldwide participate in our executive member of the 5% Club, an industry led bonus scheme.
This incentivises the campaign whose member organisations delivery of above-average financial results make a public commitment to have at and exceptional individual performance by least 5% of their UK workforce on formal rewarding the achievement of stretching graduate and apprenticeship schemes.
Our current proportion is 8.9% of UK headcount.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 58 Strategic Report People continued Our goal is to develop an organisational culture that fully embraces male and female contributions.
We have a range of objectives which Figure 2: Viewpoint Group Diversity have been devised to align to these goals.
We are committed to building a diverse scores by gender as provided The womens leadership council links by Ipsos MORI organisation to maximise the skills senior women across all regions and available to us in the regions in which is committed to supporting women we operate.
Policies have been adopted Engagement score by gender throughout the organisation to develop to ensure this commitment is implemented and fulfil their potential.
A womens from the point of attraction and professional network is also now well recruitment and continues throughout an established in most regions and Energy, individuals employment.
Our people are 2014 2014 which has helped women to feel well supported to develop to their full potential connected across Atkins.
regardless of sex, race, age, religion or 69 68 belief, disability, sexual orientation, gender The gender balance of the senior identity, marriage and civil partner status, management population decreased pregnancy, parental obligations or slightly to 12.37% over the course of background, subject to the laws of the Global the year.
However, early indications are jurisdictions in which we work.
norm 60 that we have reversed this trend with The Group encourages recruitment, an increase to 13.5% as we progress into the new financial year.
training, career development and promotion on the basis of aptitude As we continue to work to increase and ability, without regard to disability.
We are also committed to retaining and the proportion of female staff in Atkins we have developed a range of flexible retraining, as necessary, employees who become disabled during the course working options to help us both recruit and retain a broader range of staff.
is supported by our Viewpoint results, which showed an improvement in the Gender diversity continues to be a key focus for the Group and our goal is to scores provided by women in many areas.
develop an organisational culture that fully embraces male and female contributions in a male-dominated industry.
We are working towards achieving a better gender balance to provide an environment where women want to stay and develop their careers.
In the UK, our efforts in the year have been recognised externally, with the Group winning a place in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 59 People continued Our people are supported to develop to their full potential.
Figure 3: Gender split We remain committed to having a diverse workforce and continue to work towards our goal of increasing female representation at a senior level to 15%.
Gender split Board membership Senior leadership team Senior management Employees 4,907 1 7 2 13 128 907 12,525 There were eight members As at 31 March 2015 There were 1,035 senior Excluding our Group senior of the Board as at two senior leadership team managers including directors leadership team and senior 31 March 2015 of whom members were female.
of subsidiary companies manager population there seven were male and one within the Group at Atkins were 17,427 employees at was female.
Of this Atkins of whom 12,525 were number 907 were male and male and 4,907 were female 128 were female.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
