60 Strategic Report Corporate sustainability review Atkins is enabling a sustainable future.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 61 Corporate sustainability review continued More information in our digital sustainability report at: www.
com en-GB   Our sustainability principles are based In the UK, we were awarded the Social and community investment around three key themes: a society for internationally recognised Royal Society We are encouraging and supporting our future, an environment with a future, for the Prevention of Accidents Gold our people to make an even greater and a responsible business of the future.
This demonstrated our contribution to the social, environmental During the year, we ran an employee commitment and focus on health and and economic health of our communities.
engagement programme to understand safety as it becomes a natural and integral better what these mean to our people.
Across each sector, we focus our efforts Feedback has been used to create a where we believe our skills can do the sustainability pathway, for launch in most good.
In the UK we are a patron A society for our future 2015, setting our sustainability direction Inspiring the next generation of RedR an engineering relief charity up to 2020. and in Asia Pacific our volunteers have We recognise that inspiring the next generation of engineers to build a designed two schools for pre-school Internally, we are using our RACE2 students in Cambodia.
sustainable future will be critical, both programme to put our sustainability to our success and to that of society.
principles into action in our offices At a regional, local and office level, our This was emphasised by the publication of worldwide.
our report, The skills deficit: consequences people raise money and volunteer time and skills in support of a wide range of and opportunities for UK infrastructure.
Our focus on health and safety, efficient The report predicts that infrastructure community based activities.
For example and effective delivery of client solutions, CARES Collaborate, Awareness, Reward, projects in the UK could experience higher environmental management and continual costs, delays, or poor decision making Engage, Support, is a local programme improvement are integral to our approach which began in our UK business to and project delivery in coming years to sustainability.
due to a lack of scientists, engineers support our people in integrating corporate sustainability and responsibility and technicians.
Leadership into their lives, and which won an award for its work this year.
Our Hong Kong Our commitment to becoming a more We are increasing our efforts to attract responsible and sustainable organisation young people into engineering and other office has been recognised by Hong Kong social services for its corporate and social has been supported by the introduction technical professions, using a range of of our new code of conduct, Behaving responsibility practices, and our people innovative approaches.
For instance, in India are supporting their Governments the Atkins Way.
The code provides a during 2014, we used interactive games strong leadership statement and direction Clean India campaign.
and outdoor photography displays in the from our Group CEO.
He emphasises UK, supersonic cars in North America the importance of ensuring the safety A healthy, safe and secure workplace and model bridge building in Hong Kong, We are committed to providing and and wellbeing of all our people while to engage our audience.
encouraging and empowering them to maintaining a safe and healthy working environment for our employees and challenge and raise concerns about any Supporting our peoples development dishonest, unethical, unacceptable or ensuring the safety of others affected We are committed to supporting our by our operations and services.
peoples development, equipping them to deliver innovative and sustainable This year, we introduced Atkins operating Raising safety and welfare standards solutions.
As part of this, we ran We are proud of our contribution to safely AOS, a bespoke system designed sustainability weeks in the UK, Asia Pacific to help keep our people safe when they raising safety standards all over the and the Middle East to engage employees, are visiting sites and unfamiliar offices in world, which was recognised at the 2014 raising awareness of its importance to the UK.
The system enables us to track inaugural MEED Corporate Health Awards Atkins and inviting feedback for inclusion people when they are working on site and in Abu Dhabi, where the Atkins minimum in our sustainability pathway strategy.
has initially been implemented successfully requirements for construction safety We also challenged our international in the United Kingdom and Europe with was named Health & Safety Initiative graduate community to imagine actions a wider roll-out to the rest of the Group of the Year.
we might take on our journey to a more planned during 2015 16. sustainable future.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 62 Strategic Report Corporate sustainability review continued We have demonstrated the high value AIR Staff we place on our peoples health by 2,000 conducting a health risk assessment 1,800 across the Group and aim to put an action 1,600 plan in place in 2015 to address the results 1,400 of the assessment.
In addition, we have 1,200 broadened our journey to natural safety 1,000 by introducing a set of security principles 800 to raise awareness of security issues and 600 establish minimum standards of expected 400 behaviour.
200 0 Safety performance 10-11 11-12 12-13 13-14 14-15 The accident incident rate AIR is an Office actual Engineering actual Construction actual industry measure of the number of Office benchmark Engineering benchmark Construction benchmark reportable accidents per 100,000 staff.
Our overall AIR figure for staff summarises AIR Contractors AIRs for our people and contractors working in offices, engineering and 1,600 construction.
We set a more stretching 1,400 target than suggested by the UKs Health 1,200 and Safety Executive HSE Labour Force 1,000 Survey data.
This is the first time that AIR performance levels for staff in office, 800 engineering and construction were well 600 within our benchmark.
Contractor 400 performance for office and construction was worse than benchmark, although it 200 should be noted that, because of the way 0 in which it is calculated, AIR is sensitive to 10-11 11-12 12-13 13-14 14-15 low contractor numbers and this below Office actual Engineering actual Construction actual benchmark performance related to just Office benchmark Engineering benchmark Construction benchmark two accidents.
The engineering AIR result was above benchmark.
Safe and Secure by Choice Industry leadership Part of our code of conduct focuses on We have played our part in global industry Viewpoint survey the safety behaviours of our employees, leadership by supporting the introduction Our 2014 employee satisfaction survey, highlighting the importance of reporting of a Consultants Health & Safety Forum Viewpoint, continued to show very health and safety incidents.
95% of Secure by Choice awareness campaign, our people say that they understand rolled out during the year, includes In the UK, we collaborated with other how to work safely, with 68% actively sections on personal safety, able to members of the UK Consultants Health challenging unsafe behaviours when they challenge, driving and near miss reporting.
& Safety Forum, to influence and support see them and 67% feeling their managers We continue to work with colleagues, the HSE in introducing its new help them to take a proactive and visible clients and our supply chain to try to Construction Design and Management approach to safety, representing a 3% ensure that health, safety and security are 2015 regulations, which came into force increase for both measures on last year.
fully integrated into our decision-making on 6 April 2015 and set out what people processes.
involved in construction work need to do to protect themselves and anyone the work affects.
Our contribution included developing industry guidance concerning the new role of principal designer which arises when it is foreseeable that more than one contractor will be working on a project.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 63 Corporate sustainability review continued More information in our digital sustainability report at: www.
This is a reduction on the ratio for the year ended 31 March 2014 2 of 3.4 tonnes CO e per employee.
2 Our office sustainability programme, Affordable, reliable and clean energy An environment with a future A low carbon economy RACE2, encourages energy saving across As well as working to reduce emissions the Group.
We participated in the Lights from our own operations, we also use We have continued in our work to become a low carbon organisation.
out Houston annual event and in Asia our technical expertise in this area to help Pacific we participated in Earth Hour.
clients incorporate energy efficiency and Measuring and reporting emissions We also showcased our sustainable low carbon design into their projects.
design credentials by renovating one of to stakeholders and investors We have disclosed data to the Carbon our own offices in the UK using passive For example, we are working with clients environmental design use of natural on projects that make use of waste to Disclosure Project, the global platform for organisational disclosure of investorelements e. g. sunlight, to heat, cool, energy WtE technologies and facilities or light a building.
such as the Amager Bakke combined relevant climate change data, for the last six years.
In 2014 we scored 81 out heat and power complex on the outskirts Transition to a low carbon economy of Copenhagen, which will produce of 100.
We are proud to have won a British electricity and heat for 150,000 homes, Business Sustainability Award from the and the Abu Dhabi National Energy For the fifth consecutive year, the Group achieved certification to the ISO 14064 British Chamber of Commerce in China Companys development of the first and the China-Britain Business Council, WtE plant in the United Arab Emirates.
international standard for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions.
in recognition of our commitment to building a sustainable business in We are also advising megacity Lagos We report on gas, electricity and liquid fuel consumption, and travel emissions.
China and promoting the advantages on how best to address its energy needs of a sustainable business model in the through improved distribution and Table 1 shows total emissions by region split between scopes 1, 2 and 3, as Chinese market.
increased use of renewable energy sources, as well as ways in which it can defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
In the UK, our in-house developed increase resilience against the effects carbon critical design tool has attracted of climate change.
Reducing our emissions We have carried out energy audits of industry interest and been adopted by one of our major clients, Network Rail.
our offices as part of a UK pilot to see where we can reduce our emissions.
Our aerospace teams worldwide have Following evaluation of the pilot we will look to carry out more energy audits seen the culmination of over eight years work as part of the team developing the in other regions.
Airbus A350 XWB eXtra Wide Body.
The A350 XWB, the newest and most technologically advanced civil aircraft in the world, burns 25% less fuel than current long-range competitors, significantly reducing carbon emissions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 64 Strategic Report Corporate sustainability review continued More information in our digital sustainability report at: www.
com en-GB   Respect for the environment Economic and environmental A responsible business of Managing resources resilience the future Our office sustainability programme, We work with our clients and other Technical excellence RACE2, is designed to get all of our partners to translate investment in We continue to provide sustainable value people thinking and acting in a more infrastructure and technology into and technical excellence for our clients, sustainable and environmentally friendly economic and environmental resilience.
using management standards to develop way.
Key areas that it encompasses are more collaborative client relationships.
efficient use of materials, control of For example, in Sweden, we have been For example, we used our technical skills water, waste and recycling.
We aim to contracted in Vetlanda Municipality to to design a simulator to demonstrate the collaborate across the Group to reduce assess employment, land and premises consequences of cyber-attack on critical both wastage and costs.
While RACE2 provision for existing and future national infrastructure such as railways, is a worldwide initiative, the RACE2 businesses over the next 20 to 30 years, power and water supplies.
We won Awards have so far celebrated good aligning global urban planning network Engineering Practice of the Year at the practice in the UK only but will be rolled objectives and identifying the level of Irish Building and Design Awards for our out globally in 2015. potential job growth.
In the UK, we have approach to sustainability and innovation, been appointed to work alongside CH2M our commitment to training, and the Environmental projects for clients to provide strategic transport modelling, depth and breadth of our projects.
We won an Outstanding Contribution route development, transport planning, Award at the British Construction Industry economic appraisal and evaluation for the Atkins designed Kowloon City Sewage National Awards for our work as design Crossrail 2 route.
We have also provided Pumping Stations achieved provisional consultant and CDM coordinator on similar services for the High Speed 2 Platinum BEAM ratings for innovative Godmanchester towns flood risk rail link.
architectural and landscaping and alleviation scheme, which included eco-friendly design.
The project was also a combination of flood walls and flood Strong governance and accountability recognised with a Green Building Award embankment alongside the river Ouse, Our commitment to behaving as a 2014 and won Silver Award at Hong Kong protecting 556 properties.
responsible business, demonstrating Institute of Landscape Architects Design transparency and fairness, is outlined Awards 2014.
We have been awarded a new contract by our Group policy statements and for data collection and design and sustainability principles.
Our new code We are also rolling out our Right First Time construction oversight on projects of conduct, Behaving the Atkins Way, behavioural programme, building on the initiated by Louisianas Coastal Protection works with our business management technical assurance standard that we have and Restoration Authority, helping system to set out not only what we do, developed to define the requirements for to implement its coastal masterplan, but also how we do it.
It provides a all technical deliverables across the Group.
protecting natural resources and critical clear framework within which to make The standard provides guidance for single energy infrastructure.
decisions, defining what we are all discipline, multidiscipline, distributed expected to do on a daily basis, and working and large complex projects and We are also providing services for the what we can expect from colleagues.
aims to provide a framework that will Federal Emergency Management Agencys Our continued success depends upon ensure the consistent quality of all Atkins extensive digital flood risk mapping our ability to maintain the worldwide deliverables to clients.
and hazard mitigation programmes, reputation we have built, something we identifying risks posed by natural and can only do if we maintain the highest manmade disasters to infrastructure standards of behaviour.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report 65 Corporate sustainability review continued Respect for human rights is critical to us We are very proud of our peoples and we seek to have a positive influence commitment to Atkins sustainability wherever we operate.
We communicate principles and of their growing effect our support for human rights to on our activities and operations.
Playing stakeholders, including employees, our part as a responsible business of the clients and shareholders, through a future is important to us, and we look variety of channels, including the visible forward to making even more progress representation of our values in our day in the year ahead.
Strategic engagement for innovation We help to address the complex sustainability challenges faced by society by developing innovative solutions in collaboration with partners.
We produced the concept design and masterplan for Asia Aerospace City in Subang as part of Malaysias Economic Transformation Plan, which aims to produce a self-sufficient, industrialised Malaysia by 2020.
We have also been appointed to support EY in delivering the UK Governments flagship project UK Trade and Investments UKTI high value opportunities programme to secure major contracts for UK companies.
We will disseminate market intelligence on many of the worlds biggest infrastructure opportunities, such as proposed nuclear, airport and transport schemes, and new city developments around the world, with UKTI facilitating access to major government and private sector clients.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Prof Dr Uwe Krueger CEO 10 June 2015 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015 Investor Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
