How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Cash bonus The executive directors are entitled to receive their bonus for any particular year provided they are employed on the last date of the performance period.
ESA Provided the executive director is a Good Leaver, unvested awards will be reduced on a time pro-rata basis and paid on the vesting date.
EPSP The award will lapse if the executive leaves during the first year of a performance period.
Provided the executive director is a Good Leaver, awards will vest subject to performance at the end of the performance period and time pro-rating.
Awards will be paid on the normal date.
In exceptional circumstances, the Compensation Committee may determine that an award will vest on a different basis.
Generally, in the event of death, the performance conditions are to be assessed as at the date of death.
However, the committee retains the discretion to deal with an award due to a deceased executive on any other basis that it considers appropriate.
Awards will vest immediately on a change-of-control subject to performance and time pro-rating unless it is agreed by the committee and the relevant executive director that the outstanding awards are exchanged for equivalent new awards.
LEAP III Awards will vest subject to performance at the end of the performance period and time pro-rating.
In the event of death or serious illness, the performance conditions are to be assessed as at the date of cessation of employment.
Awards will vest immediately on a change in control subject to performance and time pro-rating unless the committee decides that awards are to be exchanged for equivalent new awards.
In the event of a merger, the committee can require participants to release any outstanding award in consideration of the grant of an equivalent award by the newly-formed entity.
Other pre-existing terms that apply to Sir Martin Sorrell Sir Martin Sorrells deferred LEAP awards and his DSUs as set out on page 149 will be paid out unconditionally on termination of employment.
The performance requirements in respect of these awards have already been met, the awards have vested and are therefore no longer subject to any leaver provisions.
In the event any payments due to Sir Martin would be treated as deferred compensation in accordance with US legislation and subject to section 409A requirements, those payments will be delayed.
If those payments are delayed, an amount in respect of interest as a result of the delay will be due from the Company to Sir Martin.
In the event of a change of control of WPP, the Company has agreed to indemnify Sir Martin, with the prior approval of share owners, with respect to any related personal US tax liability under the provisions of section 280G.
This indemnity is subject to certain limitations that exempt the Company from liability for any tax related to the share-owner approved deferrals of certain awards.
Based on the most recent review by the committee in December 2013 of the potential impact of this clause, it is unlikely that any 280G payment would be due from the Company based on an analysis, using standard assumptions.
This was reviewed by independent counsel.
Other committee discretions not set out above Leaver status: the committee has the discretion to determine an executives leaver classification in light of the guidance set out within the relevant plan rules, except with respect to Sir Martin Sorrell.
Unless Sir Martin Sorrell is terminated for cause, he will be treated as having retired on leaving the Company and therefore be treated in accordance with the plan rules as a Good Leaver.
Compromise agreements: the committee is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives, informed by the default position set out above.
151 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy External appointments Executive directors are permitted to serve as non-executives on the boards of other organisations.
If the Company is a share owner in that organisation, non-executive fees for those roles are waived.
However, if the Company is not a share owner in that organisation, any non-executive fees can be retained by the office holder.
Executive Remuneration Policy table chairman and non-executive directors The following table sets out details of the ongoing compensation elements for WPPs chairman and non-executive directors.
No element of pay is performance-linked.
Component and purpose Operation Maximum annual opportunity Base fees Fees are reviewed at least every two years and take into account the skills, An overall cap on To reflect the skills and experience and time required to undertake the role, as well as fee levels in all non-executive fees, experience and time similarly-sized UK companies.
excluding consultancy fees, required to undertake will apply consistent with The chairman and non-executive directors receive a base fee in connection the role.
the prevailing and share with their appointment to the Board.
owner-approved limit in the Articles of Association which, due to share owner approval at the 2014 AGM, is 3m.
Additional fees Non-executive directors are eligible to receive additional fees in respect An overall cap on all To reflect the additional of servingas: non-executive fees, time required in any excluding consultancy fees, Senior independent director additional duties for will apply consistent with Chairman of a Board Committee theCompany.
the prevailing and share Member of a Board Committee owner-approved limit in C onsultancy fees in respect of other work that falls outside the remit the Articles of Association of their role for the Company.
which, due to share owner approval at the 2014 AGM, is 3m.
Consultancy fees will be set on a discretionary basis, taking account of the nature of the role and time required.
Benefits and The Company will reimburse the chairman and non-executive directors for all Benefits and allowances for allowances reasonable and properly documented expenses incurred in performing their the chairman will be set at To enable the chairman duties of office.
a level that the committee and non-executive feels is required for the In the event that the reimbursement of these expenses gives rise to a personal directors to undertake performance of the role.
tax liability for the chairman or non-executive director, the Company retains their roles.
the discretion to meet this cost including, where appropriate, costs in relation to tax advice and filing.
While not currently offered, the Company retains the discretion to pay additional benefits to the chairman including, but not limited to, use of car, office space and secretarial support.
152 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Executive Remuneration Policy Other chairman and non-executive director policies Letters of appointment for the chairman and non-executive directors Letters of appointment have a two-month notice period and there are no payments due on loss of office.
Appointments to the Board Letters of appointment will be consistent with the current terms as set out in this Annual Report.
The chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible to receive any variable pay.
Fees for any new non-executive directors will be consistent with the operating policy at their time of appointment.
In respect of the appointment of a new chairman, the committee has the discretion to set fees taking into account a range of factors including the profile and prior experience of the candidate, cost and external market data.
Share ownership guidelines Non-executive directors are required to accumulate shares with a value equivalent to one-years fees on a post-tax basis during their tenure.
Payments in exceptional circumstances In truly unforeseen and exceptional circumstances, the committee retains the discretion to make emergency payments which might not otherwise be covered by this policy.
The committee will not use this power to exceed the recruitment policy limit, nor will awards be made in excess of the limits set out in the Executive Remuneration Policy table.
An example of such an exceptional circumstance could be the untimely death of a director, requiring another director to take on an interim role until a permanent replacement is found.
153 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review Sustainability issues are increasingly important to our Fit for the long term stakeholders and clients.
A growing number of our clients are reshaping their businesses to prepare for the impact of The next decade presents unprecedented opportunities global social and environmental trends.
They need the best and risks for todays leading brands.
On the one hand, marketing and communications services to help them make the continued rise of the global middle class represents a this change and want to select suppliers who share their huge new market for consumer goods and services.
the other, climate change, ecosystem decline, water scarcity, At WPP we strive to develop our expertise on the obesity epidemic and a growing global population sustainability issues and to improve our own social and present major challenges.
This enables us to better These changes will disrupt old business models, alter serve our clients, to align with changing stakeholder supply chains and give rise to new products, services and expectations, to reduce business risks and to achieve businesses.
Successful companies will find opportunity our business objectives.
in this change, identifying new ways to do more with less, adopting circular and sharing economy models to avoid resource scarcity, rising prices and disruption to supply chains.
They will look to generate shared value through Sustainability and our business their products and services, helping to improve quality of life as they grow their businesses.
Expectations of what business can and should contribute Enabling our strategy today to society are also rising.
Increasingly, business is expected to play a significant role in tackling the worlds challenges Our business strategy is focused on four strategic priorities alongside governments, while technology and social media see pages 16 and 17 : horizontality, new markets, new enable people to hold brands to account for their social and media, technology, data & content.
Our work on environmental performance, from anywhere in the world.
sustainability enables our strategy in three main ways: In this environment, brands will need the best insight, Improving access to skills Our employment practices research and communications services and they will seek a and reputation for sustainability help us to recruit, retain and marketing services provider who understands the changing engage the best creative talent in our industry.
By recruiting landscape and shares their values.
from a diverse talent pool and investing in training and Our companies are already working with many pioneers development we can ensure we have the right people to serve of sustainable business.
As our clients increasingly feel the our clients in all disciplines across our locations, including impact of these longer-term trends, their significance will new markets where our industry is less well established.
Our work on sustainability today will Supporting access to new business Clients are help ensure our business is fit for the future.
prioritising sustainability, looking to integrate improved social and environmental performance into their products, communications and operations.
They need a marketing services provider with the right expertise and who shares Performance 2015 their values.
By managing our own sustainability performance and developing our knowledge on social and environmental change we can access this business and meet Access to skills the standards required by the growing number of client procurement processes which include sustainability criteria.
Adopting leading employment Improving efficiency, reducing risk and protecting practices enables us to deliver the creative and effective our reputation Managing our social and environmental work our clients need across disciplines and in all markets.
performance and selecting suppliers who meet standards consistent with our own, helps us to operate more Inclusion and diversity efficiently, to reduce costs and risks to the business and to enhance our reputation with clients, our people, share We believe a workforce with diversity of outlook and owners and other stakeholders.
experience is more creative and effective.
Diversity is particularly important in marketing because our work must 155 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review engage consumers in every market and sector.
We aim to minorities the Equality and Human Rights Commission recruit talented people from all backgrounds and provide in the UK and the Equal Opportunity Commission in the inspiring and inclusive workplaces where they can thrive.
In 2015, 26% of full-time employees in these countries Achieving a gender-balanced workforce at all levels of were from ethnic minorities 2014: 26%.
the business is a particular priority for WPP.
We run The X Factor, a senior mentoring and development program Training, development and education for women led by Charlotte Beers, the former global CEO of Ogilvy & Mather and chairman of J. Walter Thompson, Through training and development we can engage our which prepares senior and high potential WPP female people and equip them with the knowledge they need to leaders for the next level of leadership.
By the end of 2015, serve the changing needs of our clients around the world.
97 women had completed the program.
Charlotte Beers We invested 41.1 million on training in 2015 2014: also helped to inspire WILL: Women in Leadership 38.2million.
In previous years we reported a combined Lessons programs targeted at enhancing the professional figure for training and welfare spend.
We now report development of the groups high potential women.
WILL training spend only course fees and training-related travel, programs have run in the UK and US, with 140 women accommodation and subsistence costs.
This will make it leaders from 50 WPP agencies attending up to 2015. easier to monitor investment in training.
We have restated Our WPP Stella Leadership group aims to enable our data for previous years to reflect our new approach.
women in our companies to maximize their potential, to Our Group training programs are designed to help us address barriers that could prevent women progressing their deliver our strategic objectives.
For example, Maestro: careers to senior levels and to facilitate sharing of good Orchestrating Client Value, is our week-long program for practices between our companies.
It has three workstreams, senior client leaders held in 27 countries, that helps us to focusing on: visibility and networking for senior women in achieve horizontality in our ways of working.
There have our companies: progression training for senior women: and been 3,822 participants from 133 WPP companies since policy development in areas such as maternity and paternity its inception in 2003. leave and flexible working.
The group began in the UK We also support marketing and communications and is now being extended to our businesses in the US.
education outside WPP, to help develop the skills our At an operating company level, our businesses focus industry needs and support a future pipeline of talent for on internships and apprenticeships for diverse candidates, our businesses, particularly in newer markets for WPP.
flexible working options, employee resource networks, We launched the WPP Africa Academy in February 2016 mentoring programs, diversity and unconscious bias training to provide high-quality training and talent development in and partnerships with specialist minority recruitment firms.
We also continue to support the WPP School of Communications and Marketing in Shanghai Gender diversity 2011-2015 and the ISDI WPP School of Communication in Mumbai.
Internships and apprenticeships enable young people % women 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 to gain experience in our industry, while supporting youth WPP Board 29% 24% 29% 19% 19% employment and helping us identify talented new recruits.
Executive We offered 5,378 paid internships and apprenticeships at our leaders 33% 31% 32% 32% 31% companies during 2015.
It is WPPs policy that all internships Senior and apprenticeships should be paid positions.
This ensures managers 47% 46% 47% 47% 47% they are accessible to a diverse range of candidates.
Total employees The WPP Fellowship program for graduates, provides full-time equivalent 54% 54% 54% 54% 54% experience and training across a range of marketing disciplines.
Since 1995, 170 Fellows have completed or As at 31 December 2015, women comprised 29% of the WPP are participating in this global multidisciplinary initiative.
Board, 33% of non-executive directors, 33% of directors and executive leaders in our operating companies, 47% of senior Reward managers and 54% of total employees.
We measure ethnic diversity in our businesses in the We offer attractive compensation packages, which are UK and the US using national definitions of ethnic racial benchmarked against other companies in our markets and 156 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review sectors.
As well as competitive remuneration, our people Privacy and data security have access to a range of benefits, including pensions and private health insurance, in accordance with local practice.
Consumer data is used extensively in developing, Many of our people participate in performance-related implementing and monitoring marketing campaigns and incentive plans on top of base pay.
Senior employees may is particularly important to the services provided by our participate in share-based compensation plans.
digital marketing and insight businesses.
When collecting, Our Worldwide Ownership Plan and WPP Share Option using and storing consumer data, it is critical that we Plan 2015 have operated from 1997 and, to date, have granted protect consumer privacy and implement rigorous data share option awards to more than 147,000 of our people.
In protection and security procedures.
2015, under the WPP Share Option Plan 2015, over 48,000 All WPP companies must implement the WPP Data eligible employees received awards in 71 countries.
Code of Conduct, which provides a clear framework for implementing privacy best practice as well as our global Employee external appointments IT security, privacy and social media policies.
Our WPP Client Contract Toolkit helps WPP companies understand We recognise that our companies executives may be how privacy and data protection criteria should be invited to become non-executive directors of other integrated into client contracts.
companies, and that such experience may be beneficial We bring our Code and policies to life for our people to the Group.
Consequently, executives are allowed to through Group-wide ethics training.
In 2015, we launched accept non-executive appointments with non-competing mandatory global online Privacy and Data Security companies, subject to obtaining the approval of the Awareness training.
Over 20,000 employees completed Group finance director in the case of senior executives.
the training in the first two months following launch.
We also launched Safer Data in 2015, a privacy and security awareness campaign and online platform with information and guidance for employees on the importance Access to new business of privacy risk and data security.
It is intended that Safer Data becomes the platform for know-how on privacy risk Our focus on sustainability helps us to be a provider of and data security at WPP.
It includes a SaveMyData choice to the growing number of leading businesses who reporting tool, to allow our people to raise concerns and are prioritising sustainability and to meet the sustainability questions they have about data issues direct with our requirements in their procurement processes.
Together, clients that asked about our approach to We used our Data Health Checker in 2015 for the sustainability or engaged with us on sustainability issues third year running to review privacy risks and data were worth at least 1.29 billion in 2015, 11% of revenues security practices in our businesses.
The results showed us 2014: 1.35 billion.
that the majority of our companies have strong mitigation measures that match or exceed their level of privacy risk, Sustainability services with the average score being 3.9 out of 5, where 5 is the maximum score possible.
Of those companies surveyed, Our companies are working with clients on a growing 74% have a dedicated privacy lead and 51% have trained number of  commissions across a all of their people on data security and privacy in addition range of disciplines from research and insight to branding, to Group training.
and consumer, employee and stakeholder communications.
Examples of recent campaigns are included in our annual Sustainability Report and Pro bono book.
Many of our companies have established specialist Efficiency, risk and reputation sustainability offerings and social marketing units.
These include: J. Walter Thompson ethos, Ogilvy Social Operating responsibly improves efficiency, reduces costs and Change, OgilvyEarth, P&Gs S-Team, Young & Rubicam lessens operational, legal, reputational and financial risks to Group companies INSPIRE collaboration, Hill Knowlton our business.
It enables us to maintain positive relationships Strategies CR Sustainability Communications, Kinetic with our people, clients and other stakeholders.
Future and TNS Political and Social.
157 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2015 How we behave and how were rewarded Sustainability review We focus on implementing high ethical standards, Human rights respecting human rights and reducing our environmental impact and we aim to work with suppliers who adopt Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle for standards consistent with our own.
WPP and we take steps to prevent, identify and address Our investment in pro bono work and community any negative human rights impacts associated with our projects helps to enhance the reputation and creative business.
That includes the human rights of employees standing of WPP agencies.
and workers in our supply chain as well as issues associated with human rights and marketing.
We also look for Our ethical standards opportunities to positively promote and support human rights, including through our pro bono work.
The WPP Code of Business Conduct provides the We published a Human Rights Policy Statement framework for how we operate.
It establishes the values and during 2015 to explain our approach to human rights.
ethical standards that all our companies must implement.
This reflects international standards and principles, Senior managers in all our companies and our business including the International Bill of Human Rights, the partners and suppliers are asked to sign a copy of the WPP UNs Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Code of Business Conduct each year to confirm they will the International Labour Organizations Declaration comply with its principles.
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Our ethics training, How we behave, is compulsory Childrens Rights and Business Principles.
We are reviewing for all employees.
It covers topics such as diversity, privacy, our other policies to confirm that they align with our human rights and avoiding misleading work.
Our online position on human rights and we have added a number training on anti-bribery and corruption covers the Foreign of scenarios to our online ethics training that cover human Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act on issues such rights related issues.
We joined the United Nations Global as hospitality and gifts, facilitation payments and the use Compact during 2015 to reflect our commitment to human of third-party advisors.
Training is updated every 2-3 years rights and responsible business practices.
and employees are required to repeat the training following We will publish a statement in relation to the UKs each update.
Over 200,000 employees have completed our Modern Slavery Act during 2016, explaining how we assess anti-bribery and corruption training and almost 200,000 and manage risks relating to slavery in our operations and have completed our ethics training since the last update in supply chain.
These figures are higher than our current number of employees as they include some employees who have since Living wage left the business.
The training will be updated again in 2016.
We expect associate companies those in which we We support the principle that full-time workers should hold a minority stake and affiliate companies preferred be paid enough to provide a decent standard of living.
partners to whom we may refer business to adopt ethical This principle is known as the living wage.
In the UK, standards that are consistent with our own.
the Living Wage Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation, We have a Group-level committee that meets regularly has calculated a voluntary living wage rate which exceeds to discuss ethical and compliance issues and new risk areas.
the UKs current statutory national minimum wage.
Committee members include the Group chief counsel, deputy As a professional services firm, the vast majority of our general counsel, litigation and compliance, Group finance people already earn significantly above the living wage rate.
director, the head of talent and the head of sustainability.
However, wage rates in our supply chain may be lower.
Employees can report concerns or suspected cases We clarified our position on this issue in the UK during of misconduct in confidence through our third party- 2015.
WPP, the parent company, pays the living wage for managed Right to Speak facility, overseen by our internal all parent company employees and all on-site contractors audit department.
such as cleaning, security and catering staff in the UK.
Our UK agencies are working towards paying the living wage for all employees and on-site contractors within three years and several already do so.
