Strategic report Our people and corporate responsibility We are committed to investing in our people Employees Charitable activity We are committed to investing in our people and providing them with The Group strives to make a positive difference to charitable causes, opportunities to succeed with their career development.
encouraging charitable giving by our employees and contributing to our employees development by supporting their charitable efforts.
Under our The strong culture of innovation and transparency within the Group has payroll giving scheme, employees can donate tax efficiently to a charity helped us to continue to attract high calibre personnel, maintain a strong directly through their pre-tax salary.
The Group then matches donations retention rate of key employees and create a workforce that is dedicated up to a specific amount.
to delivering high quality products and services.
We are constantly investing in our people to ensure that this continues.
We achieve this by providing The Group donates up to 100 to a registered charity linked to an employees appropriate training and support from the very beginning through the personal fundraising activities.
Employees may also take one days paid Groups induction programmes, in addition to long-term career planning, leave every year to donate their time to a charity.
The Group is a patron objective setting and appraisals, and constant opportunities provided to supporter of both the Princes Trust and Only Connect.
employees to upgrade and transfer their skills in the workplace.
The Group donated a total of 52,707 to charity during 2015 2014: 94,552 1.
We hold regular Group-wide meetings to drive communication within the 1 Charitable giving for 2015 includes donations from the uSwitch Group made in the Group, to recognise employees for their performance in the workplace period from 1 June to 30 September.
and to offer a forum where employees can present questions to the Equal opportunity and diversity Groups CEO.
We also conduct staff surveys, at least annually, to gauge We are committed to ensuring that there is equal opportunity and staff engagement levels and motivation and to provide an additional diversity in our employment policies and practices, including, but not opportunity for staff to offer feedback and suggestions.
limited to, recruitment, selection, training, promotion, pay rates, discipline Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups Share Incentive and dismissal.
We believe that recruiting, incentivising and retaining the Plan.
This provides an opportunity for employees to purchase acertain best talent is key to our success and that this involves treating everyone number of shares in the Group each month through their pre-tax salary.
equally regardless of their age, sexual orientation, parental responsibilities, Shares purchased by employees are then matched bytheGroup on a disability, race, nationality, ethnic origin, membership of a trade union, one-for-one basis at no cost to the employee.
This includes giving full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons and continuing We offer market-competitive benefit packages and carry out regular the employment of, and arranging appropriate training for, any of the internal remuneration benchmarking across the business to ensure that Groups employees who are, or become, disabled.
our employees are rewarded appropriately.
We offer comprehensive employee benefits packages and we listen to our employees to Gender diversity continually adopt new and innovative suggestions, creating benefits As at 30 September 2015 packages designed for our employees needs.
Male Female Total Male Female We respect human rights and the integrity of individuals and comply Number Number Number % % withall relevant laws in the way we run the business.
Directors 8 2 10 80% 20% Senior Management2 9 3 12 75% 25% All other employees 255 161 416 61% 39% Total 272 166 438 62% 38% 2 Senior Management comprises the Groups Senior Leadership Team.
30 Helping consumers make smarter decisions Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Health and safety The Groups scope 1 and 2 emissions for the year to 30 September 2015 We are committed to maintaining a safe workplace for our employees are set out below.
Scope 1 emissions relate to the Groups fleet of vehicles, and ensuring that staff have the appropriate training and working which are used by certain employees for business purposes.
Scope 2 conditions to perform their work safely.
It is therefore our policy that emissions relate to the Groups electricity and gas usage.
This information allofthe Groups facilities, products and services comply in all material is set out below.
respects with applicable laws and regulations governing safety and quality.
We have measured our greenhouse gas emissions using emissions factors from the UK Government conversion factors for Company Environment Reporting.
The period covered is that of the financial year to We continue to support energy efficiency throughout our business 30September 2015.
CO emissions include the impact of the uSwitch 2 activities and remain conscious of mitigating any negative impact Group from the date of acquisition.
In order to provide an intensity ratio wemayhave on the environment.
for our emissions disclosure, we have calculated our greenhouse gas As an online property portal and home services switching platform, we emissions per employee.
The Directors believe that the number of naturally operate without intensive production processes, use ofpackaging employees is the best indicator for a group of this size for the purposes or the need to print out substantial amounts ofpaper, apractice which of this disclosure.
The number of employees used is the average number we will continue to maintain.
A number of sales employees are provided of full-time employees over the measurement period.
with company cars to allow them to meet clients within designated This Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors and was geographies: however, the majority of employees are office based.
We signed on its behalf by: encourage our employees to take our responsibilities towards protecting the environment seriously, including a commitment torecycling and automated lighting throughout the Groups office space.
The Group also operates a Bike-to-Work scheme, which offers our employees an incentive to travel to and from work in an environmentally friendly way.
Alex Chesterman Chief Executive Officer Greenhouse gas emissions 1 December 2015 Since 1 October 2013 the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report andDirectors Report Regulations 2013 has required all UK quoted companies to report on their greenhouse gas emissions as part oftheirannual Directors report.
A report on our output of greenhouse gas emissions shows that, when compared with other companies of a comparable size in the same sector, the Groups activities produce a very low impact on the environment.
2015 2014 CO emissions Emissions per employee CO emissions Emissions per employee 2 2 Tonnes CO e number Tonnes CO e number 2 2 Tonnes CO e of employees Tonnes CO e of employees 2 2 Scope 1 emissions 343 1.1 368 1.7 Scope 2 emissions 240 0.8 154 0.7 Total 583 1.9 522 2.4 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015 31
