The Strategic Report 7 Delivering our strategy a BBB Baa1 credit rating.
We have a strong balance sheet today, the UK, 2,100 people were redeployed, meaning that we retained but we want to make it stronger.
experienced people with the skills we need for the future.
We will also continue to support the pension fund and to do so in A customer-facing workforce a responsible way.
And we will pay progressive dividends to our This year we recruited 2,500 new engineers and more than 500 new shareholders.
service colleagues to work in our customer management and contact centres.
We created 1,100 jobs in the UK that were previously We aim to balance the interests of all stakeholders.
performed by agencies in the UK and overseas.
We believe that this approach provides us with the financial flexibility Our Customer First programme supports our business strategy by to make long-term investments in the best interests of the group: making sure our people have the support, skills and confidence to and also in the best interests of communities where we operate.
give our customers a great experience.
Examples include: It is this approach that means we can invest over 3bn to help take fibre broadband to 90% of the UK.
And our financial strength innovative apps to give engineers better access to information means we can go even further.
We will work with government to see page 45 : help take fibre broadband to 95% of the country.
And with the right training in communication skills to cut out jargon and investment and regulatory environment, we will invest in ultrafast complexity: and broadband to deliver up to 500Mbps to most of the UK within a reorganising teams to focus on the needs of customers at decade with 1Gbps available to those who want even faster speeds.
specific points in their relationship with us.
Our financial strength has also underpinned the investments we We are making use of internal social media tools to encourage have made in BT Sport both this year and last, and which we will colleagues to share best practice, ask each other questions and continue to make in the years ahead.
And it meant that in February celebrate the progress we are making.
2015, BT Group plc could announce the proposed acquisition of EE, The Customer First Challenge Cup is a key people engagement the leading mobile network operator in the UK.
It is an annual competition that started in 2003.
It also means we can support the business in other ways.
For It encourages people to form teams and come up with the best ideas example, by making sure we continue to innovate and stay at the for changing business processes in ways which save money or deliver forefront of a rapidly-changing industry.
And by investing in the improvements for our customers.
This year over 5,000 people came training, development and support we give to our people, as we together to form over 800 teams across 17 countries.
of people participating has increased year on year, with 60% of those involved this year doing so for the first time.
Our pEOplE Investing for growth Every day our people touch the lives of millions, providing services Learning matters at BT.
We want our people to build their skills and that help our customers get the most out of their work and careers and our Academy helps them do this.
We invest in our people so they can succeed and contribute effectively to our business.
The Academy is BTs new approach to learning.
It is not a physical place or building, it is home to a combination of materials, events, Believing in what we do programmes and knowledge-sharing activities which help our A clear purpose guides everyones contribution in BT.
By bringing people learn in different ways.
The Academy is organised across together the best networks, technology and products and services four faculties: Leadership, Technical, Customer and Business.
Each for our customers, we use the power of communications to make a faculty supports a number of communities we call professions better world.
which have similar learning and career journeys.
Living up to our values in everything we do will help build the kind of We have made accessing a profession easy by investing in an business our people are proud to be part of.
Our values are: innovative social collaboration platform helping people to develop their skills and careers together.
Customer: We are here for our customers.
Team: We help each other achieve more.
Around 9,600 leaders from senior executives to junior managers Honesty: We are honest and respectful.
have learnt new ways to lead, coach and support their teams.
Change: We all make change happen.
And a global programme is giving 5,600 frontline people the skills, pride: We are proud to make a difference.
tools and techniques to continuously improve the way we serve customers.
A global workforce At 31 March 2015 we had 88,500 full-time equivalent FTE We intend to recruit around 1,000 graduates and apprentices in employees in 60 countries, with 70,900 of them based in the 2015 16.
And we are also offering up to 1,000 vocational and UK.
We are one of the largest employers in the UK, supporting its work experience placements to 18-24 year olds as part of the UK economy by providing jobs and income.
employer-led initiative, Movement to Work.
This is backed by the Princes Trust and the Government.
This year we recruited over 9,900 people.
Of these, more than 5,300 work in the UK, including over 500 who are on our renowned A healthy organisation employee engagement and involvement apprenticeship scheme.
We are becoming a healthier organisation.
Our plans to improve Across our global business we continue to simplify the way we organisational health have included the creation of the Academy, the work, for example, by transforming our HR and finance systems and implementation of Continuous Improvement initiatives throughout services.
This makes things easier for our people, so we can serve our the business and an award-winning leadership development customers better.
As our business evolves to meet the needs of our customers, Each quarter about 35,000 people provide feedback on working for we adapt our organisation, redeploying people through the BT BT through our employee engagement survey.
Our surveys help us transition centre.
This helps us avoid redundancies.
Last year in develop a focused people strategy and support action planning at a 802639 BT Group PLC.
indb 7 5 19 2015 1:07:17 AM 8 BT plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2015 Volunteering local level.
We have maintained engagement levels at 3.82 out of It is a source of great pride to BT and our people that so many a maximum of 5, with a telecoms benchmark of 3.90, the highest colleagues volunteer.
This year, more than 22,700 26% of our level since we started the survey in 2008. colleagues up 62% from last year spent 53,000 days supporting We keep our people informed about company results, major business more than 3,700 charities and community groups around the world.
decisions and other things that affect them using a variety of digital Our people can use up to three working days a year to support channels.
Leaders regularly connect with their teams through causes that matter to them.
This means they can have a real impact roundtable meetings, town hall debates, site visits, webcasts and in the communities where they live and work.
Our ambition is that by blogs.
2020, two-thirds of BT people will be volunteering time to support good causes.
We consult with our people or their representatives on a regular basis, taking their views into account on decisions that affect them.
More than 5,300 2013 14: 2,200 people took part in In the UK we recognise two main trade unions.
The Communication volunteering specifically as part of a team.
Specialist BT teams Workers Union represents people in engineering, administration and helped charities with particular issues which needed our expert input clerical positions.
Prospect represents managerial and professional and knowledge.
Other BT teams used their energy and enthusiasm to people.
make a practical difference in local areas.
Diversity at work Charities supported in this way include Place2be, a UK childrens At BT we believe that we unlock the power of our people when mental health charity which we helped with their communications we value their diversity.
This is a priority for us because a diverse strategy, and Leicester Outdoor Pursuits Centre where we helped workforce fosters greater innovation, helps us better understand and build equipment to enable wheel chair users to access an abseil serve our customers and empowers our people to deliver their best.
In Spain, BTs human resources team helped young people facing severe financial issues prepare for work.
And in Hungary, 50 Business in the Community benchmarks consistently rank us in the BT volunteers improved the living conditions in a young peoples top-ten private sector organisations for women and people from a refuge in Budapest.
Black and Minority Ethnic BME backgrounds.
And as a Two Ticks employer, we are committed to attracting, developing and retaining In India, more than 80 BT volunteers, working with our local partner people with disabilities.
Applicants with disabilities or long-term Katha, continued to support the Katha Information Technology and health conditions and who meet the minimum criteria for the E-commerce School KITES, a charity which provides ICT training vacancy are automatically put through to the first stage of the for children in one of Delhis largest slums.
have already completed ICT courses.
KITES also supplies more general schooling for children and teaches business skills to women.
BT was again named this year as one of The Times Top 50 Mridul Srivastava from BT Global Services won this years Chairmans Employers for Women.
But we have the ambition to move further Award for his contribution to society and the lead he has taken in and faster.
We are determined to drive up the number of women encouraging volunteering at KITES.
19,655 women currently work for us many on flexible contracts, giving us a full-time equivalent of 18,457 Pay and benefits female employees.
This corresponds to 10,358 FTE 25% of our We compare salaries with other companies in our markets to make management population and 8,099 17% of our team members.
sure our packages are competitive.
In the UK, pay for the vast At BT Group plc Board level, our policy is to aim to have at least majority of our engineering and support people is determined 25% female representation.
We were below this for part of the by collective bargaining, with fair terms and conditions for all.
year, but with three out of 11 Board members, we now have 27% Managers pay and bonuses are linked to business performance and female representation.
We are working to attract more women into their personal contribution.
And we are reviewing our working practices and Our executives are offered long-term incentives to align their reward development opportunities to make sure that an increasing number with the creation of shareholder value.
The amount ultimately of women can enjoy successful careers with us.
received depends on BTs performance over a three-year period.
In accordance with our regulatory obligations, incentives for senior Staying safe and well leaders in Openreach are tied to its business performance rather than Our people tell us wellbeing has improved by 2% across the that of the wider group.
We have made good progress on reducing accidents while working.
The Lost Time Injury rate came down by 23% to 1.5 We also provide a range of pension and retirement plans for incidents per million working hours.
however, the changing age employees globally, either through dedicated company plans or by profile of the business presents some challenges for us as mature and contributing to state retirement arrangements where applicable.
experienced workers are replaced by younger people who sometimes You can find details of the BT Pension Scheme and other retirement have a different attitude to risk.
We have targeted our training to plans on page 51. address this.
Sharing in success Sickness absence rates have increased by 6% to 2.2%.
There are Around 60% of our people take part in one or more of BT Group differences between the lines of business with a steady reduction in plcs savings-related share option plans saveshare, which operate most of them but a sustained increase in Openreach.
here, mental ill in over 25 countries.
In August 2014, over 22,000 people in the health and musculoskeletal disorders in older workers are the main BT 2009 saveshare plan were able to buy shares at 61p, causes.
The increase in sickness absence is mainly because people are representing an average gain of around 41,000 each.
Around having to take more time off.
Extended absences over one month 7,000 of these people, who participated at the maximum allowed, now make up two-thirds of all lost time.
were able to buy shares worth just under 90,000 based on the Our focus is on early intervention to improve attendance.
And our share price on 31 July 2014.
We believe this was one of the largest support services help around 93% of people return to their role on ever payouts by a UK plc for an all-employee saveshare plan.
full duties.. a The Two Ticks is an accreditation that is given to organisations that are committed to employing disabled people.
