STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility We have restated the emissions figures for the year to 3i is committed to acting as a responsible 31 March 2014 to reflect improved data collection and company, a responsible employer and a analysis techniques which allows a more accurate responsible investor.
We take responsibility For full details comparison between 2014 and 2015.
Our total Scope 1 of 3is approach, for our actions, carefully consider how and 2 emissions have increased by 6.6% due principally including details to better data coverage as well as an increase in overall others will be affected by our choices and of relevant emissions from electricity usage due to business growth.
ensure that our values and ethics are 3i policies, please We have reported on all of the emission sources required integrated into our formal business visit the CR section under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and of our website at policies, practices and plans.
within our consolidated financial statements.
A RESPONSIBLE COMPANY We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas Governance emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3i and its Defras Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
Results are activities and is critical to the delivery of value to our reported in tCO e although Scope 2 emissions for overseas 2 stakeholders.
For full details of our governance structure electricity have been calculated in tCO as the UK 2 and processes, please see the Corporate governance Governments overseas electricity emissions factors section of this report and visit the Governance section of currently account for CO emissions only.
Emissions for all 2 our website at www.
of our sites have been included and we have chosen to Transparency exclude fugitive Scope 1 emissions from a cooling unit As a publicly-listed company, 3i operates within a located at our London office as it is considered immaterial framework of formal legal and regulatory disclosure to our overall footprint.
The greenhouse gas sources that requirements as well as meeting the high expectations for constitute our operational boundary are: transparency of our shareholders, fund investors, staff and - Scope 1: natural gas combustion within boilers: and the media.
We are committed to communicating both our - Scope 2: purchased electricity for own use.
financial and non-financial performance in a clear, open and comprehensive manner.
In some cases, missing data has been estimated using either extrapolation of available data or data from the Anti-bribery and corruption previous year as a proxy.
We have worked with Carbon 3i does not offer, pay or accept bribes and we only work Credentials Energy Services to verify our greenhouse with third parties whose standards of business integrity gas emissions.
are substantively consistent with ours.
We expect the businesses we invest in to operate in compliance with all 3i also reports its greenhouse gas emissions and climate applicable laws and regulations and, where appropriate, change data to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
work towards meeting relevant international standards Community where these are more stringent.
This includes, in We focus our charitable activities on the disadvantaged, on particular, upholding high standards of business integrity, young people and on education.
Charities are supported on avoiding corruption in all its forms and complying with the basis of their effectiveness and impact and we also applicable anti-bribery, anti-fraud and anti-money support staff giving and sponsorship through matching laundering laws and regulations.
Our charitable giving for the year to 31 March Environmental impact 2015 totalled 255,000.
In the year to 31 March 2015 our measured Scope 1 and 2 emissions were 411.8 tonnes CO2e.
This comprised: A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Graduate scheme CO e emissions CO e emissions 2 2 tonnes for tonnes for We are proud to have launched our new graduate year to year to recruitment scheme during the year which is designed to Scope Emissions source 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 develop our next generation of world-class investment 1 Combustion of fuel 12.6 28.0 professionals and business leaders.
Following a rigorous and operation of process, we selected five high-quality graduates from our facilities across Europe and a variety of disciplines to join us in 2 Electricity, heat, and 399.2 358.2 September 2015.
The programme will consist of cooling purchased comprehensive and high quality training followed by for our own use rotations through each of our Private Equity, Infrastructure Total 411.8 386.2 and Debt Management businesses as well as our Strategy and Finance teams.
The top performers will be fastThis equates to 1.52 tonnes CO2e per employee for the year tracked into the business in April 2018. to 31 March 2015 2014: 1.39 tonnes CO2e per employee, based on an average number of employees during the year of 271 2014: 277 employees.
44 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Human rights Case study: Whilst 3i does not have a formal human rights policy, our policies are consistent with  The Passage Further details human rights principles.
In particular, 3i is an equal 3i has supported The Passage for over five years of3is approach opportunities employer and has clear grievance and and is currently supporting the Employment Training asa responsible disciplinary procedures, an employee assistance and Welfare Rights department investor, including programme and an independent, external whistle a summary of blowing hotline service.
The Passage is a UK charity which aims to provide ourResponsible homeless people in London with support to transform 3i is committed to ensuring that the businesses we invest Investment policy, their own lives by providing homelessness prevention in comply with all applicable laws in relation to their are available at projects, resource centre services, outreach services, employees amongst other things and, where appropriate, www.
hostel accommodation and supported semithat they work towards meeting relevant international independent accommodation.
standards such as the ILO Fundamental Conventions where these are more stringent.
Summaries of relevant 3i Our donation funds the Employment Training and 3i is a member of the policies, including our policies on people, recruitment and Welfare Rights ETWR Department which provides DowJones Sustainability World Index.
selection, equal opportunities and diversity, health and The Passages clients with support to find a way back safety and responsible investment are available at into employment as well as to explore training and www.
3i is an accredited London Living Wage Employer.
This During 2014, 390 homeless or insecurely housed means that every member of staff based in London, people visited the ETWR Department.
The majority of including contracted maintenance and reception teams, clients received benefit advice, life skills and IT skills earns a living wage which is an hourly rate higher than training, with 57 finding regular work.
FTSE Group confirms that 3i has been independently the UK minimum wage and is set independently, updated assessed according to the The ETWR department also operates a work club FTSE4Good criteria, and has annually and based on the cost of living in the UK.
satisfied the requirements to which helps clients look for work and overcome become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
At 31 March 2015, 3i had a total of 276 employees obstacles such as a lack of relevant IT skills, given Created by the global index company FTSE Group, calculated under the investment basis and this is how somany jobs are now advertised online.
To that end, FTSE4Good is an equity index they broke down by gender: the ETWR department carried out 1,410 internet job series that is designed to facilitate investment in search sessions with clients.
In addition, the work companies that meet globally Number Male Female recognised corporate clubhelped 15 clients prepare and study for the responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good All 3i employees 276 169 107 Construction Skills Certification Scheme, supported Index Series have met 1 stringent environmental, social 8 5 3 three clients who undertook work trials with local 3i Group plc Directors and governance criteria, and 2 are positioned to capitalise on employers in order to get used to being at work after Senior managers 47 39 8 the benefits of responsible long periods of unemployment, and assisted 17 clients business practice.
1 Includes non-executive Directors who are not 3i employees.
who took part in voluntary work.
2 Senior managers excludes Simon Borrows and Julia Wilson who are included as Directors of 3i Group plc and includes 28 people who were directors of undertakings included in the consolidation, of whom 26 are male and two are female.
A RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR We are signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment and have a clear and comprehensive Responsible Investment policy which is embedded into our new investment and portfolio monitoring processes.
3i Group plc has again been selected as an index component of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices DJSI.
By order of the Board Simon Borrows Chief Executive 13 May 2015 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 45 47 Governance Chairmans introduction 48 Board of Directors and Executive Corporate Committee 50 Board and Committees 53 Statutory and corporate governance information 57 Corporate governance statement Governance 65 Audit and Compliance Committee report 69 Valuations Committee report 72 Directors remuneration report 46 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015
