Strategic report Corporate responsibility The Boards aim is to invest The Investment Advisers RI policy makes clear Governance that it aims to use its influence to promote a responsibly.
The Board is Good corporate governance is fundamental commitment in portfolio companies to: responsible for the definition and to 3i Infrastructure and its activities.
comply, as a minimum, with applicable local For full details of the Companys governance implementation of the Companys and international laws: structure, please see the Governance section corporate responsibility policy, of this report and visit the Governance & mitigate adverse environmental and social however in practice it relies CSR section of the Companys website at impacts and enhance positive effects on heavily on the relevant policies www.
the environment, workers and relevant and procedures put in place by 3i stakeholders: and uphold high standards of business integrity Bribery Act Group that apply to the Investment and good corporate governance.
Adviser and, consequently, to The Company does not offer, pay or accept The main features of the policy include: bribes and is committed to working only with the Company.
third parties whose standards of business clear statements of the commitment For more information on 3i Groups corporate integrity are substantively consistent with its to mitigate adverse environmental responsibility policies, please refer to its own.
The Company also expects the businesses and social impacts and uphold high website: www.
com  it invests in to commit to avoiding corruption in standards of business integrity and good all its forms and to comply with anti-bribery, The Board believes that these policies meet the corporate governance: anti-fraud and anti-money laundering laws Companys objectives in this area.
an exclusion list of businesses and activities applicable to them.
The Company has an in which investment is precluded: anti-bribery policy and is fully compliant with Responsible Investment policy a referral list of businesses and activities the provisions of the UK Bribery Act.
which may be particularly sensitive and may 3i Group is a signatory to the UN Principles require additional scrutiny: and for Responsible Investment RI and has Environment a set of minimum ESG standards that embedded RI policies in its investment and portfolio companies should meet, either asset management processes.
As an investment company with no employees, at the time of investment or within a governed by a non-executive Board of The Investment Advisers philosophy on RI can reasonable period thereafter.
Directors, 3i Infrastructure has no material be summarised as follows: Details of the Investment Advisers RI policy are direct impact on the environment.
Its carbon the effective assessment and management available on 3i Groups website: www.
com emissions are negligible, and limited to Board of environmental, social, business  responsible-investor.
members travel to and from Jersey to attend integrity and corporate governance Board meetings.
matters has a positive effect on the value of portfolio companies, and hence on 3i Procurement Infrastructure itself: 3i Infrastructure has developed policies and compliance with local laws and regulations procedures in relation to the procurement of may not be enough to meet global services received from third-party providers.
expectations, deliver value and enhance As far as possible, the Company will work reputation and licence to operate: and only with suppliers who support its aim to it is vital that the Investment Adviser seeks source products and services responsibly.
to identify all material environmental, 3i Infrastructure aims to have a collaborative social and governance ESG risks and relationship with its service providers and, opportunities through its due diligence and wherever possible, will work with them when effectively manage them during the period problems or issues arise to help them meet of the Companys investment.
Prompt Payment Code 3i Group performs most payment and treasury functions for the Company and is a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code.
The Code encourages and promotes best practice between organisations and their suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit to paying their suppliers within clearly defined terms, and to ensuring there is a proper process for dealing with any issues that may arise.
This Strategic report is approved by order of the Board Authorised signatory Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited Company Secretary 11 May 2015 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 38 Review of investments Review of investments
