Our people Recruiting, developing and retaining talented and motivated employees who make clear thinking, diverse views and mutual support the basis for excellence, is a key strategic priority.
The hallmark of Aberdeen We have experienced, stable and well-resourced teams Teams have a blend of experience and youth Approach builds resilience and succession We aim to share knowledge and enable relationships across all locations Retention of talent is a key focus globally Our approach is to be open, entrepreneurial and inclusive Recruitment and retention Our recruitment strategy mirrors our investment philosophy - allowing employees to record, explore and plan career and building and developing teams for long term sustainability personal development.
Our Senior Leadership and Emerging Talent programmes continue In a competitive market, recruiting talent with the right experience to receive positive feedback and a number of employees from the and fresh insight is necessary to help us evolve and improve first emerging talent programme have now been promoted to performance and relationships with stakeholders.
senior positions within the company.
Employees selected for these programmes come from across our global offices and have diverse However, it is not just at an experienced level that we focus on backgrounds and skill-sets.
recruiting for our future growth and success.
We also ensure the individuals we recruit at an entry level have the ability to take the We have also further refined our performance management company forward.
Indeed, a significant element of our graduate assessment so that it is now more focused on, and aligned with programme is the rotational framework, equipping graduates the strategic objectives of the Group.
As part of this enhancement, with a broad-based knowledge of both Aberdeen and the asset performance across a spectrum of metrics is more closely management industry before they choose a permanent position.
assessed, in terms of not just what was delivered, but how it was delivered in line with our corporate values.
Retention of talent is a key focus globally.
We have a number of initiatives in place including mentoring, reverse mentoring and Diverse teams, when managed well, make better business maternity coaching.
Some programmes are global while others decisions and we therefore ensure that diversity and inclusion are have been developed in specific countries to meet the needs of key elements of our training programmes.
This year we piloted our employees at a local level.
unconscious bias training for all managers in the UK and 92% of attendees fed back that they would recommend this course Learning, development and talent management to employees.
This will now be rolled out globally alongside an One of Aberdeens strategic aims is to achieve resilience through e-learning course for all employees.
diversification of our expertise, markets, channels and clients.
We have also sought to raise awareness of what diversity and Two important aspects of this are to provide technical training to inclusion means at Aberdeen.
We use many channels to do this improve skills around the fundamental aspects of our business, including: monthly global diversity newsletters, the intranet and and to work with individual teams to establish more specialist through senior management updates to reinforce our top-down needs.
In 2015, to formalise our approach to learning and commitment.
In addition, we have started to develop networking development, we launched the Aberdeen Asset Management groups to enable the business to directly support our diversity and Academy.
The Academy is an innovative learning facility which inclusion objectives.
Our networks bring together people with combines our current wide range of learning and development different backgrounds but a shared interest in ensuring Aberdeen initiatives with a new streamlined approach and capability, promotes inclusion.
34 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Culture There is a clear business case to improving In 2014 we established a culture committee with representation diversity in all its forms: mixed teams make from across the Group including corporate, risk, human resources, distribution and the brand and communications teams.
better decisions and there is a plethora of Our desired culture is articulated in our values, vision and supporting research on this topic.
Mixed teams purpose and, over the course of the year, we have implemented approach challenges from a greater variety of various processes and procedures to increase awareness amongst employees of these defining tenets of our business.
This work perspectives and thus can arrive at better has involved defining what it is we mean by values and culture: reasoned conclusions.
Developing the explaining why they are important for Aberdeen: and outlining understanding that diversity in all its forms, how behaviours will be monitored and measured.
not just gender, is a source of competitive One of our values is challenge and the associated action advantage is a vital part in creating an of bringing a fresh perspective to the way we operate.
Through our innovation platform Ignite, which was launched atmosphere that values differences of gender, last year, employees are able to share ideas on opportunities for culture, ethnicity, background and skills.
Global engagement continues to grow.
Breakdown of staff by gender: Total workforce 2,800 Male 54% 1,500 in total Female 46% 1,300 in total Senior managers Male 65% 49 in total Female 35% 26 in total Group management board Male 86% 18 in total Female 14% 3 in total Board of Directors Male 71% 10 in total Female 29% 4 in total We have also started to capture and monitor diversity statistics beyond gender.
Where we are legally allowed, we now ask all employees to declare their age, ethnicity and disability status, which so far has allowed us to collate data for the Americas, UK and Asia Pacific.
From this we can determine if there are areas of the business where we need to do more to promote diversity and inclusion.
Charitable foundation Many factors impact on an individuals decision to work for, and stay with, a company.
These factors include competitive compensation, development opportunities, a culture of inclusion and, for many, the opportunity to use their skills outside of work through volunteering and being involved in the charitable activities.
In the three years since inception, the Aberdeen Charitable Foundation has had a positive impact in all of the communities in which employees live and work, through both our local community and emerging markets programme.
At a local level, each of our global offices has the autonomy to select projects they would like to support, within global guidelines.
By providing employees with the opportunity to dedicate two working days to assist with charitable projects, we enhance the value of our financial contributions and actively help to tackle social challenges.
At the same time, these activities further enhance the interpersonal skills of our people and promote team spirit ultimately strengthening our corporate culture.
In 2015, The Aberdeen Charitable Foundation won the Best Foundation Award at the Corporate Engagement Awards, in recognition of its unique local and global approach and the commitment of all Aberdeen offices globally.
Human rights We continue to be an active member of the UN Global Compact.
Our operations and policies support and reflect the ten Global Compact principles and we uphold the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all our operations.
We also uphold employee rights and respect collective bargaining and freedom of association.
In countries where an employee delegate or works council is not present, employees are encouraged to share their opinions with line managers or human resources representatives.
