Our people Happy people make happy customers Happy people make happy customers and happy customers make for a successful, thriving company.
Our success goes handinhand with having a strong culture.
So our philosophy is a simple yet effective one: People who enjoy what they do, do it better.
Our approach to people is founded on four key pillars: 1 2 3 4 Communication Equality Recognition Fun We communicate with people, At Admiral we strive to lessen We like to make sure that people Fun is a big component of people communicate back to us.
the obvious divides between who are doing a good job are working for the Admiral Group.
We make sure that everyone people.
There are no company told about it!
This can be in the Wecelebrate as many events knows whats going on with cars or executive dining rooms: form of a good word or positive and occasions as possible!
the business because people everyone sits in the same chairs feedback.
But we also like to TheMinistry of Fun ensures that want to be involved.
Our staff and eats in the same cafeterias.
gobig from Star Lunches, there are great competitions and portal, Atlas, is updated daily Our managers dont have offices, where exceptional performers activities on a weekly basis for with all the news from around all our desks are open plan are taken out to lunch by Senior staff, meaning life is never dull!
the Group, whether weve won there is no us and them.
Management, to awards for an award or changed a procedure Everybodys a shareholder length of service.
Recognition is a our staff will know about it!
whether working in Canada, key part of life at Admiral and we Seville or Swansea youre a ensure that great performance, shareholder and every new both individual and collective, starter gets treated equally.
Together, these principles create an environment where Admiral employees look forward to coming to work and give that little extra effort when theyre at work.
Our annual staff survey One of the most important tools we use to measure employee satisfaction is our anonymous Staff Survey which provides an insight into what its like to work for us.
All staff 8,166 Believe this is a friendly place to work 96% Believe the Admiral Group is truly customer focused 88% Believe people care about each other here 89% Would recommend their manager as a good manager 88% Male:Female 3,981 4,185 Target: 100% ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION An award winning year Here are some of the awards Admiral Group wonin2015 Awards and achievements in 2015 Sunday Times Best Companies To Work For Special Award 2015 BestLeader Henry Engelhardt Sunday Times Best Companies To Work For Special Award 2015 15Years Special Recognition Award th Sunday Times Best Companies To Work For 5 th Great Place to Work Best Large Workplace in the UK 4 th Great Place to Work Best Multinational Workplace in Europe 4 nd Princes Trust Million Makers Challenge 2 Nova Scotias Top Employers 2015 Admiral Insurance Services To read more about our corporate social European Business Awards 2015 National Champion UnitedKingdom responsibility strategy visit www.
co. uk Employer of the Year Great Place to Work Best Workplace in Spain between 250 499 employees th th 4 Admiral Seguros, 5 Rastreator nd Great Place to Work Best Workplace in France less than 500 employees 22 th Virginia Business Best Places to Work 2015 50 th Great Place to Work Best Medium Workplace in Italy 9 Special Award Admiral Million Makers Princes Trust Outstanding Supporter Best and Most Popular Insurance Website Website of the Year UK Awards Personal Finance Awards Best Motor Insurance Provider 2015 16 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 39
