20 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility Last year we reported in detail on what the Company and committed to creating an inclusive environment where our its employees were doing to demonstrate its commitment to people can develop and contribute fully.
growing the business in a way that is responsible and ensures Our employment and recruitment policies are at all times a sustainable future for our shareholders, customers and compliant with relevant EU and UK legislation.
This year we highlight some of the main actions.
development and promotion is based solely on the candidates Stewardship: We have now had a full year under the stewardship suitability for the job to be done.
We will not discriminate either of our current investment management team and our investment before or during employment on the basis of gender, sexual process is described on pages 10 and 11.
We also look to vote orientation, age, race, nationality, disability, political or religious whenever possible and in 2015 we voted at 80 meetings, 95% belief.
Should any of our people become disabled we will ensure of the meetings at which we were eligible to vote.
For 59 of that they do not suffer any discrimination and we will make these meetings we voted against, withheld or abstained on reasonable adjustments to allow them to continue to have the one or more resolutions.
These votes related to concerns about same opportunities as any other member of our workforce.
matters including: board and committee independence and The table below provides the gender split at different levels effectiveness: non-pre-emptive securities issues: excessive or within the business as at 31 December 2015. opaque remuneration arrangements: and lack of transparency Male Female about lobbying activities and fair business policies.
Board 7 70% 3 30% We are a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Senior Managers 46 75% 15 25% Investment PRI and one of our investment managers is Total Workforce 156 49.5% 159 50.5% Chairman of the PRIs ESG Integration working group.
We are also members of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development which seeks to promote sustainability both Total Greenhouse Gas emissions data in business and through its work with UN Habitat and the International Union for Conservation of Nature IUCN World We report here on all of the emission sources required under the Conservation Congress.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated Customers: We aim to have straightforward and open financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any communication with our customers.
In 2015 we carried out a emission sources that are not included in our consolidated customer perception audit which identified that Alliance Trust financial statements.
was seen as reliable, consistent, dependable, safe and secure.
However it was felt that our communication on how we invest Our carbon footprint has been calculated based on the Defra could be improved as could our investment performance.
We Environmental Reporting Guidelines including mandatory report on pages 10 and 11 the process that our managers greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance.
We have adopted follow and on page 6 how our investment performance an operational control approach.
The emissions reported has exceeded benchmark.
We provide a dedicated website, opposite have been verified by Carbon Footprint Limited.
Investment Focus, to provide useful information and articles on Details of our verification statements are available on our website: many aspects of investment.
co. uk pdfs  Communities: We continued to support the communities Statement.
The Alliance Trust Foundation, which In the year the Company was identified as a UK leader for raises money through the Alliance Trust Cateran Yomp and the quality of climate change related information that it has fundraising activities by staff, distributed 27,000 to six charities disclosed to investors and the global marketplace through the nominated by staff as part of our annual grant process.
In Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, which is an international addition each month we make smaller donations to local not-for-profit organisation that drives sustainable economies.
charities and groups and in the year this amounted to 10,000.
It was awarded a position on the FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure In December the Foundation donated over 2,000 to support Leadership Index CDLI, in the United Kingdom edition of foodbanks and other charities seeking to alleviate poverty at CDPs annual global climate change report.
The position on the Christmas in Dundee, Edinburgh and London.
Index was earned by disclosing high quality carbon emissions In September, in conjunction with D C Thomson, we launched and energy data through CDPs climate change programme.
a schools programme Tomorrows Talent with around 40 The reported data has been independently assessed against staff assisting in workshops involving over 1,000 pupils in 11 CDPs scoring methodology and marked out of 100.
Those organisations graded within the top 10% constitute the CDLI.
People: We believe that a diverse workforce will create the environment to allow our business to thrive and grow.
We are Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2015 | 21 % Year to Year to Year to Change Tonnes C02e 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec year on 2013 2014 2015 year Direct energy consumption Scope 1 Company owned road vehicles 211 190 181 -5% Refrigerant loss at all facilities where Alliance Trust has operational control Scope 2 Indirect energy consumption 489 535 472 -12% Location based Business travel Scope 3 649 592 645 9% Energy used at downstream property investments Key Performance Scope 1 2 normalised to per full-time 2.76 2.63 2.07 -21% Indicator KPI employee equivalent FTE Strategic Report The Strategic Report comprising the inside cover to page 21 of this document and the viability statement on page 33 has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 3 March 2016
