ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Sustainability Policy Statement Allied Minds aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner, to contribute to the communities in which it operates and to respect the needs of its employees and all of its stakeholders.
The Group is committed to growing the business while ensuring a safe environment for employees as well as minimising the overall impact on the environment.
Allied Minds endeavours to conduct its business in accordance with established best practice, to be a responsible employer and to adopt values and standards designed to help guide staff in their conduct and business relationships.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Given the overall size of the Group, we consider the direct environmental impact of the Group as relatively low.
However, we firmly recognise our responsibility to ensure that our business operates in an environmentally responsible and sustainable manner.
The Group complies with all current regulations on emissions including greenhouse gas emissions, where such regulation exists in our markets.
Though the Groups day-to-day operational activities have a relatively limited impact on the environment, we do recognise that the more significant impact occurs indirectly through the nature and operations of the companies that we choose to support with human and financial capital.
The Group therefore considers it important to establish and nurture businesses that comply with existing applicable environmental, ethical and social legislation.
It is also important that these businesses can demonstrate that an appropriate strategy is in place to meet future applicable legislative and regulatory requirements and that these businesses can operate to specific industry standards, striving for best practice.
We are establishing detailed processes and controls to enable regular and routine reporting of greenhouse gas emissions on a consistent basis.
It has therefore not been practicable to provide data concerning the annual quantity of emissions from activities for which the Group is responsible including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility : nor has it been practicable to disclose the annual quantity of emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam, or cooling by the Group for our own use.
We fully anticipate complying in full, in future years, with the required reporting requirements.
Our Business Ethics and Social Responsibility The Group seeks to conduct all of its operating and business activities in an honest, ethical and socially responsible manner.
We are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate, and for its directors and staff to have due regard to the interest of all of its stakeholders including investors, university and government partners, employees, suppliers and the businesses in which the Group invests.
We take a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and implement and enforce effective systems to counter bribery.
The Group is bound by the laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act 2010, and has implemented policies and procedures to address such laws, as well as the laws in each jurisdiction where the Group operates, including, the US.
The Groups management and employees are fundamental to our success and as a result we are committed to encouraging the ongoing development of our staff with the aim of maximising the Groups overall performance.
Emphasis is placed on staff development through work-based learning, with senior Page 68 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 68 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Sustainability continued members of staff acting as coaches and mentors.
Allied Minds has continued to employ regular all-staff update meetings as the main source of employee communication.
Employee Diversity and Employment Policies The Group seeks to operate as a responsible employer and has adopted standards which promote corporate values designed to help and guide employees in their conduct and business relationships.
The Group seeks to comply with all laws, regulations and rules applicable to its business and to conduct the business in line with applicable established best practice.
The Groups policy is one of equal opportunity in the selection, training, career development and promotion of employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
The Group had 359 employees and consultants as at 31 December 2015.
A breakdown of employees by gender can be seen in the illustrations below.
Allied Minds supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensures that all transactions the Group enters into uphold these principles.
