Corporate social responsibility Combining ethical investing with sound business practice Ashmore believes that its reputation as an ethical, trustworthy provider of investment services is essential to align clients and shareholders interests.
investments of an investor fund in Colombia customers and the natural environment.
Investment within the alternatives investment theme.
There are a wide range of ESG issues Business conduct and integrity This fund has been developed in a form and which could be relevant for a company Ashmore recognises the importance of substance acceptable to the Inter-American depending on the industry in which it Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Development Bank IDB and International operates and its specific business profile.
incorporating transparency, fairness, Finance Corporation IFC.
ESG issues can become new sources of accountability and integrity and believes risk or opportunities for companies, and a that these principles are fundamental to the Ashmores funds and segregated accounts companys ability to respond to these issues Groups operations.
Ashmore believes that each have a specific investment mandate can therefore act as an early signal of its reputation as an ethical, trustworthy which sets out the parameters for long-term competitiveness.
To the extent provider of investment services is essential investment.
Within the equities and corporate practicable, Ashmore routinely monitors the to align clients and shareholders interests.
debt themes Ashmore is able to screen ESG performance of the companies in which Ashmore seeks to establish and maintain client portfolios to meet client requirements it invests through ongoing company visits long-term relationships with its clients and for geographic, sector and stock-specific and other information channels.
Generally, intermediaries and believes this to be a restrictions.
Stock-specific restrictions may companies disclose corporate governance fundamental prerequisite for the growth include securities which meet clients own practices through corporate policies, stock of its business.
Environmental, Social and Corporate market listings, and market press releases Governance ESG criteria.
Responsible investing across for example, Brazil has a separate category Ashmores themes Examples of investment areas where for companies committed to corporate Ashmore seeks to ensure that the screening of portfolios can be offered based governance best practice.
Companies may governance bodies of the investments on or informed by client requirements also disclose environmental and social it makes comply with their own industry using recognised investment industry practices in annual reports and other reports standards and best practice, treat their identifiers and coding into Ashmores to investors.
These are then highlighted, employees fairly, have active community portfolio management system include as appropriate, in Investment Committee programmes and operate with sensitivity alcohol, animal food products, armaments reports when relevant.
Ashmore has made manufacturers or dealers, gambling, As a global investor, Ashmore recognises investments in a number of renewable pornography and tobacco.
that legislation and best practice standards energy projects in different countries vary between countries and regions, and that including hydro-electricity, geothermal Ashmore seeks to comply at all times with all sanctions imposed by applicable it must remain sensitive to these differences.
energy and sugar-based ethanol production.
government authorities, and also at a However, at a minimum, Ashmore expects Investments have also been made in China geographical level screens across all the companies in which it invests to comply in a company which manufactures wind investment themes for countries which are with the national legislation that applies turbines with both local and growing global on the United Nations and EU UK Sanctions to them.
These investments on behalf of and the US Office of Foreign Assets and clients reflect Ashmores overall approach Alternatives Control OFAC lists, for example, during to combining ethical investing with sound Ashmores alternatives investment theme the recent Russia Ukraine crisis.
often involves its funds taking significant Environmental, Social and stakes in investee companies.
In such Amongst the initiatives undertaken in Governance ESG philosophy circumstances Ashmore is in a position to South America is the establishment of an Equities engage positively with the management of Environmental and Social Management ESG criteria tend to be focused primarily these companies.
In many cases Ashmore System ESMS for the management of on equity investing because of the influence believes it to be beneficial to its investors to which shareholder interests are able to exert be proactive in promoting its brand locally by Consistent with the philosophies on the management of a particular company.
improving the livelihoods of the employees described, Ashmore is a signatory to in those companies where it has a significant Ashmore believes that the way in which the Principles for Responsible stake.
When undertaking initial due diligence companies manage their relations with Investment on any investments within the alternatives stakeholders can have an impact on business theme, Ashmores deal memorandum performance.
These stakeholders encompass checklist takes into account the consideration employees, local communities, wider of ESG issues within the investment analysis society, governments, supply chains, and decision-making process, and the investee companys own ESG practices.
36 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report international public sector financial Fixed income Employees institutions with the objective of aiding Within Emerging Markets debt segregated Ashmore directly employs approximately transparency and best practice.
accounts, Ashmore offers clients the 300 people in 10 countries worldwide, Engagement with a country, as opposed flexibility to implement their ESG constraints excluding employees in companies to disengagement, is akin to many small related to specific countries, sectors and significantly controlled by funds that pressures every day as opposed to one securities for example, restricted lists, Ashmore manages.
Ashmores people have big stick.
By remaining engaged over concentration limits etc.
always been its most important asset, an extended period of time it is often at the heart of everything it does.
The Groups Engagement possible to have a positive influence and priority is to develop, manage and retain Within mature markets, ethical investing to add credibility.
this talent in order to deliver the potential of has often been portrayed as a negative the organisation.
Ashmore wishes to be an concept: i. e. it involves a decision not to Where Emerging Markets are concerned employer which the most talented people invest in a certain way.
Whilst these concepts it is believed that in certain circumstances it aspire to join wherever it operates.
Ashmore are well accepted in mature markets may be more beneficial to keep investment recognises that the involvement of its Ashmore believes that they are not flowing combined with the influence which employees is key to the future success necessarily conducive to helping emerging accompanies it in order to continue being of the business and adopts a practice of economies develop.
In the context of able to help a countrys population.
In country keeping employees informed on significant developing countries, Ashmore believes that specific terms at the extreme, being cut off matters affecting them.
Ashmore has it is also possible to apply other concepts from capital may allow undemocratic rulers consistently operated a remuneration such as engagement within the ethical to control their people by attributing blame strategy that recognises both corporate investment debate.
for economic problems to foreign actions.
Ashmore is also Sanctions may be counter-productive and In the equities theme, Ashmore believes committed to following good practice in may reduce the welfare of the population that good corporate governance helps to align employment matters, recognising the part considerably.
Conversely, to the extent that the interests of company management with this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
governments pursue policies that are not those of shareholders.
Where possible, in the best interests of that country then Ashmore seeks to ensure that its workforce Ashmore seeks to maintain constructive this is likely to become a poor investment reflects, as far as practicable, the diversity dialogue with company management.
Hence Ashmore takes of the many communities in which its investment and engagement disengagement operations are located.
Ashmore also Ashmore considers whether companies have decisions on a case-by-case basis relative to recognises the diverse needs of its corporate governance frameworks that are in the specific circumstances and investment employees in managing the responsibilities line with applicable country codes and serve criteria in the best interests of clients.
of their work and personal lives, and believes shareholder interests.
Views on corporate that achieving an effective balance in these governance do not constrain investment Proxy voting and corporate actions areas is beneficial to both Ashmore and the decisions however: often the most profitable Subject to specific mandate restrictions, individual.
Ashmore encourages employees investments can be made in companies Ashmore is generally responsible for voting to act ethically and to uphold clearly the where an improvement in corporate proxies and taking decisions in connection standards of practice which its clients have governance practices is anticipated.
In many with proxy voting with respect to equities, come to expect.
It also means ensuring that jurisdictions, and to the extent consistent bonds, loans or other debt instruments held employees understand the strategic aims with Ashmores fiduciary duty to its clients, by or on behalf of the clients for which it and objectives of the Group and are clear Ashmore exercises voting rights as a means serves as investment manager adviser.
about their role in achieving them.
to signal views to company management.
Where Ashmore is given responsibility for Ashmore has developed detailed guidelines Ashmore works to ensure employee proxy voting and corporate actions, it will take to guide voting decisions, but will, as policies and procedures reflect best practice reasonable steps under the circumstances appropriate, consider resolutions on a within each of the countries where it has a to ensure that proxies are voted in the case-by-case basis taking into account all presence.
This means having policies and best interests of its clients.
practices that make Ashmore an attractive financial interests of its clients is the primary The majority of Ashmores AuM continues place to work in respect of the day-to-day consideration for Ashmore in determining to be invested in fixed income the majority operating environment and culture, and also how to protect such interests.
This generally of which is sovereign for which Ashmores in respect of medium to long-term growth means proxy voting with a view to enhancing ability to have an influence is generally for employees personally, professionally the value of the securities held by or on limited to a decision whether or not to invest.
behalf of Ashmores clients, taken either However, at a country level Ashmore believes individually or as a whole.
that it is able to exert an influence through dialogue with governments and central banks.
In order to assist with the debate on the broader issues affecting Emerging Markets, to enhance the understanding of these markets globally and to address market failures.
Ashmore engages with numerous Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 Corporate social responsibility continued Training is provided to all employees in Employee development High ethical standards relation to anti-money laundering and Ashmore believes that constructive Ashmores Board of Directors seeks countering terrorist financing, including performance management is an essential to maintain a strong corporate culture customer due diligence requirements and tool in the effective management of its employing high standards of integrity identifying money laundering, suspicious people and business.
Ashmore ensures all and fair dealing in the conduct of the activity and financial crime.
employees are competent to undertake their firms activities, compliance with both the roles, have access to training as it is required, letter and the spirit of relevant laws and Ashmore has procedures in place to provide and can demonstrate their continuing regulations, and standards of good market staff with a means of airing concerns about professional development.
practice in all jurisdictions where the Groups behaviour, wrongdoing or decisions that are business is carried out.
The Boards aim is perceived to be unethical.
This can be done The performance management cycle to enable Ashmore to demonstrate that either directly or on a confidential basis comprises setting objectives and an annual the Group is fit and proper to undertake whistleblowing procedures.
performance appraisal against those agreed its business, to safeguard the legitimate objectives.
Output from this performance interests of Ashmore clients and to protect Health and safety process is used to assist with decisions Ashmores reputation.
The health and welfare of employees is very on remuneration, career development important to the Group.
Taxation Ashmore promotes high standards of health Ashmore is committed to paying tax in Diversity and safety at work and has a comprehensive accordance with all relevant laws and Ashmore is committed to providing equal health and safety policy which is incorporated regulations and complying with all fiscal opportunities and seeks to ensure that its into the staff handbook and which highlights obligations in the territories in which it workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, the Groups commitment to ensuring operates.
To facilitate this, the Group works the diversity of the many communities in employees are provided with a safe and to create and maintain transparent and which it operates.
Ashmore employs over healthy working environment.
In London, open working relationships with all relevant 32 different nationalities throughout the Ashmore carries out regular risk tax authorities.
Ashmore aims to maximise organisation.
The gender balance is currently assessments of premises and provides staff value for its shareholders and clients by 68% male and 32% female.
with safety training including the provision managing its business in a tax efficient of training to fire wardens and first aid It is the Groups policy to give appropriate and transparent manner, within remit of representatives.
Ashmore also engages consideration to applications from disabled applicable tax rules.
external consultants to carry out regular persons, having regard to their particular Financial crime health and safety and fire assessments aptitudes and abilities.
For the purposes of Ashmore is committed to minimising in its London premises.
training, career development and progression financial crime including money laundering, including those who become disabled There have been no reportable accidents bribery and corruption, fraud and market during the course of their employment in the UK or overseas premises.
Ashmore has adopted risk-based all are treated on equal terms with other policies and procedures on financial crime employees.
Ashmore operates a zero and is committed to ensuring that its tolerance policy towards harassment customers identification will be satisfactorily and bullying and has a formal policy that verified before a business relationship documents the organisations commitment commences: this is ongoing throughout to ensuring employees are treated with the course of the relationship.
respect and dignity whilst at work.
Gender diversity number of employees BOARD OPERATING COMMITTEE ALL EMPLOYEES 1 2 92 7 193 10 Male Female 38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Human rights Recycling Ashmore supports the United Nations Ashmore has in place recycling programmes Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
for waste paper, photocopier toners and other disposable materials.
Ashmore seeks Environment to minimise the use of paper as part of its As an investment manager, Ashmore has a clear desk policy and electronic scanning is limited direct impact upon the environment actively encouraged.
All printing is black and and there are few environmental risks white and two-sided by default.
associated with the Groups activities.
Ashmore does not own any of the buildings Ashmore is conscious of minimising its where it occupies floorspace and invariably impact on the environment.
For this reason, buildings in which it does have a lease are wherever possible Ashmore chooses paper multi-tenanted and costs are apportioned stocks that have been sustainably sourced to each tenant pro-rated according to and which are Forest Stewardship Council occupancy.
Ashmores largest property FSC accredited or equivalent for its occupancy is at its headquarters at marketing materials and business stationery.
61 Aldwych, London, where it occupies a Ashmore provides obsolescent computers single floor of approximately 19,000 square to Computer Aid International Computer feet in a nine-storey multi-tenanted building.
Aid, a UK registered charity that aims Electricity usage in London is separately to reduce poverty through practical ICT monitored by floor with renewable energy solutions.
Computer Aid sends these accounting for 100% of supply.
Energy PCs to various projects across Africa and efficient lighting is installed in the building South America and furnishes Ashmore with sensors which turn lights off when with details of where they are used.
The building has Any units that are not usable are disposed received an Energy Performance Certificate of in an environmentally friendly fashion.
UK Stewardship Code Greenhouse Gas emissions Details on how, and the extent to which, reporting Ashmore complies with the principles Since 1 October 2013 all companies listed of the UK Stewardship Code are described on the Main Market of the London Stock separately on the Ashmore website at: Exchange have had to report their https: www.
com investorGreenhouse Gas emissions GHGs in their relations corporate-governance annual report.
Further details can be found in the Directors report on pages 66 to 69.
By order of the Board Travel Michael Perman Although Ashmore endeavours to make Company Secretary maximum use of available technology, such as video conferencing, its business 7 September 2015 model as an investor in Emerging Markets inevitably requires that investment professionals and other members of staff travel frequently to these countries to investigate and monitor opportunities.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 Corporate social responsibility continued The Ashmore Foundation: Making a positive difference www.
org The Ashmore Foundation was established The Ashmore Foundations focus of work 2014-15 highlights in January 2008 and seeks to make a positive is designed in response to the fact that, Governance and sustainable difference to disadvantaged despite economic growth in Emerging Five new trustees recruited including communities in the Emerging Markets Markets, disadvantaged communities in one based in the United States communities in which Ashmore operates many countries remain affected by poverty and invests.
To achieve this goal, the and lack access to basic services and Four new sub-committees Ashmore Foundation aims to develop opportunities that are both basic rights and established to support operational long-term relationships with locally based could greatly improve their life situations.
Moreover, a thriving civil sector is essential Foundation Ambassadors appointed to democratic development in nascent and in all Ashmore offices globally The Ashmore Foundation is staffed emerging nations.
by a full-time Director who is responsible Grants for managing the Foundations affairs.
Following a review of its funding priorities New funding priorities developed The board of trustees consists of nine in 2014, the Ashmore Foundation focuses Four new partnership grants Ashmore employees as well as one its support on programmes that aim to equip awarded in India, Colombia, independent trustee.
In addition to the people with the skills and resources they Brazil and Indonesia totalling board of trustees Ashmore employees need to generate an income that will enable US$419,048 engage in the governance of the Foundation them to meet their basic needs and that Six organisations supported to through sub-committees to support of their families and will also support respond to four global emergencies fundraising, grant making, volunteering and economic growth and begin to address in Sierra Leone, India and Nepal communications.
Ashmore also supports broader societal inequalities.
This may range Employee engagement the Foundations charitable activities through from literacy and numeracy to vocational 18 Ashmore employees took the provision of pro-bono office space, training, life and leadership skills, or part in 2015 Challenge raising administrative support and a matched small and medium enterprise support over 144,000 funding commitment for employee and development.
donations to the Ashmore Foundation.
Four Ashmore Foundation The Ashmore Foundation currently has grant partner presentations The Ashmore Foundation is supported four priority countries Colombia, India, to Ashmore employees solely by Ashmore and its employees Indonesia, and Turkey based on the location globally.
Crucially, this support from of Ashmore offices and the existence of a employees extends beyond financial aid strong civil sector and clear social needs on to active engagement in fundraising as well which the Ashmore Foundation can focus.
as providing a network of support which Supporting locally based NGOs in Emerging includes mentoring and helping Markets reflects Ashmores desire to give NGOs expand their network of contacts.
back to the countries that have contributed to its profitability, supporting empowerment Over the last year over 80 Ashmore and local capacity in Emerging Markets.
employees have actively supported the Foundation, through fundraising, volunteering The Foundation seeks to develop long-term time to support the Foundation to meet partnerships with civil society organisations its strategic objectives or mentoring NGO and does not accept unsolicited applications, partners and their beneficiaries.
In 2015, the preferring to seek appropriate partnerships Ashmore Challenge event saw 18 employees proactively.
Civil society organisations cycle from London to Paris in just three days, typically receive between $20,000 and raising over 144,000 to support the $50,000 per year over a two to three-year Foundations NGO partners.
All proposals to the Ashmore Foundation undergo a rigorous assessment which is designed to review not only the proposed activities but the organisation as a whole taking into consideration day-to-day management, governance, objectives and outcomes, resources and accountability.
The level and depth of due diligence is proportionate to the size of the grant under consideration.
40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Since its inception in 2008, the Ashmore FTBOL CON CORAZN Foundation has developed strategic Supported since 2010 partnerships with a number of civil society Total funding: US$405,059 organisations: adjacent are case studies from Location: Barranquilla, Colombia two organisations that the Foundation Young people in poor communities in Barranquilla are exposed to drugs, violence, supported during the last year.
Without positive role models and a safe place to play, many children end up on the streets for long periods of the day, being recruited into gangs or Investing locally paramilitary organisations.
Ftbol con Corazn engages young people in an after school In addition to its main partnership grants club with the use of football to teach participants about teamwork, conflict resolution programme, the Ashmore Foundation and gender equality, as well as providing information on sexual and reproductive health supports those communities in Emerging and substance misuse.
Market countries that require emergency assistance.
Over the last year, the Foundation Through Ftbol con Corazns programme, young people have completed their supported civil society organisations schooling, have demonstrated a greater awareness of their rights and are actively responding to the ebola crisis in Sierra Leone, making better life choices.
Many of the young people that have participated in the floods in Jammu and Kashmir in Ftbol con Corazn programme go on to train as coaches, participate in delivering the India and the earthquake in Nepal.
programme and impact the lives of their peers.
The Ashmore Foundation also supports civil society organisations through funding partnerships with other foundations.
These partnerships enable the Ashmore Foundation to bring its resources to bear in combination with the skills and expertise of other organisations to most effectively support civil society.
The Ashmore Foundation has been active in establishing a network for UK based corporate foundations.
The network aims to meet quarterly to share information and discuss a range of issues that impact efficiency and effectiveness LEND A HAND INDIA within the sector.
Supported since 2013 Total funding: US$196,779 Location: Maharashtra, India In rural India there remains a disconnect between learning in schools and the skills needed in life.
Rote learning does not provide an opportunity for hands on learning and there remains a stigma attached to skills and vocational training.
Lend a Hand India provides a two-year multi-skill job and life skills programme that is integrated into secondary education.
Students learn 15 different skills using a curriculum that is approved by the state education board.
Through its programme, Lend a Hand India has seen a reduction in school absenteeism and an increase in enrolment in technical and vocational education.
In addition, schools have been able to generate additional revenue through the sale of goods produced through the skills training.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41
