Our people Helping our people do the best work of their lives To provide the best possible products and service forour customers today and in the future, Aviva must disrupt, lead and transform the industry.
Anditis ourpeople who will achieve this We have also continued to focus on Our ambition engaging with our people, with local and To succeed in transforming and growing group wide activities to illustrate how the business, delivering our strategy, and their work supports our strategy and living our values, we must continue to values.
This has included a programme of transform our culture.
discussions within all teams to see how We must make Aviva the most their goals and local plans support the attractive choice for talented, committed, group strategy, and using technology to entrepreneurial people.
We need the best reach and engage with our global teams, people from diverse backgrounds and with through live interviews, in which senior an evolving range of skills, expertise and leaders answer questions posed by insight, especially as we put Digital First.
At the end Our goal is to give our people the tools of 2015, 82% of employees felt they and the freedom to flourish, do the best could make a personal connection to our work of their lives, and successfully compete strategy and purpose up 7 percentage in a fast-changing marketplace.
This is points on 2014. how they can make a real and positive difference to the lives of our customers.
Learning and development Our culture is anchored in connecting In 2015, we maintained our commitment our people with our purpose and in a to our people and achieved: common commitment to being guided We want our people A focus on learning learning from byour values in every decision we take.
ourmistakes, learning how to serve Itdemands that our people think and to fulfill their potential ourcustomers better and learning actdifferently, and can lead and develop and do the best work newskills to improve customers through change and uncertainty.
In 2015 alone, over of their lives providing 2,000ofour peopleexperienced our Turnaround to transformation truly excellent service Moving to Great programme, more During Avivas turnaround phase we to our customers and than 250 managers were trained to focused our people on alignment, apply SystemsThinking, to develop achievement, potential and collaboration, helping Aviva achieve better ways of working and simpler increasing engagement with our strategy outstanding performance processesfor our customers, and to and providing clarity on what we their jobs and500 trained in Agile expected from them.
methodology, which helps them to And in 2015 we continued to make Sarah Morris think differently, kill complexity and strong progress, while being clear about Chief People Officer deliver solutions quickly.
how much further we still have to travel.
A fresh approach to helping new 2015 saw difficult but necessary colleagues understand the business and decisions that had a significant impact on their role within it, through our our people as we integrated Friends Life Explore Our Strategy course, with the into Aviva.
By bringing our people pre-joining work winning the Employee together in core locations we continue to Engagement Award at the Rad Awards enhance our expertise and collaboration.
Current plans remain within the 1,500 role Investment in our leaders, equipping reductions announced in 2015.
48 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Number of employees 29,639 Our people who felt they could make a personal connection with our strategy Leading@Aviva Some courses can feel like youve just 82% ticked a box.
Its about helping our leaders to inspire People attended our Moving to Great our people to do the best work of programme their lives.
Weve had great feedback: one participant said hed learned some really practical advice around performance and development, while another said I came away 2,000 feeling very motivated and empowered.
Thats great for them, for their teams, and ultimately for our customers too.
them with the skills they need to lead mile, improvements against the 2014 their teams today and our company figures of 75% and 67% respectively.
tomorrow, especially through our Our senior leaders are focused on signature leadership programme, significantly improving these scores Leading@Aviva.
Listening to Our People Broadening our perspective We use the Voice of Aviva survey as the Becoming a more diverse and inclusive I am extremely proud to main formal tool to understand our business is integral to Avivas future.
I believe peoples engagement, one of our key ambition is that our workforce reflects our measures of progress, and listen to their increasingly diverse customers around the in our strategy and see insight and feedback.
Diversity of thought, experience that the customer is at In the September 2015 survey, on a and backgrounds are critical ingredients as like-for-like basis excluding Friends Life, we strive to innovate and make the best the heart of what we do engagement rose from 65% in 2014 to decisions.
As anticipated, uncertainty during more successful when they feel they are Voice of Aviva the integration of Friends Life meant abletobe themselves at work.
employee comment overall engagement remained broadly We are continuing to build a truly stable at 63%.
inclusive workplace for our lesbian, gay, However, in 2015 78% believed Aviva bisexual and transgender LGBT will achieve its priorities and 75% thought employees.
We are the only insurer in their manager does a good job of Stonewalls ranking of the UKs most recognising individuals who go the extra LGBTfriendly workplaces although we Our values At the heart of how we do business Care more Kill complexity Never rest Create legacy We care like crazy We are obsessed with We are driven to think We strive to create aboutour customers, making things simpler bigger and do better a sustainable future for ourcommunities and forour customers and forour customers and our customers and each other.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 49 Our people continued A little more conversation We want our people to have a real connection with our strategy and how they help to deliver it.
Our Week of Conversations is a great way of doing that, as well as celebrating our successes.
It is part of a whole programme of town halls, films, roadshows and market stalls, all designed to create an open two-way conversation.
One of our people in France said that this kind of discussion is important it allows us to understand what impact our daily work has on the companys results.
Thank you lets do it again!
recognise this bar is rising fast and our LGBT employee network, Aviva Pride, Im pleased weve maintained a position in the with nearly 600 members, has been highly commended by Stonewall.
We are Stonewall Top 100, and continue to lead the way committed to developing our LGBT in the insurance industry.
We certainly cant be leaders and allies and, in partnership with OUTstanding the professional network complacent and we will never rest in making for LGBT and ally senior executives, will Aviva a great place to work for LGBT people enable their development and connect them to peers across other industries.
In 2015, we expanded our Womens Angela Darlington Network to include networks in Italy, Chief Risk Officer Spain, Scotland, Ireland, India and Canada.
While 52% of our workforce are women, women are under-represented on the Board, on the Group Executive and in senior management.
At Aviva we believe firmly that diversity at every level improves innovation, decision making and our customer focus.
We will therefore strengthen our focus on improving the gender balance across the Group by supporting and developing the next generations of female leaders.
We are also contributing to the UKGovernments work on retaining, For Aviva to succeed, our people must retraining and recruiting workers be able to hold open, two-way conversations especially with our aged50and over.
Thats where Aviva Live commitment, Andy Briggs, Chief Executive comes in!
We film members of the Officer of Aviva UK Life and Chairman of senior team being quizzed before a Global Life, is Chairof Business in the live audience and stream to Aviva sites Communitys Ageat Work Campaign.
The questions are We are committed to ensuring we searching and all come from our provide full and fair consideration for job people.
One colleague described applications from people with disabilities, Aviva Live as good, light-hearted in as well as supporting any of our people places, but also honest and frank.
who become disabled while working for Thats the culture we want.
For example, we adapt the working 50 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Diversity At 31 December 2015, we had the followinggender split: 1 Board membership Males 10 Females 2 Senior management Males Womens network 540 2015 was a milestone year for our Womens Network with new Females networks set up in Italy, Spain, Scotland, Ireland, India and Canada 153 and deeper collaboration between our UK networks.
In 2016 all the networks Aviva Group employees are going to share common aims and Males objectives.
To innovate and succeed, Aviva must be inclusive and diverse, 14,397 stay relevant to our customers and Females reflect their rich diversity.
Our global Womens Network has a big part to play in achieving this!
15,242 environment where we can and offer lifeoutside work.
We therefore offer Empowering our people to take flexible working practices to take into ourpeople initiatives such as flexible decisions that balance risk and results.
working hours, career breaks and Combining our existing deep technical We are also continuing to focus on employee assistance programmes.
expertise with the skills we need to attracting and keeping the talent we need Allcolleagues take part in our Essential create new, market-leading digital to deliver the services our customers want Learning programme.
products, services and experiences for and create value for our shareholders.
are focusing in particular on attracting the Developing talented people so that, Taking forward our talented people we need in digital, through purposeful moves across transformation predictive analytics and actuarial.
products, markets and geographies, Our People Strategy for 2016 and beyond In 2016 we will build on our they have the agility, knowledge and sets out how our people will deliver our investment in young people who want to collaborative skills to help Aviva make purpose of freeing customers from the learn while they earn, rather than attend the most of the composite model.
fear of uncertainty by transforming and university fulltime, by launching an Rewarding and recognising growing the business.
It puts our people apprenticeship scheme, approved by the outperformance, but balance this and customers at the heart of everything UK Government, which will be rolled out against the risks we take, and identify we do.
across different parts of Aviva, including and learn from any mistakes we make.
We are committed to: our general insurance, life and digital Focusing our efforts on developing an Developing leaders with greater businesses.
This will be aimed at creating inclusive workforce.
courage to think independently, opportunities for 16-18 year olds, but also Helping our people to build their innovate and lead in times of for applicants of all ages and backgrounds careersby improving how we highlight uncertainty.
who wish to return to work.
global opportunities and supporting Evolving our culture so we are them in thinking through their goals absolutely focused on the role we play Safety and wellbeing fortheir careers.
in our customers lives and letting our We want our people to achieve a healthy Providing the opportunities for our values guide every decision we make.
balance between their working life and people to learn and develop so they are better able to deliver the True Customer Composite model, put Digital First and drive growth.
We are evolving our culture so we are absolutely focused on the role we play in our customers lives and letting our values guide every decision we make Sarah Morris Chief People Officer We are proud to be a Living Wage Foundation partner and a fully accredited 1 Claudia Arney was appointed to the Board on 8 February 2016.
Living Wage employer in the UK Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 51
