Corporate responsibility Creating a bright and sustainable future At Aviva we focus on tackling the most important issues of our time with bright ideas, for our customers, their communities and the world We live in a time of complex global Doing the right thing for challenges.
Changing customer needs, ourcustomers ageing populations, climate change and Trust is vital when it comes to building the power of communities will increasingly strong and healthy relationships with all affect our customers lives and, in turn, ofour stakeholders.
We are committed our business performance.
We also know tocommunicating with our customers in that some of the biggest problems facing asimple, clear and helpful way.
Complaints the world today are some of the least and feedback are taken seriously and understood.
That is why we are using investigated thoroughly.
This commitment is Good thinking in our new strategy to reflected in our customer business standard.
simplify and tackle the most important issues of our time.
We are focusing on: Business ethics We aim to uphold the highest ethical Good thinking for you today standards in the way that we do business.
protecting the people and things you This commitment is set out in our business love and strengthening your local Corporate responsibility is ethics code which ensures that we community through the Aviva operate responsibly and transparently.
In integral to our business, Community Fund 2015, 98% of Aviva employees confirmed Good thinking for your future acting it supports the delivery they had read, understood and accepted now for tomorrow by helping you live 1 of our strategy and aligns the code 2014: 96%.
well for longer, tackling climate change Financial crime can severely impact and supporting the United Nations with our values businesses, increasing costs for customers.
Sustainable Development Goals To manage and mitigate this risk across Good thinking for our industry our business every Aviva employee from Kirstine Cooper championing responsible investment the boardroom to our contact centres Group General Counsel and challenging our industry to work receives training on financial crime and Company Secretary better for everyone.
prevention, in areas such as market abuse, Please visit www.
com corporateanti-money laundering and fraud.
responsibility to find out moreabout the Our global malpractice helpline Right different aspects of ourcorporate Call enables employees to report any responsibility strategy.
1 Excludes Friends Life employees Our progress and future plans What we achieved in 2015 What we plan to do in 2016 } Reduced our CO e by 39% since 2010 versus restated baseline } Replicate the Aviva Community Fund in more markets, targeting 2 2.5m beneficiaries and 250,000 hours of volunteering by 2020 } Became the first insurer to achieve the Carbon Trust Supply Chain Standard, in recognition of work to measure, manage and reduce } Collaborate with the UN and others to build global capability carbon emissions outside own direct operational control around sustainable finance } Replicated the Aviva Community Fund in six markets target five } Continue progress towards our 2.5 billion target in low carbon around the world helping increase community investment by 71% infrastructure investment by 2020 } A leading business voice in the debate around the Sustainable } Continue progress towards our long-term CO2e reduction target of Development Goals and the Climate Change Summit in Paris 50% by 2030 } Addressed the UN General Assembly on sustainable finance } Design simple products and services that meet our customers needs, help people take control of their finances and also benefit } Published research on the risk of climate change to global assets society and the environment } We will challenge our industry, leading the fight to cut fraud and cut costs for our customers 52 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Increase in community investment 71% malpractice issues in confidence.
Allreported cases are referred for independent investigation.
In 2015, 25 cases were reported through Right Call 3 2014: 39.
20 cases reached conclusion, Backing the causes and five remain under investigation.
There youcare about has been no material litigation arising from any cases reported in 2015.
Our online Community Fund invites the public to nominate and vote for Protecting the things that inspirational projects in their local matter communities.
The Fund has been a Our products and services help to make sure great success for Aviva Canada and that the people and things our customers Poland so weve replicated it in the love are protected if the worst happens.
In UK, France, Italy and Hong Kong.
Its 2015, we paid out more than 30 billion already making a big difference in the UK we made 430 awards from in benefits and claims to customers.
We 1,000 to 25,000, supporting projects were also the first insurer in the UK to from community safety to young publish transparent customer reviews people befriending dementia ofour products and services.
One winner, Purple Patch 2015: overall rating for home: 4.6 out of Arts, said its amazing.
Its going to 5, overall rating for motor: 4.5 out of 5. allow us to do so much.
Were in We want to make the benefits of business to create legacy, for our insurance more accessible to more people.
customers and communities so well This way, we can help boost financial be launching the Community Fund in resilience across every part of society.
For more countries in the future.
example in the UK, we are the largest provider of social housing tenants contents insurance and in India, we are volunteering leave each year, and matched We are working hard to understand the one of the largest providers of life micro giving and fundraising enable our people long-term impact of our investments and to 2 insurance.
Aviva was also the first to offer to make a difference for the causes they ensure that assets do not become overland water protection for private are passionate about.
This helps us attract, uninsurable due to environmental risks.
We domestic insurance in Canada.
engage and develop talented people.
Our also know that extreme weather events can We also want our products and Voice of Aviva results show 80% of lead to variations in the claims we receive services to bring environmental benefits.
employees believe that Aviva is a good and potentially impact the pricing of our In the UK, we are working to improve our corporate citizen the equivalent Financial products.
We use our expertise as an insurer claims processes to reduce our Services Benchmark for social such as our knowledge of historical environmental impact whilst improving responsibility is 75%.
weather events, flood mapping and customer service and reducing costs.
In 2015 we agreed a new global predictive modelling to advise customers disaster response and resilience partnership on risk reduction and prevention.
Strengthening our local with the British Red Cross.
We are bringing communities our experience of managing risks to the Tackling climate change Aviva has a long history of investing in partnership and we are working together Aviva has a long-term commitment to communities.
Following its success in to build community resilience at a local tackle climate change but in December Canada and Poland, we launched the level.
Additionally, during 2015 Aviva 2015 this commitment featured even Aviva Community Fund in the UK, France, matched employee donations to global more prominently given the critical Italy, and Hong Kong in 2015. disasters such as the Nepal Earthquake and importance of the United Nations In 2015, our community investment the European refugee crisis.
Together we Framework Convention on Climate increased by 71% and totalled contributed over 135,000.
Change UNFCCC negotiations in Paris.
Across In July 2015 we published a report our community development activity, we Acting now for a commissioned from the Economist helped 587,203 people.
12% of our sustainablefuture Intelligence Unit which quantified the employees contributed 40,828 hours of Climate change is one of societys biggest value of investments at risk from climate volunteering.
They also gave and and most complex challenges.
We launched this report, as well fundraised 1.5 million.
As part of our the environment today is the only way to as Avivas strategic response to climate new strategy, we aim to deliver 250,000 make sure we can enjoy a bright and change, at an event with a keynote hours of volunteering and help 2.5 million sustainable future.
We have assessed our people between 2015 and 2020. potential environmental risks and have Total community investment in 2015 Our employees play a big role in focused our strategy on the issues with supporting local communities.
All Aviva the greatest impact on our customers, our employees are entitled to paid business and our stakeholder community.
2 Micro-insurance promotes financial inclusion by providing affordable protection for those on a low-income.
3 2014 data excludes Friends Life employees.
10.8m Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 53 Corporate responsibility continued COP 21 Summit in Paris Human rights One of our values is to create legacy Respect for human rights is embedded in the way we do business.
In 2015 we updated our and unchecked climate change group-wide Human Rights policy in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and wouldcreate a catastrophic legacy.
Human Rights including the ILO Principles.
Our new policy sets out our global commitment in The December 2015 UN Paris Climate the following areas: Change negotiations were vital in securing a sustainable future for our business and the communities we serve.
Unchecked climate change equals risks too great to insure and Customers Suppliers limited returns on investments.
We respect the rights of our customers by We have a robust due diligence process Theambitious agreement reached at treating them fairly and ensuring their data which enables us to evaluate, select and ask Paris is significant, with international is managed in an ethical, lawful and suppliers to disclose their human rights commitment to limit temperature responsible way.
policies as part of our selection criteria.
In rise to well below 2 degrees and in the UK, we were an early adopter in addition to pursue efforts to limit achieving accreditation by the Living Wage to1.5 degrees.
We think the Paris Foundation and we ensure that suppliers Conclusions are a good outcome.
pay at least the Living Wage to employees Employees Nowits time to deliver.
We promote fair reward, diversity and inclusion, equal opportunities, the freedom of association and other human rights through our interactions with our employees.
We provide a secure, safe and Governance healthy environment for all employees.
We have a set of Policies, Business Standards and internal procedures which support delivery of our commitment to human rights.
Due diligence We conduct human rights due diligence processes periodically to ensure that we are Reporting not complicit in human rights abuses in the We are committed to ensuring that we countries in which we operate.
adequately report human rights performance according to suitable benchmarks and frameworks for financial services.
Investment We are committed to investing our money Volunteering through and our customers money in a responsible Grievance mechanisms Aviva has really helped manner.
Aviva Investors is a founding Customers or other external stakeholders signatory to the UN Principles of Responsible can report human rights concerns to the me to grow as a person Investment and founding partner of the Group Corporate Responsibility Directorate and develop my skills Corporate Human Rights Benchmark Initiative.
com or to Right Call rightcall@expolink.
Christina In 2016, we will continue work on implementation of the requirements of our human rights policy Aviva employee across the business and to consider our obligations under the UK Modern Slavery Act.
speech by the UK Secretary of State for managers to integrate environmental, 2030.
This year we have achieved a 39% Energy & Climate Change.
social and governance issues into our reduction against the restated 2010 investment decision-making across all baseline.
We were the first carbon neutral Championing responsible asset classes 90% AUM in 2014. insurer worldwide in 2006.
We also investment continue to offset any remaining carbon At Aviva we are an active and responsible Reducing our environmental emissions and our offsetting projects have investor.
With 290 billion assets under impact benefitted over 800,000 people since management at Aviva Investors, we We are reducing our own environmental 2012 through improved health and finance important economic assets, such impact by improving energy efficiency, livelihoods e. g. through the provision of as infrastructure, which support the wider investing in onsite renewable electricity clean cookstoves in Kenya.
economy and we promote sustainable generation and through working with our business practices in the global markets, suppliers to manage environmental Our carbon footprint encouraging greater transparency and impacts in our supply chain.
In 2015, Each year we publish group performance better corporate governance.
This helps us having achieved our long-term carbon data for our greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce risk and enhance the long term reduction target ahead of schedule and waste and water consumption.
Our value of our clients investments.
Aviva with the acquisition of Friends Life, we carbon footprint boundaries identify the Investors was a founding signatory to the restated our 2010 baseline and agreed scope of the data we monitor and the UN Principles for Responsible Investment.
new and ambitious emission reduction emissions we offset.
We report on We were also one of the first global fund targets of 40% by 2020 and 50% by Greenhouse Gas GHG emission sources 54 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Creating legacy at Aviva plc Global theUnited Nations greenhouse gas emissions The United Nations Sustainable data boundaries Development Goals really chimed Tonnes CO e 2015 2014 2013 2 withus creating the legacy of an Scope 1 19,112 20,031 21,787 end to extreme poverty, and tackling Scope 2 49,595 46,231 56,842 injustice and inequality and climate Scope 3 19,991 17,662 26,688 change.
Weve been at the forefront of the debate and our Group Chief Absolute CO e 2 Executive Officer, Mark Wilson, footprint 88,698 83,924 105,317 addressed the UN General Assembly CO e tonnes 2 in New York, at the launch of the per employee 2.2 2.4 2.8 Goals.
He talked about the central CO e tonnes 2 role of business and the financial per m GWP 4.05 3.87 4.78 markets if were to succeed.
We are Carbon also founding partners of Project offsetting 88,698 83,924 115,889 Everyone, which aims to get the Total net debate into every home in the world.
emissions 0 0 10,572 Scope 1 operational emissions from owned sources e. g. gas, vehicle fleet as part of product service.
Scope 2 operational emissions from non-owned sources e. g. electricity.
Scope 3 business activity emissions from non-owned sources e. g. business travel.
This includes Friends Life business operations for the whole of 2015.
Assurance provided by  LLP in the Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Aviva plc.
Carbon offsetting through the acquisition and surrender of emissions units on the voluntary market.
Prevention is protection Reduction in CO since 2010 2 The best form of protection is prevention.
We cant stop bad weather, but we can help to minimise its impact.
We recently helped sponsor the free British Red Cross 39% emergency app.
It helps you keep an eye on the risks of severe weather or other emergencies affecting you, your friends and family through alerts and practical advice, as well as handy tools such as a strobe light to attract attention if you are in difficulty.
We on a carbon dioxide emissions equivalents want to improve our communities basis CO e as required under the 2 resilience to severe weather this is Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report apractical way of doing exactly that.
We follow the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting ofour electricity is purchased from Standard, and emission factors from the renewable sources.
UK Governments GHG Conversion We offset 100% of unavoidable Factors for Company Reporting 2015.
We carbon emissions through the acquisition do not have responsibility for any emission and surrender of emission units on the sources that are not included in our voluntary carbon market VERs.
Under the Carbon Reduction Aviva Investors signed the Montreal Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, we Carbon Pledge in 2015, one of the largest reported total emissions of 312,925 CO e in 2 asset managers at the time to do so.
This scheme is As well as reporting in line with restricted to UK businesses emissions from the2013 Regulations, we also report building energy, and includes the property We are in the top 10% for our sector in the onbusiness travel and other scope portfolio of our investment funds managed Dow Jones Sustainability Index and threeemissions see table above.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 55 Your Aviva Michaels story It doesnt feel like Aviva is just an insurance company Everyone knows that life is As part of his rehabilitation he insurance with Aviva.
Were full of surprises some of joined a gym, and has seen his delighted to have along-term them unwelcome.
So now its relationship with him which Michael, an employee a healthier, happier Michael allows us to show him the management consultant who drives to work every day.
benefits of our True Customer from Yorkshire, had a very We were with him every Composite model.
unwelcome surprise in step of the way.
He told us Michael its a pleasure 2012.
He was involved in a that the way Aviva treated to help get you back on multi-car accident, leaving me throughout the process theroad!
him with physical and and the way they dealt with psychological injuries.
the claim not just the legal Michael was very fond aspects but the health side of ofhis car and thought it was things as well was very awrite-off, but had a more personal.
It will be a long time welcome surprise when Aviva, before I leave Aviva it doesnt as his insurer, found a way to feel like Aviva is just an repair it.
The physical and insurance company.
psychological scars, as he said, Michael also said I have took quite a lot of time to motor insurance, income deal with.
protection and property 56 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 57
