com 58 Responsible business Our vision is to use our expertise, influence and passion as a force for good in our localcommunities and the wider world.
Our aim for 2016 is to continue to build on the initiatives Eighty-nine percent of our employees completed described in the pages that follow.
Our responsible business our employee engagement survey this year.
committee, chaired by Pippa Vowles with Clive Washbourn They told us that our being a responsible as executive sponsor, sets our global strategy, focusing on: business was of overriding importance to them support for our charity partners: our role in the communities where our people live and work: a finding strongly reinforced by the high level the environmental sustainability of our business: of employee participation in charitable and our beneficial influence in the markets in which we operate: community outreach efforts around the world our peoples health, wellbeing and safety: and in the course of 2015. the diversity and inclusion of our workforce.
Make a difference 2015 A third of our employees around the world volunteered to help in over 30 projects in Australia, Ireland, Singapore, the UK and US, making a positive difference in their communities.
com Annual report 2015 59 Supporting our communities Our goal is to increase the skills and expertise of children and young people six years old tograduate level from lower socio-economic backgrounds, with an emphasis on helping school leavers and graduates enter the workforce.
By community, we mean the cities where we have offices, and within those cities we then identify particular communities suburbs that most need our support.
Weve found this not only has a positive impact on ourcommunities but also our employees have told us it builds pride in working for Beazley, enhances their skills and builds motivation.
Women in the workplace Beazley volunteers led workshops to help 90 young adults consider their career options and showcase what roles are available in insurance.
Greater Chicago Food Depository Beazley volunteers sorted donated food at Greater Chicago Food Depository, ready to be distributed for people in need.
Oz Harvest Beazley volunteers prepared hot meals for the vulnerable in their community.
com 60 Responsible business continued Make a difference 2015 continued Dragon Award finalist We entered our community efforts in the Lord Mayors Dragon Awards this year in the Best New Community Programme category and were proud of our peoples efforts to be shortlisted in this category.
City Giving day We took part in City Giving day in London, to join other organisations in making an even bigger Teesdale & Hollybush Tenants and Resident Association TRA impact in London.
The TRA is made up of 13 estates in East London.
Beazley volunteers helped with maintenance projects around the estates.
Internships and work experience Beazley interns We want to provide talented individuals who The City of London recognised would not normally have access to jobs in the our leadership and partnership with the Brokerage CityLink by cities where we work, the chance to gain work awarding Beazley the Employer experience with us.
This year we increased the of the Year in September.
number of interns at Beazley through our partnership with the charity, The Brokerage CityLink, from six to nine.
We also extended our internships this year to include our New York and San Francisco offices as well as London, employing three more interns.
The 12 internships last around ten weeks and give the students access to the corporate environment, an insight into the insurance world and the opportunity to learn vital business skills.
Our aim is to introduce this to even more of our offices globally next year.
S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c r re ep por ort t Beazley www.
com Annual report 2015 61 Building partnerships with charities Our passionate employees on our charity committees in the UK and the US are responsible for encouraging and supporting employees to participate in charitable and community activities: managing Beazleys corporate charitable partnerships and overseeing Beazleys response tolarge scale disasters.
We donated over $360,000 to charities this year and we continued our partnerships with World Child Cancer, Shelterbox, Feeding America, The Conservation Fund and the Cancer Research Institute in the US.
Our focus has been to build strong partnerships that go beyond donating funds and where we can offer our skills and expertise.
ShelterBox app As one of the leading speciality insurers in data breach response insurance we know the importance of data.
We supported Shelterbox to develop an app, which helps to transform data capture and analyse operational information.
The app helps measure impact of disasters, allowing Shelterbox to improve on future disaster relief operations.
Employee fundraising Throughout the year our employees have given their time to fundraise for charities raising cash which Beazley has match funded to recognise their efforts.
Natural disaster relief Beazley donated over $10,000 to relief work after natural disasters this year, including the Vanuatu and Nepal earthquakes and flooding in Texas.
com 62 Responsible business continued Sustainability Marketplace The products we offer and the way we do business Our strategy focuses on three key areas: also have an impact on our partners and peers.
Our offices: ensuring the environmental Ouraim is to identify and increase the ways impactfrom our offices is minimal and finding inwhich we can influence others to do the right ways toenhance them so they have a more thing through our business activities.
positive impact Our procurement: leveraging our buying power We are well known in the healthcare sector for encouraging safe and working with suppliers to make a positive behaviour and processes.
We are taking that one stage further in conjunction with Palo Alto Research Center PARC doing environmental impact analysis of large data sets with a view to improve loss Our people and communications: engaging our avoidance and share best practice amongst our insureds.
people to help achieve our goals, consider their environmental approach outside work and keep We have influence in other sectors in different ways: insurance contracts can include incentives to improve risk including them informed of what we are doing.
imposing contractual obligations on the insured and requiring compliance with laws and good practice.
For example, we Beazley are tenants in all our buildings globally and we work include technical requirements for our insured to increase closely with our landlords to lead and support on environmental safety in products lines including airlines, marine, personal initiatives in our offices.
accident and construction and engineering.
In terms of social welfare and employee safeguarding, our Employment Practices Every day our people do a range of things to reduce our carbon Liability cover gives a helpline for SME employers and victim footprint from using public transport on business trips to support service.
booking Addison Lee who have acquired Climatecars, who provides electric and hybrid vehicles and is our preferred car We are part of the Lloyds Disaster Relief Finance working transportation company in the UK.
Our latest greenhouse gas group, providing $400m of new insurance capacity to help GHG emissions report, from 2014, showed that in the UK we developing economies tackle underinsurance and increase their decreased our emissions by 6% compared to 2013 which is due resilience against the economic impact of natural catastrophes.
to decreased air travel and taxi use.
In the US we increased our emissions by 6% compared to 2013.
This is largely attributable Within our daily activities we always look for options that to increased air travel due to growth in office locations.
We generate additional benefits from our spending, for example held our annual strategy event in-house in each of our offices, by choosing conferencing or entertainment venues that support reducing the necessity for travel.
We have also undertaken initiatives such as arranging Our two main aims for 2016 are: presentations from local recycling companies.
These continued development of products that have a greater presentations involved outlining the recycling and composting positive impact than simply risk transfer: and process to create a greater understanding among our focus on the healthcare, management liability and employees of what can be recycled.
We have decreased the employment practice sectors to drive positive behaviours.
number of stationery deliveries across the US and London, reduced the monitor power output on PCs and ensured LED lighting is installed in our new offices to reduce emissions.
Human rights Our strategy for 2016 is to continue the momentum and create clear targets for what we want to achieve in the future.
Matters that are deemed to be material in relation to human rights are reflected in a number of our group policies, our Last year we joined the London Living Wage Foundation values, and our code of conduct.
and we continue to be a member this year, ensuring we pay a minimum wage beyond the legal requirements for all our employees, contractors and third party employees.
Green office programme This year our San Francisco team worked with their building management company to put forth a voluntary Green Office programme for all tenants in the building.
com Annual report 2015 63 Health, wellbeing and safety Diversity and inclusion We continue to ensure all employees, contractors We are an equal opportunities employer, ensuring and visitors are given an induction, training we offer equal treatment to employees and andsupervision in aspects of health and safety, prospective employees.
We treat all employees ensuring we are up-to-date and compliant with fairly, with dignity and respect.
We also conduct risk assessments We value diversity and inclusion because it leads to a more inall offices.
It allows us to fully represent our existing client base and better connect with In 2015 we launched our on-going Health & Wellbeing initiative, different communities of potential customers.
designed to: raise awareness about the wellbeing benefits we offer Our aim is to build an open and collaborative culture generating to our employees: and contagious energy and a real sense of creativity.
In 2015 our promote a healthy lifestyle.
focus on diversity and inclusion was rated one of our strengths in the employee survey, with 80% of our people agreeing we have a We have health and wellbeing champions across Beazley globally work environment that is open and accepts individual differences.
who design a programme of topics to focus on each month.
This year we established womens networking forums in the US and UK, which are open to everyone to attend.
The forums provide a chance for a cross section of employees to meet monthly to discuss development and hear from external speakers.
We will continue to establish further networks as our people request them.
In addition, we provided training to managers on leading a multi-generational and diverse workforce and created an interactive online portal for people to collaborate and share ideas on diversity.
We are actively implementing our diversity strategy to increase all aspects of diversity across the organisation.
In particular we have focused on gender diversity in areas such as underwriting and claims that have traditionally not been as gender diverse as other areas of the business.
As a result of these efforts we are pleased that the number of female underwriters employed by the group has increased by 17% and the number of female claims managers has increased by 14% during the course of the year.
The group has agreed to establish goals for gender diversity for both the board and broader organisation.
The board approved the goals for gender diversity of the Beazley plc board containing two female members by AGM 2016, and a third female member by AGM 2017.
Employee diversity by gender Beazley plc board Beazley executive committee Male Male 11 10 Female Female 1 2 Total 2015 12 Total 2015 12 Senior management All employees Male Male 53 546 Focus on health and wellbeing Female Female Colleagues take part in various 9 474 challenges.
Total 2015 62 Total 2015 1,020 Catherine Woods joined the board on 1 January 2016, raising the quotient of female board members at the date of approval of this report to two.
