Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 MARKET ENVIRONMENT Investment management and financial advisory services remain growth markets with good long-term prospects.
In particular, there is increasing demand as society becomes more self-reliant in specific areas such as retirement provision and long-term care as well as savings in general.
UK Private Banks and Wealth Managers Legislation is accelerating a general shift towards selfreliance.
For instance, the new pension freedom rules that came into effect early this year allow individuals to leave their fund invested beyond retirement, with greater flexibility on bn withdrawing a lump sum and drawing down income.
732 In a low interest rate environment, individuals require additional Assets under management or administration guidance in generating an adequate return on their savings.
Source: WMA Industry Statistics Quarter 2 2015.
How the industry addresses the specific needs of clients in an environment of increasing longevity is evolving.
These trends reinforce the need for advice, one of our strengths, There has been a steady shift towards private provision in order to help clients achieve their goals in a more challenging for pension and care costs, supplemented by savings and and complicated environment.
investment as society becomes more self-reliant.
We have identified a number of additional market trends that are The UK private bank and wealth management industry manages important to the long-term outlook of our industry: assets of 732 billion.
The table opposite shows the FUM of Brewin Dolphin and its closest peers.
Increased regulatory change Wealth management as an industry remains highly fragmented Over the last few years, there has been significant change in the and we are one of the few companies with significant scale.
UK regulatory landscape, resulting in increased supervision in the sector.
The regulatory environment has resulted in additional compliance costs throughout the industry, but we benefit from Opportunities for our sector having sufficient scale to absorb these costs.
There are both opportunities and challenges in our industry, The broader financial services industry has been impacted driven by the following trends: by the Retail Distribution Review RDR, which changed the Society is becoming more self-reliant in specific areas such way intermediaries are compensated and has increased the as retirement provision, including the replacement of defined regulatory costs of advice provision.
benefit or final salary pensions by defined contribution schemes, the need to plan for long-term care, as well as Competitive environment savings in general.
Our industry is fragmented, serviced by a wide range of The UK has an ageing population, including many who have suppliers, from small firms to subsidiaries of international companies, offering diverse services to individual and enjoyed relatively generous employer pension contributions and rising house prices, and are approaching retirement with institutional clients.
We anticipate that the sector could see further consolidation.
Although banks have to some extent higher life expectancy than previous generations.
There is substantial personal wealth within this group from which a withdrawn, recent acquisition appetite has come from life insurers and private equity firms making a concerted effort to large number of our current and potential clients are drawn.
12 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 As a result, many Independent Financial Advisers IFAs have Peer group funds under management left the market and the resulting decline in provision of advice, despite growing demand, provides an opportunity for Wealth Managers to build relationships with individuals who no longer bn have a financial adviser.
Furthermore, many IFAs are seeking 276.9 the services of discretionary investment management so they can focus on advice for their client relationships.
We expect this trend for IFAs to outsource investment management to provide a continuing source of discretionary assets to the industry and indeed, this has been an increasingly important source of new client funds.
For more information please see the Results section on page 23.
Competition is faced from new services, such as consumer platforms that offer light touch guidance or self-directed solutions, rather than discretionary wealth management and financial planning.
Advice gap bn One of the results of the RDR is that it has created an advice 32.0 gap for customers who are seeking to make investments but do Brewin Dolphin not have access to advice for a variety of reasons such as cost, trust and knowledge.
This issue has become so widely reported that the Government has announced the Financial Advice Market Review which will examine how financial advice, considered in its FUM bn broadest sense, could work better for consumers.
1 FY15 The FCA is encouraging innovation to fill the advice gap and St Jamess Place 55.5 the resulting solutions will bring additional competition to the Brewin Dolphin 32.0 marketplace.
For instance, new technology-driven services, such Schroders 32.0 as robo advice, are being created.
We have launched a direct to Rathbones 28.3 customer service, Brewin Portfolio Service, that specifically caters for clients who fall into the advice gap, offering them risk-rated Investec Wealth & Investment 27.8 portfolios, but without a full discretionary service.
Charles Stanley 21.3 We welcome the Financial Advice Market Review and look Quilter Cheviot 17.9 forward to making a contribution to help shape the Industry.
Smith and Williamson 16.3 Towry 11.0 Close Brothers AM 10.8 Outlook Tilney Bestinvest 9.0 A combination of a changing marketplace, consumer trends, and JM Finn 7.6 shifting competitive environment creates opportunities for us to use our scale and reputation to grow our business and increase Brooks MacDonald 7.4 our market share.
276.9 Brand and scale have become more important as clients require 1 Per Annual or Interim Report and Accounts with the exception of Quilter Cheviot, Towry and reassurance on the security of their assets as well as comfort JM Finn which is based on other publicly available information.
on the strength and stability of the organisation dealing with their money.
As one of the market leaders with large scale and a strong financial position, we are well positioned to benefit from this trend.
13 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
