Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We take our responsibility as a corporate citizen seriously and have relaunched our corporate responsibility programme during the year to build on existing practices and embed them across the Group.
David Nicol Chief Executive Our corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility strategy strategy is built around four pillars: Our objective is to continue to manage the business responsibly for the long-term benefit of our stakeholders.
During 2015, the Group began to implement the corporate responsibility strategy agreed by the Board in 2014 to establish 1 a Corporate Responsibility Committee and leverage the existing work done by the Group and its employees to refine and enhance the Groups efforts in the field of corporate responsibility People and Culture and philanthropy.
In April 2015, we became a member of Business in the Community, which is part of the Princes Responsible Business Network.
In September 2015 we announced our sponsorship of Enabling Enterprise, an organisation our employees have been working with for a number of years, which helps equip school 2 pupils with workplace skills.
We were proud to take part in the Lord Mayors City Giving Day in London on 30 September 2015 by holding a number of activities to celebrate and encourage Clients and charitable giving including the launch of our volunteering policy.
Governance 3 More than Communities 144,000 charitable donations raised by our employees for more than 4 120charities Environmental Sustainability 34 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Learning and development People and Culture 1 We are proud of the suite of learning and development initiatives we offer to our employees to enable them to reach their potential.
People By mapping out career paths, we can accelerate the development As a business built on personal relationships and service, we of those with high potential, ensuring our people have the right recognise that our people are our most important assets, vital to skills for the roles they are in and are preparing for the roles they the Groups reputation and continued success.
To meet the high aspire to.
expectations we set for ourselves we need to attract, nurture Management skills are important to us.
All our people managers and retain the best people, and we consider ourselves to be are required to complete performance management training and an employer of choice within the Wealth Management sector.
we offer an in-house suite of leadership development training.
This year we appointed a Group Director of Human Resources who is developing a more strategic approach for developing, Given the talent we have in the business, we believe that an retaining and rewarding employees.
important part of career development rests in established members of staff passing on the benefits of their knowledge Our culture and experience to newer colleagues.
Although this is something The Group has a rich heritage, reaching back 250 years, built on we have always encouraged informally, we see a valuable trust and integrity.
These values remain crucial to the business opportunity to build on that experience and have developed and and our employees in it as we adapt to the changing conditions rolled out our Aspire mentoring programme to accelerate the in our marketplace and the evolving demands of our clients.
To attract, retain and nurture the best people it is important that we recognise hard work, and that behaviour is aligned to Employee engagement our values and demonstrates a commitment to the Group, its The Board believes it is vital that staff play an active role in objectives and its clients.
achieving the Groups corporate objectives.
We seek to ensure employees are listened to and receive regular communications Diversity and inclusion about Group strategy and financial performance.
As part of the The Board has a strong commitment to maintaining a working drive to engage with employees and understand their needs, and ultimately improve performance, this summer we conducted environment based on equality and diversity.
our first employee engagement survey, called Your Future, Your Brewin Dolphin is an inclusive employer and we have a number Say, covering a broad range of subjects.
of initiatives in place to improve our diversity.
We believe this will A remarkable 84% of our employees responded.
Our overall allow us to bring value to our clients and to create a rewarding environment for our employees.
engagement score was 76%, two points above the benchmark for the financial services sector.
The results showed that our We have female representation on the Board of 33% and 17% employees enjoy their work, have the skills to do their job and are on the Executive Committee one in six.
Across the Group we proud to work for Brewin Dolphin.
Whilst we are pleased with the have an employee headcount of 1,693, of which 748 44% of results of this survey we are not complacent, we have identified our employees are women.
We are keen to create opportunities where we need to improve and engagement action plans are for more women to be promoted to senior roles across the being put in place at team and corporate levels.
During the year, we held a number of events on the that high employee engagement will be a driver of sustained subject of Navigating your Career, aimed at women across the high performance.
These events provide the opportunity for female employees at all levels to meet Directors of Brewin Dolphin and Health and safety ask questions about career progression.
We are committed to making sure that the working environment We recognise that we can broaden the diversity of our workforce is safe and conducive to the health of our employees, allowing and this is as an area that our Diversity Committee will be them to balance work and family commitments.
The Groups focusing on in 2016.
Health and Safety at Work policy is reviewed annually by the Board and the Director responsible for health and safety is All employment decisions are made irrespective of colour, race, David Nicol.
age, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sex, mental or physical disabilities, marital status or sexual preference.
For employees That commitment to health and safety extends to employees, who may have a disability, the Group ensures proper procedures clients, sub-contractors and others who may be affected and equipment are in place to aid them.
When it comes to by our activities and is underscored by our Health and training, career development and promotion, all employees Safety Management System which ensures compliance are treated equally and job applications are always judged with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements and on aptitude.
35 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Stewardship 2 Clients and Governance Brewin Dolphin established a Stewardship Committee to ensure that discretionary clients interests as holders of securities Business standards and clients are protected and, where appropriate, to ensure proactive shareholder action is taken in the best interest of its discretionary Everything we do is driven by our focus on our clients.
Following publication of companies resolutions, we Long-standing client relationships are a crucial part of what give our clients the first opportunity to vote the shares for which makes theGroup what it is today.
they are the underlying beneficiary using our online facility, Vote We take an integrated approach to protecting and growing Your Shares, which we introduced in 1998.
In the closing days wealth, combining our expertise and experience in Investment before each AGM, Brewin Dolphin votes the balance of each Management and Financial Planning.
shareholding not voted by clients and over which we have discretion for the majority of the stocks held in our nominees.
Being single-minded about delivering a service to clients that Brewin Dolphin publishes the aggregate voting record for these is right for them draws on our heritage and many of our clients companies on our website after each AGM.
and their families have entrusted us to look after their wealth for generations.
Governance Our aim is to be the trusted adviser of choice and serving and The Corporate Governance Report on pages 48 to 52 explains managing client relationships enables us to create a strong how the Group applies the principles of the UK Corporate results-driven business which benefits all of our stakeholders.
The changes we have made, alongside innovation within the business allow us to deliver high quality services consistently.
3 Communities However, we are not complacent and are constantly striving towork harder for our clients as we grow the business.
Brewin Dolphin and our employees are committed to the communities in which we operate.
Employees take great pride Brewin Dolphin takes its corporate responsibility seriously with in the impact they make on their local communities and are respect to taxation and aims to be a good corporate citizen actively encouraged to contribute, with efforts ranging from local by bearing its fair share of the tax burden while at the same sponsorships and volunteering, to offering work experience.
time safeguarding its reputation and relationships with clients, shareholders and tax authorities alike.
While we are mindful of our obligations to shareholders to ensure tax efficiency, we Brewin Dolphin Foundation use only legitimate tax reliefs for the purposes for which they In recognition of our 250th anniversary in 2012, the Brewin were intended and do not partake in aggressive tax planning or Dolphin Foundation was established to increase the positive condone tax avoidance as both would contravene our ethics and contribution we make to the world.
It coordinates our charitable conservative culture.
activities under one umbrella in order to raise funds for worthy causes and generate a greater impact for beneficiaries.
A key driver of our tax strategy is to reduce risk as our appetite Following a review, the Foundation was further refined in for tax risk is low.
We also aim to promote tax awareness September 2015 with support from Charities Aid Foundation among our staff so that our processes and controls encompass CAF to increase employee engagement and make it easier to best practice and keep pace with changing tax legislation and take part in charitable activities.
Good tax governance ensures that we are in compliance with tax law in all territories in which we operate.
Small Grants Scheme Staff are offered the opportunity to apply to the Foundation for grants for small charities that support the local community.
During the year it donated grants to organisations including Nottinghamshire Hospice, Childrens Hospice South West, MediCinema and West of Scotland Deaf Childrens Society.
Payroll giving Over the course of 2015, we were awarded the Payroll Giving Silver award by CAF in recognition of the Groups increased commitment to payroll giving.
36 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Volunteering and education Local sponsorships and community support We have always wholeheartedly embraced volunteering and We are proud to support many worthwhile local causes spanning many of our employees do so enthusiastically.
To build on past the arts and sports.
During the financial year we have supported successes, we launched a volunteering policy in September, events such as the Borders Book Festival, the Chalke Valley offering every member of staff one paid day off to volunteer every History Festival, Great Yorkshire Show, Marlborough Jazz and year.
Not only can staff make a positive contribution to the wider Literature Festivals, Moy Highland Field Sports Fair, Norfolk community, but volunteering helps people in achieving their Show, the Scottish Schools Rugby Tournament, Shrewsbury personal goals.
Flower Show and the Taunton Flower Show.
We have been a long-term supporter of Cheltenham Cricket Festival and the Having become a member of Business in the Community, we Durham County Cricket team.
signed up for our first Give and Gain Day, a national employee volunteering day in May when a team took part in a mentoring During the year staff took part in a wide variety of fundraising project at an inner city London school.
events, both small and large, local and national, such as Race for Life for Cancer Research UK and staff hosting a Christmas In the past year we have supported local school children in Jumper Day for Age UK and Save the Children.
Senior Regional conjunction with Enabling Enterprises and Career Ready UK Director Stephen Jones took part in the gruelling Tour fide France and we are proud to help provide bursaries for underprivileged One Day Ahead challenge as part of a team raising money for children at the Reeds School in Surrey.
Case Study Brewin Dolphin is a sponsor of Enabling Enterprise.
Enabling Enterprises primary aim is that one day all students will leave school equipped with the skills that make them employable, with workplace experience and an aspiration to succeed.
These are aims we wholeheartedly endorse and support and with which we are very proud to be associated.
Founded by a group of teachers in 2009, it now works with a growing number of students nationally currently 45,000 and with over 2,000 teachers.
Enabling Enterprise wants to make enterprise a core part of the school curriculum, with dedicated lessons in class and student work experience with businesses.
We have been supporting Enabling Enterprise since 2013 by hosting visits from students to our offices, supported by Brewin Dolphin staff volunteers.
These visits have proved enormously successful for everyone involved.
We are keen to support Enabling Enterprise as it develops its programme in the Midlands, the South, the North East and the North West.
During the year we staged Enabling Enterprise days at our London head office and our Birmingham office for pupils from a number of local schools.
Other Group offices are planning tohold similar events in the coming year.
Students worked in teams, with a volunteer, to plan a sweet shop business, pitch for funding and make investment decisions, mimicking the financial decision making process inthe real world.
37 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Methodology and additional information 4 Environmental Sustainability The table on this page reports the Groups annual GHG emissions from sources which fall within the consolidated The Group recognises its impact on the environment and strives to financial statements.
As a financial services provider, our main environmental focus is on our network of offices and employee travel.
The data collection methodology has been strengthened significantly from the prior year, which was our first year of This is the Groups second year of reporting as a quoted reporting under the new regulations.
Emissions from the company under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and combustion of fuel and operation of facilities has increased Directors Reports Regulations 2013. significantly principally as a result of more sophisticated data collection methodology rather than an increase in Global Green House Gas GHG emissions data underlying consumption.
for period to 30 September 2015 Included are most of the emission sources that the Group has Tonnes of CO2e responsibility for but some emission sources have been omitted 20142015 20132014 based on a lack of data and allocation to Scope 3 which is not Emissions from: reported on.
Details of the emissions which have been omitted Combustion of fuel & operation are given in the Emission sources not reported section below.
of facilities 236 39 The Group has gathered energy use data natural gas and Electricity purchased for own use 2,258 2,322 electricity, refrigerants use as well as business travel mileage Fugitive emissions refrigerant losses 8.80 0 and applied emission factors from the UK Governments Mobile combustion Defra GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015. Business travel from leased assets 3.97 Not reported Note that Defra emission factors for 2015 have been updated Emissions per full time employee 1.5 1.39 from those available in 2013 and this should explain any discrepancies between figures in the current reporting year and the comparison year.
Emission sources not reported This section of the report details the emission sources that the Group have not reported on and the reasons for their exclusion.
Buildings air conditioning refrigerants use Space cooling requirements are inseparable from the general electrical consumption figures and it has not been possible to determine how much cooling energy can be allocated specifically to the Group and how much is already embedded in the overall electricity consumption values for buildings in which the Group mostly occupies under shared occupancy.
We have had services carried out on all of the air conditioning units in our communications rooms which are under our direct control and have included refrigerant losses in the table above.
38 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Scope 3 emissions under shared occupancy Following the guidelines of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA set out in Navigating through sustainability reporting standards, 2011, we classify certain emissions as scope 3 and so do not report on them.
The emissions arise for our shared occupancy tenancy status where we have no sub-meters for HVAC consumption and are recharged for this on an assumed basis via a service charge to the landlord.
These scope 3 emissions include: electricity data for 3 offices where we are charged via the service charge to the landlord: gas consumption for 13 offices where we are also charged viathe service to the landlord: and any heat and steam not captured via electricity and gas consumption where we are again charged via the service tothe landlord.
Data quality The Groups consumption data comes from two main sources: consumption bills from suppliers reports from property agents exact data : and approximations based on exact data estimated data.
The Group has used estimated data in some cases due to the lack of complete data for electricity consumption.
The section below details the approach the Group have taken to complete these data gaps.
Where buildings had incomplete electricity consumption figures for certain months over the current reporting period, aconservative approach for estimating this data was chosen.
The methodology used was to apply a daily consumption figure calculated by using the month in the dataset with the highest electricity consumption to the months that had missing data.
In instances where no electricity data was held, the methodology was calculated using the buildings with exact and complete data to calculate average electricity consumption per square metre for each month in the current reporting period.
The monthly average consumption per square metre was used to estimate the monthly electricity consumption of buildings with no electricity data, based on individual floor areas.
39 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Overview Information Statements Report
