Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Sustainability Marketplace e are committed to building our As an investment company, we are committed to a long term business for the long term.
To this end, investment strategy and to maintaining effective relationships with those companies in which we invest.
We often hold a board seat we consider the impact of our business in our significant investments and use this to maintain a close on the marketplace, workplace and relationship with managements of those companies.
Additionally, we hold frequent meetings with managements and review internal environment.
documents, such as management accounts and reports.
We also make considered use of our voting rights.
As a consequence of our involved investment style, we would expect to vote in line with management recommendations, but are prepared to abstain or vote against recommendations where we consider they are not in the interests of our shareholders.
We continue to meet with our shareholders and listen to any concerns they may have.
Workplace Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to protect employees from unlawful discrimination, offer them a working environment where they have a right to be treated fairly, with consideration and respect, and support high standards of conduct and performance.
These policies assist in ensuring that the company meets applicable health and safety standards and treats disabled employees in accordance with its statutory obligations.
These policies are communicated to employees by way of a staff handbook provided at the time of joining, with periodic updates thereafter.
In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows employees to raise concerns either formally or informally, there are formal whistleblowing arrangements in place, which enable members of staff to raise any issue of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of the companys business, confidentially and independently of line management.
A formal performance appraisal process, through which employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their achievement against those objectives assessed at the end of the year, is intended to ensure that employees have a clear view of their performance and the ability to develop their potential within the company through additional training where necessary.
Together with team meetings and company-wide briefings, this provides staff with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success of the business.
28 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Equality and diversity Greenhouse gas emissions We believe that a diverse workforce will create the optimum Caledonias carbon footprint has been estimated in line with the environment in which our business will thrive and grow.
WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG Protocol and Defra guidelines.
We are committed to creating an inclusive environment where our employees can develop and contribute fully.
The sources of greenhouse gas emissions shown in the table below are from the companies included in the consolidated financial In formulating and implementing our employment and recruitment statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources policies, we ensure that they are at all times compliant with all from companies that are not included in our consolidated financial relevant UK legislation.
Recruitment, development and promotion statements.
are based solely on suitability for the job to be done.
We will not discriminate on the basis of gender, sexual orientation, age, race, GHG emissions nationality, disability or political or religious belief.
Operational scope Source of GHG emissions in year Unit Scope 1 direct Comustion of 65 Tonnes CO e 2 The table below provides the gender split at different levels within emissions fuel and operation the business.
of facilities Air conditioning Male Female Female Number Number % refridgerant loss Board 10 Company car use Senior managers 8 3 27 Scope 2 indirect Electricity purchased 171 Tonnes CO e 2 All employees 24 21 47 emissions for own use Scope 3 indirect usine strsavel 254 Tonnes CO e 2 Environment emissions Caledonias environmental impact is limited.
However, any measures Total 490 Tonnes CO2e taken to reduce this impact demonstrate the companys Key performance Scope 1 and 2 10.0 Tonnes CO e 2 commitment to improve the environment and can have direct indicator normalised to full time per FTE benefits through reductions in costs for energy and consumables.
employee equivalent A number of measures have been and will be taken in this area: encouragement of the use of electronic communications to save paper, printing consumables and energy usage of video-conferencing and telephone conference calls rather than travelling to meetings recycling of office waste, used paper and other consumables.
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc 29
