Corporate social responsibility Connecting with society We seek to serve our customers in a way which recognises our wider commitment to society.
Wedo this both through providing insurance and other services and through an understanding of the different ways in which our business connects with society.
Approach Our CSR strategy provides the framework for managing the Helping to make our society safer different ways we connect with society.
The strategy has four We recognise that our products, services and operations strands.
As shown in the graphic, they are Helping to make affect our many stakeholders, and we seek to make our society our society safer, Proud to be here, Recognised as part safer for everyone.
We contribute to many aspects of the of our communities and Reduce, Reuse and Recycle.
road safety agenda, and aim to inspire a generation of safer We manage our strategy through our CSR Advisory Group, young drivers.
which comprises senior managers from across the business.
Road safety Our sustainability team supports the Advisory Group.
Individual members of our Executive Committee are Despite increasing traffic on our roads, the number of serious accountable for each strand of the strategy.
The CSR accidents has reduced significantly since the turn of the century.
Committees role is to oversee our approach.
Unfortunately, this trend has stalled in 2014.
As Britains biggest car insurer, we believe we can have a vital role You can find more details of our approach, including our to play in making our roads safer.
CSR Charter, policy framework, performance against last years targets, and targets for 2016, on the Groups website During 2015, we worked with various partners to address at www.
Brake We have worked with Brake, the road safety charity, for 13 years.
In this time, we have produced survey reports on To find out more about our CSR Committee, see page 63. driver behaviour, attitudes and understanding, and released the results to the media to raise awareness of safe driving.
This years reports have covered driving offences and deterrents, crash protection and vehicle selection, winter driving and use of head restraints.
Brake uses this research for its wider campaigning, education, community and professional engagement activities.
We held an event in Westminster with parliamentarians to showcase this research.
Helping to make We also sponsored Brakes Parliamentarian of the Year our society safer Awards, which recognise Members of Parliament who have campaigned on road safety issues.
PACTS Proud to be here We launched the Road Safety Dashboard with the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety PACTS.
This pioneering tool uses Department of Transport statistics to produce an index that ranks the road safety record of individual parliamentary constituencies.
This is the first time Recognised as part of Reduce, Reuse the data has been used to this level.
We aim to encourage our communities and Recycle Members of Parliament to do more for road safety in their local constituencies.
We also sponsored PACTS Road Safety Summit.
This saw practitioners, civil servants, academics and enforcement services discussing changes to the law associated with drink, drugs and using mobile phones while driving.
Additionally, policymakers and campaigners attended the annual PACTS Westminster lecture.
30 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Department for Transport Manifesto We have proactively engaged with the Department for Transport on various topics, including telematics technology, Safer young drivers driverless cars and the concept of a graduated driving licence.
We want to cut deaths in the first 1,000 miles of driving to zero Young drivers Young drivers have an unacceptably high risk Last year, the CSR Committee held a strategy session to of deathwhen they first take to the road: consider how we might best use our expertise and experience to reduce deaths and life-changing injuries on the UKs roads.
1.5% of drivers are 17 to 19 years old, but they In the UK, 490,000 drivers pass their test each year.
It is still areinvolved in 12% of all fatal crashes a significant rite of passage for many young people.
However, A typical new driver becomes more dangerous it is also often a time when young drivers are at their most in theirfirst 1,000 miles of driving, even though vulnerable.
they feelinvincible Our data shows that accident rates among young drivers As Britains biggest motor insurer, we believe that spike during their first year of driving, with one in four young every driver in Great Britain should have a safe first drivers crashing in this time.
Young drivers are also hugely 1,000 miles.
We are planning to: over-represented in the most serious accidents.
The impact on them, their passengers, their families and other road users Proactively use our brands, knowledge and can last a lifetime and has a huge effect on society generally.
expertisetofind new ways to fix this problem There are various reasons why young drivers crash.
Find ways to engage all audiences that can These include over-confidence, a natural human urge to test influence the situation including young drivers, personal boundaries and take risks, and hidden hazards.
parents, carmakers, road safety educators and Using road-safety data and our knowledge of driver behaviour policymakers, traffic planners and other insurers collected through telematics, weve identified contextual speed as a significant cause of fatal crashes involving Well start by developing a behavioural change young drivers.
campaignaimed directly at young drivers in 2016.
New drivers only tend to fine-tune their decision-making when they no longer have an instructor in the car.
In particular, deciding how fast they should or can go relies on experience of road conditions and predicting how other road users behave.
Young drivers first 1,000 miles are key.
This is when the gap between perceived and actual driving competence, and hence risk, is greatest.
So we have set ourselves the ambitious goal of cutting deaths in the first 1,000 miles to zero.
The biggest barrier to addressing this issue is that young drivers may feel immune to the risks.
Our goal of inspiring a generation of safe careful drivers sits at odds with many of their motivations.
They are pro-risk although less than previous generations, competitive and relish the freedom of being a new driver.
They may believe that most people drive faster than the speed limit and that good driving means travelling as fast as you can.
To change behaviour, we have to change We believe talking at young people or trying to shock them this perspective.
To engage them we need to find a way to add to their driving experience.
So we are looking to use our telematics technology to produce a smartphone app.
We will support this with a communication and reward campaign that leverages peer pressure.
It will also engage young drivers by making road safety conversations more relevant to them.
If successful, we aim to make the app available to all newly-qualified young drivers in the UK.
com 31 Corporate social responsibility continued UK Accident Repair Centres.
By the end of 2015, we were diverting 100% of waste away from landfill including recycling.
Reduce, Reuse and Recycle Paper use We aim to manage our operations sustainably.
As outlined below, we have progressed well.
Looking ahead, we are We have used new technology to reduce the amount of printer focusing on our property and claims supply chain, where and copier paper we use.
Our office paper is made from there is potentially more opportunity to improve.
Emissions We are now focusing on reducing the paper we use to produce customer policy documents and are looking at ways You can find information on Group-wide greenhouse gas to send customers these documents electronically.
In 2015, GHG emissions in the chart and more details of our we used 829 tonnes of paper for policy documents.
emissions in the Directors report on page 98.
We were delighted to win two awards at the Carbon Disclosure Suppliers Project UK Results event last year.
The awards recognised Our Ethical Code for Suppliers sets out our approach how we improved our performance and enhanced our to managing CSR-related matters across our supply chain.
disclosure of our emissions-related information.
For example, we have developed our partnership with Anyjunk.
Energy use is the main cause of our emissions.
In absolute Following a claim, Anyjunk provide a waste-collection service terms, we have reduced our emissions following the exit that seeks to recycle household waste and is currently recycling of several office buildings.
Furthermore, our Property almost 90% of waste that it collects from our customers.
Management team has developed an energy-saving plan.
This seeks to optimise our buildings heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems, and invest in energy-efficient Proud to be here devices, such as lighting.
Throughout 2015, 100% of the We approved a new people strategy in 2015.
This supports Groups UK electricity was purchased on a green tariff.
our new business strategy, particularly regarding culture and our employees capabilities.
In 2015, we focused on pride Waste in Direct Line Group, encouraging and celebrating the strength Our system of sorting waste at source and introducing of our workforce.
new signage has helped us increase the waste we recycle.
In 2015, we recycled approximately 40% of waste from Engagement our office sites.
We also recycled 54% of waste from our In 2015, we continued developing and championing our various volunteer groups, such as Employee Representative Bodies, Community and Social Committees CASCs, Greenhouse gas Local Coordination Teams, Health and Safety Representatives, 1 emissions tonnes and the Diversity Network Alliance.
This has helped increase our employees voice and enabled the Group to serve 17.2% customers better.
Employee feedback remains an important gauge of how our many varied initiatives affect change.
In 2014, we began using a new and more challenging methodology that is aligned to our ambition to be a top employer.
In 2015, our people managers created over 460 individual action plans to improve their teams experience.
This has played a major part in significantly improving our engagement score from 45% in 2014 to 60%.
The percentage of our employees who are proud to work for the Group also increased from 68% in 2014 to 80%, while 70% tell others that the Group is a great 13y 14y 15y place to work up from 55% in 2014.
Ofce waste % Waste recycled 38.7 Diverted from landll 51.3 Waste to landll 10.0 90% recycled or diverted Note: 1.
This excludes discontinued operations, the Groups former International division.
Total Group scope 1 and 2 emissions including discontinued operations were 23,143 tonnes 2014: 28,759 tonnes: 2013: 30,624 tonnes.
32 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29,127 27,308 22,611 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Diversity, inclusion and human rights Living wage We continue to work towards an environment based We comply with the principles of the Living Wage Foundation, on meritocracy and inclusion, where every employee can relating to our employees.
achieve their full potential, whatever their characteristics.
Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the Recognised as part of our communities Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our Ethical Code We believe that our peoples feelings about working for the for Suppliers requires that all our suppliers adhere to the Group link to our reputation in the community.
So we seek core International Labour Organization standards.
to align our giving with our employees interests.
During 2015, our Diversity Network Alliance became more Community and social committees visible throughout the business and externally.
The team had To engage our people, we run a network of CASCs, which a branded presence at various Pride events and a week-long comprise local volunteers.
The CASCs receive central funding internal focus on work-life balance.
It also placed articles and support.
Within an agreed framework, they are free to on our intranet and discussions on other internal platforms create their own programme of events and activities at their covering many diversity and inclusion issues.
They are also free to build relationships with local charities locations organised health and wellbeing events to advise and voluntary organisations.
Examples of events include: on health and raise mental health awareness.
450 employees from seven offices spending an evening You can find the ratio of female-to-male employees manning phone lines for Comic Relief, taking 8,000 calls.
at 31 December 2015 in the charts below.
Hundreds more fundraised on the day To make it easier for our deaf and profoundly deaf A masquerade ball in Leeds in aid of Cancer Research, customers to communicate with us, we introduced a Video Leeds MIND, Sue Ryder and Leeds Haven Relay Service.
This enables customers to connect to a sign 50 employees from Manchester running 10 kilometres interpreter.
The interpreter then contacts our call centre around the city centre to raise 5,000 for various and relays the conversation.
local causes Volunteering Gender diversity of all employees We encourage all employees to volunteer individually or as a team through our One Day initiative.
For example, our Male 5,512 Finance team supported the Brook Lane Community Garden in Bromley.
The team spent a day renovating the open space.
Female 4,798 This supported the Gardens aim to enable people of all ages to learn cultivation skills and manage habitats that support wildlife.
Our Employee Opinion Survey revealed that 32% of staff volunteered or fundraised in company time last year.
Matched giving and grants In 2015, our employees donated 144,000 through our Gender diversity of senior managers payroll giving scheme and we donated a further 97,000 in matched giving.
We also provided 51,000 in grants to organisations for which our employees fundraise or volunteer.
Male 103 Female 29 Gender diversity of Board of Directors Male 5 Female 3 www.
