20 People Our people At esure Group, investment in our people is fundamental to our success and we aim to create a great place to work for all our colleagues.
2015 in summary esure Group employs 1,734 people across four offices in Reigate, Manchester, Newport and Glasgow.
Progress on a number of people initiatives during 2015 including the introduction of a new pay and reward framework.
Our people and culture have been built to look at how we can continually improve.
esure Groups people strategy is built upon a competitive The feedback supports the development of our commitment reward and benefits package, a high level of colleague to be a great place to work and we will continue to seek engagement, opportunities to grow and develop and excellent colleague views on an annual basis.
The Group philosophy is, that by The Group looks to recognise colleagues regularly for going making esure a great place to work, our colleagues will be the extra mile and delivering excellent customer service, and best placed to deliver an excellent customer experience.
in our operational areas we hold recognition events annually Financially, the Group is committed to rewarding our for these colleagues.
colleagues for the value that they bring to the Group The Group is proud that, in our view, we employ some of and the service they deliver to our customers.
This year, the most ambitious and committed colleagues in the insurance we have taken the opportunity to review our reward package industry.
We aim to offer development opportunities to all to ensure that it is competitive in the market, consistent, our colleagues, starting with our induction programme for transparent and easy for colleagues to understand with all new colleagues through to more formalised development a clear link to performance and behaviours.
It is not just programmes in our operations and claims teams.
what colleagues deliver that is important, it is also how they deliver to customers.
The Chief Executive Officer sponsors our talent development programme, which is tailored for different levels of colleagues We offer a range of benefits to colleagues including profit in our business.
The programme provides the opportunity share, voluntary benefits, salary sacrifice schemes including for colleagues to learn from senior leaders within the business, childcare, cycle to work, car parking, computers and develop new skills, identify career opportunities, and helps mobile phones, season tickets loans, long service awards esure strengthen its talent pool, skills and capability.
for colleagues who have been with esure for 10 and 15 years and discounts on Group insurance products.
The well-being of our colleagues is also central to our employee proposition.
This year, we launched a comprehensive We also operate an esure Group sharesave plan enabling employee assistance programme, which is available to all members of staff to invest in the business through share colleagues and their families, and we also introduced free ownership at 80% of market value.
invested in this scheme, which was a 19% increase on the number of applicants in 2014.
This year we also opened the Engagement scheme to colleagues in Gocompare.
com as they became We are committed to excellent communications with all part of the esure Group in April 2015. colleagues.
At least twice a year, our Chief Executive Officer and the executive team share company news through a series The executive team is interested in all feedback from our of face-to-face colleague briefings across all of our locations.
colleagues and this year we partnered with Willis Towers Each briefing provides an opportunity for staff to understand Watson to run the first esure wide colleague engagement our strategy and performance but also to ask questions survey.
92% of our colleagues participated in that survey of the senior management team.
and our overall engagement score was 70%.
Results were shared face-to-face with all colleagues and action plans esure Group Annual Report 2015 Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report 21 The employee consultation group chaired by the HR Director meets regularly throughout the year, providing another forum for feedback for the executive team.
Further opportunities for our colleagues to offer feedback and ideas on improving esure have been developed and in early 2016 these will be launched via our intranet site, to which all colleagues have access.
The Group encourages all colleagues to enjoy work and get involved in team-based activities.
This year, across all of our locations, we celebrated the 10 year anniversary of Sheilas Wheels and the Sheilas themselves were at the centre of our celebrations, visiting each of our offices in character.
We also ran a quiz for all colleagues in which they had the chance to win a number of prizes with a top prize of a car, which was very well received.
In addition, we run a variety of theme based events such as Wimbledon celebrations, Halloween and annual festive competitions where members of staff can win substantial prizes such as iPads and flat screen televisions.
Community and charity involvement The Group and our people support a range of charitable and local good causes.
back to help local good causes, as we recognise Our Sheilas Wheels brand was the founding partner of that investing in a community is not just about providing the Macmillan Cancer Support night in initiative in 2013 employment opportunities.
and we partnered with Macmillan again this year when our executive team undertook a sponsored static bike Our Reigate office has a long-standing relationship with ride from Reigate to all our locations and, together with Surrey Fire Brigade and its Safe Drive Stay Alive campaign.
a fun night in, colleagues raised significant funds for this We have supported this programme for 10 years and are worthwhile cause.
proud to be part of an initiative that has taught over 100,000 young drivers in Surrey about road safety, saving lives In addition, we have supported other local charities and making local roads safer.
throughout the year nominated by colleagues in each of our offices, including larger national activities such as Our Manchester office selected The Christie as its nominated Children in Need and Sport Relief, where colleagues took charity for 2015 through a colleague vote and raised funds part in the BBC campaign to run or swim a mile.
through charity collections, dress down days, raffles and cake sales.
We also support a local charity called Homeless Hounds Our business is based across four offices in Glasgow, by contributing prizes for raffle, which help raise funds and Manchester, Newport and Reigate and in these local areas through volunteering to walk, foster or rehome dogs.
we support various initiatives designed to give something Our Glasgow office has raised funds for small local charities Kidney Kids Scotland and Chest Heart & Stroke Scotland through cake sales and competitions.
In addition to monetary donations, we support the Glasgow Loaves and Fishes charity by putting together Christmas lunch boxes for families in need of a Christmas meal over the festive season.
Our Newport office, where Gocompare.
com is based, supports a wide range of local causes and fundraising is a regular occurrence throughout the year.
Each month, staff can nominate a charity of their choice under a scheme called Goco Giving.
We encourage our employees to nominate local good causes, which we then support in fundraising activities.
We have also established community committees in each office, made up of a small team of volunteers who are responsible for decisions on which local charities we support.
Details on gender diversity can be found on page 32 of the Corporate Governance Report esure Group Annual Report 2015
