Social responsibility We want our business to have a positive impact on peoples lives our teams, customers, suppliers and local communities.
We believe it is our social responsibility to do business in a way The Chief Executive is responsible for delivering the overall that brings benefits to people who shop with us, work for us, programme and an Operating Board Director has been assigned supply to us, or live near us.
In addition, we recognise our to be a champion for each of the areas as illustrated below.
broader responsibility to respect the environment.
This group meets quarterly to review progress at a steering group convened by the Company Secretary.
Our social responsibility programme has five areas of focus, with a clear commitment against each one.
These commitments are delivered through a series of projects with measurable targets.
Responsible Chief Executive Company Secretary Accountable Commercial Commercial Champions Finance Director People Director Retail Director Director Director Responsible Community Customer health People Environment Focus areas sourcing We share our We encourage We care about We aim to Our commitments We are committed success healthy where our use energy to creating a great with the people food-on-the-go ingredients efficiently and place to work around us choices come from minimise waste 2015 Highlights Community We won the Business of the Year award at the Third Sector Business Charity Awards, in recognition of our work to embed a culture of supporting charities at all levels of our organisation.
Customer We won the IGD Health and Wellness Award in recognition of our work to improve the nutrient profile health of our products and how we are helping customers make informed choices.
Responsible We made a step-change in our management of farm animal welfare through the introduction sourcing of a new policy, a move recognised by the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare scheme.
People Staff engagement continues to grow with 75 per cent of our team members agreeing with the statement I would recommend Greggs as a great place to work up six per cent since 2014.
Environment We met our five-year target to reduce the carbon intensity of our business by 25 per cent.
We were accredited to hold the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of our work on carbon efficiencies.
BitC CR Index We continue to take part in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, achieving a two-star rating in 2014 and a three-star rating in 2015.
FTSE4Good We have been reconfirmed as a FTSE4Good index company, recognising our commitment to corporate responsibility practices, in particular demonstrating our strong environmental, social and governance practices against global standards.
26 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts COMMUNITY Our commitment: We share our success with the people around us Greggs is successful because of the support we receive from our customers and employees.
We repay that loyalty by choosing to help others that they care about and those who are facing tough times.
The Greggs Foundation The Greggs Foundation was created in 1987 with an endowment from the then Chairman Ian Gregg with the Supporting other charities intention of helping people in the immediate area.
This The Greggs Foundation is not the only charity we support.
investment continues to help people in the North East via the Each year, we also fundraise for other charities which our Hardship Fund, as well as by contributing to the core running people and customers feel passionate about including Children costs of small organisations that serve the area through the in Need, the Poppy Appeal and the Disasters Emergency North East Core Funding programme.
In 2015, we supported DECs Nepal Earthquake Appeal, raising over 67,000 through our However, today, a significant proportion of Greggs Foundations customers generosity.
income comes from an annual donation from the Company of at least one per cent of the previous years pre-tax profits, as well as the generosity of our employees and customers.
In 2015, fundraising in our shops and bakeries totalled 520,370, including 100,000 raised from the sale of our Jammy Heart Foundation biscuit.
In 2015 all funds raised by the new carrier bag levy were also donated to the Foundation.
We have supported the North of England Childrens Cancer Research charity NECCR since 1992 and are the main sponsor of its annual Childrens Cancer Run.
Every competitor receives a free Greggs lunch, prepared by our staff and their families.
To date, the run has raised 6 million to fund research into This enabled the Greggs Foundation to distribute a total of improving recovery rates.
1.8 million in support of a wide range of local community initiatives in 2015, including the Breakfast Club programme Sharing our skills with the local community see below and 718,000 through local community grants.
We enable all managers to devote one day each year to Now in its 29th year, the Foundation has given in excess of volunteering.
As a result, in 2015 our people gave over 500 20 million to support our local communities.
days of time to benefit local charities and organisations, many deploying their professional skills to the benefit of the charitable groups.
For instance, our supply chain team Breakfast Clubs One of the main beneficiaries of the Foundations donations is volunteered at a food bank in Newcastle and improved production and organisation in its warehouse.
In 2016, we the Breakfast Club programme which provides primary school children in disadvantaged areas with a wholesome breakfast, plan to make more of our volunteering days skills-based, by sharing our expertise in areas like accounting, marketing, free of charge.
We know that eating breakfast provides a good start to the day helping children to concentrate and learn at planning, administration, legal and operations.
In this way, the Breakfast Clubs help to give children a good start in life.
As part of this drive to share our skills with the wider community, we support the Business in the Community In 2015, the Breakfast Clubs supplied four million wholesome Business Connector initiative.
Business Connectors are selected team members who undertake a long-term breakfasts free of charge to children in 363 primary schools around the UK.
Each Breakfast Club receives free bread from secondment from Greggs and are tasked with creating a sustainable bridge between businesses and community its local Greggs shop.
The Foundation provides a cash grant towards running costs at 161 schools.
Partnership work has organisations in a particular area.
The programme supports our peoples skill development while harnessing their expertise been central to the growth of Breakfast Clubs and an additional 202 clubs are supported by fundraising and Greggs partners.
and energy to tackle local challenges.
For a list of partner organisations please see the Greggs Foundations website www.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Social responsibility CUSTOMER HEALTH G reggs is a great example of how Our commitment: We encourage healthy an organisation has taken the needs food-on-the-go choices of its customers to heart and delivered Our customers tell us they want help eating well on-the-go.
a new range of healthy products.
We recognise that obesity, in particular, is a serious health issue and want to play our part in helping people watch their weight It wasnt just the exceptional products and manage their fat, salt and sugar intake.
We know that if it developed that impressed the we can help our customers to make healthier choices, we can play a positive role in the health of the nation.
judges: it was how the Company is going about it.
Judge of IGD Award Working to improve the nutritional value of our savouries We recognise that our savouries are a major driver of customers to our shops.
We have long been committed to improving the nutritional value of these core products: since 2009 our products have contained no added trans fats, no artificial colours and no artificial flavours.
In 2012, we also removed all Growing our Balanced Choice brand monosodium glutamate MSG.
In recent years we have added In 2015, our Balanced Choice food-on-the-go range achieved fat and salt reduction to our objectives, focusing on sales over 78 million over 13 million more than we had reformulating some of our iconic products while ensuring forecast.
Every food item in the range contains fewer than 400 the taste everyone loves.
The focus on salt reduction has been calories, and is rated amber or green on the Food Standards felt elsewhere in our portfolio too: we are proud that all our Agency traffic light system for fat, salt and sugar.
This range bread, rolls and savouries now contain less salt than the limits now represents almost ten per cent of our sales value and is recommended by the Department of Health Responsibility growing faster than our core offering.
We have increased the number of Balanced Choice sandwiches Helping our customers make informed choices by 43 per cent in the last 12 months, and the range now We believe in helping people make informed choices about includes flatbreads too.
We have also launched a choice of what they eat and drink.
Building on our 2011 commitment soups and freshly-prepared salads.
All our own-brand soft through the Department of Health Responsibility Deal pledge drinks have no added sugar.
on out of home calorie labelling, we provide nutritional information about our products on our website, on the Greggs mobile phone app and in leaflets available in our shops.
In addition, customers can easily access information about the presence of all major serious allergens, by recipe.
We have also enhanced the information displayed at point of sale by using icons to inform our customers about important features of a particular product, such as vegetarian, no mayonnaise or 1 of your 5 a day.
Our Balanced Choice range won the IGD Health and Wellness Award, 2015 and, at the British Sandwich Associations Sammies Awards, our Cajun Chicken flatbread was highly commended.
28 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Animal welfare RESPONSIBLE SOURCING We use meat, fish, eggs and dairy products in our recipes Our commitment: We care about where and take care to ensure that these are produced and delivered our ingredients come from in a way that avoids abuse or exploitation of animals.
In 2015, we introduced the Greggs Farm Animal Welfare policy, a Our customers trust us to do the right thing.
Thats why we standard based on existing legislation and farm animal welfare continually improve the environmental, social and ethical certifications such as the RSPCAs Five Freedoms and the Red standards of the products we sell.
We have shared this policy with all our suppliers and will regularly review our work in the area.
Partnering with our suppliers Today, all the whole eggs we buy are free range and we are As both a retailer and manufacturer of products, we stay close proud to have received the Good Egg award from Compassion to the roots of where our food comes from.
We focus on in World Farming CiWF as a result.
Additionally, all our prawns purchasing quality goods from over 2,500 great food producers, are sourced from MSC certified sustainable sources, and we are a number of whom we have been working with for decades.
working to make our tuna supplies free from fish aggregating We pride ourselves on paying promptly and rewarding suppliers devices known as FADs.
of quality products with long-term relationships.
We are embarking on a journey with our producers to ensure that our relationships include engagement on sustainability.
A key part of this is the development of a balanced scorecard for suppliers that will enable us to collaborate on improving performance on social and environmental factors.
The Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare is the leading We are members of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange global measure of company performance on farm animal SEDEX, an organisation dedicated to driving improvements welfare.
As a result of our Farm Animal Welfare policy and in responsible and ethical business practices in global supply approach, Greggs moved from tier five to tier three in their chains.
We are encouraging our supply base to join the six-tier benchmark.
platform to help us ensure that labour standards in our supply base are observed.
Food assurance In 2015, The Food Standards Agency placed Greggs in seventh Promoting Fairtrade and environmental stewardship place in its food hygiene ranking of the 20 biggest high street We are not only committed to our suppliers themselves but chains in the UK.
In total, nine out of ten Greggs shops received recognise the positive role we can play in the communities the maximum score of very good, and none were found to and environment that surrounds their operations.
active supporters of Fairtrade: all the tea, coffee, hot chocolate, sugar sachets, orange juice and apple juice we sell are certified Fairtrade.
We also recognise that the palm oil industry can do enormous damage to forests and wildlife habitats.
We are working closely with our suppliers in the first half of the year to insist that 100% of the palm-derived fats and oils we use in our products are certified as sustainable.
We also take food hygiene, safety and integrity seriously in our supply chain, assessing all our suppliers against the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety, and introducing controls to reduce possible risks.
By the end of 2016, we will have audited all of our production sites against the latest version of these standards, to ensure that each one has maintained their certification status within this UKAS accredited scheme.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Social responsibility they need to succeed.
In 2015, 93 per cent of our managers PEOPLE received development support.
Our commitment: We are committed to creating a great place to work Women in the workplace Our people are the heart of our business and if they are happy, our customers are happy.
We listen, develop and reward our 20,000 colleagues, and as they thrive, so do we.
Keeping our people safe Making sure our people and customers are safe is our top priority.
In 2015, we reduced reportable accidents in our supply chain by more than 30 per cent, exceeding our target.
In part, we achieved this through our near miss programme which records potential hazards, raising awareness of areas of risk and encouraging our teams to take these seriously.
In 2015, there We are proud of our reputation for bringing the best talent was an 80 per cent increase in reports of near misses and through the business regardless of gender.
This year our a corresponding 28 per cent reduction in minor incidents.
people were recognised for this success, with Suzanne Cooper, Three of our 12 major sites had no reportable incidents.
Bakery Manager at our Manchester site appointed a Retail Ambassador of the Year at the EveryWoman Awards.
Within our retail operations, we fell short of the ambitious In total, 71 per cent of our workforce and almost half of our target we had set ourselves but still delivered progress.
We management population are female.
Of the eight Board posts, began developing more engaging materials to help our shop three are held by women.
teams to prioritise and improve health and safety performance, and held two health and safety awareness weeks.
Gender of workforce Listening to our people 100% 3 51 344 14,544 Every year we survey the opinions of our employees in order to 80% hear their feedback and understand how they feel about their jobs.
In 2015, 93 per cent of our team members completed the 60% survey and we achieved another high engagement score of 79 per cent, up four per cent since 2014.
40% We know it is the people on the ground who have the best 20% ideas for business improvements, so in 2014, we introduced 5 86 369 5,929 Your Ideas Matter, a feedback mechanism for our people to 0% Board Senior All graded All use on a daily basis.
During 2015, 295 people shared useful managers managers employees ideas about how we can improve our business.
Female Male Rewarding our people We believe everyone who works here should share in the Giving people a Fresh Start Companys success and, each year, distribute ten per cent We know the passion and energy for work that comes from of all profits between our team members.
For 2015, our people who are given an opportunity to kick-start their careers people will be sharing a record 8.1 million as a result of our or to turn their lives around, and have programmes in place to strong performance.
These programmes sit under the banner of Fresh Start.
Team members are invited to join the Greggs Share Incentive Plan which lets them reinvest their profit share into Greggs We believe in the principle that no member of the Armed shares.
We also have a Greggs Share Save scheme which allows Forces Community should face disadvantage in the provision people to save money and invest in Greggs shares.
In 2015, of public and commercial services compared to any other 2,542 team members participated in Share Save.
citizen and work closely with services and veteran groups to support the employability of veterans.
Developing our people We are helping to grow the nations skills base by giving all our We provide training and work experience for people who are team members quality training.
We deliver training sessions in prisons for people who are nearing the end of a sentence and we give All new starters complete a 12-week programme, known as work experience to those who demonstrate potential.
In 2015, Your Greggs Welcome, that teaches them everything they need more than 600 people benefitted from a training session and to know about health and safety, customer service and how we 52 participants completed a four-week work placement with us.
High potential team members are invited to join our As a result, 47 of them secured a permanent job with us.
Career Pathways programme which provides support to prepare Additionally, we partner with Job Centre Plus to offer the them for management roles.
For those who are already long-term unemployed work experience or paid employment.
managers, we have created the Brilliant programme of bespoke In 2015, we gave three people a work placement and provided workshops to help our people grow the specific skills we know 24 with paid employment.
30 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based ENVIRONMENT on the UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance Our commitment: We aim to use energy efficiently 2013 and emission factors from UK Governments GHG and minimise waste Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
The success of our business is based on offering excellent value Our 2014 emissions were verified by the Carbon Trust and, to our customers.
One of the ways we do this is by paying close in 2015, we were again accredited to hold the Carbon Trust attention to every cost to our business, including our energy Standard in recognition of our work on carbon efficiencies.
use or how much food waste we create.
Our 2015 emissions are currently being verified by the Carbon Trust.
In addition, we disclose our greenhouse gas emissions Our carbon footprint through the CDP.
Our net carbon footprint in the 2015 financial year was 124,776 tonnes of carbon dioxide and equivalent gases CO e, which 2 Waste management represents an absolute reduction of seven per cent on our 2014 We divert 99.6 per cent of waste from our manufacturing sites emissions, and a 10.7 per cent reduction in intensity which we away from landfill.
We continue to work closely with our waste measure as tonnes of CO e per million turnover.
2 management partners to ensure that all of our waste streams are processed through the most sustainable routes.
We are pleased to report that we have achieved our 2010 ambition to reduce our emissions intensity by 25 per cent by To avoid wasting edible food in our shops, we aim to give away 2015.
In the last year alone, we have reduced the energy intensity unsold food to community groups and charities.
In the last year, of our manufacturing operations by 4.94 per cent and retail we achieved our target of doubling food donations and have operations by 6.23 per cent calculated as kwh m turnover.
ambitious plans to grow this more in the years ahead.
Some of our shops have direct links with local organisations and we also Our photovoltaic arrays, which are installed on the roofs of ten partner with the Trussell Trust and FareShare to donate food of our bakeries, generated 1,012,696 kWh of electricity in 2015, to worthy causes.
We have now been working with FareShare saving almost 468 tonnes of carbon.
for over a decade and supply eight of their regional distribution centres.
In line with Companies Act 2006 strategic report and Directors report Regulations 2013, we are reporting on our greenhouse gas GHG emissions as part of our annual strategic report.
We have reported on all of the emission sources which we deem ourselves to be responsible for.
Our GHG reporting year is the same as our financial year, 4 January 2015 to 2 January 2016.
Current reporting Comparison year year 2015 2014 tonnes tonnes CO e CO e 2 2 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel & 31,509 31,313 operation of facilities Fugitive emissions from 4,360 5,691 refrigeration Scope 2 Electricity purchased for 89,375 97,919 own use including PV generated electricity GROSS Total scope 1 and 2 125,244 134,923 emissions CO e emissions 2 NET Total emissions excluding 124,776 134,327 emissions PV generated electricity NET intensity Tonnes of CO e per 149.3 167.1 2 measure million of turnover adjusted to account for use of renewable energy Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Social responsibility Social responsibility: achievements and targets Green indicates the target has been met.
Amber indicates that the target commitment is progressing on schedule but was not completed.
Red indicates we did not meet the requirement for the given period of time.
We share our success with the people around us Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets We will extend the 10% increase on 2014.
Extend the Greggs Breakfast Club Greggs Breakfast Fund 330 Breakfast Clubs.
We are now funding 363 Breakfast Clubs.
scheme to 400 schools, working Club scheme, with our partners.
developing the models sustainability through partnerships and dedicated fundraising.
We will increase Team members agree: I am proud 89% of team members are proud Support the Greggs Foundation employee of the work Greggs Foundation of the work Greggs Foundation does to donate more than 2.0 million awareness of the does in our local communities in our local communities.
work of the Greggs Employee Opinion Survey.
We will trial Pilots conducted.
We supported the Newcastle Falcons Support the delivery of engaging an education Foundations Tackling Health initiative nutritional education in schools.
partnership to and, whilst we did not pilot our own promote greater planned initiative, we have made understanding of progress on this goal and will achieve food and nutrition.
We encourage healthy food-on-the-go choices Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets We will continue Increase sales of Balanced Choice Annual sales of Balanced Choice products Target to increase Balanced to increase range by 15% to 65 million.
were 78.8 million, an increase of Choice sales value by at least the number of 42% on 2014.
5 million for 2016. healthier options 100% of pastries to meet DoH 100% of pastries now meet DoH Introduce a Healthy Childrens for customers.
Responsibility Deal out of home Responsibility Deal out of home salt targets.
100% of bread and rolls to meet 100% of bread and rolls meet DoH To minimise the use of unfamiliar DoH Responsibility Deal 2012 Responsibility Deal 2012 salt targets.
ingredients in our products we will salt targets.
initiate a structured plan for the implementation of Clean Label.
100% own label cold drinks to 100% of our own label cold drinks now contain no added sugar.
We will develop Roll out of new customer Customers can now access information customer communications plan re: allergens.
about the presence of all major serious communications allergens, by recipe, in shops and online.
Conduct benchmarking survey We conducted a thorough allergen data of allergen data available review of our competitors.
it was concluded that our allergen data provision is in line with the industry.
Therefore, we have continued with our current format and no further action was required.
32 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Directors Report Accounts Responsible sourcing.
We care about where our ingredients come from Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets We will work with Implement animal welfare strategy.
We implemented an animal welfare policy.
Only source Tuna from FAD free, our suppliers FAD entanglement free or pole to ensure high and line methods of harvesting.
standards of Achieve tier 3 ranking in the We achieved tier 3 ranking in Business Develop standards and controls animal welfare.
Business Benchmark on Farm Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
for Field to Fork Spork for our Animal Welfare.
Develop and trial a balance We developed and trialled a balanced Achieve BRC Global Standard scorecard for suppliers.
V7 at all bakery sites certified as Grade A.
We are committed to creating a great place to work Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets We will make 2% increase in staff agreement with 3% increase in staff agreeing with the Maintain our 2015 employee Greggs an even the statement I would recommend statement I would recommend Greggs engagement target Employee greater place Greggs as a great place to work.
We will use our 30% of our committed volunteering 29% of committed days were matched Ensure 30% of our volunteering volunteering days days are matched to peoples skills to peoples skills and abilities.
days are matched to peoples skills to develop our and abilities.
people and add real value to our local communities.
We will drive our 100% of teams participate All team members across the business Continue to engage colleagues service culture in Superstar Service.
with Superstar Service across the business-wide.
100% of teams participate All team members across the business Further drive our service culture in Your Ideas Matter.
In total we through continued focus on Your received 295 suggestions through Ideas Matter to achieve a 100% Your Ideas Matter.
We will drive our 80 apprenticeships given 91 apprenticeships were given to Undertake a National Equality diversity agenda.
Standards audit in 2016 enabling a three-year plan to be developed to receive accreditation in 2019.
We will improve 10% reduction of reportable We achieved a 28% reduction in Supply: 10% reduction employee safety incidents per hours worked in reportable incidents per hours worked of reportable incidents per reduce RIDDOR supply chain.
in our supply chain operations.
5% reduction of reportable We did not achieve a reduction in Retail: 5% reduction incidents per hours worked in retail.
reportable injuries in our retail operations.
of reportable incidents per hours worked.
We will continue Team members are encouraged 111 graded managers supported the Increase the impact of our Fresh to utilise the skills to support the programme.
Start programmes through of our people People are given support through 611 people given support through the offering 450 opportunities in 2016. to improve the the programme.
employability of people from marginalised groups.
We aim to use energy efficiently and minimise waste Measured by 2015 Achievements 2016 Targets We will complete Deliver 1.5% improvement in We improved fuel efficiency in our Complete certification of our our five-year logistics distribution fuel efficiency logistics distribution by 0.5%.
Environmental Management target to reduce measure in miles per gallon.
System to ISO 14001. our carbon Reduce electricity usage We reduced the amount of energy we use Minimise the impacts from emission per m across our retail operations in our retail operations by 6.2%.
Climate Change through the turnover by 25% by 3% measured in Kwh per development and delivery of an compared to 2010 million turnover.
engagement plan for our staff baseline.
Reduce energy usage electricity We reduced the amount of energy Further develop waste and gas in our supply chain we use in our supply chain operations management practices to operations by 3% measured in Kwh by 4.9%.
ensure long-term focus on per million turnover.
resource efficiency over and above recycling.
We will again 100% increase on 2014 We gave away 423.1 tonnes of food to Increase the amount of unsold double the Donate 200 tonnes.
good causes, double our target.
food that we donate to good amount of unsold causes by at least 50% based food that we on 2015 result.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33
