CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Hargreaves Lansdown, we want to make sure that our impact on society is a positive one.
Our company values are rooted in providing great service at great value.
We believe that doing the right thing makes great business sense.
For more information visit our website at www.
OUR CULTURE Tonnes C02e per employee We have worked hard to create what we Hargreaves Lansdown believe to be a unique working culture at Hargreaves Lansdown.
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 Minimum Excluding HL Average Maximum Putting clients first: At Hargreaves Lansdown there is an embedded culture whereby the interests of clients are always ENVIRONMENT put first and this is communicated to all openly and honestly.
This is achieved through employees in the business during their our policy of putting clients first.
All staff As a service business that does not own induction and throughout their careers.
are trained and made fully aware of antiits business premises and is fundamentally In practice this includes elements such as money laundering procedures which must be based on intellectual capital, Hargreaves ensuring that: adhered to at all times.
The Company takes Lansdown has a limited direct impact on the views of its employees very seriously and the environment.
Nevertheless the Group all product design and information is clear as such operates a Whistleblowing Policy continues to promote energy efficiency and understandable with any concerns raised about malpractice and the avoidance of waste throughout its information and client support is available or wrongdoing within the workplace being operations.
to clients after the point of sale treated with the utmost confidence and in full compliance with the Public Interest Disclosure appropriate complaints handling Act.
Two years ago we commissioned a report procedures are in place to investigate our output of greenhouse financial promotion and marketing Efficiency: We believe that costs require gas emissions and reductive measures we practices are unbiased and appropriate for constant consideration and have built an ethos could undertake for more information visit their audience of employees continually asking themselves www.
As part of this report whether their actions are cost effective and Hargreaves Lansdown was compared to To ensure we are getting things right with efficient.
FTSE 100 companies in the same sector and clients, we listen to them about the changes this comparison has been updated in the they would like to see to our services and We are committed to managing the chart above.
The results demonstrate the we encourage and actively seek feedback environmental impact of our operations, relatively low impact our business has on the from clients.
If clients ever feel the need treating our employees well and maintaining environment.
to complain, our complaints handling a great culture and working environment.
Our team carefully investigates our clients approach to corporate social responsibility This low impact on the environment has complaint and endeavours to provide them includes these key elements: not stopped us from enacting initiatives to with a fair resolution.
We benchmark our continue reducing our environmental impact.
performance in treating clients fairly against Quality We want to offer the best products statistics published annually by the Financial and offer an excellent service, and are always Environmental initiatives: Our objective Ombudsman Service for the industry.
The looking for ways to improve of reducing waste and minimising the results for the 2015 financial year compared to environmental impact of our business is the last figures published by the Ombudsman Sustainability We work for the long-term, aligned with our objectives of protecting client show that Hargreaves Lansdown is achieving looking beyond immediate success data, reducing costs, and improving efficiency.
good results in treating our clients fairly.
It is our aim to deal with clients and other Integrity We deal with people openly and businesses electronically wherever possible Integrity: The Company prides itself on its honestly, building strong relationships not only to speed up information transfer integrity in dealing with clients and staff 28 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT but also to reduce the amount of paper we 30 June 30 June use.
We have invested heavily in providing 2015 2014 a user-friendly, comprehensive website and automated links to banks and fund providers.
Vantage clients registered as paperless 71% 65% The benefits will grow as more people and Vantage equity deals placed online 97% 96% businesses choose to transact business and receive information online.
We aim to increase Clients registered to use our online services 88% 85% the take-up of online and paperless services, and have been successful in doing this during the year.
floor space, and additional computing power, in our head office.
Business travel and commuting: We do not provide company cars to managers or to Methodology: We have reported on all of our network of advisers.
These advisers are the emission sources required under the spread throughout the UK which minimises Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report travel time and carbon emissions.
We provide Hargreaves Lansdown has continued and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 a telephone advice service where a face-toto be included in the FTSE4Good Index which fall within our consolidated financial face meeting is not required.
We also provide series, having been independently statements.
We do not have responsibility for a secure bike park at our office enabling up to assessed according to the FTSE4Good any emission sources that are not included 150 staff to cycle to work.
The FTSE4Good index measures in our consolidated statement.
We have the performance of companies that used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Recycling: We continue to shred and recycle meet globally recognised standards on and Reporting Standard revised and confidential waste and have arrangements corporate social responsibility.
emission factors from UK Governments GHG for the collection of recyclable waste such as Conversion Factors for Company Reporting printer toner cartridges, cardboard, plastics, 2015. newspapers and out-of-date literature.
have made it company policy to focus our We also continue to recycle redundant IT Hargreaves Lansdown has continued to be support and fundraising activities on one equipment through specialist third parties.
included in the FTSE4Good Index series, charity or non-profit organisation each year having been independently assessed which is selected from suggestions received Electricity usage: Our electricity usage is not according to the FTSE4Good criteria.
The from employees within the Group.
We do not high enough to mean that we have to participate FTSE4Good index measures the performance make political donations.
During 2015 the in Phase 2 of the Carbon Reduction Commitment of companies that meet globally recognised chosen charity was the Youth Adventure CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
This scheme is standards on corporate social responsibility.
Their vision is for vulnerable young compulsory for UK organisations that consumed people to fulfil their potential and to lead over 6,000 MWh of half-hourly metered positive lives in the future.
They achieve electricity for the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March COMMUNITY this by inspiring young people to reach their 2013.
During that period we consumed well full potential, learn valuable life skills, build below that level and for the year ended 30 June With the exceptions described below, we confidence and self-esteem, make a difference 2015 we had consumed only 3,520 MWh 2014: 3,285 MWh.
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 July 2013 to 30 June 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions: In 2013 we Tonnes of CO2e engaged a consultant to assess our carbon emissions and benchmark us against other Emissions from: Current Comparison year Change % firms in our sector.
The report was positive reporting year 2013-2014 and reinforced our belief that we were already 2014-2015 making good progress towards being resource Combustion of fuel and operation 354.2 214.8 64.9 efficient.
For the year ending 2015 our use of facilities of refrigerant gases and fuel consumed per employee increased by 44% 2014: 10% Electricity, heat, steam and 1627.0 1623.7 0.2 fall while our electricity use per employee cooling purchased for own use remained flat 2014: 22% fall compared to Tonnes of CO2e per average full- 2.18 2.32 -6.0 the previous year.
The increase in electricity time equivalent employee use was driven by the occupation of additional Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 29 to their lives through a programme of outdoor Bristol & West Athletics Club which is Corporation tax and employers national activities and challenging experiences.
As part the leading all-round athletics club in the insurance paid in respect of the year ended of supporting this charity we sponsored the South West of England.
30 June 2015 was 46.4 million 2014: 52.5 Brecons 10 Peaks Challenge, with many of our As in previous years we have continued million.
In addition other taxes such as VAT, employees taking part as well as teams from to support the Bristol Childrens Hospital stamp duty and business rates paid.
Grand Appeal and we are proud sponsors of a Shaun the Sheep and have been Campaigning: The Company also actively Charitable activity outside of our chosen actively raising awareness of the appeal.
seeks to lobby via public consultation charity for the year documents where they believe that investors The Group supports a grass-roots sports The Group also makes significant tax in the UK will benefit.
A monthly donation is made to the payments which help society as a whole.
The artist Julie Vernon with the Shaun the Sheep she designed, outside the Hargreaves Lansdown office 30 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PEOPLE We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented people who put our clients at the heart of our business.
Company Directors consists of the Companys Board as detailed on page 36 to 37.
Other senior management is defined as an employee who has responsibility for planning, direction or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other than the Company Directors.
Employment and diversity: Hargreaves the Health and Safety policy is made available Lansdown proudly fosters a working to all staff via our intranet.
environment that wholly supports the Career Development Path principals of diversity and equality and is Identifying, attracting and recruiting top committed to ensuring that everyone is talent: We focus on attracting, recruiting, Building careers and new capabilities: treated with dignity and respect.
We are an developing and retaining a diverse range of During the year a competency based Career equal opportunities employer and it is our high calibre people, who are motivated to Development Path has been implemented, policy to ensure that all job applicants and deliver exceptional levels of client service.
employees are treated fairly and on merit Our success is driven by their commitment to without discrimination to ensure the Group the business, coupled with their energy and The Career Development Path has been attracts, retains and promotes the best willingness to build new capabilities.
This has accompanied by a new Learning Management available talent.
The table above shows the been a primary driver for new talent initiatives System - My HL Career where employees can gender split at different levels within the this year.
access courses delivered via a digital platform organisation as at 30 June 2015: which can be downloaded at work or taken We recruit a wide range of individuals elsewhere via their pc, smartphone or mobile Appropriate arrangements are made for the including school leavers and graduates, device.
My HL Career has been launched continued employment and training, career with an emphasis on internal development with over 50 courses covering a wide range development and promotion of disabled persons and promotion within the business to fill of personal, management, leadership and by the Group.
If members of staff become available vacancies.
We continue to grow our youth employment, internship and graduate compliance titles.
Furthermore employees disabled the Group continues employment, programmes as we believe this demonstrates can track their progress and view internal either in the same or an alternative position, our commitment to opportunities for young vacancies or opportunities as they become with appropriate retraining being given if talented people and builds loyalty to available.
A full assessment of any disabled Hargreaves Lansdown.
employees needs is undertaken and reasonable Professional development continues adjustments are made to the work environment Clear succession planning: Clearly defined to be actively encouraged and many of or practices in order to assist them.
succession plans are integral to future our employees embark on professional business success and Hargreaves Lansdown qualifications to further their knowledge and Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to takes steps to identify high potential criteria careers within the Company.
During the year providing a safe and healthy environment in and equip staff with the right blend of over a quarter of our employees have studied which its employees can work.
We engage experience and capabilities to prepare them for professional exams across a range of Health and Safety experts on an ongoing basis for the future needs of our business.
pertinent areas of professional expertise.
to ensure that standards are maintained, and Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015 31 Hargreaves Lansdown shareholders.
During April 2015 we granted Each year we offer a number of university the financial services benchmark of 73%.
The new options under a SAYE scheme and now students the opportunity to work in positions results showed strong employee engagement have 67.4% of eligible staff participating in throughout the business during their and led to new initiatives to further engage one or more equity schemes.
Many of our professional placement year.
We have enhanced our employee employees also receive an annual bonus these students have subsequently returned benefits to include improved maternity related to the overall performance of the to Hargreaves Lansdown in a full time and paternity arrangements, introduced a Group and their own individual contribution.
free employee assistance programme and sabbaticals to recognise long service.
We Human rights: As a UK based organisation An engaged, positive team: It is crucial that have focused on enhancing communication with clients and employees located within the our people understand our priorities and are by launching an internal magazine to share UK we have not provided further information engaged in the development of our business.
business and employee news and have built about any policies of the company in Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages our community spirit through social, sports relation to human rights issues since it is not employee involvement and consultation and and charitable activities.
considered necessary for an understanding of places emphasis on keeping its employees the development, performance or position of informed of the Companys activities, Competitive pay: Rewarding employees for the Groups business activities.
macroeconomic conditions, regulatory issues their contribution and performance is key to and financial performance by such means as ensuring that we retain talented staff and six-monthly presentations given by the CEO, to fostering a positive culture whereby staff the employee intranet and publication to all are proud to work here.
Further information on how we set remuneration packages is staff of relevant information and corporate provided in the Directors Remuneration announcements.
As well as the regular Report.
calendar of employee communication we conduct an annual employee satisfaction The Board believes the use of share schemes survey which this year received a strong best aligns staff interests with those of our response of 82%, significantly higher than 32 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
