36 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Our corporate responsibility Our approach to corporate social responsibility is as refreshingly straightforward as the way we do business: serve our colleagues, customers and communities and be a good neighbour.
We focus our efforts locally, instead of globally, so that we play an active role in the communities where we work and live.
the 4cs approach OUR 4cs Hastings vision to protect 1 in 10 in the UK by 2020 and its strategic goals are underpinned by the 4Cs.
This cultural Our 4Cs philosophy framework is based on the belief that if Colleagues, Customers, we provide our colleagues with the right tools leadership, products, systems, Company and Community premises, information etc.
they will frames our decision making be able to do more for our customers process, guiding us as we enabling us to grow the business profitably and in a sustained way.
As a continue to grow a sustainable result, we will invest in the communities and financially stable Group we serve and be a responsible member in a responsible manner.
of the financial services community.
colleagues colleagues Colleagues are the first step in the 4Cs.
We believe that engaged colleagues lead to happy customers and we actively promote a culture where our colleagues can contribute and thrive.
We make sure that we recognise and reward the hard work and dedication our people deliver providing the high quality service experience our customers have come to expect.
We use the 4Cs to measure performance and success as individuals customers company and as a Group so that we have a clear, consistent and balanced approach to delivering our objectives by using the right behaviours.
community Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 37 4cs awards And the winners are Our Colleagues receiving their 4Cs Awards for their great achievements as voted for by their peers.
equal opportunities communication and engagement Gender diversity across and human rights We encourage colleagues to express We are committed to ensuring that all their views and ideas formally and the Group have the right to equal opportunities informally to our leadership team, at all stages of recruitment, selection whether by emailing our Chief and throughout our colleagues working Executive Officer or more formally All colleagues careers.
Short listing, interviewing and via our colleague roadshows and selection is carried out without regard communication forums.
We hold regular to gender, gender reassignment, sexual coffee mornings and idea pitching 1,187 1,135 orientation, marital or civil partnership sessions to stimulate debate and Total: 2,322 status, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or encourage conversations.
Our recent national origins, religion or belief or age.
annual engagement survey showed us Underwriting and Retail that our colleagues feel strongly that senior management Diversity they are part of the Hastings family and work for a company where they We regularly monitor the demographic can contribute and thrive.
We regularly and diversity of our colleagues at all 68 17 receive over 1,000 nominations for levels.
We consider candidates from all our annual 4Cs Awards where our backgrounds as part of any recruitment Total: 85 outstanding colleagues and teams are process and we are committed to recognised for their great achievements.
attracting and retaining the best talent Underwriting Board in the industry.
Growth and development 6 0 The Hastings family grew to over 2,300 colleagues in 2015.
Development plays Total: 6 a key part in our culture and in 2015 we launched a new career framework for Retail Board over 1,000 colleagues.
This framework is designed to provide colleagues with the skills they need to advance with a 6 2 clear career path and along with our Total: 8 leadership development programme provide us with a strong pipeline of Company Board future leaders.
11 0 Total: 11 38 Strategic report Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc customers company What differentiates us from our As a large and rapidly growing Group, competitors is our great value pricing we try to minimise, where possible, our and products and the way we are impact on the environment making sure built for the way customers now that what we do reflects our approach buy insurance.
Key to our success is to corporate social responsibility.
providing refreshingly straightforward service and we do this by: It is our belief that ethical conduct is an integral component of running Listening and responding to our a business successfully and it is an customers every week and asking expectation we have of our colleagues them to tell us about their experience and our suppliers.
We continually look at of our service and products: ways to make improvements so we can Monitoring and predicting customer continue to serve our communities and behaviour and market trends so be a good neighbour.
we adapt our pricing and product strategy accordingly: Strong supplier relationships are vital to our continued success.
We work closely Providing a quality service to all our with our local and national suppliers to customers by working in an open and communicate our standards, values, accountable way.
principles and sustainability goals to them.
By working with our suppliers, we community To help minimise our environmental are able to ensure we can offer the best With happy colleagues, satisfied impact we invite customers to receive price, product and service solutions to customers and a profitable Group we all their documentation electronically.
benefit our customers and colleagues.
are able to take the 4Cs full circle by In 2015 this equated to a saving of taking an active part in serving our 83,197 kilos of paper that would Each colleague is responsible for communities.
We do this by being a have been used had we posted this achieving the highest level of business good neighbour, nurturing home grown documentation.
conduct and for delivering our everyday talent and being an ethical member of activities in a way that reflects ethical the financial services community.
We play our part by: a good neighbour Supporting local businesses with over Our charity events committee is 50 unique offers that encourage and made up entirely of colleagues who incentivise our colleagues to buy from volunteer to organise fundraising local retailers, suppliers and services.
events throughout the year for local Promoting a Travel Green initiative charities nominated by colleagues.
that supports our colleagues in We provide a helping hand to local making greener journeys to work individuals or groups by providing through car sharing, increased cycle advice, physical support or small grants use and discounted rail travel.
In 2015 we raised over 50,000 for local charities Dedicated recycle and confidential and organisations and spent over 5,500 waste stations.
As part of Encouraging the use of travel mugs our InsurePink product offering, where Promoting a and water bottles to cut the use of 10 from every policy is donated to the disposable cups.
Pink Ribbon Foundation, we are pleased travel Green that our customers helped us raise over Using reduced energy electric 100,000 for this worthy charity.
light bulbs and movement initiative sensitive lighting.
Recycling unwanted furniture by donating it to local charities and organisations.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 39 Supporting our local communities Examples of how colleagues have helped local charities and good causes in our communities throughout 2015. nurturing home grown talent I feel privileged to be one of the We have significant interaction with business mentors for the Be the schools, colleges and universities in Change programme.
The launch and around our communities to help event was a rollercoaster of develop and attract home grown talent.
emotions, laughter and tears and In November last year, we launched a I felt both mentally and physically three-year education programme in exhausted I have not felt quite partnership with social enterprise called so passionate about anything for Be the Change.
This programme is many years and cant wait for the the first of its kind in the UK and raises next sessions to see the change the aspirations of local thirteen year and growth in confidence and old students, helping them to remove maturity of the pupils in the next barriers that make them disengaged at six months.
I am proud to work school and in life by providing them with for a company that has such life skills to help shape their future.
It is a values and commitment to detailed and sustainable programme of Being the Change.
activity designed to bring young people and business volunteers together over caron viollet the course of the school year.
Business Mentor Bexhill Observer We are proud to be at the forefront of something so transformational for students in our community.
We do a lot of work already with our local schools and colleges to help improve employability prospects and indeed a number of local students have gone on to become colleagues.
Be the Change offers us the opportunity to help younger people in our community and with our colleagues involvement: we hope that we can make a real difference.
carole Jones Group HR Director Leicester Mercury
