Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Going concern and viability Employees HSBCs principal activities, business and operating Employee relations models, strategic direction and top and emerging risks We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with are described in the Strategic Report: employee representative bodies.
It is our policy to maintain a financial summary, including a review of the well-developed communications and consultation consolidated income statement and the consolidated programmes with all employee representative bodies and balance sheet, is provided in the Financial Review: there have been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes during the past five years.
HSBCs objectives, policies and processes for managing credit, liquidity and market risk are described under Diversity and inclusion Risk: and HSBC is committed to building a culture where all employees the capital position of the Group, regulatory are valued and respected and where their opinions count.
developments, and the approach to management and We remain committed to meritocracy, which requires a allocation of capital are set out in the Capital section.
diverse and inclusive culture where employees believe that their views are heard, their concerns are attended to and Assessment of risks they work in an environment where bias, discrimination and The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the harassment on any matter, including gender, age, ethnicity, principal risks facing the Group, together with mitigating religion, sexual orientation and disability, are not tolerated actions planned or taken.
The activities of the Board and its and where advancement is based on objective criteria.
An subcommittees and the significant issues considered by inclusive culture helps us respond to our diverse customer them are described on page 262. base, while developing and retaining a secure supply of skilled, committed employees.
Our culture will be In assessing these risks, Directors considered a wide range of strengthened by employing the best people and optimising information including: their ideas, abilities and differences.
enterprise risk reports: risk appetite see page 102, top Oversight of our diversity and inclusion agenda and related and emerging risks see page 103 and risk map see activities resides with the Global Diversity and Inclusion page 103 : sub-function.
reports and updates from management of risk-related issues identified for in-depth consideration: Employee development reports and updates over the course of the Bank of The development of our employees is essential to the future England stress testing exercise: strength of our business.
We continue to develop and implement practices that build employee capability, and reports and updates on the Groups compliance-related identify, develop and deploy talented employees to ensure initiatives made in connection with the resolution of the an appropriate supply of high calibre individuals with the investigations by US and UK regulatory and law values, skills and experience for current and future senior enforcement authorities in December 2012 and also management positions.
more generally: In 2015, we focused on developing technical skills, reports and updates on the Groups initiatives to deliver experiences and behaviours necessary to deliver against our against key conduct, values and culture initiatives: and Global Standards commitments, along with several Groupreports to the Board on matters discussed at the RMM.
wide programmes on individual leadership, team management and on-boarding employees into HSBC.
Employees Employment of disabled persons At 31 December 2015 we had a total workforce of 264,000 We believe in providing equal opportunities for all full-time and part-time employees compared with 266,000 at employees.
The employment of disabled persons is included the end of 2014 and 263,000 at the end of 2013. in this commitment and the recruitment, training, career Our main centres of employment were the UK with development and promotion of disabled persons is based on approximately 47,000 employees, India 33,000, Hong Kong the aptitudes and abilities of the individual.
Should 30,000, mainland China 22,000, Brazil 21,000, Mexico employees become disabled during their employment with 16,000, the US 14,000 and France 9,000. us, efforts are made to continue their employment and, if Employees performing at their best and the environment we necessary, appropriate training and reasonable equipment create to make that possible are critical.
We encourage and facilities are provided.
employees to speak up, and reflect our purpose and values in Health and safety the decisions we make and how we make them, as these decisions shape the future of our customers and colleagues.
HSBC is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment for our employees, customers and visitors.
We aim always to meet the minimum health and safety standards required by law wherever we operate and, where reasonably practical, to exceed them.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 278 Everyone at HSBC has a responsibility for helping to create The financial and non-financial measures incorporated a safe working environment.
Employees are expected to in the annual and long-term scorecards are carefully take ownership of their safety and are encouraged and considered to ensure alignment with the long-term empowered to report any concerns.
Corporate Real Estate has overall responsibility for setting Employee share plans global health and safety policies and standards.
Achieving Share options and discretionary awards of shares granted these policies and standards is the responsibility of each under HSBC share plans align the interests of employees countrys Chief Operating Officer.
A global programme in with the creation of shareholder value.
The tables on the 2015 involved the review of 1,850 premises in high and following pages set out the particulars of outstanding medium risk earthquake zones resulting in training and options, including those held by employees working under awareness for staff and the development of risk reduction employment contracts that are regarded as continuous programmes.
contracts for the purposes of the Hong Kong Employment In terms of physical and geopolitical risk, Global Security Ordinance.
The options were granted at nil consideration.
and Fraud Risk provides regular security risk assessments No options have been granted to substantial shareholders to assist management in judging the level of terrorist and and suppliers of goods or services, nor in excess of the violent criminal threat.
Its regional equivalents conduct individual limit for each share plan.
No options were biannual security reviews of all critical Group buildings to cancelled by HSBC during the year.
ensure measures to protect our staff, buildings, assets and A summary for each plan of the total number of the information are appropriate to the level of threat.
HSBC options which were granted, exercised or lapsed during remains committed to the effective management of health 2015 is shown in the following tables.
Further details and safety and protecting employees, customers and required to be disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the visitors to HSBC.
Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock Employee health and safety Exchange of Hong Kong Limited are available on our website at www.
com investor-relations governance 2015 2014 2013 Number of employee workplace share-plans and on the website of The Stock Exchange 1 fatalities 2 of Hong Kong Limited at www.
hk, or can be Accidents involving more than obtained upon request from the Group Company three days absence 110 96 101 Secretary, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
Particulars All accident rate per 100,000 employees 274 388 355 of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out 1 Non-HSBC staff working on HSBC-related activity.
Note 6 on the Financial Statements gives details of share-based Remuneration policy payments, including discretionary awards of shares granted under The quality and commitment of our employees is HSBC share plans.
fundamental to our success and accordingly the Board aims All-employee share plans to attract, retain and motivate the very best people.
As trust and relationships are vital in our business our goal is HSBC operates all-employee share option plans under to recruit those who are committed to making a long-term which options are granted over HSBC ordinary shares.
Subject to leaver provisions, options are normally exercisable after three to five years.
During 2015, options HSBCs reward strategy supports this objective through were granted at the middle market closing price for HSBC balancing both short-term and sustainable performance.
Holdings ordinary shares quoted on the London Stock Our reward strategy aims to reward success, not failure, Exchange which, as derived from the Daily Official List on and be properly aligned with our risk framework and 21 September 2015, the day prior to grant, was 4.95. related outcomes.
In order to ensure alignment between remuneration and our business strategy, individual The all-employee share option plans will terminate on remuneration is determined through assessment 23 May 2025 unless the Directors resolve to terminate the of performance delivered against both annual and longplans at an earlier date.
There will be no further grants term objectives summarised in performance scorecards, under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option and adherence to the HSBC Values of being open, Plan: International.
connected and dependable and acting with courageous The HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan was integrity.
Altogether, performance is judged, not only on introduced in 2013 and now includes employees based in what is achieved over the shortand long-term, but also 25 jurisdictions.
on how it is achieved, as the latter contributes to the sustainability of the Group.
Further information on the Groups approach to remuneration is given on page 285.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 279 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
