Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy for all employees allows flexibility in response to prevailing circumstances: Remuneration policy for all and employees is consistent with effective risk management.
The Committee oversees the Groups remuneration policy The mix of fixed and variable pay granted to an employee and its application to the wider employee population.
corresponds to the individuals role, local market factors The Committee periodically reviews the adequacy and and regulatory requirements.
The variable pay for all effectiveness of the policy and ensures that it: material risk takers MRTs is restricted to a maximum of 200% of their fixed pay.
meets the commercial requirement to remain competitive: The table provides an overview of the different remuneration elements and how this is operated for our employees: is affordable: Component of remuneration Approach taken Base salary Market competitive pay for the role, skills and experience required for the business.
Used to attract and retain employees.
Fixed pay allowances Given where a rebalancing of the fixed and variable pay components of remuneration is appropriate.
The criteria used for determining fixed pay allowances include: the role, skills, experience, technical expertise, market compensation and other remuneration that the employee may receive in the year.
Allowances may be in cash and or vested shares.
The shares net of shares sold to cover any income tax and social security would be subject to a retention period.
Pension and benefits Provided in accordance with local market practice.
This includes but is not limited to the provision of pensions, medical coverage, life insurance, health assessment, tax return preparation, legal fees and relocation allowances.
Annual incentives Awards to drive and reward performance based on annual financial and non-financial measures consistent with the medium to long-term strategy, shareholder interests and adherence to HSBC Values.
For MRTs, awards are normally subject to a 40% or 60% deferral.
Normally delivered in cash and or shares, subject to a minimum six-month retention period.
The vesting schedule is normally over 3 years.
For 2016, it could be 3 years, 5 years or 3-7 years, depending on the regulatory status of the employee.
Deferred awards are subject to malus and all awards are subject to clawback.
MRTs who meet the fide minimis requirements of the PRA are subject to the normal deferral rates applicable to all other employees.
For all other employees, awards can be in the form of cash and or shares.
Awards above a specified threshold are subject to deferral based on a deferral table.
All deferred awards are subject to malus.
HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees.
As part of this all employees are required to certify each year that they have not entered into any personal hedging strategies in relation to their unvested awards and holdings of HSBC shares subject to a retention period.
Long-term incentives Share awards made to incentivise sustainable long-term performance and align to shareholder interests.
Only Group Managing Directors are eligible to receive long-term incentives.
All awards are subject to malus and clawback.
objectives specific to the functional role they undertake, to Link between pay and performance ensure their remuneration is determined independent of the Under our remuneration framework, pay decisions are performance of the business areas they control.
made based on the following factors: business results, HSBC Values are key to the running of a sound, sustainable performance against scorecard objectives, general bank.
All employees have a separate behavioural rating, individual performance of the role, and adherence to which informs their eligibility for variable pay and HSBC Values, business principles, risk-related policies, procedures and Global Standards.
influences their variable pay determinations.
Regular reviews are undertaken to assess instances of nonAt the end of each performance year, performance against compliance with risk procedures and expected behaviours.
scorecard objectives, including risk objectives, form the basis of remuneration decisions.
This ensures risk Instances of non-compliance are escalated for consideration management is embedded and forms an integral part of in variable pay decisions, using the adjustment, malus and all our activities.
This is especially important for senior clawback policies described in the next section.
For MRTs, executives and MRTs as risk and compliance measures in the Committee has oversight of such decisions.
their scorecards ensure that their individual remuneration has been appropriately assessed with regard to risk.
The performance and remuneration of individuals in control functions is assessed according to a balanced scorecard of HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 300 an individuals proximity to, and responsibility for, the issue Adjustment, malus and clawback in question.
Where possible, an adjustment will be made to Where there are instances of conduct breaches, the current year variable pay, before the application of malus, following actions can be taken.
The Committee has then clawback.
exclusive discretion to apply the malus and clawback under This is in line with the PRA and FCA regulatory requirements.
the policies that it has adopted, taking into consideration Type of Type of variable pay action award affected Circumstances where it may apply including, but not limited to : Adjustment Current year Detrimental conduct or conduct which brings the business into disrepute.
variable pay Involvement in Group-wide events resulting in significant operational losses, including events which have caused or have the potential to cause significant harm to HSBC.
Non-compliance with HSBC Values and other mandatory requirements.
Adjustment Current year variable Based on the recommendations received from the independent Monitor, the Committee under the pay for executive introduced the policy in 2014. downward Directors and other The criteria used to determine the downward adjustment will include: override policy senior executives insufficient yearly progress in developing an effective AML and sanctions compliance programme: or non-compliance with the US DPA and other relevant orders.
In deciding the application and degree of any such downward override to reduce variable pay awards, the Committee will factor in the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committees recommendations and the feedback from the Monitor in relation to cooperation with their review and progress in developing an effective AML and sanctions compliance programme.
Malus Unvested deferred Detrimental conduct or conduct which brings the business into disrepute.
awards granted in Past performance being materially worse than originally reported.
prior years Restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements.
Improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback Vested or paid awards Applicable only to awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 for seven years.
May be extended to ten years for employees under the Senior Manager Regime in the event of ongoing internal regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period.
Participation in or responsibility for conduct which results in significant losses.
Failing to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety.
Reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of employment.
HSBC or a business unit suffers a material failure of risk management within the context of Group-risk management standards, policies and procedures.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 301 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
