CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS The Company has a comprehensive Independent feedback report: during Informal feedback: Executive Directors stakeholder engagement programme the year the Board commissioned a report and the Head of Investor Relations also which aims to help existing and potential from the leading independent adviser received feedback from analysts and investors understand and communicate with Makinson Cowell on investor perceptions investors during the year both directly the Group.
The programme is designed to of the Company, its management, strategy and through the Groups corporate ensure regular engagement with institutional and communication.
The Company Secretary also investors, shareholder groups and debt to-face interviews with principal investors received feedback on governance matters investors.
Regular feedback is provided to to obtain their views on management from investors and shareholder bodies.
the Board to ensure that they understand and business performance.
The results This information was shared with the the views of stakeholders.
During the year, were then presented to the Board, Board to help members develop their the programme included: with suggestions and improvements understanding of shareholders views being taken forward by management.
Meetings with principal shareholders: Recommendations and actions included throughout the year, the Chairman, Chair enhancing our results presentations RELATIONSHIPS of the Remuneration Committee, Chief to include a clear view of our operating WITH SHAREHOLDERS Executive Officer and Chief Financial model and targets, to introduce a data The Company recognises the importance Officer have met with a number of pack as a single source of all financial of communication with its shareholders.
principal shareholders on at least one information, and to enhance our activity Accordingly, the Board is happy to enter occasion.
These meetings were largely with potential shareholders who are into a dialogue with institutional after the interim and full year results currently underweight or non-holders.
shareholders based on a mutual announcements and in the lead up to Engagement with debt investors: the understanding of objectives, subject to the Annual General Meeting.
The full Chief Financial Officer and Head of its duties regarding equal treatment of Board have been kept informed of the Treasury have held regular meetings with shareholders and the dissemination of issues raised at these meetings and the the Groups key relationship banks, and inside information.
The Chief Executive views of shareholders on a regular basis.
have also actively engaged with potential Officer and the Chief Financial Officer meet The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer lenders.
Update meetings were also held institutional shareholders on a regular basis, and other Directors will continue to with current and potential holders of and the Chairman periodically contacts the make themselves available to meet with public and private debt instruments issued Companys major shareholders and offers to shareholders as required.
Points raised by the Group, and with both Standard & meet with them.
The Board as a whole is kept at these meetings have been considered Poors and Fitch rating agencies.
fully informed of the views and concerns of and, to the extent felt appropriate, the major shareholders.
When requested to adopted by the Group.
Annual General Meeting: at the Annual do so, Non Executive Directors are happy General Meeting held in July 2014, Analyst meetings: in addition to to attend meetings with major shareholders.
the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer presentations to analysts that coincide and other Directors were available to with the announcement of the Groups shareholders for discussion and to full year and half year financial results, answer any questions.
All shareholders the Groups Chief Financial Officer and the are welcome to attend the Annual Head of Investor Relations have regularly General Meeting.
met with analysts to enhance the financial communitys understanding of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer has met with analysts during the year and is available to do so on request.
