24 SUSTAINABILITY We are making decisions which will pay off over Creating a the next fi five years, not just at the end of this sustainable fi financial year.
business Our sustainability strategy focuses on managing to regulators, community groups, NGOs and shareholders.
fi financial, social and environmental risks, obligations and We have enshrined the basis of this co-operation in our opportunities to create a successful business in the long Code of Ethics.
Responsible lending, business ethics term, not just at the end of this fi financial year.
Stakeholder and aiming to raise operational standards in our engagement is at the heart of our sustainability activity.
sector, together with our regulatory anticipation We seek to establish and maintain relationships with all and engagement strategy, are helping to strengthen our stakeholders from customers, employees and agents our reputation and so build regulatory resilience.
SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES Our current objectives have been set over a three year period and are due to be completed in 2016.
Progress Embed our Code of Ethics throughout Integrating ethics into our culture the organisation and ensure that all 97% of employees and 80% of our European agents employees and agents are aware of, successfully completed ethics training.
Agents in Mexico and actively engage with, the Code.
will complete this training in H1 2016 Introduced formal process integrating ethical considerations into product development Ethics Working Groups established to monitor ethical issues and infl uence ethical culture Promote responsible lending and Credit bureaux now used by all our businesses enabling fi financial inclusion throughout our more robust, responsible lending decisions and also core business activities and helping customers build a credit record community investment.
Financial literacy education in partnership with NGOs Financial literacy workshops, seminars and budgeting apps undertaken with customers Renew community investment Nurturing talent and fi financial literacy community programmes to show that Provident programmes in all home credit businesses nurtures talent and demonstrably 500,000 invested in local communities in 2015 delivers outputs and impacts, both 11,500 emplo 11,500 employ yee v ee volunt olunteer hours donat eer hours donated in 2015 ed in 2015 for the business and the community 145,000 individuals benefi 145,000 individuals benefi t ted fr ed from our comm om our community unity in which we operate.
activities in 2015 Incr Increased media visibility suppor eased media visibility supporting emplo ting employ yee ee engagement and brand building Manage our environmental impact and Reduced our carbon f Reduced our carbon footprint scope 1 and 2 per ootprint scope 1 and 2 per reduce our carbon footprint by 7.5% per cust customer b omer by 12.5% in 2015 compar y 12.5% in 2015 compared t ed to 2013 le o 2013 lev vels els customer compared with 2013 levels.
Compr Comprehensiv ehensive En e Envir vironment onmental Management Syst al Management System EMS em EMS t to manage en o manage envir vironment onmental issues thr al issues throughout the business oughout the business Suppor Supporting ar ting artistic tistic t talent with our alent with our stART stARTs pr s progr ogramme amme in Romania in Romania Strategic Report http: intranetweb ethicsweek Ethi-check Would I be happy if someone treated my family or friends this way?
When you are making a decision, the IPF ethi-check questions can help.
Whether you are helping a customer, meeting with colleagues, engaging with a supplier or designing a new product, these questions should be your guide to ethical decision making.
International Personal Finance plc 25 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 CASE STUDY: ETHICS WEEK HUMAN RIGHTS AND DIVERSITY Communicating with employees is a priority in our We are committed to human rights and work to ensure business ethics programme.
We are generating employee that we do not infringe on any human rights through our conversations about how ethics relates to our day-to-day operations or business relationships.
We are a signatory to professional lives and the ethical dilemmas employees the United Nations Global Compact and these principles and agents may face.
Creating an ethical culture is led are enshrined in our values and Code of Ethics which are by our senior team with a groundswell of employee communicated to employees, built into our training interest and involvement.
In November, we ran our programmes and integrated into our policies.
second annual Group-wide Ethics Week which included: Human rights form part of our sustainability and ethics A live webcast from Warsaw broadcast to employees programme and we provide employees with access to in all our markets.
Our Group Chief Executive Offi cer a confi dential whistle-blowing hotline to ensure that and Country Manager for Poland took questions on any concerns can be escalated appropriately.
These air and employees voted in a live ethics poll.
processes and mechanisms are monitored at our quarterly Reputation and Regulation Committee as well An ethics fi lm featuring senior leaders talking about a as through our risk management processes.
We publish time when they have faced an ethical dilemma in their an annual Communication on Progress as part of our working lives, how they handled it and the outcome.
membership of the United Nations Global Compact, Launching the IPF ethi-check, which gives employees which can be found at www.
ipfi n. co. uk sustainability.
a simple guide to making ethical decisions.
The questions are designed to frame business decisions We are committed to diversity and take steps to ensure from an ethical perspective and encourage employees that our business processes encourage recruitment, to take a holistic approach to decision-making.
selection and reward based purely on merit.
We actively encourage gender diversity through our executive search Rolling-out comprehensive training for employees and criteria and target numbers of women on certain job agents on business ethics.
The training was designed shortlists.
There are two female members of our Board specifi cally around the challenges that employees and 22% of total membership and we are also looking to agents meet in their everyday working life.
The training develop future talent through our Aspire Leadership also included a test of understanding on handling programme which has 34% female representation, our these dilemmas.
97% of our employees and 80% of our Finance Future Leaders Programme which comprises European agents completed the training successfully.
62% female colleagues and our Credit Risk Management Our agents in Mexico will complete this training in the Graduate Programme, three quarters of whom fi first half of 2016. are female.
Once you have in mind that your decision can have Gender split at 31 December 2015 a real impact on your colleagues, your customers, your agents or your partners, you might think twice Men Women before acting.
This is what the ethi-check has helped us to do.
We have an improved decisionmaking process and better communication of the Board 7 2 situations that might impact on the reputation of the individual or the Company.
Senior Marius Nicolaescu Managers 166 68 Corporate Affairs Offi cer, Provident Romania All other employees 3,555 4,080 Excluding agents in Hungary and Romania.
When you are Ask yourself: Ethi-check Ethi-check Ethi-check making a decision, When in doubt use the When in doubt use the When in doubt use the Would I feel comfortable the IPF ethi-check ethi-check for guidance ethi-check for guidance ethi-check for guidance if I saw my actions printed questions can help.
Whether you are designing a Would I be happy if someone treated my family new product, process or policy, or friends this way?
engaging with a supplier, helping a customer, or meeting with your colleagues, these Is this in line with our values questions should be your guide to be responsible, straightforward to ethical decision-making.
Is this in the best interest of our customers?
Could this decision harm IPF in the long term?
http: intranetweb ethicsweek http: intranetweb ethicsweek http: intranetweb ethicsweek
