10 2 DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR PEOPLE s sk kill ills s W We ar e are committ e committed t ed to o suppor supporting the fide ting the dev velopment elopment of our people t of our people to driv o drive gr e gro owth.
Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 11 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Careful people and organisational business.
In 2015, we extended our This sustained investment, planning supports our Strategy for Aspire programme to include Credit underpinned by our ethical Growth.
We identify high potential Risk Management graduates and approach to responsible lending, individuals and support them to grow launched our Aspire Finance has not only seen us recognised and further contribute to developing Future Leaders programme.
externally as a great place to work, our credit offerings to customers, but has also helped to maintain We also piloted a new sales and the business and their careers.
high levels of employee and service organisational structure and agent retention.
Our people strategy and new ways of working in Hungary organisational planning focuses to streamline our operations and on creating a culture of high put decision-making c put decision-making c put decision-making closer t loser t loser to o o engagement, identifying and our cust our cust our customers omers omers... T T This will not only his will not only his will not only nurturing talent and empowering empo empo empow w wer our people but also er our people but also er our people but also people to be the best they can be.
giv giv give our oper e our oper e our operational managers ational managers ational managers the time t the time t the time to fide o fide o dev v velop their t elop their t elop their teams eams eams Our leadership and talent and cust and cust and customer ser omer ser omer service vice vice... development programmes ensure we have the right people and behaviours to drive forward our and service 12 3 DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR COMMUNITIES customers Strategic Report International Personal Finance plc 13 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 This unique presence delivers Our responsible approach to lending The weekly face-to-face contact value for our communities.
We pride means that we deliver long-term with our home credit customers ourselves on being an inclusive lender benefits and choices to our customers that is responsible, ethical and trusted.
and the communities where they live.
distinguishes us from most other Many of our customers are relatively Our established presence in so underserved by mainstream finance financial services providers and many communities also brings other providers and may be taking out a benefits.
Our administrative branches more so since many of our loan from a financial organisation play a role in supporting local good for the first time.
agents live in the communities causes and each of our home credit Improving levels of customer markets actively promote financial they serve.
Many of our agents consideration for our products literacy to help build customer is helped by excellent levels of awareness around responsible are former customers and there awareness of our Provident brand, borrowing and budgeting.
In 2015, is a strong bond that exists and in some markets such as we invested 500,000 in community Poland, Hungary and Romania initiatives and our teams dedicated between customer and agent.
11,500 hours volunteering in community projects.
We are also a major employer and contribute to local and national taxes.
