Risk management and corporate governance Communication and stakeholder engagement Building trust and credibility among our stakeholders is vital to good business Communication policy The board recognises that effective Employees Quarterly magazine Impact communication is integral in building Comprehensive intranet site stakeholder value and is committed to Staff updates hosted by executive management providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and non-financial information to primary stakeholders, as Investors and Shareholder roadshows and presentations defined below.
The purpose is to help shareholders Regular meetings with Investor Relations team these stakeholders make meaningful and executive management assessments and informed investment Annual general meeting Regular email and telephonic communication decisions about the group.
Four investor presentations Annual and interim reports Stock exchange announcements We endeavour to present a balanced Comprehensive investor relations and understandable assessment of our website position by addressing material matters of significant interest and concern.
We Government and Active participation in policy forums seek to highlight the key risks to which Response and engagement on regulatory regulatory bodies we consider ourselves exposed and our matters responses to minimise the impact of Industry consultative bodies these risks.
Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative Comprehensive investor relations website Clients aspects of our activities in order to achieve Regular meetings with Investor Relations team a comprehensive and fair account of our and executive management performance.
Four investor presentations Tailored client presentations Regular email and telephonic Annual and interim reports As a requirement of our DLC structure, communication Client relationship managers within the business we comply with the disclosure obligations contained in the applicable listing rules of the UKLA and JSE and other exchanges Centralised negotiation process Suppliers on which our shares are listed and with any public disclosure obligations as required by the UK Regulators and SARB.
We also recognise that from time to time we may Comprehensive investor relations website Rating agencies Regular meetings with Investor Relations be required to adhere to public disclosure team, Group Risk Management and executive obligations in other countries where we Four investor presentations management have operations.
Regular email and telephonic Tailored presentations 3 3 The Investor Relations division has a communication Annual and interim reports day-to-day responsibility for ensuring appropriate communication with Stock exchange announcements Media stakeholders and, together with the Comprehensive investor relations website Company Secretarial division, ensures Regular meetings with Investor Relations team Regular email and telephonic that we meet our public disclosure and executive management communication obligations.
We have a board-approved policy Comprehensive investor relations website Equity and debt statement in place to ensure that we Regular meetings with Investor Relations team analysts comply with all relevant public disclosure and executive management obligations and uphold the boards Four investor presentations Regular email and telephonic communication communication and disclosure philosophy.
Stock exchange announcements Annual and interim reports 128 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate responsibility Sustainable business practices Guided by our purpose to create sustained long-term wealth, we seek to be a positive influence in all our core businesses Our and in each of the societies in which we operate.
We do this by sustainability empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education and leveraging the value in our diversity.
We recognise the philosophy challenges that climate change presents to the global economy and we will consider supporting any meaningful activity that either reduces the negative impact on, or prolongs the life of, our planet.
Investec as a responsible corporate At Investec we recognise that while our Our culture and values demonstrate our allows us to concentrate, for now, on key shareholders remain at the forefront, belief that as an organisation we can focus areas.
Deliberately not driven on a our purpose ultimately is not only about and must have a positive impact on the top-down basis, the executive maintains driving profits.
We strive to be a distinctive success and well-being of communities responsibility for oversight, direction, specialist bank and asset manager, local to our offices, the environment, and coordination and integration of our demonstrating cast-iron integrity, moral on overall macro-economic stability.
sustainability efforts while the individual strength and behaviour which promote business units provide the key drivers Our philosophy seeks to align the interests trust.
Our core values include unselfishly behind our activities, in a manner that best of shareholders and stakeholders over contributing to society, valuing diversity makes sense to each.
time, and provides the individual business and respecting others.
Outstanding and units and regions with a basis from which Please refer to the website for empowered talent, entrepreneurial spirit and to determine their own approach.
The Investecs full Corporate regard for the planet are other qualities that groups philosophy is not intended to Citizenship statement.
align with the culture of our organisation be mutually exclusive or exhaustive, but and our approach to responsible business.
Sustainability at Investec Investecs sustainability focus encompasses endurance and the interdependence of the three key areas of profit, people and planet: Sustainability at Profit People Investec is about: Internal employees: Financial strength and resilience of Strong, diverse and the business and the capable workforce economy Provide a progressive work environment.
Balanced and resilient Managing and positioning the business model.
External CSI initiatives: group for the long term 3 3 Education Risk management and compliance Entrepreneurship Building a sustainable business Sustainability Strong risk Environment.
model that allows Investec to consciousness make a valuable contribution at Investec Responsible banking to society, to macro-economic practices stability and to our environment Planet Responsible lending andinvesting.
Internal Developing a strong, diverse Reduce operational Governance impacts.
and capable workforce Strong culture and values to underpin our External Growing and preserving clients processes, functions and Embed environmental structures.
and stakeholders wealth based considerations into business activities.
on strong relationships of trust.
Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated annual report with further detail in a more  report on our website.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2015 129
