OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O U R S H A R E H O S L T D N E E I R L S C R U O OUR PEOPLE AND OUR CULTURE OUR PEOPLE At JLT the quality of our people drives our success.
We help colleagues work together in cohesive and focused teams promoting collaboration and personal accountability and we recognise and reward them for their efforts.
Our collaboration tools empower employees to connect and share INTERNATIONAL SENIOR MANAGEMENT their strengths globally for their clients, pooling experience and PROGRAMME developing each others expertise.
Each year JLT runs the International Senior Management Programme In 2015 we continued to invest in developing our next generation ISMP, its flagship senior development programme for some of our of leaders through our well established International Senior most promising people drawn from across the Group.
Its purpose Management Programme right, while establishing an additional is to build world-class leadership capabilities, deepen peoples programme to support the progress of Emerging Leaders, a understanding of the JLT Group, promote greater collaboration, combination of residential and distance learning with 31 high strengthen relationships and protect the Groups culture.
potential delegates from all over the world.
Those employees attending the 2015 ISMP included: We support colleagues at all levels with a comprehensive range of Sonia Caamano, Dave Cahill, Gustavo Clark, Martin Elcoate, learning opportunities, in both technical and behavioural capabilities, Paul Graziano, Ravi Gupta, Bill Helander, Mark Johnson, over and above any mandatory training on legal and regulatory Malcolm Johnson, Kevan Johnston, Bronson Justus, standards relevant to the markets in which we operate.
In 2015 Rory MacLeay, Erin Magilton-Morneau, Michelle Mason, our London office alone hosted more than 100 work experience John OFlaherty, Adriano Oka, Alexander Qvennerstedt, placements, 8 apprenticeships and 17 graduate hires.
Hamish Roberts, Paul Smith, Chris Stevenson, Matt Strong, and Li San Tan.
In 2016 we plan to run our biennial employee engagement survey, building our understanding of the progress we are making delivering a distinctive working environment for all our colleagues one of JLTs five strategic priorities.
In 2016 we will embed our new mentoring framework and make it available to a broader range of colleagues.
OUR CULTURE We are fiercely protective of our unique culture.
JLT is a multinational company with the mindset of a specialist, entrepreneurial business.
We attract and retain the best talent by valuing and celebrating their CLIENT FIRST deep expertise.
Our clients, colleagues and trading partners want to work with us because of that culture.
They prefer to work with a team INDEPENDENT ANALYTICAL that is firmly committed to the value of long-term relationships: one with the creative freedom and tenacity to go beyond the routine and deliver better results, focused firmly on the success of their client.
OUR JLTs culture ensures our people are free to work with clients as CULTURE trusted advisers and advocates, bringing all of their expertise and ENTREPENEURIAL INNOVATIVE integrity to bear to gain a deep insight into each clients specific needs, and to experience their clients successes as their own.
As we grow, we take care to ensure that our culture remains clear COLLABORATIVE EXPERT and robust.
As a result, we believe that today our culture is stronger, more celebrated and more part of the fabric of JLT than ever before.
7 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 E L P O O U E P R R T U R O A D I N G P A R T N E R S
