OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH Delivering our mission, living our values and acting in the interests of our four stakeholders - our clients, our people, our shareholders and our trading partners - drives us to build a sustainable, long-term business: one that balances risk with opportunity and that makes a positive contribution to the communities in which we live and work.
COMMUNITY SHARING OUR STRENGTHS Our colleagues across the world are active and enthusiastic contributors to community life, taking real pride in exercising their personal responsibility to make a positive contribution to the communities in which they live and work.
We believe community engagement is healthy for teams, enhancing services for small not-for-profit organisations and clubs who might their ability to deliver for clients.
JLT supports and encourages otherwise face insurmountable obstacles to hosting events or colleagues initiatives.
This can include time off work to take part in accepting volunteers.
volunteering activities and matched-funding to support colleagues Through our role in delivering employee benefits via our BenPal charitable fund-raising.
platform for the employees of our clients, we are able to promote We are increasingly looking for opportunities to apply our and deliver benefits on behalf of our clients such as the UK Cycle professional expertise to support the communities in which we to Work scheme to a wider target group, giving them access to operate.
Our Local Community Insurance Service LCIS team in healthier lifestyle options.
JLT Australia, for example, delivers low cost access to insurance My dream of working in a big company and making my parents proud is now a reality because of Udaan.
In 2015, we were proud to hire our first graduate from the Udaan India education project being one of JLTs chosen charities.
She is a role model for many girls in the community who now aspire to be like her.
43 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Charity We aim to work with charity partners whose strategic focus complements our own.
In 2015 we defined and published a strategic framework for our charitable work.
This focuses the Groups formal support on strategic partners in three areas, aligning our charity work to our own business of sharing the social benefits of specialist knowledge education, building resilience disaster preparation and wellbeing healthcare.
We manage the majority of our charitable giving business-by-business, alongside a central fund for supporting our strategic partners.
2013-2015 CHARITABLE DONATIONS In 2015 our charitable giving and fundraising activities benefited In 2015, JLT contributed 649,100 charities including: to charitable causes.
Udaan India Foundation - an educational outreach centre helping 872.3 Mumbais less privileged children learn their way out of poverty, also supported by dedicated volunteers from among our colleagues in JLT Indias shared service centre in Mumbai.
650.6 649.1 Action on Addiction - a pioneer in addiction support and treatment, which we support with a substantial annual donation.
John Lloyd OBE continues his active support for this charity as its Chairman.
Casa fide Lazaro & Centro Assistencial Cruz fide Malta - charities in Rio fide Janeiro and Sao Paolo that provided educational and social support to more than 800 children in 2015, with significant volunteering by JLT colleagues.
000 Dreams Come True - a UK charity that fulfils the dreams of 2013 2014 2015 terminally and seriously ill children and young adults.
This charity was selected as a partner by a vote among colleagues across our Thistle business.
The National Centre for Childhood Grief, Australiaan international leader in the provision of specialist support and advice, for children coping with the challenges of childhood bereavement.
Ponle Corazon Collection - colleagues volunteered to raise funds for the Peruvian Cancer Foundation, working in shifts over two days to collect money from the public for the charity.
Colleagues in the London offices of JLT Management Services, JLT Re, JLT Specialty and JLT Employee Benefits UK joined forces on the Lord Mayors inaugural City Giving Day in September 2015, with a Break the Cycle team challenge, St Botolph Bake-Off and a comedy performance by a talented colleague.
44 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A FEW HIGHLIGHTS FROM JLTS BUILDING RESILIENCE JLT colleagues in Maritegui JLT, Peru, are working to transform the CHARITY ACTIVITIES IN 2015. opportunities available to young people with Downs Syndrome with the Dulce Accion non-profit, encouraging and supporting them into the experience of working and supporting themselves.
SHARING KNOWLEDGE 65 volunteers from our Mumbai office contributed their time and expertise in 2015 to bring new educational opportunities to less privileged REALISING POTENTIAL children, in partnership with JLT colleagues in Thistle UK raised funds to help children, the Udaan India Foundation.
in partnership with childrens charity Dreams Come True.
JLTs support resulted in Beneficiaries included Lowri, pictured, who received a new career opportunities for safety-adapted trike that gives her the freedom to explore, graduates as well as many in defiance of up to 60 epileptic seizures a day.
BEYOND THE DAY JOB A rehabilitation consultant with JLTs Recovre team, Andrew Bedggood was acknowledged for his work with amputees by the The Herald Suns Pride of Australia 2015 Awards, for projects including the three-day 120km Kayaking challenge he has organised for amputees since 2009.
45 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Human Rights As an employer in both the developing and the UN Universal Declaration of Human As a global business, we developed worlds and with clients who have Rights: and recognise and see many of the diverse business practices in some of the most the International Labour Organisations economic and social challenges remote and poor as well as the most affluent Declaration on Fundamental Principles and facing the countries that we and corners of the world, we recognise and support Rights at Work.
our clients operate in around the need to work together to ensure that A respect for consistent high standards, principles of respect, fairness and integrity remain the world.
which includes human rights, is implicit in our at the heart of how we run our business.
employment practices and within the practices we In 2015 we confirmed that we respect and uphold expect of our suppliers.
Our commitment to doing internationally proclaimed human rights principles things the right way is reflected in our values and as specified in: our Code of Conduct.
Labour Standards, Health & Wellbeing We have policies in place to ensure that work In addition, our Employee Benefits business JLT is committed to related stress can be managed at the earliest frequently helps clients to improve their own making sure we have a opportunity and that employees have access capabilities in the area of employee wellbeing healthy workforce.
to resources that will help them achieve a good through helping to minimise risks, deliver work life balance, equitably - for example, for UK healthcare and rehabilitation support services, employees we provide access to resource for contributing to raised labour standards across the carers through our My Family Care programme, markets we serve.
Our BenPal employee benefits and several of our businesses additionally platform helps our clients engage their employees operate an Employee Assistance programme.
with additional healthy lifestyle options.
In 2015 JLT complies with local law on working hours we made significant progress building up our and overtime.
All employees have their hours of capabilities in the workplace rehabilitation services work set out in their contracts of employment and market in Australia and New Zealand, helping are advised of obligations under Working Time our clients employees to manage their health Regulations.
challenges and make a successful recovery.
Diversity and Inclusion In January 2015 Dominic Burke, Group Chief We continued to improve the processes we use At JLT the quality of our people Executive, committed JLT to supporting the Lloyds to analyse our performance and, importantly, the drives business success.
Diversity and Inclusion Charter, and announced potential of our existing people, ensuring that we Working across a wide range the creation of a Diversity Advisory Group led by continue to grow from within and make full use of of specialisms, industries, and Mark Drummond Brady, Deputy Group CEO.
This the diversity of skills and attributes our employees geographies, we recognise that group encourages the development of our diverse bring.
Our culture, underpinned by our values having a highly talented and workforce and promotes JLT as a thought leader of collaboration, rigour and agility, drives the diverse employee population in diversity and the development of diverse societal achievement of our strategic goals.
groups in the world around us.
JLT Group and JLT is key to serving our clients During 2016, we will continue our efforts, through Specialty were among the sponsors of the London diverse needs.
broadening our search for the best candidates, markets first Diversity and Inclusion festival, Dive and nurturing and developing our internal talent In, a landmark event in 2015 for the sector that ensuring that we continue to increase diversity was a great success.
More external and internal and inclusivity amongst our people.
events will continue to promote this agenda across 2016.
ALL EMPLOYEES We continued the rollout of our programmes SENIOR MANAGEMENT Total 10,777 Total 1,437 aimed at increasing the diversity and inclusivity of our talent pool including graduate programmes 78% and targeted management development programmes including the launch of the Emerging Leaders Programme which provides structured 51% 49% development opportunities for those embarking on their leadership journeys.
We are particularly pleased to report the success of a number 22% of inclusion initiatives in our Latin American businesses in Colombia and Peru, which are helping to create new economic opportunities for Male Female Male Female people with disabilities.
46 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENVIRONMENT As global risk management specialists, we recognise that climate change and the scarcity of natural resources pose a significant challenge to us as a society and as a business.
We believe that JLT has both a substantial commercial opportunity and a social responsibility to minimise our environmental impact wherever this proves commercially sustainable.
Executive Summary In line with Mandatory Carbon Reporting MCR requirements within the JLTs total GHG emissions for 2015 were 18,406 tCO e. The largest 2 Companies Act 2006, this report outlines JLTs Greenhouse Gas GHG proportion of JLTs GHG emissions can be accounted for by air travel emissions covering the period 1 January 2015 - 31 December 2015. which comprises 61% of the total emissions, equating to 11,215 tCO e. 2 The scope of JLTs reporting encompasses its operational boundary and In order to demonstrate JLTs emissions in relation to a quantifiable includes emissions associated with all of JLTs offices worldwide.
JLT factor relating to its business activities, JLT has calculated its intensity has reported on the mandatory scopes 1 and 2, and for the optional ratio on the basis of number of employees, as this is considered to relate scope 3 has opted to include global business travel given that air travel to company growth and GHG emissions.
The intensity ratio for 2015 is in particular is acknowledged as a large contributor to greenhouse gas 1.62 tCO2 employee.
2 emissions and non-purchased electricity for the UK only.
JLTs GHG Emissions by Scope and Intensity Ratio Methodology The methodology employed to calculate the GHG emissions is in Sub Total Total Tonnes Tonnes Intensity accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Reporting and Accounting Scope Source Details CO e CO e Ratio 2 2 Standard revised edition.
Data has been collated from JLTs global Purchased Fuels Natural gas purchased offices for electricity, fuels, refrigerants and transport directly purchased 226.11 directly by JLT or controlled by JLT, in line with the mandatory scopes 1 and 2.
With Fugitive Refrigerant leaks and top regard to the optional scope 3, JLT has included within its report emissions ups for equipment under Scope 1 359.78 2,170.04 0.19 direct responsibility of JLT emissions relating to air travel by its employees for business use as this recognised as a significant contributor to carbon emissions.
For the UK Transport Transport owned or 1,584,15 only, JLT has also reported on non purchased electricity usage i. e. used controlled by JLT by JLT but purchased by the landlord and rail travel.
The relevant UK or Purchased Electricity purchased international emissions factors have been applied.
electricity directly by JLT 2,829.67 2,829.67 0.25 Location based Scope 2 There were some limitations to the reporting due to gaps in data, and Purchased Electricity purchased where necessary every reasonable effort has been made to fill these and electricity directly by JLT 2,713.75 2,713.75 0.24 Market based estimate data as accurately as possible.
For air travel, some countries Air Travel Flights taken by JLT were excluded as this data is not available for this reporting period.
JLT employees for 11,215.13 will be working with its global offices to further improve data availability business purposes for the 2016 reporting period.
Rail Travel UK Rail Travel by JLT only employees for Scope 3 221.94 13,406.19 1.18 Year on Year Review business purposes The total emissions associated with JLTs operations have decreased, Non purchased Electricity used by JLT despite the fact that there has been growth in terms of number of electricity but purchased by the 1,969.12 UK only landlord employees.
The intensity ratio of emissions per employee has decreased by 0.16 tCO e employee which represents a 9% reduction on last year.
TOTAL LOCATION BASED 18,405.90 18,405.90 1.62 2 JLTs focus on reducing its environmental impact extends beyond TOTAL MARKET BASED 18,289.98 18,289.98 1.61 reporting on its emissions.
2016 will see the implementation of an environmental management system and an environmental policy to JLTs GHG Emissions by Scope publicly state JLTs environmental objectives.
Scope 1 2015 saw JLT comply with the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme 12% ESOS.
The objective of the scheme was to identify ways in which large organisations can reduce their energy usage.
As part of JLTs Scope 2 compliance, site audits for the UK offices were undertaken to detail such 15% opportunities.
JLT is using this data as a basis for implementing a global energy monitoring and targeting programme.
This will be used to roll out energy saving opportunities where appropriate and to engage with the global offices to identify areas of waste from electricity, gas, water and Scope 3 waste where applicable to reduce any unnecessary use and reduce 73% JLTs emissions.
2 It is standard practice to report GHG emissions in tonnes of CO equivalents tCO e. This is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming potential 2 2 of the GHG in relation to the global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
The seven main greenhouse gases that are converted into tCO e are carbon dioxide 2 CO, Methane CH, Hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, Nitrous oxide N O, Perfluorocarbons PFCs and Sulphur hexafluoride SF and Nitrogen trifluride NF.
2 4 2 6 3 47 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Energy & Water Consumption The award-winning St Botolph Building, JLTs largest premises and A sample of JLTs buildings were audited with a view that the Group headquarters, is our flagship for environmental responsibility, recommendations found could be rolled out across all of the rated Very Good under the BREEAM standard.
Notable features properties to realise greater energy reductions which will be reported include energy-saving lifts and escalators, 25kW rooftop solar on in the 2016 Annual Report.
The opportunities for reducing energy modules, low energy lighting with proximity detection, zero-to-landfill covered all aspects of the buildings including lighting, heating, waste management, cycle commuter facilities, and electric vehicle building controls, staff engagement and extended check metering recharging points.
some of them recurring across all of the 3 sites audited.
One of the key recommendations that will be realised is the improved energy Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme ESOS reporting and energy engagement strategies that will be actioned 2015 saw JLT comply with the Energy Saving Opportunities in 2016.
Scheme, a government scheme which requires large undertakings Whilst ESOS is UK legislation, the data obtained through ESOS will and their corporate groups within the UK to undertake mandatory be used as a basis for implementing a global energy monitoring energy audits.
ESOS is the UK Governments approach to and targeting programme.
The recommendations found will be implementing Article 8 of The European Union EU Energy implemented in the UK offices initially, but the programme will Efficiency Directive 2012 27 EU.
include sharing ideas and said recommendations on a global level.
The scheme will be operated in compliance periods of 4 years with The on-going reporting that is in place will then allow for the tracking Phase 1 covering 2011-2015.
JLT has embraced this legislation and of any energy reductions covering electricity, gas, water and waste.
took this as an opportunity to further understand where it can make The outcomes of this reporting programme and the implementation and implement energy saving opportunities.
There were a number of the ESOS recommendations will be tracked and reported on as of ways to be compliant with ESOS and JLT chose to ensure part of the 2016 Annual Report.
compliance through ESOS audits at a sample of properties.
The properties which benefited from audits were the St Botolph Building and offices in Leatherhead and Orpington.
Travel In 2015 we flew 374,000 fewer kilometres than in 2014, but 2015 2014 travelled an additional 116,000km by rail, resulting in a net 4.6% km km reduction in the GHG impact of our travel.
Transport will remain a significant contributor to JLTs overall GHG impact.
Where Air 23,974,539 24,348,636 appropriate, we have reduced travel through greater use of teleconferencing, particularly to replace internal meetings, and we Eurostar 121,107 147,570 continued to invest in teleconferencing infrastructure to minimise Rail 1,654,902 1,512,280 the expense, the work life balance impact and the environmental impacts of travel.
We are applying other online tools to aid Overall 25,750,548 26,008,486 collaboration across all our businesses, ensuring we continue to bring our expertise to service clients wherever the need arises.
Teleconferencing trend: Teleconferencing usage 879 While we do not yet have two full years of data for comparison and tracking purposes, we see robust evidence of growing uptake 733 across our teleconferencing estate during 2015 of more than 80 fully-equipped conference rooms across the world.
512 373 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 Usage hours 48 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 v3 JLT 48. pdf 1 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Paper Consumption In 2015 we shared our policy commitment to reduce our consumption These included many examples such as building a preference for digital of paper across the Group, highlighting our shared objectives and many record keeping into our Quality Management Standards Colombia of the best practices in effect around the Group.
Our colleagues in Retail to a Think Before You Print awareness campaign Employee businesses from Canada to Australia took part in a range of measures to Benefits UK to switching to 50% locally recycled paper Australia.
Meanwhile the Group Secretariat has invested in software that enables JLT to issue committee papers electronically for all the major UK businesses in the Group, saving on paper as well as reducing overheads associated with distribution.
Recycling We actively promote recycling, including encouraging the removal of We promote the use of recycled or partially recycled products in our general waste bins and the provision of sorting bins and facilities in our procurement, as well as seeking to recycle packaging and other waste offices.
This initiative has been particularly successful in our London materials from our offices.
The Corporation of Londons Clean City headquarters and on our Mumbai campus, which between them Awards scheme has awarded our London headquarters, The St Botolph represent more than 30% of the groups employees.
Building, a Gold rating for its zero-to-landfill approach to waste management.
Procurement Our Group procurement team assesses suppliers for a range of potential In 2016, we are rolling out our Supplier Relationship Management supply chain risks, including their level of compliance with a number of process, beginning with all our most material supplier contracts with the ethical, environmental and legal standards at the time of appointment.
intention of putting in place a process that will assess supply chain risk In 2015 the procurement team ran an exercise to refresh this on a regular and on-going basis.
assessment process to reflect the most recent policies and standards set by the Group.
49 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This section includes a review of our corporate governance processes and summaries of the work of our Board and its Committees.
Page 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 58 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT 64 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 81 DIRECTORS REPORT 50 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2015
