Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility Embedding good practice for commercial success As we explain on the following pages, our priorities fall into the areas of our marketplace, workplace, the environment and community.
Marketplace protecting our clients interests Our corporate values set out our aim to make a positive contribution to society, as managers of other peoples money.
As part of this, we look to exercise good stewardship on behalf of our clients, to support their investment ambitions and to behave Being a responsible ethically.
In fact, we believe that our biggest sustainability impact business is integral to comes from looking after our clients needs and our engagement with the companies we invest in.
the way we work The regulatory environment reinforces our approach.
As our business is mainly in the UK, our primary regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
It oversees all aspects of our work, from how we run our fund management operations to our client communications.
While we also come under the jurisdiction of other regulators overseas, the high standard of UK regulation means that the FCA sets the benchmark for what we do.
When we face overseas regulations that are more onerous than in the UK, we comply with the higher standard.
Our clients Jupiter can only succeed by offering products our clients want and that meet their investment needs: by selling and marketing these products responsibly: and by offering high levels of client service.
Ensuring we meet the needs of our clients comes from a combination of our culture and our governance.
We have embedded policies, principles, codes of conduct and our corporate values into our culture.
These align our interests with existing and potential clients and with our staff.
Our key policies in this area include: Treating customers fairly TCF.
TCF is a core FCA principle, which promotes fair treatment of clients from product inception through to marketing and post-sales support.
Our TCF policy commits us to dealing with clients honestly, openly and competently, not just as part of regulatory compliance but as a fundamental guiding principle.
Our TCF Committee, chaired by our chief executive Maarten Slendebroek, ensures that our services meet our TCF obligations and our policy.
This policy sets out potential material conflicts that we have identified, together with procedures and arrangements to prevent these from creating a material risk of damage to our clients interests.
Implementing our policies We have a number of methods for ensuring we successfully implement our policies.
These include: training programmes, covering areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, money laundering and market abuse, which most employees received during the year: our employee handbook, which covers core contractual terms, expected conduct and our policies: our intranet, through which we make our key policies available to our people: audits, which ensure we comply with our legal and regulatory obligations, as well as our own rules: supervisory controls, including a TCF sponsor in every client- 25 facing department: and Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility continued our corporate governance structure see the Governance review One area where we continue to carry out collaborative research for more information.
and engagement is the issue of stranded fossil fuel assets.
Volatile commodity prices over the course of the year provided a pertinent Our Compliance department monitors our success with backdrop to our continued work on the financial impact of implementing our policies, principles and codes of conduct.
We changing fossil fuel supply and demand trends and the impact of review the majority of our policies annually and circulate the renewable technology trends.
updated versions to all staff.
During the course of the year, the UN PRI has released its Pilot Conduct risk Assessment Report for 2015, in which it scored Jupiters approach to Conduct risk considers a firms culture and values, how these responsible investment.
Jupiter Asset Management was given a influence its behaviour and the extent to which it prioritises client score of A, the highest available, for its overarching approach to outcomes.
The purpose is to ensure that firms do not put their own responsible investment.
interests ahead of their clients interests.
Conduct risk therefore covers many aspects of the way firms operate, ranging from the Our stewardship performance ethos set by the Board, to designing products appropriate for We monitor the companies we invest in by hosting or attending clients, to the way that employees are remunerated and regular meetings with their executive management.
allow us to question and challenge companies about the issues we think may affect their long-term value.
During 2015, we continued to develop our framework for identifying, managing and mitigating conduct risk.
In particular, we identified all We also separately engage with company chairmen and nonthe significant conduct risks we face and allocated them to a risk executive directors.
The subjects of these meetings vary but can owner, who is responsible for ensuring we effectively monitor and include strategy, board effectiveness, remuneration, shareholder manage the risk.
The next phase of our programme will be to rights, culture, values, succession planning and sustainability.
This communicate our approach further to our employees, to ensure engagement gives us a different perspective on a companys everyone in Jupiter continues to be aware of the importance of performance and prospects and is a real source of insight, helping conduct risk.
us to drive long-term investment performance.
Our approach means we build relationships and look to engage before problems Our approach to stewardship arise, rather than holding companies to account after the event.
Effective stewardship is fundamental to achieving the best riskDuring the year, we engaged with 214 companies to primarily adjusted returns for our clients.
Our investment teams and specialist discuss stewardship matters.
These meetings were conducted in governance and sustainability analysts work together, to integrate addition to the 1,000 meetings held with company management stewardship into our investment approach.
All our fund managers around the financial calendar.
are actively involved in voting decisions and our governance dialogue with companies, in partnership with our Governance Voting at company general meetings is also an important part of Research team and our sustainability specialists.
We do not view exercising our stewardship responsibilities.
In 2015, we voted at 1,287 governance themes in isolation but seek to understand how they meetings.
Of these, 362 were in the UK and 925 were overseas.
voted against management or abstained on at least one resolution at 17 per cent.
of UK meetings and 33 per cent.
of overseas To further bolster our stewardship efforts, in April 2015 Ian McVeigh, meetings.
the former Head of Jupiters UK Growth Strategy, took up a new role as Head of Governance.
His appointment reflects the interest As part of our approach to stewardship and responsible investment, and influence he has had in this field at Jupiter.
It also underlines our we review key themes that could affect the long-term value of approach to engagement, emphasising the close cooperation companies.
In 2015, for example, we considered: between our stewardship and investment activities.
Companies linked to greenhouse gas emissions, in light of the issues uncovered at Volkswagen.
While we had no direct The Stewardship Committee develops and delivers a co-ordinated exposure to Volkswagen, this is an area our institutional clients approach to our engagement with companies.
The Chief want to understand in more detail.
Investment Officer chairs the committee, which comprises fund managers, the Head of Governance and corporate governance Financial companies and their suitability for socially responsible and sustainability analysts.
The committee looks at trends in our funds.
engagement with companies, the issues that are arising and how Companies affected by demographic changes, including ageing we can enhance our processes and information gathering.
approves our submissions to consultations, for example on changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In February 2015, we were recognised by ShareAction for our commitment to responsible investment.
ShareAction is a charity that The Chief Investment Officer also chairs our Sustainability Review encourages companies to be responsible owners of investee Committee, which comprises both portfolio managers and companies.
It assessed 33 of the UKs largest fund management sustainability and governance specialists.
The committee oversees groups on their transparency, engagement and corporate the approval of companies for investment in ethically screened, governance, placing Jupiter in the top three.
socially responsible or environmental solutions funds.
It also reviews our engagement with companies on social and environmental More information on stewardship issues and monitors these risks and opportunities across our funds.
For a more detailed understanding of our stewardship activities, We have a process to link this analysis of major social and please visit www.
com to view monthly records and environmental issues to our key holdings.
Our approach is that download our latest Voting and Engagement Report.
sustainability specialists and investment teams conduct sustainability 26 research in collaboration.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information A p p m r Further information on our approach to corporate governance, We also introduced a mentoring programme, which we have rolled corporate responsibility and voting can be found in our Corporate out following positive feedback on a pilot programme.
This makes Governance and Voting Policy and The UK Stewardship Code: mentoring available for everyone in the company.. We have placed Jupiters Approach, both of which are available on our website.
a toolkit on our intranet to help people who want to take part.
Workplace attracting and retaining top talent In addition, we launched a career planning toolkit.
This helps our As a people business, we depend on the skills and experience of people to look creatively at how they can progress their careers our people.
Our collegiate culture is one of our key attractions as within Jupiter, which can include broadening the scope of their an employer, particularly of fund management talent.
It allows our existing role or becoming involved in other projects.
people to share and collaborate, while retaining their independence and accountability.
We recognise the need to retain Human rights this culture as we grow.
The CEO is the member of the Board with We recognise the importance of upholding human rights in our responsibility for Human Resources.
business operations, both in how we as an organisation treat individuals and how we encourage individuals within the Group to During 2015, our key people-related activities included interact with each other.
This is at the heart of our corporate values.
understanding employee views through an engagement survey, We protect the rights of our employees through our employment continuing to develop our talent and promoting diversity.
policies and practices, which prohibit discrimination and encourage diversity.
We protect the rights of our other stakeholders through Employee engagement our insistence on high standards of ethical behaviour.
This is Employees are engaged when they are committed to an embedded in our culture through our policies, principles, codes of organisations goals and values, are motivated to contribute to conduct and our corporate values.
common successes and can achieve their own sense of wellbeing at work.
Performance management Performance management is a key part of our high-performance During the year, we completed a detailed survey to assess our culture.
All our employees take part in six-monthly appraisals, where employees engagement with Jupiter and to find out where we we seek their feedback, assess their performance and review their could improve.
This showed excellent levels of engagement, with 85 training and development needs.
Our performance management per cent.
of participants saying they are actively engaged, well system covers: above the financial services average of 74 per cent.
This is testament to Jupiters attractiveness as an employer and to our Aim work to create and maintain a positive, high-performance culture.
The employees objectives We will repeat the survey on a regular basis.
Ability The top responses confirm that our people are highly aligned with The employees skills, our aims and have the ability to play their part in achieving them.
A competency and number of the least positive responses are addressed by our move Ability development plan to The Zig Zag Building, with its modern space, upgraded IT equipment, breakout and communal areas that are designed to Approach improve collaboration and internal communication, and the How the employee has opportunity to introduce new ways of working.
More information put our corporate values can be found in the Our Strategic Performance section, under into practice Efficient Operations.
We are developing plans to address all the key issues identified in the survey.
We have continued to ensure that we cascade objectives from the Our values top of the organisation, so our people see a clear link between In 2015, we documented our corporate values for the first time.
As their objectives and our corporate goals.
The employee survey we continue to grow, our values will help our people to understand showed that this process is working well, with 95 per cent.
of how to deliver change through their behaviour.
Our values make participants understanding our objectives and 92 per cent.
saying clear that our primary responsibility is to our clients, and set out they know how their role helps to achieve them.
how our employees and our approach to making a positive contribution to society ultimately help us to create value for shareholders.
We have also embedded our values in our performance management system see below.
More information on our values can be found under Jupiter at a glance and throughout the Our strategic performance section.
Developing talent In 2015, we implemented our structured learning and development curriculum which caters for everyone across the organisation, from support staff to senior managers.
It covers the key types of training necessary for each role and is built around Jupiter-specific content.
The curriculum includes both technical and softer skills, such as leadership and presentation skills.
236 people attended courses on our curriculum during the year.
27 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 i o A a c h Corporate responsibility continued Diversity The table below analyses our employees by gender: To us, diversity and inclusion means having the right people, At 31 December 2015 2014 regardless of background, in the right role.
Diversity is the mix: Female Male Female Male inclusion is getting the mix to work well together.
The differences Board 4 40% 6 60% 2 22% 7 78% between individuals are valuable, as they promote different Senior managers 10 15% 57 85% 10 16% 52 84% viewpoints and ways of thinking, helping us to innovate and make Other employees 149 43% 196 57% 148 48% 163 52% better decisions for our clients.
We are committed to increasing Total 163 39% 259 61% 160 42% 222 58% diversity within Jupiter and to promoting mutual understanding between our employees.
We back this up with a zero-tolerance policy to bullying or harassment, as respect and tolerance are Opportunities for young people important to our high-performance culture.
We continue to take part in Investment 2020, a scheme run by a number of investment management companies in the UK.
We offer In 2015, we published our new diversity and inclusion statement, as school leavers and recent graduates the opportunity to gain paid part of which we set four goals: work experience in our firm.
Although there is no guarantee of a job when they complete the year-long placement, we are delighted Goal Progress that 75 per cent.
of our most recent intake have found permanent We will implement By the end of 2015, all members of the roles within Jupiter.
unconscious bias Executive Committee, Management training for our Committee and Department Heads had In addition, we enhanced our internship programme in 2015, which leadership team.
saw eight young people join us for six weeks of work experience.
We will conduct We included diversity and inclusion issues in The programme was extremely successful and we will be running it regular employee our employee engagement survey.
A again in 2016. surveys to ensure we number of initiatives are in place to take understand current forward this area.
Health and safety diversity and The Board is responsible for ensuring that we take all reasonable inclusion issues and precautions to provide safe and healthy working conditions, which that they are comply with statutory requirements and legally binding codes of consistently being practice.
The CEO is the member of the Board responsible for addressed.
In order to build a We are on track to achieve a 40 per cent.
Our Health and Safety policy aims to prevent accidents and to balance into our maintain our employees health while at work.
The prime talent pipeline, we responsibility for a safe and healthy place to work rests with us but will aim for 40% each employee has a personal responsibility for looking after their female participation own welfare.
Health and safety and fire safety audits were conducted during the We will ensure that We have female mentors and mentees year with no significant issues arising from the audits.
No significant women are engaged in our programme, comprising 37 incidents occurred during the year.
of the total number of participants.
company-wide Environment reducing our impact mentoring We look to reduce our environmental impact and to use resources programme, both as as efficiently as possible.
Our environmental policy guides our mentors and approach.
The key components of this policy are: mentees.
Area Our aim Energy Minimise our energy consumption Our other initiatives this year included a maternity buddy Materials Minimise our raw materials consumption programme.
This ensures that employees on maternity leave have a Waste Achieve the best environmental option for mentor who keeps them connected with our business, to make the waste disposal transition to work easier when they return.
Suppliers Assess suppliers environmental performance, While our initial focus is on gender diversity, we recognise that this is as part of our purchasing policy only the first step in our broader diversity and inclusion agenda.
Compliance Meet or exceed all the environmental Our unconscious bias training is an important part of promoting legislation relating to the Group diversity and inclusion and we are also looking to embed diversity and inclusion in our processes, for example by ensuring we have appropriate gender representation on candidate long lists when we recruit.
28 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Environmental risks and opportunities Our environmental performance Our operations mainly affect the environment through the waste we The table below breaks down our GHG emissions by scope, as well dispose of, the water we consume and the greenhouse gases as providing data on our other environmental impacts: GHG we either directly or indirectly emit.
Key performance Change Assumptions indicator 2015 2014 % or estimations Climate change is one of the worlds greatest challenges and has Direct emissions 182.4 tCO e 211.0 tCO e 14 Natural gas 2 2 been a particular focus for Jupiter for several years.
We conducted scope 1 consumption has our most recent analysis of our climate change risks and been estimated opportunities as part of our 2015 CDP Investor disclosure.
To give due to issues context to our GHG disclosure, the table below contains a sample with data of this information: availability Indirect emissions 228.7 tCO e 288.9 tCO e 21 2 2 Regulatory risks The potential implications for our investments scope 2 stemming from, for example, air pollution Other relevant 277.3 tCO e 8.0 tCO e 3,360 2 2 limits, fuel or energy taxes and regulations, indirect emissions stranded assets in the oil and gas sector, scope 3 and any associated uncertainty surrounding 3 3 Total water 1,110.5 m 967.2 m 15 these.
consumption Physical risks The potential implications for our investments Total weight of stemming, for example, from sea level rise, waste by disposal changes in precipitation extremes and method droughts, a rise in extreme weather patterns Recycling 25.8 tonnes 26.5 tonnes 2 and more intense storm events, surface Energy recovery 15.0 tonnes 19.1 tonnes 21 flooding of properties, an increase in tropical Landfill 0 tonnes 0 tonnes cyclones, and any associated uncertainty All water is supplied through our local utility surrounding these.
All waste disposed is non-hazardous commercial waste or paper cardboard Regulatory Regulation may affect consumer demand for opportunities products and services and hence corporate The fall in scope 1 emissions is largely due to an estimated decline revenues.
It could also create opportunities of 12 per cent.
The reduction in scope 2 for companies linked to resource efficiency.
emissions, which relate to electricity consumption, is partly due to Our ability to identify these opportunities will our server virtualisation project, which concluded in 2014.
Recorded affect the performance of our environmental scope 3 emissions rose in 2015, due to the inclusion for the first time funds.
Mandatory GHG reporting for large of air travel data.
of scope 3 emissions UK companies has improved our for 2015. understanding of opportunity and risk in our investment decisions.
Each year, we target a reduction in our GHG emissions intensity, which we measure as tCO e per employee full time equivalent FTE.
2 We have managed environmental funds for more than 20 years.
In 2015, our emissions intensity fell by 16 per cent.
to 0.91 tCO e per 2 During this time, we have developed a leading knowledge of employee FTE 2014: 1.09 tCO e per employee FTE.
This gives us a potential competitive advantage, derived from regulatory or technological changes that Water consumption increased in 2015 because of work on cooling bring about positive action by companies on issues such as climate tanks on the roof of our old building.
We reduced the total volume change.
of waste we produced, largely because we did not replace office furniture or other large items in the final year before our office Measuring our environmental impact move.
We continued to recycle all our waste or send it for energy In 2011, we began working with Carbon Credentials to measure our recovery, with none going to landfill.
Since then, we have gathered data on a variety of emissions sources.
The table below presents the operational Community supporting charitable giving boundary for our reported GHG emissions in 2015: The difference we make in the community is primarily through charitable giving, which we believe is best directed by our Direct emissions Building gas Fugitive Owned vehicles employees.
scope 1 combustion emissions from refrigeration At the start of 2015, our charity committee selected the Alzheimers and air Society to be our partner charity.
The committee believes, given the conditioning ongoing challenge to meet the financial burden of care and the equipment broad demographic impact of the disease, that this is a good fit for Indirect Building Jupiter.
During the year, the Group donated a total of 19,545 to emissions electricity various charities, including a 10k donation to the Disaster scope 2 consumption Emergency Committees Nepal earthquake appeal.
Our intention Other relevant Business travel Waste disposal Water going forward is to look for opportunities to support the Alzheimers indirect consumption Society through volunteering, as well as through fundraising.
emissions scope 3 29 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility continued Movember is a charity which raises funds to promote mens health More information issues and is a cause close to staff at Jupiter, following the death of For more information about our corporate responsibility disclosures, a colleague from prostate cancer in 2013.
During November this please contact shareholderservices@jupiteram.
com year, staff raised 5,325 for the charity.
Stakeholder engagement We also run a Give As You Earn scheme, which is administered for We engage our stakeholders to understand the sustainability issues us by the Charities Aid Foundation CAF.
Employees donate directly that are important to them.
Our key stakeholders include our clients, from payroll, before deduction of income tax and National the companies in which we invest, shareholders, employees, NGOs, Insurance.
We then contribute double the amount each employee policymakers and regulators.
This money sits in a bank account set up by CAF but controlled by the employee, allowing the employee The best way to achieve open communication is to offer to donate to charities of their choice.
Employee participation stakeholders, including shareholders and employees, several ways increased from 30 per cent.
In total, to communicate with the Board, including by phone, email or Jupiter contributed 83,118 to match employees donations.
Board responsibility for these matters sits with our Vice Chairman, Edward Bonham Carter.
Jupiter remains proud to sponsor the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, which we have supported for more than 15 years.
Our engagement with the companies we invest in is described in We have established a successful relationship with the orchestra, the Marketplace section.
The Governance review explains our based on shared strengths of quality and innovation.
We regularly engage with our employees through surveys and staff briefings on our performance About our corporate responsibility disclosures and business strategy.
The Workplace section gives more Reporting period information on our interactions with employees.
The corporate responsibility section of our annual report covers the 2015 financial year and is our third disclosure in accordance with GRI guidelines.
Disclosing our corporate responsibility performance in this way helps us to meet regulatory and best practice developments, and provides greater insight into our responsibilities.
To apply GRIs Guidance on Defining Report Content and associated Principles, we conducted a sustainability SWOT analysis in 2013, as described on page 21 of our 2013 annual report.
This allowed us to select material aspects and priority indicators for our disclosures, which we have continued to apply in 2015.
Our GRI Index for 2015 will be made available on our website.
Reporting boundary The boundary of our corporate responsibility disclosure is the same as the operational control approach to consolidating GHG emissions.
Our chosen GHG methodology Defras Environmental Reporting Guidelines defines this as operations where we, or one of our subsidiaries, have full authority to introduce and implement our operating policies.
We consider that this approach incorporates all of our entities with sustainability impacts that are actually or potentially material.
Limitations At the end of 2015, Jupiter had physical operations in seven countries.
However, we have estimated that the actual or potential sustainability impacts of our non-UK offices are immaterial.
We have therefore applied a materiality threshold of five per cent.
for the purposes of reporting sustainability data, in line with practice among similar sized firms in our sector.
We have no joint ventures over which we have operational control.
We have accounted for leased assets using the same consolidation approach used to define our reporting boundary.
There have been no restatements of information provided in earlier disclosures, or any significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods we have applied.
30 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE 31
