Corporate Social Responsibility and Greenhouse Gas Emissions The JLIF Board and its Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, are committed to socially-responsible investing and understand the need to carry out our activities in a responsible and sustainable manner.
JLIF recognises the environmental, social and economic Community Engagement needs of the communities in which it works and looks for As part of JLIFs efforts to support the communities and users of suitable opportunities to engage and support communities, the projects in which it invests, the Company decided to run an by using the skills, time and financial support of its staff and art competition for students at one of our education projects those of the Investment Adviser.
The commitment to corporate with the winning entries being displayed in JLIFs annual report.
social responsibility CSR is delivered through programmes This would give the students the chance to say that their work directly supported by JLIF and through the activities of JLCM had publicly featured in the annual report of a FTSE 250 and JLIFs other partners who manage the projects and provide company.
The school chosen was the Welling Academy, part of facilities management services to the Portfolio assets.
JLIF the Bexley Schools project, from which JLIF received several actively encourages its partners to engage with the local excellent entries.
After much deliberation JLIF chose the below communities in which our projects are located.
It is the piece by Habibat Alabi as the winner.
We would like to engagement of these teams that operate our assets on a daily congratulate Habibat and to wish her the best for her future art basis and support the communities in which they operate that pursuits and to thank all the entrants for their hard work.
A number of the CSR activities JLIF also continues to sponsor Ahead Partnerships, which provides that have been undertaken during 2015 are detailed in the funding for the Make the Grade initiative at numerous schools following section.
including the Leeds Combined Secondary Schools project in the UK.
This innovative model provides a structured programme of business support, such as interview training and mentoring, by involving up to 30 employers drawn from different sectors.
Breast Health Clinic opening Student artwork Andrew Charlesworth, Director of JLCM, attended the opening of the Breast Health Clinic in October 2015 on behalf of JLIF.
The event was also attended JLIF received many strong entries but this self-portrait by Habibat Alabi by many local beneciaries including patients, staff and politicians, such as stood out from amongst the crowd and was deemed the winner.
We wish Dr Darryl Plecas, Member of the Legislative Assembly for Abbotsford South.
Habibat every success in her future art pursuits.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2015 35.
The programme was developed in Leeds and is now gathering Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement momentum with roll-out across other parts of the country.
The JLIF is an investment company and as such holds equity interests number of pupils who have benefitted from our sponsorship in in its underlying investments.
The approach that it has used to Make the Grade is in excess of 3,000. consolidate its greenhouse gas GHG emissions reects this structure and aggregates JLIFs equity share of emissions from At one of our key health sector assets, the Abbotsford Regional each asset.
In collating its data JLIF has considered the GHG Hospital and Cancer Centre in British Columbia, Canada, a new emissions from the facilities that is manages for the public sector.
space for the Breast Health Clinic was opened in October 2015.
However, JLIF does not have direct control over the energy usage It had previously been brought to the Funds attention that one of the facilities it manages as these are controlled by their public of the services at the hospital, the Breast Health Clinic, was to be sector end-users.
As such JLIF has limited ability to directly displaced from the hospital due to space limitations.
This would inuence or reduce the energy consumption of the facilities.
mean that patients would have to travel much further in order to still be able to access this service.
With this in mind the Fund During 2015 JLIF assessed its carbon footprint in line with offered the client free use of a vacant retail unit for the Breast the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the results of which are detailed Health Clinic through to the end of the concession, giving up in the table below.
JLIF reported its GHG emissions to the CDP the rental income that would otherwise be earned, but thereby formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project and has subjected its ensuring that these vital services could be retained at the data submission to verication by the Carbon Trust.
The opening of the new clinic was attended by GHG emissions represent JLIFs share of direct emissions from Andrew Charlesworth of JLCM and has been extremely well the project facilities, typically through the consumption of gas.
Scope 2 emissions are JLIFs share of indirect emissions from the project resulting from the generation of purchased energy.
JLIF continues to support teachers from the North Swindon Schools project by providing sponsored membership of the 2015 2015 20 21 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m Princes Teaching Institute Schools and Schools Leadership 2 2 Programmes.
We were also delighted to be able to extend the Scope 1 27,239 466.7 scheme this year to support teachers at Bexleyheath Academy.
Scope 2 99,346 1,702.3 The programme is designed to bring teachers together with the countrys most eminent academics, writers and policy-makers in Total 126,585 2,169.0 an inspirational forum for discussion of fundamental questions about their subjects, with a view to helping teachers renew their 2014 2014 passion for their chosen subject.
By bringing passionate teachers 22 23 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m 2 2 together school departments are encouraged to make rigorous Scope 1 21,105 272.0 curriculum choices, promote teaching beyond the test, and to Scope 2 67,223 866.3 enable schools to forge links with other like-minded schools and academic institutions.
Total 88,328 1,138.3 APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT Paul Lester CBE Chairman 16 March 2016 20 In order to ensure the accurate collation and verication of data the GHG emissions above represent JLIFs equity share of annual emissions from the underlying asset portfolio for the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014.
As such these are not consistent with the time period of the rest of the financial statements being 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Assets acquired during the financial statements period are excluded from the GHG emissions data reported.
21 CO tonnes per m of turnover.
2 22 In order to ensure the accurate collation and verication of data the GHG emissions above represent JLIFs equity share of annual emissions from the underlying asset portfolio for the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013.
23 CO tonnes per m of turnover.
