P E O P L E A N D C OR P OR AT E R E S P O N S IB IL I T Y PEOPLE In investment management our people are our assets and losing them is one of our biggest risks.
We focus on delivering superior performance and excellent client service by attracting, developing and retaining the best individuals.
By coaching and encouraging our people to be the best within a highly meritocratic culture, we retain them as they become leaders in their field.
EMPLOYEES To achieve superior performance for our clients identifying key individuals for retention and and shareholders we need to have the right further development.
During 2015 we had a people in the right roles, fully motivated and number of internal moves which have enabled competitively paid.
We are very conscious of the us to support individual career development 1,230 need to provide appropriate development for and cross-train high potential employees.
We our highly talented and increasingly international were also pleased to see minimal voluntary workforce.
Encouraging effective collaboration resignations of key individuals during 2015 and teamwork across the Company, within the against the backdrop of a general reduction in bounds of regulation and good governance, is a voluntary turnover versus 2014.
People by function % key part of our strategy.
During 2015, the acquisitions of NewSmith LLP 21 19 19 21 and Silvermine resulted in the arrival of a new TALENT pool of talent at the firm, and we welcomed 38 It remains vitally important to maintain a strong 33 33 new members of staff in total.
31 39 pipeline of talented individuals for the future of the business.
Our investment management We also made a number of key hires throughout graduate programme and structured summer the year including Moni Sternbach who joined internship programme launched in 2014 17 18 15 Man GLG to run a European Mid-Cap Fund, remain extremely popular and have enabled 19 Asim Nurmohamed who joined Man GLG us to attract high quality junior talent.
We 33 31 30 as a Senior Portfolio Manager in the equity currently have seven trainees on the graduate 21 alternatives team and more recently Guillermo programme and have five more graduate Osses who was hired to run an Emerging trainees two of whom were 2015 interns joining December December December June Markets debt fund for Man GLG.
Each graduate undertakes a two-year 2015 2014 2013 2011 investment management, Kate Squire joined programme, rotating through placements in Investment management Man as Head of Compliance & Regulatory.
AHL, FRM, GLG and Sales which will equip Sales and Marketing them with a broad knowledge of our products Product and Client Operations and Technology In 2013, we hired apprentices for the first and overall business.
Following the success of Central management and support time in the UK through participation in the the 2014 and 2015 summer intern programmes, Note: Evening Standards Ladder for London we have hired another five interns who will Job function based on Business Unit, not individual role.
initiative a scheme which helps tackle spend ten weeks with us in the summer of youth unemployment in London.
Our second 2016, working on key projects with a view to cohort of apprentices joined in April 2015 in successful interns being offered a place on the Operations, Technology, Finance, Legal and following years graduate programme.
To ensure the apprentices received maximum benefit from their work We focus on retention through our annual placements, they were supported by performance evaluation and continuous supervisors, assigned buddies and human succession planning processes.
They were also given regular review is a valuable opportunity for managers to exposure to management through discussion give individuals feedback on their performance sessions at which they provided progress and how their careers can progress with the updates to members of the senior leadership Company, particularly during difficult times.
The programme gives the apprentices Our ongoing succession planning process wide-ranging and valuable experience which is designed to mitigate continuity risks by 38 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY will help them build their careers.
One 2013 Man Groups culture is based on mutual apprentice was successful in receiving an offer respect for others and discrimination by any of a full-time permanent position following individual on the grounds of age, disability, completion of the apprenticeship.
We are keen gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or to continue supporting this initiative so intend to educational background is not tolerated.
We take on another cohort of apprentices in 2016. offer tangible support through our employee assistance programmes, which are designed HEADCOUNT to assist individuals with aspects of their lives Some organic growth along with the acquisitions outside the workplace which may affect their mentioned previously mean Group headcount ability to perform.
including contractors and consultants has increased from 1,078 at 31 December 2014 to Full and fair consideration is given by Man to 1,230 at 31 December 2015.
The ratio of support applications for employment made by disabled function employees to front office remains persons, having regard to their aptitudes and approximately one to one, which we believe to abilities.
Man Groups Global Inclusion Policy be in line with industry best practice.
outlines our commitment to ensuring a diverse workforce and our opposition to discrimination EMPLOYEE TURNOVER REMUNERATION & BENEFITS of any form, including on the basis of disability.
Our remuneration policies and practices are The Company ensures that disabled persons designed to enable us to remain competitive are fairly treated in respect of training and in the increasingly global markets in which career development.
For those who become 8% we operate.
Remuneration packages include disabled during their employment, reasonable combinations of the following elements salary, adjustments are made and ongoing support is annual performance bonus and deferred provided as required to enable the individual to share fund awards, along with other non-cash continue working.
The bonus deferral arrangement is a Staff by gender % key mechanism for focusing employees on Man Achieving a better balance between male and Groups long-term performance.
female employees across the business and 29 14 11 particularly at a senior level, is a challenge Employee welfare is an important consideration 89 86 many financial services organisations face and and we regularly benchmark our benefits it continues to be a key priority for Man Group.
71 packages to ensure we are competitive and We remain committed to promoting gender in line with the market.
During 2015 we again diversity at all levels, and we currently have two conducted a full review of our benefits offerings, women in senior roles who sit on the Executive resulting in new improved benefits to be Committee as shown in the table overleaf.
One such example in the recruitment policy has the objective of securing UK is the introduction of a new benefit option 50% female representation on long lists of which offers increased flexibility to purchase candidates internal and external for senior additional life cover in excess of the core cover roles and we engage executive search firms Total Senior Board of amount for staff members and their partners.
workforce managers directors who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of During 2015 we again offered our UK-based Male Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
employees the opportunity to participate in Female Agency partners have been asked to read and the Man Group Sharesave Scheme at the acknowledge our Global Inclusion Policy.
maximum limit and discount allowed by HMRC.
See pages 64 to 87 for the Directors r emuneration report Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 39 23978 Man AR15.
indb 39 24 02 2016 18:03 P E O P L E A N D C O R PO R AT E R E S PO N S I B I L I T Y C O NTI N U E D We also currently have several initiatives in place Man Group is committed to increasing female to support and encourage our female talent.
participation in its graduate programme, and in Man Group continues to develop DRIVE as an 2015 we predominantly focused our campus internal support network, with a programme of marketing activity in direct support of this regular events to inform and support women objective, by focusing on relevant university within the firm, as well as providing networking courses, societies and clubs that helped opportunities both internally and externally.
Furthermore, Alongside this initiative, Man Group has also we have started to sponsor the European developed and piloted a mentoring programme Girls Mathematical Olympiad as part of our for high potential employees, one key aim effort to support and encourage female talent of this is to help and retain female talent.
An in the potential pipeline for financial services additional initiative agreed in 2015 was a pilot careers.
There is evidence that these initiatives returner programme this scheme targets are beginning to have an impact as we saw individuals who have taken a career break twice as many females attending our graduate and now wish to return to the workforce.
We assessment centres in 2015 as had attended focused our search on candidates with front in previous years, with two female candidates office experience and were pleased to shortlist being selected for our 2016 graduate intake.
several high calibre female applicants for EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP interviews, with a view to any new hires joining During 2015, Man initiated partnerships with by Q2 2016.
The programme offers a level of SEO London and Investment 2020 to help us flexibility in terms of working hours, and we are source talent from more diverse backgrounds, starting to see an increase in flexible working and we have been pleased to see increased 5.7% more generally around the business a positive diversity in our graduate and intern applications step to support the large proportion of our as a result of these collaborative efforts.
workforce who have children or other caring responsibilities.
Man Group strongly believes in the benefits of a diverse and multi-cultural workforce and is confident that the current multifaceted approach will enable the firm to progress its diversity agenda.
MAN GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Manny Roman Chief Executive Officer, Man Group Eric Burl Co-Head, Global Sales & Marketing and Head of Man Americas Jonathan Eliot Chief Risk Officer Luke Ellis President, Man Group Mike Even President & Chief Executive Officer, Numeric Geoff Galbraith Global Head, Operations & Technology Robyn Grew Global Head, Legal & Compliance Keith Haydon Chief Investment Officer, FRM Ren Herren Deputy Head, Global Sales & Marketing Teun Johnston Co-Chief Executive Officer, GLG Mark Jones Co-Chief Executive Officer, GLG Pierre Lagrange Chairman, Man Asia & Senior Managing Director, GLG Michelle McCloskey President, FRM Shanta Puchtler Chief Investment Officer Director of Research, Numeric Tim Rainsford Co-Head, Global Sales & Marketing Sandy Rattray Chief Executive Officer, AHL Jasveer Singh General Counsel Jonathan Sorrell Chief Financial Officer Tim Wong Chairman, AHL 40 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 40 24 02 2016 18:03 STRATEGIC REPORT DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT AND BUSINESS PRINCIPLES We always do the right thing, conducting SUPPORT At Man Group, we are committed to conducting our business with the highest standards of In order to maximise the potential of our our business in accordance with the principles behaviour, honesty and integrity.
We continue employees, we work with all areas of the outlined below, which we believe will enable to invest in talent, technology and research business to support training and development us to be the best we can be and which we to ensure we provide a differentiated offering, needs.
This covers a wide range of initiatives continue to embed within all areas of the underpinned by leading experience, expertise including technical courses, team development business.
We strive to deliver outstanding and innovation.
We provide an inclusive work and individual executive coaching.
In 2015, we results for our clients, whose interests always environment, where reward and progression are introduced a new soft skills training programme, come first and are the focus of our firm.
We aim based solely on merit.
offering bite size modules with each focusing for excellence and expect the highest standard on a different core topic.
We also introduced a of quality of work from everyone across the firm.
senior mentoring programme which pairs Board members with individuals on the Executive Committee to offer further development to our senior executives.
360 review processes are Man Groups business principles are designed to increasingly being used to gather feedback, distil and define the firms key priorities, focus and enabling individuals to receive comments from a number of sources which supports their culture.
The principles are displayed in Man Groups development.
In addition, we run a number of in-house educational events such as Business offices internationally to promote a common Education sessions and informal breakfast understanding of the firms values: discussions hosted by members of the Executive Committee.
Employees receive regular updates and presentations on Company results and major decisions which affect them through face to face meetings or, if necessary, via video link.
The Man intranet is used to Performance Excellence provide supplementary updates from senior management on all aspects of our business First, foremost and always, we focus Good is not enough, we strive and is a crucial part of the dissemination of on delivering superior risk adjusted to be excellent in all we do.
Maintaining high levels of engagement from our workforce is vital in order to sustain our position as an industry market leader.
During 2015 we conducted a global employee survey to gather feedback on areas such as culture, leadership, career opportunities and communication.
We achieved an excellent response rate 77% and saw good evidence of job satisfaction Clients Differentiation and trust in the senior leadership team, along with positive endorsement of our business Our clients are at the heart of We seek to be differentiated principles.
We also now offer long service everything we do.
and original in our thinking.
awards to recognize those individuals who have completed 10 years and 20 years service with the Company.
Our Global Mobility Programme enables us to meet specific business needs within given markets or business areas.
Assigning people overseas assists us in attracting, retaining and developing our people in order to meet our Responsibility Meritocracy business goals and strengthen our geographic footprint.
This creates a diverse talent pool with varied perspectives and enhanced sharing of We always do the right thing and We succeed through talent, our knowledge base.
conduct our business with the commitment, diligence and highest standards of integrity.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 41 P E O P L E A N D C O R PO R AT E R E S PO N S I B I L I T Y C O NTI N U E D CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our corporate responsibility strategy is to pursue and evidence where possible the high standards of behaviour, both corporate and individual, which underpin our reputation and maintain the trust and loyalty of our key stakeholders.
We focus on five key areas of corporate responsibility: WORLD CLASS GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Man Group strives to deliver the highest standards of governance and risk management.
We have long recognised the importance of corporate governance practices that help to ensure effective oversight and strong accountability.
With our scale, we are wellpositioned to implement and manage these practices effectively across our platform, as we strive to deliver industry leading governance and risk management.
RESPONSIBILITIES TO OUR MARKET PLACE Man Group is committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct and actively supports collaboration of the alternative asset management industry in developing and committing to standards of responsible investment.
The Hedge Fund Standards were drawn up in 2007 to address key issues relating to the hedge fund industry and best practice, covering the areas of disclosure, valuation, risk management, fund governance and shareholder conduct.
Man Group is a founding CONTRIBUTING TO OUR COMMUNITIES PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT signatory of the Hedge Fund Standards Board Man Group is actively involved in charitable Whilst our environmental impact is relatively HFSB which was fully established in 2008 as initiatives and volunteering opportunities limited, we strive to deliver clear and transparent a guardian to the Standards with the goal of local to the firms offices through its ManKind reporting that makes sense of the measurable creating a framework for promoting integrity, Programme.
ManKind gives employees the elements within our control and respond to transparency and good governance in the opportunity to take two additional days paid external risk and expectations.
leave per annum to volunteer with charities take all practicable and economic measures supported by the Man Charitable Trust or with a to conserve and reduce energy consumption charity of their choice.
Furthermore, we have a at our offices around the world.
We monitor MANAGING OUR PEOPLE worldwide commitment to promoting literacy in our impacts using Credit 360, a system that Man Group aims to create an environment children, underscored through our sponsorship measures relevant data and generates reports which enables our staff to reach their full of the Man Booker Prize.
We are very conscious which provide practical guidance in identifying potential.
We encourage our teams to work of the impact of our organisation on our our impacts and managing their reduction.
together to help each other develop and community and have taken steps to ensure we succeed professionally and personally by are contributing positively to those around us.
providing a workplace which is healthy, safe, and offers guarantees of fairness and equal opportunities.
As a responsible business, we constantly review our procedures which support the development and retention of talent including performance management programmes, flexible working policies, health and well-being initiatives, and our comprehensive benefits scheme.
42 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
