C H A R ITA B L E T RU S T Whilst the broader economic environment in the United Kingdom has arguably improved compared to recent years, our experience is that the voluntary sector remains in a state of transition.
Small charities continue to be Registered charity no: 275386 challenged by the public sector spending cuts despite their credible efforts to secure funding from the private sector which itself is emerging from the recession amidst a volatile economic and political landscape.
In 2015, the Trust continued to focus its grantmaking activity on charities that were able to demonstrate an improvement in literacy and numeracy skills whilst more broadly raising educational attainment.
Literacy and numeracy skills are acknowledged as being essential to the happiness, health and economic wellbeing of individuals and society.
It is well documented that low levels of these skills lead to a large number of poor outcomes and are linked to unemployment or dependence on state benefits, low wages and poor health.
The Trust continued to utilise its reserves in 2015, spending $615,000 on charitable donations and employee engagement programmes in the period.
Wherever practicable, the Trust seeks to leverage the grants made to charities by encouraging them to raise capital through other funding sources at the same time.
In the UK our supported projects benefited thousands of vulnerable children, young people and Man volunteers provided support to those Man Group employees often take part in charitable fundraising on behalf of the Man Charitable Trust adults living in disadvantaged neighbourhoods, in need in the local community, undertaking annual charity.
providing them with the essential skills they a range of activities including running need to succeed in life and make a positive financial literacy programmes and weekly Employees additionally took part in a number contribution to society.
reading sessions for primary school children, of volunteering and fundraising activities for our transforming outdoor spaces and sorting and annual charity, the Childrens Cancer Recovery Our supported charities also gained from the packaging food at a local foodbank.
Man Group Project, supporting their work with children and time and effort given by Man Group employees has also hosted a number of career insight families coping with a childs cancer diagnosis.
through our ManKind community volunteering days at the London offices, providing staff Employees ran, jumped out of aeroplanes, programme.
ManKind gives employees the the opportunity to share their knowledge and baked cakes and raised funds through a opportunity to take two additional days paid experience, and giving young people an insight Christmas jumper day.
leave per annum to volunteer with charities into the professional world in order to enhance supported by the Man Charitable Trust or with their employability skills and careers education, We would like to express our thanks to all the a charity of their choice.
The positive social whilst inspiring them to access careers they Man employees who supported our charitable benefits that stem from employees skills, might not know about.
programmes during the year and to those who experience and knowledge can make a real donated via their Give as You Earn accounts.
Volunteering In 2016, the Trust intends to continue to provide also provides a highly cost-effective and support to charities that are able to evidence valuable method of achieving positive learning their ability to improve literacy and numeracy and development benefits for our employees outcomes.
and we are delighted that once again a good proportion of Man employees volunteered their time, experience and skills during the past year.
44 Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 23978 Man AR15.
indb 44 24 02 2016 18:03 STRATEGIC REPORT FEATURED GRANTS The Man Charitable Trust awards grants to charities that work towards raising the levels of literacy and numeracy in the UK.
Examples of Grants awarded in 2015 include: LIFT FOR LEARNING LIFT for Learning is a charitable development hub creating and delivering projects to inspire learning.
It is dedicated to inspiring the belief that every child, young person and adult deserves a fair and equal chance to flourish in CITY GATEWAY education, by harnessing the digital medium as City Gateway exists to bring hope to local a powerful tool for building traditional literacy communities living in intergenerational poverty skills and the new forms of digital literacy.
They work to build trust charity aims to make targeted interventions with some of the most vulnerable individuals that reach and engage those most at risk of and tackle complex needs with a well-rounded WESTSIDE SCHOOL long-term social exclusion and to exemplify and personalised approach that sees award Westside School provides an alternative successful ways of advancing the acquisition winning results.
City Gateway builds bridges education approach supporting pupils aged of literacy.
to the hardest-to-reach individuals to advise, 13-16 years who have been excluded from mentor and train people for healthier lives, a mainstream schooling.
Westside became a free The Trusts donation has supported the solid education for career progression and lifeschool in 2014, the first alternative provision in development of an online safety project changing work opportunities.
London, and offers seven GCSEs with English, Protecting The Most Vulnerable Children Mathematics, Science and Computer Science Online.
This strategy aims to fill a major gap in The Trusts donation has gone towards funding as core subjects along with Citizenship, Child the current provision, as children struggling with the Formal Education Programme for 2015-17, Development and Art, as well as a range literacy have very little grasp of what personal which specifically targets teaching 19-24 year of vocational courses including Cooking, information actually means which results in olds in English and Mathematics.
deals with a wide range of students needs, from autism, dyslexia, to anger management SPRINGBOARD FOR CHILDREN issues and English as an Additional Language.
Springboard works to improve the life opportunities of disadvantaged children The Trusts donation has supported the Student who are at risk of being left behind in the Development Programme, which aims to education system due to literacy challenges.
upgrade current methods and procedures, The charity aims to service children in socially equipping the students so that they can and economically disadvantaged areas, to confidently sit their GCSEs and gain the life help them acquire basic literacy skills and skills that enable them to participate fully and help raise their expectations of themselves productively in the wider community.
The Trusts donation has gone towards supporting the Springboard Expert programme, for children facing the greatest learning challenges, who need highly trained specialists to teach them strategies for reading and writing that are tailored to their needs.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2015 45 23978 Man AR15.
