Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Sustainability report Responsibility to our Customers Improving customer engagement Operating sustainably and OneSavings Bank encourages a culture We take a personal approach to our responsibly is integral to our that aims to: customers, treating each customer business model and strategy, communicate and deal with each as an individual and listening to their customer on an individual basis: needs.
Many of our customers are and builds on OneSavings act with consistency across all also Members of the Kent Reliance Banks long tradition of channels: Provident Society, the Society that be a confident, open and trustworthy took over the management of the putting the customer at the workforce: membership of the former Kent Reliance heart of everything we do.
offer simplicity and ease of business: Building Society.
We provide Member offer long-term value for money: and engagement forums and an AGM at Our Core Values: Specialist, offer products without the use of which members can engage with senior Personal and Flexible reflect our short-term bonus rates, and to offer management and discuss their ideas commitment to interact ethically, the same rates to both existing and for improving our customer experience.
responsibly, and with integrity with potential customers.
Topics have included development of all our stakeholders and the wider the branch network, the launch of the community in which we operate: This strong focus on being a revamped online savings products We take a SPECIALIST approach responsible financial services provider and working in partnership with the toeverything we do we ensure is underpinned by a suite of policies at Bank, the Society also commenced weunderstand our stakeholders Group level that establish a framework the development of an online portal requirements and use our creativity, for consistent best practice across the enabling input from a geographically skill and expertise to fulfil their Group, and ensure there are robust broader range of members.
requirements with honesty procedures to minimise the risk of failure andintegrity.
to deliver the service our customers We take a PERSONAL approach have come to expect from us.
to everything we do we treat everyone with respect and take The relevant policies include: accountability for our actions.
Conduct Risk policy, including treating We take a FLEXIBLE approach to customers fairly to ensure the Group everything we do we ensure that conducts its business fairly and we work collaboratively with our without causing customer detriment.
colleagues, customers and other Responsible Lending Policy to ensure stakeholders to achieve our goals.
that the Group lends money responsibly.
Overview for 2015 Vulnerable Customer and Suicide During 2015, we achieved some Awareness Policy to ensure that important milestones developing our employees can identify vulnerability approach to sustainability: and potential suicide risks in our customers and put in place Achievements for 2015 appropriate actions to deal with such Customers Consistently High issues as effectively as possible.
Consumer Net Promoter Score 55% Anti-money laundering Policy to Employee Engagement survey ensure the Group is not used to 78% response further criminal activities.
Great Ormond Street 74,000 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy donation to ensure the Group carries out its business honestly.
In early 2016, the Board broadened the A Conflicts of Interest Policy to scope of the Nomination Committee ensure the Group can identify and if toinclude Governance.
Its terms of possible avoid conflicts, and where reference include the oversight of all this is not possible to manage Corporate Responsibility related matters conflicts fairly.
for the Group, reflecting the importance Data Protection Policy to ensure the we attribute to sustainability.
Group protects its customer data and manages it fairly.
Whistleblowing policy to ensure that any employee who raises concerns around misconduct is protected.
Employees have mandatory training on all the key policies, with completion rates generally at 100%.
44 44 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability report continued Our commitment to our customers is The Bank will be tracking the take up Responsibility to Our Employees evidenced in the strong net promoter of flexible working arrangements and Our employees are our key asset.
scores a measure of how likely a other gender related metrics going Their skills, expertise and enthusiasm customer is to recommend a business forwards, and will assess whether are central to achieving our strategic on a scale of -100 to 100 we achieve any further measures or measurable goals, and we continue to develop across our lending and saving objectives need to be put in place.
our training and development and franchises.
In addition, we have won employee engagement activities numerous awards for being the best Human Rights to support our employees.
provider for a range of services from We want all our workforce and wider Cash ISAs to Buy-to-Let mortgages.
stakeholders to be treated with dignity At the end of 2015, we employed and respect.
OneSavings Bank endorses 395 people in the UK and 210 people the UN Declaration of Human Rights in India over a broad range of Kent Reliance Savings: and supports the UN Guiding Principles occupations.
Our largest employment of Business and Human Rights.
The groups are our customer facing Winner: Best Bank Savings Provider, Group adheres to the International team: customer advisors, supported Moneyfacts Awards 2015 Labour Organisation Fundamental by internal managerial, clerical, Conventions.
We seek to engage with back office and professional staff.
Winner: Best Cash ISA Provider, stakeholders with fairness, dignity Moneyfacts Awards 2015 and respect.
The Company does not for the third year running Building, developing tolerate child labour and forced labour.
and retaining talent OneSavings Bank respects freedom of Winner: Best No Notice Account Diversity and inclusion association and the rights of employees Provider, Moneyfacts Awards 2015 We recognise the benefits of diversity, to be represented by trade unions or including gender diversity, throughout works councils.
OneSavings Bank is a Highly Commended ISA Provider: the Group and work to ensure that there fair employer and does not discriminate Moneyfacts Consumer Awards 2015 is an appropriate balance of skills and on the basis of gender, religion, age, experience across the Group.
Our policy applies throughout the group and is During 2015 we carried out our first Kent Reliance for Intermediaries: communicated to our employees during review of gender diversity across the their induction training.
Over 60% of our workforce is Winner: Best Buy-to-Let Mortgage suppliers and business partners to female, we have two female directors Provider, The Personal Finance adhere to the same principles.
18% of Board and two female Awards 2014 2015 members of the Executive Team 22%.
Talent Development and Training Winner: Best Buy-to-Let Mortgage We encourage employees to carry out Male Female Provider, What Mortgage Awards their work to the best of their ability.
Number of Board 2015 We promote learning and skills Directors 9 2 development opportunities across Highly Commended: Community 1 Number of Directors the organisation.
This is delivered Services Large lenders, Mortgage ofsubsidiaries 73 12 through e-learning courses, in-house Finance Gazette 2015 courses, coaching and external Number of programmes.
We have a very high senior managers completion rate 100% in 2015 for not directors 32 8 Digital banking mandatory compliance training, We aim to make banking easier All other employees 118 225 and this is linked to each employees for our customers and as such we annual objectives to emphasis the have significantly invested in digital importance we place on ensuring 1 This is the total number of directorships held banking over the past two years and our employees are suitably skilled.
There are 18 male Directors and have upgraded our infrastructure.
3 female Directors holding these directorships.
This includes security, internet While we are still a relatively small capability and handling services.
We also carried out a review to identify business in terms of employee numbers, if there were any impediments to we actively promote group wide Customer complaints ensuring gender balance across the vacancies internally to support career While we aim to provide an excellent business and looked at recruitment, development for existing employees and service, when things have gone wrong retention and promotions policy and we filled 31% of vacancies 58 of 185 we aim to put this right and learn procedure.
Although no specific barriers with internal candidates during 2015. from any mistakes made.
We have a were identified, maternity and paternity comprehensive, Group-wide complaints benefits have been improved and handling system and our staff complete training in relation to unconscious bias is rigorous training programmes to ensure to be introduced across all management a compliant and fair process is followed.
grades, as a result of this review.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 We also identify high potential Remuneration and benefits Activities in 2015 individuals for development We believe in rewarding our employees During 2015, we made good progress and promotion in the Group.
fairly and transparently, enabling in our programme of environmental In 2016 wewilllaunch a talent them to share in the success of the initiatives to reduce our impacts development programme to develop business.
Details of the Groups throughout Group operations.
competence, build confidence, remuneration policies can be found Activities during the year included: gain commitment, reduce attrition in the Remuneration Report on pages Conducting environmental audits and acquire and retaintalent.
75 to 81. on energy and gas consumption at eight offices: usage was 655,368 KWh Employee Engagement We offer our employees a comprehensive energy and 299,388 KWh gas: Having reached a material size in terms range of benefits, and continue to review Campaigns to reduce business travel of employee numbers, we carried out these to ensure they are in line with by facilitating the use of conference our first employee engagement survey market practice.
In addition to pension calls: in 2015, using the Sunday Times Best contributions, we offer a childcare Energy efficiency initiatives Companies to Work For.
Take up of the voucher scheme, interest free season encouraging better use of office opportunity to give feedback to the ticket loan, and a cycle to work scheme machinery, including introduction business was strong at 78%.
Overall offering discounts on bicycles.
of secure and duplex printing: and the results of the survey show that Promotion of greener vehicles.
employees are strongly aligned with We also encourage our employees to the company and their teams.
We have hold shares in the Bank for the long term, As part of our processes, we conduct established an employee engagement and offer a Save as You Earn scheme regular environmental audits at forum consisting of representatives which has had very strong take up across all our operations.
Audits form part across all departments and subsidiaries the Group with 46% of employees of our approach to Energy Savings to help us identify and build solutions participating as at the end of the year Opportunities Scheme ESOS assessment.
to issues that matter to our employees.
Our goals for 2016 are to: Health and safety Establish a formal Environmental Responsibility for the Environment Keeping our employees healthy and safe Policy.
As an office based financial services is important to OneSavings Bank.
We are Set up a task force for establishing provider, we have a relatively low committed to fostering and maintaining and monitoring the Environmental environmental impact.
a healthy working environment in which Policy.
our employees can flourish, and our Regularly review our environmental Despite this, we remain committed to customers can safely transact with us.
reducing our environmental impact, and Apply environmental principles during 2016 the Board will look to put in We operate a Group Health and Safety within our procurement supplier place a formal Environmental Policy.
Policy and we review our employee policy, especially in regards to paper and customer environments regularly.
OneSavings Bank Environmental Policy Promptly integrate feedback Will aim to: Activities in 2015: provided by audits.
We assessed and responded to Reduce our environmental impacts: Group health and safety risks and minimising energy and water workplace hazards.
display screen equipment for Monitor and assess our staff, pregnancy and health in environmental impact.
the workplace, fire safety, water Communicate our policy to all treatment, asbestos, staff welfare, employees, business partners and provision and use of work equipment make it assessable to customers and and electrical safety.
As part of this any interested shareholders.
process, we also conducted general Commit to continual improvement risk assessments on hazards.
and developing objectives and We continued to measure health and targets for reducing our safety performance against a range environmental impacts.
of key performance indicators in line Periodically conduct environmental with health and safety statutory audits in line with the Energy Saving requirements and our internal risk Opportunities Scheme.
All scheduled Promote environmental awareness risk assessments were completed with our stakeholders and engage asplanned.
with our customers to develop green We worked on our safety and solutions, such as promoting the use security systems, improving areas of of online statements.
access control and also the systems that manage our contractors.
46 46 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability report continued Responsibility towards Demelza Hospice Care for Children Kent County Football Association ourCommunity OneSavings Bank has traditionally had Local charity, Demelza, provides vital The Kent FAs mission is to establish safe very strong links with the community in care and support for life-limited and and structured football opportunities which it operates, through its Building life-threatened children, young people for the benefit of all.
Football remains Society heritage, and this is continued and their families.
the most popular sport in Kent with through its Kent Reliance brand.
4,500 teams and 45,000 players Supporting Demelza by fundraising competing each week across the We have a well-established Community through a combination of sponsorship County.
Adult participation in grassroots Services programme that does not and donations is hugely important to football is declining due to modern simply take the form of donations and Kent Reliance.
The significance of the lifestyles: however, its contribution fundraising, but also includes staff support Demelza provides to families to building stronger communities, volunteering and involvement.
cannot be over-estimated and our reducing crime, improving health, staff takes huge pride in their annual and tackling obesity is undisputed.
As one of the largest employers in the fundraising event, Go Dotty.
Aside region, many of our staff live in the local from straightforward fundraising, we Our relationship with Kent FA is wellarea they are a part of the local and also engage with the local community established and in 2015 we furthered regional community and therefore local by gifting our branch network as our commitment to the organisation by causes and campaigns particularly collection and promotion outlets for sponsoring all 20 of their County Cup resonate with our workforce.
Through our sponsorship feedback is crucial to informing where we provide funding for over 1,000 teams our support can be best placed within Engagement with the charity doesnt competing across the county, from the community, from an in-office end with our sponsorship.
Our staff grassroots to professional clubs, funding collection to our major charity partners.
embrace the opportunity to get for Kent FA Girls and Kent FA Disability involved with Demelza, with many of Player Development Centres, football Our diverse Community Services our employees visiting the hospice equipment to all County Cup finalists programme includes being a major throughout the year on Volunteer Days and prize funds for the Senior Cup and sponsor of Demelza Hospice Care for to help clear and maintain the gardens, Senior Trophy winners to help celebrate Children, donating to local Kent-based build new outdoor activity centres for their success.
charitable causes through our Kent the children and help with building Reliance Community Fund, sponsorship maintenance.
Staff have also made Our support of grassroots football of Kent FAs 20 County Cup competitions Demelza their charity of choice when continues with the launch of the and development centre, the Kent taking part in sponsored marathons.
#MagicOfTheCup competition: this Reliance Kent Heroes and Make initiative provides further opportunity Someones Christmas campaigns that Andy Golding comments on our for competing clubs to celebrate their we undertook with a local media partner.
support for Demelza: Although we successes, community inclusiveness and dohave fun whilst raising money for love of the game.
However, our charitable endeavours Demelza, we take our work in the local cannot simply take place on our front community very seriously.
We fully Paul Dolan, Chief Executive of the Kent doorstep: we also support both national support the remarkable work FA: Throughout our relationship with and international charities too.
Through performed by the charity and the Kent Reliance, they have shown their our savings arm of Kent Reliance we crucial care they provide for life-limited commitment to the grassroots football fundraise for Great Ormond Street and life-threatened children, young community.
Kent Reliance has supported Hospital and also donate to global people, and their families.
We know us with a variety of projects to develop crises via Y Care International through that the charity wouldnt be able to and improve the game for people in in-office and branch initiatives.
function without the help and support Kent.
Our 20 County Cups Competitions of those in the community, and we play an integral role in our engagement Overall the Bank has contributed areproud to support Demelza as one with clubs in Kent.
Our partnership with through sponsorship and donations a of our key charity partners so they Kent Reliance will ensure that we lead total of over 170,000 to community cancontinue providing the best the way in creating competitions that and charitable causes in 2015. possible care.
Feedback from our 2015 Staff Fundraising donation: in excess Barry W. Bright, Chairman & Managing Engagement survey suggests that staff of4,000 Director, Kent FA and Leader of FA would like more visibility of community Council: This sponsorship has been activities within the Group and greater openly held up as good practice by The engagement.
This will be a key Football Association on a national basis deliverable of the new Employee as guidance to other parts of England as Engagement Forum for 2016. to what can be professionally achieved respecting mutual activities but in the best traditional interests of all.
Long may it continue to appeal and for all to prosper.
Sponsorship donation: 20,000 Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Kent Heroes KEiBA, Medway Business Awards Kent County Cricket Club and Kent Charity Awards In 2015, we launched the Kent Heroes The Kent Excellence in Business Awards In 2015, Kent Reliance signed a campaign in conjunction with Kent is an annual award scheme staged in three-year sponsorship contract with Messenger: this was a community conjunction with Kent County Council Kent County Cricket Club KCCC, initiative where we asked the public to and the KM Media Group to recognise specifically supporting the Clubs nominate who they thought should and reward excellence in Kent and community programme.
As with our receive the following awards: Medways businesses.
commitment to Kent FA, this relationship is another opportunity to Carer of the Year The awards have a high profile and really support grassroots activity within Teacher of the Year winning a KEiBA is indicative of the the county and encourage people of all Young Person of the Year quality of an organisation and the abilities to get involved and enjoy sport.
999 Person of the Year strength of their management team.
Our sponsorship activity includes Unsung Kent Hero These awards attract a wide range of support for the Special Educational entries from across a variety of sectors.
Needs school cricket programme, a This campaign gave the local Disability Fun Day at the county ground, community an opportunity to celebrate Sponsoring the Employer of the Year the Disability Softball Competition for local, unsung heroes who otherwise award at KEiBA gave Kent Reliance the primary and secondary schools and may not have been thanked for their opportunity to showcase regional specific sponsorship of the Learning selfless acts.
The most appealing part companies who are thriving due to their Disability, Physical Disability and of the undertaking was the real sense employee centric focus.
As a major Kent Visually Impaired squads.
of inclusiveness these awards promoted employer and a company which has every sector of the local community grown rapidly, we understand the Kent Cricket Community Director, Andy could be represented regardless of age importance of being a good employer Griffiths: The Club is thrilled to have Kent or ability.
Each award recipient was and, crucially, how an organisation Reliance on board as a supporter of the publicly recognised with an exclusive needs to be supportive of its workforce Community game.
It is very encouraging story in the Kent Messenger and a to create success.
to see a leading Kent business supporting 500 cheque from Kent Reliance.
grassroots activity and giving people The Medway Business Awards celebrate across Kent the opportunity to The success of the inaugural Kent successful businesses in the Medway participate.
The disability sector in Heroes campaign and the positive region.
As a leading employer with a particular is an area we have ambitious impact it has on the local community richMedway history, it is a natural fit plans to develop so, to secure funding means it has informed our decision to forus to support the awards via our and genuine support is very heartening.
In addition to our sponsorship Sponsorship donation: 17,500 The Kent Charity Awards showcase the relationship, within the savings area of hard work that charities and voluntary our business we also donate 1% of the groups from around the county average monthly balances of our Kent undertake to make the lives of others Great Ormond Street Hospital Spitfires savings account holders to KCCC.
Celebrating and supporting the county at a grassroots level is key to Sponsorship donations: 10,000 As a business, we like to think of our staff Kent Reliances charitable endeavours as extended family a clich, perhaps, and our sponsorship of KCA reflects that.
but one that certainly rings true with Make Someones Christmas Kent Reliance.
It is perhaps because Sponsorship donation: 11,500 ofthis family-focused ethos that we naturally feel drawn to charities that While Kent Heroes celebrated the support families at their time of need.
unsung heroes of the county, for our Kent Reliance Community Fund and Christmas campaign we wanted to bring Medway 100 Club Great Ormond Street Hospitals GOSH some festive cheer to the everyman.
mission is simple, as a charity their aim On a monthly basis the Kent Reliance Our 2015 Christmas campaign was our isto raise enough money to enable the Community Fund donates 1,000 to most ambitious to date, with prizes hospital to continue to provide the very charitable causes across Kent.
Kent being given out every day in December, best care for its young patients and their Reliance is also a member of the up to and including Christmas Eve.
In 2011, we launched our Peter Medway 100 Club, a group of Medway Thecampaigns aim was to celebrate Pan savings account with a commitment businesses who proactively support both the small moments of Christmas to raise funds for GOSH with a minimum community initiatives.
The group meets kindness and larger gestures of goodwill yearly donation of 25,000.
To date, we regularly to hear directly from people 18 bespoke prizes were created for the have donated in excess of 169,000 to and groups working at grassroots levels winners and ranged from a new front the childrens hospital.
to make a difference in the community, door to a theme park being closed for the group then decides how funds aprivate visit from a bereaved family.
Fundraising donations for 2015: should be split across Medway.
inexcess of 74,000 Make Someones Christmas has been Sponsorship donation: 12,000 our most successful campaign to date, with eight times the nominations of our previous campaigns.
