A5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, employees, customers and other stakeholders are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such, the Groups aim is to ensure that a high standard of corporate governance and corporate responsibility is maintained in all areas of its business and operations.
A5.1 EMPLOYEES The welfare, development and engagement of the Groups employees are central to developing a strong culture, with employee capability and motivation acknowledged as being central to the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Engagement levels are monitored through an annual employee survey.
The March 2015 exercise received a response rate of 89% and an overall engagement score of 85%.
Remuneration packages across the business are compliant with the UKs national minimum wage rates.
In addition, we are fully committed to the principles of the Living Wage and met this standard for employees in November 2014 and the remainder of the financial year.
The Living Wage is an hourly rate set independently, updated annually and calculated according to the cost of living in the UK.
We see the Living Wage as an important part of our values and our people strategy and support the Living Wage Foundations principle of it being good for business, good for the individual and good for society.
Flexible working is actively encouraged across all areas, to promote a work-life balance for individuals and to ensure that the Group retains the skills and experience of its people.
The Group monitors working practices to ensure that it complies with the Working Time Regulations to ensure no one is forced to work more than a 48 hour week over an average 17 week period.
This includes the monitoring of any second jobs.
When responding to changes in its business, the Group always seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying employees wherever possible.
The Human Resources department actively works alongside the Groups management to recruit, develop and retain capable people.
Equality and diversity The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises the diversity of its customers.
The Group has invested not only in management training to ensure managers are equipped to support fair working practices, but also in educating all employees to ensure the policy is fully embedded.
The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or national origins gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or affiliations PAGE 44 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT disability, impairment or age real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS: or membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by unjust or unfair conditions or requirements.
The Group aims to ensure that applications for employment from people with disabilities and other under-represented groups are given full and fair consideration and that all employees have access to the same training, development and job opportunities.
Every effort is also made to retrain and support employees who suffer from disabilities during their employment, including the provision of flexible working to assist their return to work.
Composition of the workforce During the year the workforce has grown by 5% to 1,040 people 2014: 991.
Information on the composition of the workforce at the year end is summarised below: 2015 2015 2014 2014 Females Males Females Males Number Employees 579 461 562 430 Percentage 55.7% 44.3% 56.7% 43.3% Number Management grade employees 82 109 72 99 Percentage 42.9% 57.1% 42.1% 57.9% Number Senior managers 4 17 4 15 Percentage 19.0% 81.0% 21.1% 78.9% Number Directors 1 7 1 7 Percentage 12.5% 87.5% 12.5% 87.5% Of these employees, ethnic minority employees comprised 9.7% of the workforce 2014: 13.2% and 6.3% of management grade employees 2014: 4.7%.
Employees on temporary or short-term contracts accounted for 3% of the workforce 2014: 6.4%.
Our annual employee turnover for the year was 11.0% - below the financial services average of 20.4% reported by the 2014 Xpert HR study.
Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual basis and employee satisfaction with equality of opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee surveys.
Human Resources policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are non-discriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and development policies and practices are monitored to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to learn and develop according to their abilities.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 45 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT In March 2015 an externally facilitated and benchmarked employee survey was carried out.
Feedback demonstrates that our employees are engaged within their roles with our overall engagement indicator at that time was 85%, which is significantly higher than the financial services sector average of 66%.
In addition, 90% of our employees stated that they were proud to work for the Group and 95% said they shared its values.
Training and development The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997 and achieved Gold status in February 2013.
This demonstrates the Groups commitment to the training and development of all its employees.
In addition, we were also invited by Investors in People to receive Champion Status in May 2014, which is given to organisations who are seen as pioneers in people management practices and role models in strategic leadership and is currently held by only 1% of companies in the UK.
This involves the Group in active networking with other organisations and offering mentoring support to smaller organisations that are working towards gaining the Investors in People accolade.
Appraisals are designed to assist employees in developing their careers and to identify and provide appropriate training opportunities, with all employees receiving a review at least annually.
Appraisals also provide a method to track individuals progress and identify opportunities to develop them into further roles, thereby supporting the Groups overall succession planning objectives.
The Groups in-house development team deliver leadership development programmes, externally accredited by the Chartered Management Institute CMI, to support our managers.
The corporate training and development strategy focuses on providing opportunities to develop all employees and is central to the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
On average employees received 11.4 days training in the year 2014: 13.7 days.
Recruitment We remain committed to employing individuals from the communities in which we are based and hold open days three times per year to publicise our vacancies.
We also run a successful refer a friend scheme whereby employees are awarded with a referral fee if an individual they refer for a role passes probation.
This year 38 individuals were successfully recruited through this scheme.
We also engage with local schools and colleges in the Solihull area through careers fairs to offer employability workshops and to promote ourselves as a local employer.
In addition, we have offered eleven work experience placements to local students this year.
Employees involvement The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees informed of the progress of the business.
The Group operates a People Forum, attended by employee representatives from each area of the business, which exists primarily to facilitate communication and dissemination of information throughout the Group and provides a means by which employees can be consulted on matters affecting them.
Employees are provided with regular information on the performance and plans of the Group, and the financial and economic factors affecting it, through electronic information and presentations.
The Company operates a Sharesave share option scheme and a profit sharing scheme, both of which enable eligible employees to benefit from the performance of the business.
The directors encourage employee involvement at all levels through the appraisal process and communication between directors, managers, teams and individual employees.
PAGE 46 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Company involvement in industry initiatives on employment standards This year the business has provided support to external working groups focussing on employment standards organised by industry bodies such as the British Bankers Association and, in particular, contributing to submissions in respect of: European Banking Authority EBA remuneration guidelines consultation May 2015 UK Government consultation on Closing the Gender Pay Gap July 2015 Health and Safety policy It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, and subsequent legislation, and to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
Health and safety objectives have been set to minimise the number of instances of occupational accidents and illnesses, while monitoring performance, providing training, raising employee awareness and ultimately achieving an accident-free workplace.
The Group recognises and accepts its duty to protect the health, safety and welfare of all visitors to its premises, including contractors and temporary workers, as well as any members of the public who might be affected by our operations.
While the management of the Group will do all within its power to ensure the health and safety of its employees, it is recognised by all employees that health and safety at work is the responsibility of each and every individual associated with the Group.
It is the duty of each employee to take reasonable care of their own and other peoples welfare and to report any situation which may pose a threat to the well-being of any other person.
Health and safety policies and procedures are managed by the Group Services Division which liaises with senior management and Human Resources as necessary.
A health and safety co-ordinator is employed within Group Services to manage all health and safety matters, including policies, procedures, risk assessments and training records.
All employees are provided with such equipment, information, training and supervision as is necessary to implement the policy in order to achieve the above stated objective.
The Group makes available such finances and resources deemed reasonable to mitigate any risks identified.
All injuries, however small, sustained by a person at work are reported internally with the appropriate level of investigation assigned, based on the incident.
Accident records are crucial to the effective monitoring and revision of the policy and must therefore be accurate and comprehensive.
The Group recognises the need to ensure that all employees adhere to this health and safety policy and is prepared to invoke the disciplinary process in case of any deliberate disregard for health and safety policies and procedures.
The Groups health and safety policy is continually monitored and updated, particularly when changes in the scale or nature of its operations occur.
The policy is reviewed at least every twelve months.
Live issues and risks are recorded and monthly management information is issued to the Operational Risk and Compliance Committee and the Occupational Health and Safety Working Group.
BS18001 The British Standard for Occupational Health & Safety was obtained during 2013 and is now acknowledged by the third party auditor to be a mature management system.
This is highlighted during the audit inspections where the auditor can evidence ongoing reviews and documentation relating to the Groups day-to-day management of risk.
During the year ended 30 September 2015 there have been no prosecutions, reports under the Reporting of Incidents, Disease and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations or any enforcement action from the authorities for non-compliance in respect of health and safety matters.
This is in keeping with the Groups record in previous years throughout its 30 year history.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 47 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT
