In November 2014 the Group announced a share buy-back programme, initially for up to 50.0 million, to be reviewed periodically to take account of anticipated investment opportunities and the balance of the Groups debt and equity capital resources.
During the year the Group bought back 11.7 million of its ordinary shares at a cost of 49.7 million, which are held in treasury note 47.
The Board intends to extend the programme by up to 50.0 million in the financial year ending 30 September 2016.
These shares will also be held in treasury.
The Company currently has the necessary shareholder approval to undertake such share buy-backs and will propose the appropriate renewal of the relevant authority at its 2016 Annual General Meeting, when a special resolution seeking authority for the Company to purchase up to 29.6 million of its own shares 10% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares will be put to shareholders.
A3.4 MANAGEMENT AND PEOPLE During the year ended 30 September 2014 the Board reviewed the governance arrangements for the Group.
For the purposes of succession planning and to ensure that the Board had in place sufficient non-executive directors to maintain its independence balance in the future taking into account the dates at which the current non-executive directors would cease to be independent under the requirements of the UK Code on Corporate Governance, it determined that an additional non-executive director should be appointed.
It also considered that the increasing demands placed on non-executive directors by the growing size and complexity of the Group further supported this decision.
Following this review, on 24 November 2014, Hugo Tudor was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director.
He spent 26 years in the fund management industry, originally with Schroders and most recently with BlackRock, covering a wide range of UK equities.
He is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a Chartered Accountant and brings a strong strategic and investor perspective to the Board.
On 1 July 2015 Edward Tilly retired from the Board.
Mr Tilly had been a director of the Company since 2008, serving for over two years as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, before becoming Senior Independent Director in July 2011.
Teds experience and wisdom have been invaluable and his presence on the Board will be greatly missed.
Following a handover period, Fiona Clutterbuck succeeded Mr Tilly in the role of Senior Independent Director of the Group and continues as Chairman of the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Group has always recognised that its people are its most important asset and are key to its future growth and development.
The learning and development of its employees, together with a rigorous recruitment process are a key part of the Groups organic growth strategy and underpin the strong progress it has made.
It retains its Gold Investor in People status, reflecting the quality of its internal processes and during the year has continued to act, by invitation, as an Investor in People Champion, sharing its experience with other businesses.
This places it in the top 1% of companies in the UK for people development.
The Group prides itself on the fact that its people stay with it for a long time.
Its annual employee attrition rate of 11% is below the national average and 33% of its people have been with Paragon for more than ten years, with 12% having achieved over 20 years with the Group.
We believe this is due to providing quality development opportunities and creating a place at which people want to work, which has in turn meant that knowledge and experience have been retained in each of our specialist areas.
We have continued to add to the team over the past year with an excellent set of people at all levels of the organisation, increasing numbers by 4.9% over the year.
We believe our people are well positioned to support the Groups future growth strategy.
The existing operation of Five Arrows Leasing Group, including its people, will transfer across to form part of Paragon Bank.
We are looking forward to working with our new colleagues and learning from their skills and experience in asset finance, to further develop our future growth plans.
Succession planning strategy has been an important area of focus during the year, with our key roles identified from a leadership and specialist perspective.
Immediate successors are in place for the short term to provide business continuity and our longer term succession plans are being developed, for those with career ambitions and strong potential.
This area will remain a priority for the Board during the forthcoming year.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 39 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT
