A5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Group believes that the long-term interests of shareholders, employees, customers and other stakeholders are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such, the Groups aim is to ensure that a high standard of corporate governance and corporate responsibility is maintained in all areas of its business and operations.
A5.1 EMPLOYEES The welfare, development and engagement of the Groups employees are central to developing a strong culture, with employee capability and motivation acknowledged as being central to the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Engagement levels are monitored through an annual employee survey.
The March 2015 exercise received a response rate of 89% and an overall engagement score of 85%.
Remuneration packages across the business are compliant with the UKs national minimum wage rates.
In addition, we are fully committed to the principles of the Living Wage and met this standard for employees in November 2014 and the remainder of the financial year.
The Living Wage is an hourly rate set independently, updated annually and calculated according to the cost of living in the UK.
We see the Living Wage as an important part of our values and our people strategy and support the Living Wage Foundations principle of it being good for business, good for the individual and good for society.
Flexible working is actively encouraged across all areas, to promote a work-life balance for individuals and to ensure that the Group retains the skills and experience of its people.
The Group monitors working practices to ensure that it complies with the Working Time Regulations to ensure no one is forced to work more than a 48 hour week over an average 17 week period.
This includes the monitoring of any second jobs.
When responding to changes in its business, the Group always seeks to minimise the requirement for compulsory redundancy, retraining and redeploying employees wherever possible.
The Human Resources department actively works alongside the Groups management to recruit, develop and retain capable people.
Equality and diversity The Group is committed to providing a working environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises the diversity of its customers.
The Group has invested not only in management training to ensure managers are equipped to support fair working practices, but also in educating all employees to ensure the policy is fully embedded.
The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to work in an environment free from discrimination, harassment and bullying, and that employees, job applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: race, colour, nationality including citizenship, ethnic or national origins gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or affiliations PAGE 44 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT
