A5.3 SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS The Groups activities are based wholly within the United Kingdom.
It operates within the legal and regulatory framework of the UK, acknowledging the importance of corporate responsibility and citizenship in its relationships with its customers, the wider community and other stakeholders.
Commitment to our customers The Group places the needs of customers at the heart of its day-to-day operations.
With a commitment from the Board, fairness to our customers is a key consideration and objective at all stages of the lifetime of a loan.
Our vision is to become the UKs most highly regarded specialist provider of finance for people.
Putting the interests of our customers at the heart of what we do is an integral part of achieving that objective and we want our customers to have confidence that we will always treat them fairly.
The Group therefore strives to ensure that: products and services are designed to meet our customers needs customers are given clear, jargon free information products perform as customers have been led to expect customers do not face unreasonable post-sale barriers to change a product, switch provider, submit a claim or make a complaint high quality customer service is provided We believe our desire to achieve positive outcomes for our customers is an important commercial differentiator which has helped us build strong and positive relationships over many years.
An example of this approach is the way that new customers are welcomed to the Group following portfolio acquisitions made through our Idem Capital business.
A change of lender can be confusing for customers so we have robust processes aimed at supporting them at this time and throughout the life of their relationship with the Group.
This pro-active approach accords with the FCAs Principles for Business, particularly with regard to treating customers fairly and ensuring the way in which we communicate is clear, fair and not misleading.
We ensure that we know how well we are performing in respect of these requirements, regularly adjusting what we do to deliver better customer solutions.
The Board and executive management are committed to maintaining and developing this culture across the Group.
Complaint handling We understand that we do not always get things right first time and all complaints from our customers are taken very seriously.
We acknowledge each complaint promptly and then work with customers to understand their feedback, investigating fully and responding swiftly in a fair and open manner.
Where applicable, we provide Alternative Dispute Resolution information to customers to allow them to appeal to independent sources if they are not happy with our response.
These include the Financial Ombudsman, the FLA and the Credit Services Association.
We genuinely view every complaint as an opportunity to improve our business, an opportunity to identify where we are going wrong and, most importantly, an opportunity to put things right for our customers.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 51 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT Supporting the community The Group contributes to registered charities relating to financial services or serving the local communities in which it operates.
Contributions of 1,045,000 2014: 1,137,000 were made by the Group during the year to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling which operates the StepChange Debt Charity.
The Group also contributed to charities throughout the year by way of single donations.
Other charitable contributions made in the year totalled 19,000 2014: 17,000.
The Groups main objective is to support childrens and local charities, although no charity request is overlooked.
During the last year the Group has helped many and varied charities and causes such as: Macmillan Cancer Support, The Alzheimers Society, Get Set Girls, Army of Angels, Chelmsley Colts FC, Strongbones Charitable Trust, Ward 19 Charity, County Air Ambulance, Our Lady of Compassion School, Children with Cancer, Age UK Solihull and 3H Fund Helping Hands.
Employees have been making a difference to the local community in many ways.
This year employees have: delivered workshops in local schools and colleges focussing on financial awareness and employability skills donated over 100 shoeboxes for local Samaritan project Operation Christmas purse: and made regular contributions to local food banks The Group also supports Paragons Charity Committee, consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a variety of fundraising activities throughout the year.
In the calendar year 2014, 14,200 was raised for Wythall Animal Sanctuary and Libby Maes Little Angels, while in the first nine months of 2015 8,500 has been raised for Help Harry Help Others.
All employees are given the opportunity to nominate a charity each year and a vote is carried out to select the charity or charities to benefit from the following years fundraising.
Taxation payments The Groups tax strategy is to comply with all relevant tax obligations while cooperating fully with the tax authorities.
The Group recognises that in generating profits which can be distributed to shareholders it benefits from resources provided by government and the payment of tax is a contribution towards the cost of those resources.
The Group will only undertake tax planning that supports commercial activities and in the UK context is not contrary to the intention of Parliament.
As a result of the authorisation of Paragon Bank PLC in February 2014 the Group became subject to The Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks the Bank Tax Code as published by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC in March 2013.
During the year the Group confirmed to HMRC that it was unconditionally committed to complying with the Bank Tax Code, and formally approved the Groups tax governance policies and the tax strategy outlined above.
The Group has an open and positive relationship with HMRC, meeting with their representatives on a regular basis, and is committed to full disclosure and transparency in all matters.
The Group is resident and operates in the UK and its tax payments to the UK authorities include not only corporation tax but also substantial payroll taxes.
The amounts of the Groups cash payments to UK national and local tax authorities in the year, including PAYE and NI contributions deducted from employee wages and salaries were as follows: 2015 2014 m m Corporation tax 22.6 17.4 PAYE and National Insurance 20.0 17.9 VAT 0.3 0.3 Stamp duty 0.2 1.0 Total national taxation 43.1 36.6 Business rates 1.3 1.1 44.4 37.7 PAGE 52 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Business practices The Group carries out its business fairly, honestly and openly.
It has an anti-bribery and corruption policy, endorsed by the directors and operated throughout the Group.
It will not make bribes, nor will it condone the offering of bribes on its behalf.
It will not accept bribes, nor will it agree to them being accepted on its behalf and will avoid doing business with those who do not accept its values and who may harm its reputation.
The Group has carried out the risk assessment required by the Bribery Act 2010 and concluded that it is not a company with a high risk of bribery.
The Group conducts all of its business within the UK and its only significant outsourcing arrangement relates to the administration of its savings operations by the outsourcing arm of a major UK building society.
However, the Group takes its responsibilities seriously and will not tolerate bribery on any scale and as such policies have been strengthened and new ones introduced where appropriate.
The Groups policies cover the conduct of its business, the Groups interaction with suppliers and contractors and the giving or receiving of gifts and corporate hospitality.
Before new suppliers are approved, the Groups procedure requires that they must be assessed against the requirements of the anti-bribery and corruption policy.
All employees are required to read the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy and sign to confirm their acknowledgement, understanding and acceptance of its requirements.
The anti-bribery culture forms part of the induction course for all new employees and is reinforced at subsequent training sessions.
Any employee found to be in breach of these policies will be subject to disciplinary action.
No such disciplinary action has taken place in the year ended 30 September 2015.
The Group Chief Risk Officer, in conjunction with the Head of Financial Crime, who is part of the second line Risk and Compliance function, is responsible for ensuring the Bribery Act risk assessment and resulting policies and procedures are in place and reviewed on a regular basis.
They are also responsible for ensuring any changes in the law are noted and applied to the Groups policies and procedures, where appropriate.
The Head of Internal Audit is responsible for providing assurance that the business heads have the appropriate controls in place to ensure all employees adhere to the anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures at all times.
The Group has not been involved in any prosecutions, fines, penalties or similar non-compliances in respect of bribery and corruption.
Human rights The Group operates exclusively in the UK and, as such, is subject to the European Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
The Group respects all human rights and in conducting its business the Group regards those rights relating to non-discrimination, fair treatment and respect for privacy to be the most relevant and to have the greatest potential impact on its key stakeholder groups of customers, employees and suppliers.
The Board and the Group Chief Risk Officer have overall responsibility for ensuring that all areas within the Group uphold and promote respect for human rights.
The Group seeks to anticipate, prevent and mitigate any potential negative human rights impacts as well as enhance positive impacts through its policies and procedures and, in particular, through its policies regarding employment, equality and diversity, treating customers fairly and information security.
Group policies seek both to ensure that employees comply with the relevant legislation and regulations in place in the UK and to promote good practice.
The Groups policies are formulated and kept up to date by the relevant business area, authorised in accordance with the Groups governance procedures and communicated to all employees through the Human Resources Policies Manual.
The Group is aware of the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 which include the requirement to publish a Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, which is expected to apply to the Group for the first time in respect of the financial year ending 30 September 2016.
The Group is considering guidance and emerging best practice in this field as it develops and currently considers that it is well placed to make the required statement.
The Group undertakes extensive monitoring of the implementation of all of its policies and has not been made aware of any incident in which the organisations activities have resulted in an abuse of human rights.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 53 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT
