74 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Responsibilities and relationships The strategic importance of CR We have a social purpose and We have served the non-standard credit market since 1880: putting the needs of our corporate responsibility CR strategy customers at the centre of all we do.
CR has been, and continues to be, an important in place which make clear what part of how the Provident Financial Group operates.
This means This commitment to our customers needs continuing to serve our customers in is demonstrated by the relationship we have with them and in the products and services a responsible manner at every stage we develop and deliver.
It is also enshrined in our social purpose and CR strategy of their relationship with us, and acting which underline the importance of lending responsibly to our 2.4 million customers and responsibly and with integrity with managing the other social, environmental and economic issues that are material to all our other stakeholders.
This encompasses how we manage our relationships with our other key this, we can deliver our mission to be stakeholders including how we treat our employees, agents and suppliers, as well as the leading non-standard lender in supporting and investing in the communities we serve and ensuring that we take our ourchosen markets, acting responsibly responsibility to minimise our impact on theenvironment seriously.
in allour relationships and playing a positive roleinthecommunities weserve.
Our material CR issues To help ensure that we manage and report on the CR issues that matter most to our business and stakeholders, we undertook an exercise during 2015 to identify and prioritise our material CR issues.
This was performed to inform our social purpose and CR strategy, and to ensure that future CR reports comply with the Global Reporting Initiatives G4 reporting guidelines.
We engaged Corporate Citizenship, an independent sustainability management consultancy, to reassess the materiality of our CR issues.
This involved deskbased research to identify and prioritise current and future CR issues, roundtable Peter Crook discussions with external stakeholders Chief Executive and stakeholder interviews, to assess the importance of each issue.
Finally, we engaged with internal stakeholders to identify the CR issues most important from their point of view.
The issues that were identified as aresult of the materiality assessment exercise have been plotted onthe materiality matrix setout opposite.
Strategic report 75 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our mission is Our social purpose is Our CR strategy involves... to be the leading non-standard financial inclusion for those operating our core business lender in our chosen markets, acting who are not well served by of lending to our customers in a responsibly in all our relationships mainstream credit products orare responsible manner, and acting and playing a positive role in excluded altogether.
responsibly and sustainably in all thecommunitieswe serve.
This commits us to This commits us to This commits us to being a responsible providing non-standard credit putting the needs of our corporate citizen.
customers with appropriate customers at the heart of amounts of credit, maintaining everything we do: creating a close contact with them throughout working environment that is safe, the term of their loan, and working inclusive and meritocratic: treating with them sympathetically if they our suppliers fairly: supporting experience difficulties.
The terms our communities: engaging and conditions are also designed with the investment community to meet their particular needs, on sustainability matters: and and rigorous checks are made to minimising the environmental ensure customers can afford their impacts of our business.
We have been doing this since 1880.
Materiality matrix Business Social Responsible lending Environmental practices Employment Customer satisfaction practices and customer care Financial inclusion and well-being Major social challenges aecting low-income households Community Ethical business contributions conduct Accountability and Governance and transparency management Diversity and Responsible Environmental inclusion procurement impact Importance to the business Importance to stakeholders 76 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report CR management and our core business Measuring and reporting CRperformance The CR strategy which we launched last year is supported by ascorecard which includes a range of qualitative and quantitative metrics tohelpmonitor our progress in delivering against our strategy.
Provident Financials CR strategyscorecard CR strategy commitment Key metrics Operate our core business of lending to our customers in a responsible and sustainable manner, putting customers needs at the heart of everything we do Information on products eg APRs, the role played by agents, tax and governance.
Be transparent in howwedobusiness The percentage of customers surveyed who are satisfied with the service with which Treat our customers theyhavebeen provided.
responsibly throughout Total number and nature of complaints.
theirjourney with us Total number and nature of complaints referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service andtheproportion which are upheld in favour of customers.
Impairment as a percentage of revenue.
Total number of accounts handled by debt collection agencies per annum.
Total customer-focused training hours undertaken by employees and agents.
Act responsibly in all our other stakeholder relationships Workplace diversity.
Create a working environment The percentage of women in senior management roles.
that is safe, inclusive and Average number of days lost to absence per employee per annum.
meritocratic Number of calls made to the group-wide whistle-blowing hotline per annum.
Percentage of suppliers paid in accordance with their terms and conditions.
Treat our suppliers fairly The amount of money invested in support of community programmes, money advice Support our communities andsocial research.
The number of people who directly benefit from Provident Financials community involvement activities.
The number of people supported to develop new skills or improve their personal effectiveness asaresult of Provident Financials community involvement activities.
The number of people who experience a positive impact on their quality of life or well-being through Provident Financials community involvement activities.
Total number of hours volunteered by employees in community involvement activities.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices FTSE4Good scores, presence within Euronext Vigeo and Engage with the investment ForumETHIBEL indices, and information on investor engagement activities.
community on sustainability matters Total greenhouse gas emissions reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions and increase the reporting Minimise the environmental ofScope3 emissions.
impacts of our business Total energy use MWh.
Total waste arising from our activities tonnes.
Two of the metrics from this scorecard customer satisfaction and charitable contributions are reported in the strategy and performance section of this report see pages 14 to 17.
We also publish a stand-alone, annual CR report which sets out a full account of our performance against all the metrics within this scorecard.
Our 2015 CR report will be published during the summer of 2016.
Information on our CR reports can be found at www.
com Strategic report 77 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 How CR is governed and managed Our products and the customers Treating our customers who use them responsibly every step of the way Overall responsibility for our CR programme rests with Peter Crook, the Chief Executive.
The Provident Financial Group has been Treating our customers responsibly is built CR matters are regularly considered by serving the non-standard credit market since into everything we do from the way we the board and a corporate affairs activity 1880 and, in this time, we have gained a good market and sell our products and how we report is presented at each board meeting.
understanding of what our customers are make our lending decisions, to how often The groups executive committee, which looking for in credit products.
This includes: we contact customers and the process we includes the executive directors and senior have for complaints.
We have developed Smaller sums typically less than a management, and is chaired by Peter Crook, our products to meet our customers needs: mainstream provider would lend.
reviews and approves the CR programme creating simple, transparent products with and budget.
high levels of forbearance and flexibility.
High levels of contact with their lender our customers like someone to talk Ongoing management of the CR programme Developing our digital channels toabout their loan.
is undertaken by Provident Financials CR We have continued to develop digital Manager and Community Affairs Manager, Understanding our customers usually channels for customers to initially apply who are supported by a number of working have little leeway in their income, so, if they for their chosen product and service groups made up of representatives from our experience problems during the term of their needs throughout their relationship subsidiary businesses.
their loan, they want to talk to someone with us both online and through apps who understands their situation and on their smartphones.
In addition, the Our core business: Lending can offer a solution.
With some of our agents in the Provident business now use products this can even mean the ability responsibly and sustainably smartphones and apps to maintain their toreschedule repayments at no extra customers accounts.
Our social purpose places great importance costto the customer whatsoever.
on putting the needs of our customers at In 2015: Our products are tailor-made to meet the centre of everything we do.
Our primary 4m Vanquis Bank customers self-served ourcustomers needs a sensible amount focus is to serve the needs of the nonoverthe phone.
of credit provided in a transparent, standard credit market something we have responsible, sustainable way.
All of the 135 years experience of doing.
We do this 100% of Provident home credit agents businesses within the group specialise by delivering credit products that meet the use smartphones to maintain their in offering simple and suitable products particular needs of our customers and by customer rounds.
which are delivered in a way which suits treating them responsibly throughout their  needs.
Dealing with customer complaints journey with us from the point at which we market our products to customers, through We aim to provide our customers with an Our low and grow approach to lending the entire term of their loan, including if they excellent service.
This is evidenced through is a key characteristic of our products: it experience any difficulties along the way, our high levels of customer satisfaction, enables us to extend small amounts of andeven when our credit agreement with Feefo and Trust Pilot reviews, and the low credit to customers in a responsible and them is over.
levels of customer complaints across all prudent manner.
Under this approach, our businesses.
new customers to Vanquis Bank, Provident and Satsuma receive lower credit limits, or Customer complaints per 1,000 smaller, shorter-term loans to begin with.
This enables us to observe and understand customers per month: the behaviour of our customers before we Vanquis Bank 1.05 consider granting further amounts and also enables the customers to experience our Provident home credit 1.00 products and see if they suit their needs.
We also offer non-standard car finance loans through Moneybarn.
Moneybarn is the UKs Feefo percentage of customers who largest provider in the non-standard, dealerrated the service they receive purchased, used-car finance market.
asgoodor excellent and Trust Pilot review scores: Provident home credit 98% Satsuma 98% Vanquis Bank Trust Pilot review 9 10 78 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Our core business Vanquis Bank Provident Satsuma Our Provident home credit business is Satsuma is building on the knowledge of In line with our low and grow approach built around the relationship between the issuing Provident home credit loans and to lending, Vanquis credit limits start as customer and our self-employed agent.
We base lending low as 250 and we only extend a limit if The agent makes the final lending decision decisions on external bureau data and our it is appropriate to do so.
Our bespoke using central underwriting but also basing own scorecard, which enables us to include underwriting process has been developed their final decision as to whether to lend on behavioural and social data in our credit over the last 13 years and our prudent their personal assessment of the customers decisions.
Satsuma also reflects the low and approach to risk is reflected in the fact we ability and willingness to make their grow approach of both Vanquis Bank and only approve around 25% of applications.
This relationship Provident home credit and maintains high Our lending decision is based on both means the customer knows they will get a levels of customer contact.
external credit reference data and our own sympathetic response should they get into scorecards, which have been developed Satsuma collections processes are handled difficulty.
This may take the form of making a through our extensive experience.
by Vanquis Banks Chatham contact reduced payment, or even missing a weekly centre collections team.
This team works Once we have approved an application, we payment altogether, at no extra cost to closely with Satsuma customers, including understand that we need to get to know our them whatsoever.
contacting customers by phone and text customers so that we can put them at the Our commission structure means that agents message and working with them to ensure heart of our business.
So, all new customers are paid commission primarily on what they the best possible outcome for them if they receive a welcome call from one of our two collect, not what they lend, so they have no get into difficulty.
UK call centres and we continue to have high reason to lend more than their customers levels of customer contact throughout the can afford to repay.
Also, our low and grow relationship.
Every customer also receives Read more on Satsuma on pages 40 to 43 approach means first-time borrowers a welcome pack which outlines their rights typically receive smaller, shorter-term loans and responsibilities and offers tips on to give agents the opportunity to observe glo managing their finances and improving and understand thecustomers behaviour.
Customers tell us they The longer, larger loans that we offer to understand their statements and we send Our UK contact centre staff are available to customers through our glo business are SMS text messages to remind them when deal with Provident home credit customer underpinned by a guarantor typically a their payment is due.
70% of calls from customers are family member or friend of the customer any missed payments by contacting them answered within 20 seconds.
with a good credit history who agrees to immediately by telephone.
The Vanquis Bank guarantee the customers loan and pay for UK contact centre staff respond quickly to that loan if the customers circumstances calls from customers and answer queries change and they cannot afford to make efficiently: 81% of calls to us are answered their repayments.
Both the customer and guarantor are subject to rigorous affordability checks, and both are required to co-sign the loan agreement.
As with the groups other products, ensuring that glo delivers a customer-centric approach to forbearance should the customer get into financial difficulty is an important part of the way that 88% 93% the business operates.
Other responsible Vanquis Bank Provident lending characteristics of the loans offered customer satisfaction customer satisfaction by glo include no set-up fees or early repayment fees and making repayments through direct debit arrangements.
Read more on Vanquis Bank on pages 26 to 31 Read more on Provident on pages 34 to 37 Read more on glo on pages 44 to 46 Strategic report 79 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our working environment Taking part in the national Equality The 3,758 people we employ across the Standard will EnablE the group group are key to our ongoing success.
to undertake a comprehEnsive They help us to meet the needs of our 2.4 million customers, and are asSessmEnt focused on a range of invaluable drivers of new services and equality, diversity and inclusion products.
As such, our people are an important stakeholder.
This will improve group Our continued success relies on having a performance in thEse areas, ensure talented workforce.
To recruit and retain the our businessEs comply with all the Moneybarn best, it is essential we provide our staff with a safe and inclusive working environment that elEmentS of The Equality act 2010 The primary source of our new customer encourages everyone to reach their potential, leads is through a network of welland demonstrate lEaderShip in this and develops them to meet theirpersonal established brokers.
These brokers value career goals.
fiEld which will Strengthen the our service levels, technology and the We are committed to creating open and excellent relationships that we forge with groups reputation as an employer of inclusive workplace cultures in which them.
This is reinforced by approximately choice and good corporate citizen.
everyone feels valued and respected.
Not 60 staff, based within brokers, dedicated to Peter Crook only does our diverse workforce enable Moneybarn.
Brokers earn commission for Chief Executive us to deliver existing services, it also helps each lead that they provide which results inform the development of new or enhanced in a loan being issued.
Customers using a products and services, open up new market broker can source their vehicle from any opportunities, improve market share, and car dealership.
Treating our suppliers fairly broaden our customer base.
To help ensure Underwriting at Moneybarn is highly that there is continual improvement in this However simple our supply chain may be, automated to allow for rapid provisional area, we took the decision in 2015 to work we recognise that an important part of our approvals.
Decisions are based on external towards the National Equality Standard CR involves treating these suppliers fairly, credit data, our own scorecards, and fines.
The fines has been launched with the and using our purchasing power to procure affordability assessments.
support of the Equality and Human Rights sustainable products and services.
Commission and the Confederation of British Moneybarn typically requires customers to Industry.
It is the first industry-recognised In 2015, our annual spend on products pay a deposit.
The car is formally owned by national standard for equality, diversity and and services was 194.0 million Moneybarn until the final instalment is paid.
inclusion in the UK and has been developed 2014: 143.9 million.
This level of buying Moneybarn also maintains close contact by Ernst & Young in partnership with 18 power gives us the potential to encourage with its customers over the telephone and large UK employers.
It aims to become the and support our suppliers to become more responds to their calls within 70 seconds accepted equality standard for business sustainable.
The majority of the suppliers on average.
weuse are based in the UK and Ireland.
We are committed to making prompt The fines assessment process includes a payments to our suppliers as we recognise review of policies and practices, identifies that late payment can cause serious areas for improvement and provides cash flow problems, especially for small implementation recommendations.
As such, we endeavour to We continue to monitor and report the pay our suppliers in accordance with the gender split of the groups workforce.
payment terms we have agreed with them.
Rather than standard payment terms, our Female Male businesses have  Proportion of female male payment terms with each supplier which company directors % 29 71 aretypical of those in the wider market.
Proportion of female male senior managers, including executive In 2015, the group became a signatory directors, directors of subsidiary of the Prompt Payment Code.
This code businesses and heads of sets standards for payment practices and function % 30 70 best practice, and is administered by the 89% Proportion of female male Chartered Institute of Credit Management.
Moneybarn employees % 48 52 Compliance with the principles of the customersatisfaction code is monitored and enforced by the Prompt Payment Code Compliance Board.
The code covers prompt payment, as well as wider payment procedures.
An update on the performance of the Provident Financial group of businesses against the requirements of the code will be included in the 2015 corporate responsibility report.
Read more on Moneybarn on pages 52 to 56 80 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Investing in our communities Supporting our communities We recognise that we have a significant responsibility to the communities we serve.
Our financial products and services meet thespecific needs of those who are not wellserved, or are excluded altogether, bymainstream credit providers, thereby providing a direct social benefit.
However, inour commitment to responsible corporate citizenship, we also invest in programmes that support the needs of non-standard credit customers and those living in the localcommunities we serve.
As a result, weinvest a minimum of 1% of profit beforetax asmeasured under the London Benchmarking Groups guidelines in a rangeof programmes which align with thisprinciple.
The projects we support have a broad geographical spread throughout the UK and Ireland in addition to a local education project in Kenya.
The programmes invest in local community projects by providing cashsupport and creating opportunities for our staff to get involved.
Ourcash support can be a one-off investment in a project or a longer-term investment for three years or more.
The projects wesupporton a longer-term basis are set out on page 83.
Strategic report 81 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Supporting employee giving United Estates of Wythenshawe We know that our employees want to a Good Neighbour partner support the communities which we serve as The United Estates of Wythenshawe was established in 1996 by a group of a business.
Therefore, in addition to direct Wythenshawe families and local community leaders who were concerned funding for community organisations, we by increasing instances of anti-social behaviour and the growing destructive encourage employee giving in a number of influence of youth street-gang culture, coupled with the desire to prevent a local ways, including matched funding, matched landmark building closing its doors for good.
The project worked first with hardvolunteering hours, and company-led team to-reach young people not in education, employment or training NEETS and is volunteering challenges.
As a result, staff now open to the whole community.
Still under the management of local people, feel motivated and have access to personal the organisation is able to provide activities suitable for the very young through development opportunities.
to the elderly, based on their needs.
Their approach has meant they have been able to create a route away from anti-social behaviour, leading to social responsibility for young people and beneficial results for the whole community.
Our three-year funding pays for the post of the centre manager, as well as the building of a new outdoor gym.
In addition, a group of families were able to benefit from a trip to Stirling, which we organised through our funding 3.1m partnership with the Scottish Youth Hostel Association.
The visit gave the families an opportunity to bond: for most of the children, this was their invested in community firstholiday and for many, their first family outing.
programmes, money advice and social research in 2015 Support from Vanquis Bank gave us the opporTunity to diverSify, increasE our attractivEness to other funderS, and inTroduce more programmes to proVide direct Support for young people across Kent and medway.
Carol Bentall Chief Executive, Young Kent 82 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Investing in our communities continued The Money Charity A long-term partner of the Vanquis Bank Active Community Programme, the Money Charity delivers financial education through interactive workshops in schools across the UK.
Each workshop empowers children to build the skills, knowledge, attitudes and behaviours to make the most of their money.
Through their volunteer programme, the Money Charity trains and matches employees from Vanquis Banks contact centre in Chatham with local schools to deliver The Volunteer Money Workshop.
Aimed at 11 to 16 year-old secondary school pupils in alocal area, the workshop covers key financial topics in line with theNational Curriculum, including budgeting and the importance of savings, and understanding credit.
The programme is a good professional development package for employees as it provides them with the opportunity to develop leadership, mentoring and communication skills.
In 2015, Vanquis Bank employees delivered 25 workshops in schools across Kent, engaging with over 600 students.
In 2016, Vanquis Bank will work with the Money Charity to develop its relationships further and extend the volunteer programme to cover its other office sites in Bradford and London.
Community impact in 2015 2015 community investment figures Our approach to community involvement Through Good Neighbour and the Vanquis 1 Cash 2,829,013 42,938 2014: 2,103,946 Bank Active Community Programme, we had people benefited from the support committed long-term support three years 2 Management costs 229,147 provided by the projects we fund 2014: 257,405 or more to 50 projects across the UK and Ireland as at the end of 2015.
3 Value of 40,399 employee time 2014: 53,544 Total 3,098,559 Supporting the money 2014: 2,414,895 21,780 advicesector people accessed new 3 2 As part of our commitment to help nonservices and activities standard credit customers, we work with a wide range of free and voluntary money advice organisations.
Our financial support 1 enables them to help those who have 18,872 problems repaying their debts to us and people developed new skills others, and to increase the quality and as a result of their involvement availability of free, independent money inthe programmes advice in the UK.
We support a range of money advice providers, including: Advice UK, Citizens Advice, Step Change Debt Charity, Institute of Money Advisers, Money Advice Liaison Group, Money Advice Scotland, Money Advice Trust, andNational Debtline.
We also work with specialised money advice providers on a range of further financial education initiatives and help finance publicly-available, independent research tohelp understand the financial behaviour ofthose on modest incomes.
Strategic report 83 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Local community projects and organisations with long-term funding Good Neighbour projects CCD 1 27 32 Boomerang, Dundee Baggator, Bristol Early Focus Project, Dublin 2 33 S cottish Youth Hostel Association, Stirling Solas Project, Dublin 28 St Petrocks, Exeter 3 34 Oasis at Wallacewell, Glasgow B allymun Schools Programme, Dublin 29 Young People Cornwall, Truro 4 35 The Royal Lyceum, Edinburgh Laois Partnership, Portlaoise 30 REACH Across, Londonderry 5 V enchie Children and Young Peoples 36 An Oige, County Wicklow 31 H ostelling International Northern Project, Edinburgh Ireland, Belfast 37 O LL St Saviours Boxing Club, Limerick 6 Made4U in ML2, Wishaw 7 Scholemoor Beacon, Bradford 8 Joshua Project, Bradford 9 S edbergh Youth and Community Centre, Bradford 10 T he Edge, Bradford 11 Participate Projects, Bradford 12 One in a Million, Bradford 13 Immanuel Project, Bradford 1 14 B radford City Womens Football Club, 2 Bradford 3 4 5 6 15 B radford City Football Club Community Stand, Bradford 16 S ycamore Project Zacs Bar, Bolton 30 16 17 N orthfield Sports Association, Bootle 31 7 15 8 38 18 Yorkshire Dance, Rotherham 14 10 39 13 9 19 Harvey Girls, Burton on Trent 40 32 33 12 11 34 41 20 Sycamore Adventure, Dudley 16 18 17 35 23 21 M owmacre Young Peoples Play and 19 36 Development Association, Leicester 21 37 20 22 22 P roject for the Regeneration of Druids Heath, Birmingham 42 43 23 U nited Estates of Wythenshawe, 24 25 44 26 48 Manchester 27 49 47 24 The Door, Stroud 50 46 45 25 Y outh Network MK CIC, MiltonKeynes 28 26 Ahoy Centre, Deptford 29 Active Community projects VanquisBank 38 B radford Youth Development 42 London Community Foundation, London 48 Phoenix Junior Academy, Chatham Partnership, Bradford 43 Foundation for Social Inclusion, London 49 Byron Primary School, Gillingham T he Outward Bound Trust, Bradford 39 50 44 The Blue Elephant Theatre, Southwark Kent Community Foundation, Kent 40 Leeds Community Foundation, Leeds 45 Medway Education and Business, Kent In addition, Vanquis Bank also funds the 41 K eighley Cougars Foundation, UK-based charities Friends of the Elderly 46 Sure Start All Saints, Chatham Keighleyand Bradford andMencap, as well as Hatua, a local education project in Kenya.
47 Sure Start Lordswood, Chatham 84 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Investing in our communities continued Engaging the investment Young Kent community a Vanquis Bank Active Community Programme partner A significant part of our approach to CR is that we share information on our Young Kent offers support programmes for disadvantaged, disengaged or disabled young CRperformance to provide evidence to people aged 8 to 25 from across Kent.
our investors and other stakeholders One aspect of Vanquis Banks work with the charity supports the How to Save a Life that we are committed to operating in programme.
This programme provides approximately 40 unemployed young people from aresponsible manner.
disadvantaged backgrounds first aid and emergency lifesaving skills through a partnership Every year, we provide information on with the British Red Cross.
The programme increases confidence, skills and qualifications environmental, social and governance whilst also providing valuable work experience.
A key element of the programme is that performance and make submissions to a participants are trained to become first aid Peer Educators.
Once qualified, Peer Educators number of the mainstream sustainability practise their new skills during work experience, delivering first aid training to other young indices and established SRI research and people across Kent.
The information we submit Vanquis Bank also supports Young Kents Job Club, which provides support for is independently assessed and considered unemployed young people from across the county.
Job Club sessions provide one-to-one alongside information from external sources, support with subjects such as CV writing, interview skills, job searching and completing job such as non-governmental organisations, applications.
The support of Vanquis Bank has also allowed Young Kent to purchase the IT scientific institutions and the media.
equipment necessary to run the club.
For example, in 2015: Following the June 2015 review by the FTSE4Good Advisory Committee, Provident Financial continued to be included as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index series.
We continued to be included within the Euronext Vigeo World 120 index the 120 most advanced sustainability performing companies in the European, North American and Asia Pacific regions, the Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 index the 120 most advanced sustainability performing European companies and the Euronext Vigeo UnitedKingdom 20 index the 20 most advanced UK companies based on their sustainability performance.
Following the annual review of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, Provident Financial retained its place in the two Bradford is going from Our commitment to Bradford indices in which it is eligible to be included: the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index strength to Strength As a company whose historical links to Bradford DJSI World and Dow Jones Sustainability stretch back more than 135 years, Provident Financial and the Bradford Europe Index DJSI Europe.
This is the is committed to supporting initiatives and events ninth successive year that Provident literature festival is that complement the citys ongoing economic Financial has been included in these regeneration.
To this end, in 2015 we announced that a fantaStic way to two indices.
we would be the principal sponsor of the Bradford amplify the Bringing Literature Festival for the next two years.
The first We were reconfirmed as a constituent full Bradford Literature Festival was held in May of the Ethibel Sustainability Index together of The 2015 and attracted nearly 9,500 people to over 150 ESI Excellence Forum which is one diVerse cultures events over 10days.
Through our support of the of the investment registers managed festival for the next two years, we will be helping and overseen by the Belgian socially and communities to spearhead Bradfords cultural renaissance and responsible investment SRI specialist wiThin our city.
raise the aspirations and literacy levels of the citys Forum ETHIBEL.
The ESI Excellence Peter Crook many communities.
Forum is composed of companies that are Chief Executive considered by Forum ETHIBEL to display the best performance in the field of CR.
Strategic report 85 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 We are also legally required to disclose the We have also extended our reporting Minimising our impact on the annual amount of GHG emissions generated of theGHG emissions relevant to our environment by our activities.
This includes activities for business travel activities.
This now includes While we may not impact the environment which we are directly responsible scope1 reporting the GHG emissions that relate to the same extent as businesses in other emissions : for us, this relates to our fleet of to business travel by the self-employed sectors, the day-to-day operations of our company cars and the gas used at our offices.
agents in our home credit business, the businesses do have environmental impacts We are also required to disclose indirect business-related travel activities of our which we need to manage.
We are legally GHG emissions scope 2 emissions from employees, and the waste that is collected required to manage and report on some of the electricity we purchase.
During 2015, and managed from across our business.
our environmental impacts, particularly in our scope 1 and 2 emissions and associated We collect this information and then offset relation to climate change.
scope 3 emissions accounted for 5,881 tonnes some of these GHG emissions by investing of CO e. We have also voluntarily reported in renewable energy projects.
This enables 2 The environmental management system some of our scope 3 emissions: in particular, us to reduce the carbon intensity of our EMS we have in place across our business indirect well-to-tank emissions from the business activities.
enables us to systematically manage our extraction, refining, distribution, storage, impacts on the environment by: During 2015, our business-related journeys transport and retail of the fuel we use.
accounted for 5,013 metric tonnes of CO e. 2 Identifying and understanding the These emissions were offset through the environmental impacts of our activities: GHG emissions in 2015 purchase of Gold Standard carbon credits tonnes of CO e in the Samsun landfill gas project which is Defining environmental responsibilities 2 located in the Black Sea region of Turkey.
for staff: 1 Direct CO scope 1 1,405 2 This project captures landfill gas and turns it CO eemissions 2014: 1,797 Measuring and monitoring our 2 into power.
The project reduces greenhouse environmental management performance 2 Indirect CO2 scope 2 3,207 gases by displacing fossil fuels such as coal and setting targets: and CO2e emissions 2014: 3,066 normally used to produce electricity and 3 Associated indirect CO2 1,269 capturing methane that would have been Identifying opportunities to scope 3 CO2eemissions 2014: 1,131 released from the decay of waste disposed continually improve.
2014: 5,994 Our EMS is audited on an annual basis against the requirements of the international Business travel GHG emissions environmental management standard ISO 3 1 tonnesof CO e 2 14001.
Our head office in Bradford continues to be formally certified to ISO 14001.
In 2016, 1 Air travel 276 we will set a target to get the EMS in our 2 Rail travel 56 Vanquis Bank locations in London and 3 Car travel own vehicles 1,367 Chatham formally certified to ISO 14001.
4 Company car fuel use 1,119 5 Self-employed agent caruse 1,348 2 6 Extracting, refining and 847 Our emissions are reported in accordance with transportation of raw fuel the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol.
associated with business travel We usean operational control consolidation approach to account for our GHG emissions and Total 5,013 use emission conversion factors from Defra DECCs GHGConversion Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
1 2 6 Our GHG emissions are calculated using energy use data accessed via meters and energy suppliers, and fromrecords of fuel use.
3 5 5,881 Measuring and reporting 4 greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
2014: 5,994 Total scope 1 and 2 We have measured and reported our GHG and associated scope 3 emissions emissions for many years.
This helps us to in tonnes of CO e 2 identify opportunities to improve the energy efficiency of our businesses and minimise 2.92 our contribution to climate change.
We are also finding that investors are increasingly 2014: 3.24 Scope 1 and 2 keen to understand the carbon intensity of our business activities.
By measuring and andassociated scope 3 reporting our emissions, we can do our intensityratio kg of CO e 1,000 2 part in helping the investment community ofreceivables to become more aware of the climate change risks inherent in their portfolios and achieve better and more sustainable shareholder returns.
86 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 87 Introduction from the Chairman 88 Our directors and officers 90 Leadership 94 Effectiveness 97 Shareholder engagement 99 Risk advisory committee 102 Audit committee and auditor 106 Nomination committee 108 Directors report
