Overview 05 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Our social purpose and investment case The investment case for Provident Financial is very attractive: No business can operate Leaders in the non-standard credit market will be larger, sustainably in todays well-funded specialistlenders with sustainable business worldwithout a compelling modelslike us.
We have an attractive mix of businesses which deliver attractive socialpurpose.
growth and returns over the medium-term and exhibit low volatility through the economic cycle.
Provident Financials social purpose is We have a significant competitive advantage in the areas financialinclusion for those who are not well oftechnology, marketing, underwriting and collections.
served by mainstream credit products or Tougher regulation and transition to the Financial Conduct areexcluded altogether.
Authority FCA is causing dislocation in the non-standard creditmarket which provides new opportunities for To do this, we provide non-standard credit responsiblelending businesses such as Provident Financial.
customers with appropriate amounts of credit, Our management teams are highly skilled and experienced, maintain close contact with them throughout particularly in serving the non-standard credit market.
the term of their loan and work with them We have a robust balance sheet and prudent funding.
sympathetically if they experience difficulties.
We generate sufficient capital to support planned growth Terms and conditions are designed to meet andbusiness development without compromising our theirparticular needs and rigorous checks progressive dividend policy.
aremade to ensure that customers can afford therepayments.
We have been doing this successfully since 1880.
To assist with this social purpose we have fivecore values which run throughout each ofour divisions: Fair We are fair and reasonable in our dealings withstakeholders.
Responsible We conduct our business dealings responsibly and ensure that we have a positive impact on the environment and communities we serve.
Accessible We provide our customers with access to products that meet their needs.
Straightforward We are straightforward, open and honest inallour dealings.
Progressive We anticipate and respond to the challenges ofachanging world.
