Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information l a s c V e o i a t l l i p g u n e i n u o i n t p g r m l o e o m p u p o r u c S Corporate responsibility review Helping build strong communities Performance highlights Prudential provides solutions that address the biggest financial dilemmas people face.
Whether its the need for 21.7m income in old age, support for total community investment childrens education or for protection in case the main household earner becomes ill, 51,979 hours we offer solutions targeting volunteered by employees across the Prudential Group each of these potentially lifechanging events, based on our long-term approach to our 519,826 customers and our business.
O ur businesses provide social and donated by employees through This purpose, and this long-term approach, economic benefits to communities payroll giving across the Group is reinforced by our Group-wide corporate around the world.
Through our corporate responsibility activities corporate responsibility programmes around and using our resources and the the world we help to build stronger and more skill and energy of our employees, sustainable communities, and in the process we provide benefits to customers, provide benefits to our customers, our communities and the environment.
Paul Manduca Chairman Our corporate responsibility strategy Our Group approach to corporate responsibility is underpinned by four global principles: We aim to provide fair We seek to make a positive Serving our customers: and transparent products that contribution to our communities Valuing our people: meet our customers needs through long-term partnerships with charitable organisations Supporting local communities: and Page 58 that make a real difference Protecting the environment.
Page 61 Long-term sustainable value We aspire to retain and develop We take responsibility for the highly engaged employees environment in which we operate Page 59 Page 64 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 57 P e r s r o n r u t v e o e i r m c g o t n i n o i n t v m s g r e u e t n S c h t e Corporate responsibility review continued Our Group approach to corporate Asia customers to accumulate wealth through regular premium contributions.
Varying responsibility is underpinned by four In Asia, we focus our efforts on helping global principles: our customers build better futures for unit allocation and life protection coverage is available depending on the customers themselves and their families, by helping Serving our customers: we aim to to fill the savings and protection gap that needs.
This series allows customers who provide fair and transparent products have protection needs to enjoy life exists in many countries in the region.
that meet our customers needs: protection coverage as high as 30 times the The extent of this gap is clear.
In terms annual premium and still be able to benefit Valuing our people: we aspire to retain of protection, in Asia overall 42 per cent and develop highly engaged employees: from the asset appreciation.
To further of healthcare spend is out-of-pocket, with strengthen the unit-linked platform, the Supporting local communities: we this figure reaching 56 per cent in some fund choices have been expanded by seek to make a positive contribution markets, compared with 12 per cent in offering foreign investment funds in order to our communities through long-term the US and 9 per cent in the UK.
to better meet different customers needs partnerships with charitable organisations and risk appetite.
While in Asia savings represent 44 per cent that make a real difference: and of GDP, compared with 18 per cent in the Meanwhile, Prudential Hong Kongs Protecting the environment: we take US and 13 per cent in the UK, 60 per cent Customer Day puts customers needs at responsibility for the environment in of assets in Asia are held in cash, compared the forefront.
During the event, a facilitator which we operate.
with 31 per cent in the US and 26 per cent asks customers about their experiences in the UK.
These figures illustrate the These principles provide a framework with Prudential, with customers sharing shortfall in both protection and savings within which our businesses shape their many insightful comments.
Around 200 opportunities in the region, and our own individual corporate responsibility managers and senior management products and services are designed to goals our strong belief is that corporate attended the inaugural Customer Day, help make up that shortfall.
responsibility is best managed and interacting with customers to answer delivered by those closest to the Before launching any initiative, we always questions and gain further insight into customer and local stakeholders.
what customers think and how they feel.
listen to and understand our customers needs.
This allows us to propose financial This review gives an overview of our US solutions customised for different groups, activities and progress in 2015.
More Prudentials US operation develops and whether that is young parents or middledetailed information is available online at distributes products that seek to address aged people providing for their extended www.
co. uk corporatethe retirement needs of its more than family, for example.
Prudential Corporation responsibility four million contract-holders and provide Asia introduced a number of tailored them with security through the ups and products and services to meet our downs of financial market cycles.
Jackson Serving our customers customers changing needs in 2015. offers a diverse range of variable, fixed and With cancer survival rates increasing in Prudential has been meeting peoples fixed-index annuity products, designed Hong Kong and the region, PRUhealth needs for more than 167 years and today with a variety of custom options to fit cancer multi-care was launched to address we serve 24 million insurance customers different financial goals.
anxieties about the financial impacts of across four continents.
Many Americans are approaching multiple cancer strikes.
This plan serves We offer solutions for customers as they retirement with inadequate resources.
customers with the right support exactly face the biggest financial challenges of Private defined-benefit pension plans are when they need it most.
Those issues vary in different disappearing, government defined-benefit Prudential Singapores PRUCover Total parts of the world, and in each of our plans are underfunded, and social security, businesses we are focused on providing for Refund is designed to provide much-needed whose long-term status is in question, was security and reassurance for customers a distinct set of customers needs.
Those never intended to be the primary are: the significant and growing demand during times of crisis.
In the event of critical retirement plan.
At the same time, illness, customers can focus on improving for saving and protection of the middle increasing life expectancy and the class in Asia, the retirement income needs their health while being assured that they difficulty for individual investors in have the financial support to see them of baby boomers in the US, the financial capturing market returns have added to the requirements of the UKs ageing population, through this stressful time.
The affected pressure on retirement resources.
The low customer will receive a lump sum payout which needs both to save more and to interest-rate environment presents extra access secure income in retirement, and as well as a waiver of future premiums, challenges, hindering the growth of while also continuing to receive coverage the growing needs of customers in our savings and the ability to generate income new markets in Africa.
for death and terminal illness.
In the event from savings.
of accidental death, family members of the We want our customers to stay with us Retirees need access to equity market policyholder will receive a payout of three for the long term.
This means we must growth, protection of their principal, a times the sum assured.
PRUCover Total proactively listen to them to understand way of converting savings into retirement Refund also rewards those who have and respond to their changing needs, income and a degree of certainty.
The remained in good health.
If customers and maintain their trust in us with fair, variable annuities that Jackson offers can do not have claims on the Critical Illness transparent products and service.
provide both guaranteed income and Benefit, they will receive a refund on the We achieve this by not only delivering access to market growth.
They are a way total premiums paid at the end of the consistent performance from all our for investors to access guaranteed income policy term.
businesses, year in and year out, but for life, making them in effect a definedPrudential Thailand introduced a new also by ensuring that performance is benefit plan for the 21st century.
series of unit-linked plans that allow sustained over the long term.
58 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Jacksons Elite Access is a variable annuity network of investors working together to UK and Europe that enhances traditional investing through The UKs pension and retirement income promote responsible investment practices.
diverse investment options, access to system underwent significant reform M&G provides market insights to clients, portfolios previously unavailable to retail during 2015.
Known as pension freedoms, intermediaries and others through a investors, and tax advantages that help the reforms give consumers greater number of channels, including a customers seek opportunities and manage flexibility to access their pension savings programme of roadshows and events.
risk throughout the economic cycle.
Prudential reacted quickly The M&G Client Council, launched in Access is a logical extension of Jacksons when the reforms were announced in the 2014, offers customers who invest directly variable annuity investment freedom March 2014 Budget, committing significant with M&G an opportunity to help shape philosophy, which provides customers resources to ensure that our processes our products and services, in line with their with a large set of investment options and facilitated the new regime when it launched needs.
These investors give feedback the ability to tailor the portfolio to their just over a year later in April 2015. through online surveys and interviews investment risk appetite.
throughout the year, and members are kept In the past year the business made two Jackson has launched a new tool to support informed about the results with regular significant enhancements that have Elite Access, the Elite Access 1:1 Video broadened access to products.
The Flexible emails and updates on a dedicated website.
This is an interactive and Retirement Plan was enhanced to include personalised multi-media experience the introduction of a Flexible Drawdown Valuing our people created to enable Jackson wholesalers to option in advance of Aprils pension engage key audiences and help advisers reforms.
Further developments were We foster an environment in which our grow their business.
The tool features introduced in September 2015, when a people find value and meaning in their work, adviser-facing and client-facing versions.
non-advised flexible drawdown plan, the and deliver outstanding performance for our Pension Choices Plan, was introduced customers, shareholders and communities.
From the moment an adviser or investor for those clients who choose not to be This is achieved through our continued engages with the video, they are met with advised.
PruFund, the businesss flagship focus on diversity and inclusion, talent a user experience that is focused entirely multi-asset investment range, was made development, employee engagement, on them, which is what makes this tool available through an ISA wrapper for the and performance and reward.
It is centred on meeting the first time in February 2015. needs of the audience and providing an Diversity and inclusion experience that is led by the individual.
As part of Prudential UK & Europes Prudential believes that a diversity of The business is proactively strengthening commitment to placing the customer at skill sets and backgrounds enriches the relationships and creating a distinctive the heart of everything they do, Prudential organisation.
Given the diverse nature presence in the market.
also began the rollout of the new MyPru of our business and our stakeholders, we online service, which allows UK customers are committed to making diversity and Jackson has a long history of providing to take greater control of their products inclusion a competitive advantage for our premier service to the producers and online without having to make direct contact.
By continuing to ensure clients who interact with the Company diversity among senior leadership teams every day.
As part of the Companys The drive to continually improve customer and pipelines, as well as across the entire ongoing commitment to exceeding best service quality has, once again, been employee population, we aim to further practices and delivering top-quality reflected in Prudential UK & Europes increase the positive impact of diversity service, Jackson introduced the new continued success in the Financial Adviser on our commercial success and ability Beyond World Class Service eLearning Service Awards, which are voted on by to successfully compete in an training module in 2015.
The module poses financial advisers.
In 2015, Prudential increasingly complex and dynamic everyday service scenarios to prepare secured the Company of the Year Award business environment.
and educate operations associates how for the first time, while retaining its coveted to best answer producer and client service Five Star ratings in the Life and Pensions We believe in respecting human rights, requests.
The training has been designed and Investments categories for the fifth acting responsibly and with integrity.
to help employees better understand how consecutive year.
Our policies are guided by the principles and why the business measures the quality of the UNs Universal Declaration of Asset management of performance through the eyes of Human Rights and the International Labour M&G, Prudentials UK and European external customers.
It focuses on the Organisations core labour standards.
asset management business, is a long-term, impact of poorly-handled service issues These are also incorporated into our Group active investor that takes seriously its and allows employees to practise Code of Business Conduct, which sets out responsibilities as a steward of clients identifying and reporting service the Group values and expected standards assets, often working closely with the experiences through real case studies.
of behaviour for all employees, and in our management of the companies in which Group Outsourcing and Third Party The module presents an actor-driven, we invest.
M&Gs investment teams Supply Policy.
service-recovery scenario from the incorporate environmental, social and perspective of the producer, employee, governance ESG factors into investment We maintain an inclusive culture that is customer service support and distribution analysis and decision-making processes, sensitive to the needs of all employees.
The two-part module showcases wherever they have a meaningful impact In particular, our Group-wide Diversity and how service experiences impact Jacksons on risk or return.
Active voting is an integral Inclusion policy acts to ensure that each of business through real-life re-enactment, part of the investment approach, both our businesses takes appropriate measures showing the employee how the service adding value and protecting our interests to prevent discrimination in the workplace, call has gone wrong, followed by practice as shareholders.
The M&G website and provides equality of opportunity both scenarios.
Scenarios are pulled directly provides an overview of voting history: for our employees and for candidates that from trending reports to help associates www.
com corporate about-mg wish to join our Group regardless of their identify the issue, select an appropriate  corporatesex, race, age, ethnic origin, marital status, resolution and flag the experience to governance voting-history pregnancy and maternity, caring complete the exercise.
This will ensure responsibilities, civil partnership status, Reflecting this approach, M&G is a signatory employees are trained in how best to meet any gender re-assignment, sexual to the UN Principles for Responsible producer and client expectations and orientation, religion or belief, disability Investment UNPRI, an international understand how to handle an experience if they are dissatisfied.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 59 Corporate responsibility review continued or part-time fixed-term work.
As such, Gender diversity across Prudential as of 31 December 2015 is shown below.
we give full and fair consideration and Headcount Total Male Female encouragement to all applicants with suitable aptitude and abilities.
For those Chairman and independent Non-executive Directors 10 8 2 employees and applicants with disabilities, 1 Executive Directors 6 5 1 we make appropriate disability adjustments Group Executive Committee GEC includes Executive 11 10 1 as required, and ensure that we can 1 Directors provide training and career development opportunities for all.
Senior managers excludes the Chairman, all directors 65 52 13 and GEC members We monitor the diversity of our leadership and our leadership pipeline, with diversity 2 includes the Chairman, all directors 23,507 10,879 12,628 Whole Company and inclusion KPIs reported to the and GEC members Board annually.
1 Does not include announcements made after 31 December 2015: John Foleys appointment to Executive Across our businesses our commitment Director and Anne Richards to replace Michael McLintock later in 2016.
to diversity and inclusion is supported by initiatives such as reviews of pay and University provides a highly customisable Talent development performance management consistency, We recognise that people are our key approach for associates personal providing training to managerial and development and professional learning: resource, that investment in their non-managerial staff, supporting flexible development is essential to deliver our and Prudential UK provides a fully working arrangements, and engaging with differentiated management development strategy, and that the quality of leadership recruitment firms to mitigate unconscious across the Group is fundamental to the offering, distinguishing the requirements bias and diversify the pool of potential of aspiring managers and experienced future growth and success of the business.
In Prudential Corporation Asia, We review our talent annually and offer leaders.
M&G Real Estate supports career since 2009 a Financial Literacy for Women development through a fund manager job a range of programmes that enable our programme has shared tips and training on people to continue to grow and develop.
shadowing programme: and Group Head financial planning and management with Office provides innovative programmes The majority of these are managed by more than 19,000 female entrepreneurs.
our business units, while Group human designed in partnership with top academic Our North American business is involved institutions such as the London Business resources focuses on tailored programmes in the Women of Color STEM Conference, for senior leaders across the organisation, School and Cambridge Judge, which which recognises outstanding women offer leadership development and the succession planning for senior roles and in the science, technology, engineering development of our leadership talent opportunity to gain valuable experience and mathematics fields: and M&G through relevant business projects.
We invest in succession planning has introduced the Women in Fund for our leaders and critical specialists, Management Roundtable, an internal Employee engagement and segment our talent to identify short-, network of senior women investors to An array of initiatives are in place within mediumand long-term successors and support a shift in the gender balance our different businesses to drive employee support them with the appropriate within investment functions.
Depending on the business development and career planning, to businesses also run apprenticeship schemes.
this engagement can start as soon as a ensure that we maintain an appropriate In 2015 we further nurtured two affinity new employee joins us, with an induction balance of internal progression and networks: M&G Pride for LGBT employees programme to learn about the history external hires.
and allies and the London-based Prudential and strategy of the Group.
Throughout the Individually tailored development offerings Womens Professional Network, each of employees career, additional opportunities are provided for our most senior executives which held several well-attended events.
may include being offered a number of so they are well prepared to deliver the high-impact training sessions as well as A third cohort of colleagues based in the long-term ambitions of the Group.
In workshops on resilience, managing energy UK have joined The Pearls Programme, a addition, in 2015 more than 180 senior and enhancing productivity.
UK-based development initiative designed high-potential individuals participated in to support women in middleto seniorEach of our businesses manages its own our Group-wide leadership development management positions in building intranet, providing all employees with programmes Impact, Agility and in our confidence, capabilities and contacts.
access to regular updates, articles and new programme for emerging talent, Next internal and external news items relevant Generation.
These programmes have been to the business and its geographical developed in partnership and co-delivered location.
Each intranet also gets updated with world-leading academic institutions with material news from across the Group.
such as Duke Corporate Education, the Oxford Sad Business School, and the Some of our businesses hold regular London School of Economics.
employee open forums with senior management, conduct yearly engagement Within our businesses there are many surveys or organise awaydays to discuss examples of our continuing commitment the business, our performance and internal to talent development.
Any highlighted issues are Corporation Asia develops CEOs with then used to improve the way in which targeted high-touch programmes, such as we work.
In addition, there are informal cross-company experience and industry opportunities to meet senior managers and expectations, for them to stay relevant and facilities to network with both peers and gain new insights.
In the US, Jackson 60 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information senior leaders across functions: and well-being so they can benefit from future well-being programmes to support Supporting local communities schooling and prevent repetition of grades sustainable high performance.
We also and dropping out of school, which is a have policies to encourage and support significant issue in both countries.
First volunteering for charitable causes.
Read also supports and collaborates The success of our efforts has again closely with local book publishers, helping been recognised internally and externally.
to develop and create new books written In 2015, engagement surveys in various in local languages.
Since inception, the Our community programmes are grouped business units showed excellent results.
programme has benefited almost 190,000 around the broad theme of Strong We have also received prestigious awards.
adults and children up to the age of six.
This reflects our focus on For example, M&G was the highestIn addition, First Read has indirectly benefited helping communities establish those ranking asset manager in the Glassdoor over 440,000 community members fundamental building blocks essential for survey of Best Places to Work in Consulting their long-term futures.
Our three building through the sharing of knowledge blocks represent areas of primary need: and Finance, and seventh in the Rate-Myand resources.
Prudence Foundation launched Cha-Ching, The ranking is based on anonymous Education and life skills a multi-media programme built around a reviews of current and former staff.
series of three-minute animated music Strengthening numeracy, financial literacy In addition, our businesses in the UK videos, in 2011 to help parents instill and employment training have a longstanding relationship with money-smart skills in children aged seven the union Unite.
This was developed with Cartoon Disaster readiness and relief Network and Dr Alice Wilder, an awardWe encourage volunteering, through winning childrens education specialist, to which our employees can support our Providing long-term support to help prevent help children learn the fundamental money communities and acquire new skills.
disasters and deal with their impact management concepts of earn, save, spend and donate.
The programme has gained Further details page 63 Wellbeing and protection international recognition for promoting financial literacy, and won several industry Performance and reward Helping provide resources, such as clean water awards.
Over the past few years it has Our reward packages are designed to and shelter, that are essential for health and a grown to become one of the top-rated thriving future attract, motivate and retain high-calibre childrens television programmes in Asia.
Each individual Today Cha-Ching is available in 10 languages contributes to the success of the Group The inherent long-term social value of our in Asia, reaching 51 million households and should be rewarded accordingly.
business is complemented by community a day across Asia through the Cartoon We recognise and reward high investments in each of the markets in Network.
The Cha-Ching website has performance while operating a fair and which we operate.
We provide support more than 73 million page views, and transparent system of reward.
Reward is to charitable organisations through both YouTube music videos have two million linked to the delivery of business goals funding, and the experience and expertise views.
The Cha-Ching School Contact and expected behaviours, and we ensure of our employees.
Programme, which brings Cha-Ching that rewards for our people are consistent directly to schoolchildren across Asia, We establish long-term relationships with with our values and do not incentivise continues to develop and expand.
To date our charity partners to ensure that the inappropriate risk-taking.
To enable this, it has reached more than 200,000 school projects we support are sustainable and employees are not only regularly assessed children in nine countries.
The Foundation we work closely with them to ensure that on what they have achieved, but also on has also started to work with Junior our programmes continuously improve.
Achievement to develop a standardised The diversity of our markets means that school curriculum for Cha-Ching, which There are recognition initiatives running our programmes vary from region to region, will be launched in 2016.
This will further across our businesses, such as the but a shared focus for our community help meet the need for stronger financial Prudential Stars awards at Group Head investment is education and life skills.
literacy capabilities in students across Asia.
Office, which are made to individuals These activities include financial education, nominated by their colleagues for In the US, Jackson has pledged to support support to improve social mobility and outstanding examples of execution, a new Teen Center at the Boys & Girls Club employee volunteering.
The commitment is from the business and individual We believe in the importance of enabling Education and life skills employees who will contribute toward the our employees to have the opportunity to In Asia, Prudence Foundation the total investment needed to complete the benefit from the Groups success through charitable arm of Prudential Corporation project.
The new Jackson Teen Zone will be share ownership, and operate employee Asia aims to maximise the impact of added onto the existing Boys & Girls Club share plans across the UK and Asia.
our community investment efforts in the facility and will provide a much-needed This includes PruSharePlus which first countries where we have a presence.
Its quiet space for homework, college prep launched in 2014 and is open to all employees mission is to make a lasting contribution to and Money Matters, a financial literacy of Prudential in Asia.
PruSharePlus enables societies across Asia through sustainable curriculum designed by Boys & Girls Club Prudentials employees to share in the initiatives focused on three pillars: of America.
Every day more than 250 longer-term success of the business, and Children, Education, and Disaster young people go to the Boys & Girls Club actively encourages share ownership Preparedness and Recovery.
and engagement with the business by The First Read programme was launched in providing a market-competitive shareAs one of the most respected brands in the 2013 in partnership with Save the Children matching plan.
We were delighted that UK according to Opinion Leader Brand in Cambodia and the Philippines.
It works PruSharePlus recently received an award Tracking we are the second most trusted closely with parents of pre-school children from the Global Equity Organization in insurance company in the UK Prudential to promote home-based early childhood recognition of its innovative and creative is taking a major role in helping to shape care and development ECCD and address plan design.
future job prospects for young people.
The programme Over the past two years the business has enables parents to help develop their recruited 130 young people to join the childrens early literacy skills and overall www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 61 Corporate responsibility review continued Our communities in focus Every Saturday for six weeks, volunteers from Prudential worked 325 employees with Prestasi Junior Indonesia to volunteered regenerate vacant wasteland and promote healthy living in a lowincome, densely populated area of South Jakarta.
1,625 hours volunteered The project involved clearing rubbish and educating residents on appropriate waste management.
Volunteers helped transform the area 2,996 into a cleaner, safer environment and beneficiaries facilitated local health clinics and financial education sessions.
highly regarded apprenticeship scheme, started in Ghana, has now been initiative to enhance disaster preparedness programme, gaining important work and extended to Kenya and the two schemes and awareness through the dissemination life skills as well as achieving recognised will help more than 700 students to of educational survival tips for natural vocational and professional qualifications.
complete their secondary school disasters.
It is a multi-platform programme education.
Throughout 2016 we will work including on-air video messages, an As a National Champion of Business in the with Plan Uganda to build new classrooms informative website and educational Communitys Business Class programme, and latrines and provide up-to-date collateral that can be shared among Prudential UK & Europe works to set and learning equipment as well as financial communities.
Core to the programme is promote the direction of the nationwide support for vulnerable students.
The a series of 60-second educational videos programme.
It also partners with three potential reach will be 5,267 girls and which advise individuals and households schools, in London, Reading and Stirling, boys in six secondary schools in northern what they should do when disasters strike.
with over 320 employees having supported Uganda.
In addition we have established Together with on-air television distribution more than 3,400 children since 2013, the Prudential Actuarial Support System and through our partnerships with including with pupils interview and awards for actuarial science in universities governments, NGOs and the private presentation skills and building public in Ghana and Kenya to support the top sector, Safe Steps has the potential to speaking confidence.
10 graduating students for three years.
reach over 100 million people every day.
In India, Prudential UK & Europe works For capacity building, we partner with Disaster readiness and relief in partnership with the NGO, Magic Bus, Plan International and Save the Children As a life insurance and asset management which provides children from marginalised to implement the Safe Schools programme company, our core business is the provision communities with opportunities for in Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and of protection, security and risk mitigation learning and developing work-readiness Vietnam.
Safe Schools focuses on placing to families.
Over the past four decades, skills.
This is achieved via a sport-focused schools at the heart of building a culture of the Asia-Pacific region has experienced activity curriculum, mentorship and disaster preparedness within communities.
75 per cent of the worlds natural disasters, employability programmes.
We have This is performed by training students and resulting in a loss of nearly two million lives.
specifically supported a personal their teachers in key disaster management The Prudence Foundation is working with development programme for 500 children skills, and supporting the organisation of NGOs to help communities better prepare and an employability skills workshop for disaster simulations and evacuation drills for such disasters before they strike.
for students and their community.
Since we The Foundation has a strategic approach to M&G continues to fund a literacy centre began in 2013, over 36,000 students have its efforts in disaster preparedness, focusing at a primary school in the London Borough participated, together with more than on three key areas: mass education and of Lambeth by funding the work of 11,000 teachers.
awareness, capacity building and advocacy.
Springboard for Children, a charity that As a form of advocacy, Prudence Foundation In each area we have programmes that provides support to children whose partners with CSR Asia to host an annual serve a vital need to help communities in reading age is significantly below their Disaster Preparedness Forum in one the region become more disaster-resilient.
We firmly believe As part of a mass education initiative, the In our new markets in Africa we have the private sector has an important role to Foundation launched Safe Steps in May 2014, committed to provide support for play in strengthening community disaster in partnership with National Geographic academically able but financially resilience, and this Forum provides a Channel and endorsed by the International disadvantaged high school students, and unique platform for dialogue and exchange Federation of the Red Cross and Red to help build capacity for training in actuarial of ideas between government, NGO, Crescent Societies.
Safe Steps is a sciences at local universities.
Working with humanitarian and private-sector participants.
first-of-its-kind pan-Asian public-service Plan International, the Prudential Scholarship We have held three forums to date, in 62 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Jakarta in 2013, Manila in 2014 and most Committee and the employee-nominated received donations, enabling positive and recently in Hanoi in 2015, with close matching programme.
The Jackson National lasting changes to be made in the lives of to 500 participants representing the Community Fund supports charities that thousands of people.
help the elderly and children through range of sectors gained benefits as a result.
quarterly grants in communities where Academic achievement was encouraged As part of our focus on disaster relief and Jacksons four largest offices are located.
through support given to schools and recovery, Prudence Foundation provided Jacksons matching programme offers a educational establishments.
A number financial donations for emergency relief two-to-one match on all employee of social, welfare, children and youth efforts in Malaysia following the severe donations made to approved charities.
programmes were funded many of floods in January 2015, in Nepal after the This programme ensures that causes which addressed issues of social cohesion, devastating earthquake in April 2015, important to employees are given feelings of isolation and lack of inclusion in and in Myanmar after the floods in August charitable consideration and ensures community life.
In Malaysia we were also able to Jacksons support is received by hospitals and hospices were also recipients provide support for long-term rehousing responsible organisations where funding of funding, as were projects related to the efforts, partnering with Epic Homes, a local will create a significant impact.
NGO, to fund and build 14 new houses for a remote village in Kelantan state.
Jackson has played a key role in building The Chairmans Challenge and Similar to our efforts in Bantayan Island, Beacon Field, Lansings only drop-in youth employee volunteering the Philippines, Prudence Foundation soccer field, which opened in September Many of our employees play an active role sponsored a month-long 500-volunteer 2015.
Use of the field is free and open to in their communities through volunteering, effort to complete construction of the anyone.
It includes synthetic turf and charitable donations and fundraising.
In the houses, which also included 100 Prudential features two goals, kick boards and solar UK, the US and Asia we offer our employees volunteers from across Asia.
The charitable priorities of the the opportunity to support charities through business are to serve children and senior payroll giving.
As a Group, Prudential has been a partner citizens, and Jackson was keen to of Save the Childrens Emergency Fund for In 2015, employees across the Group collaborate with other businesses to be a number of years and has committed in volunteered in their communities on a part of a project to build a safe place for 2016 to a further three years.
The Childrens range of projects, providing a total of young children to play soccer in the heart Emergency Fund enables the charity to 51,979 hours of volunteering.
We recognise of downtown Lansing.
The project has respond immediately to emergencies in that employee volunteering brings benefit enhanced a run-down part of Lansing and countries where there is the greatest need not only to the charities but also to the brought community, corporations and local and where children are most at risk.
Save development of our people, and we businesses together to maximise benefits the Children has been able to use the actively encourage colleagues to for the local community.
Childrens Emergency Fund to respond to participate in our programmes.
124 disasters across 49 countries in 2015, Prudential UK & Europe employee More than 7,000 employees volunteered volunteers have continued to be involved which demonstrates the scale of the need through Prudentials flagship international and the power of the emergency fund as in Call in Time, an Age UK telephone programme, the Chairmans Challenge, befriending programme that matches each a resource for their response work.
which encourages people from across the volunteer with an older person who they Wellbeing and protection Group to volunteer on projects initiated by speak to weekly.
This year, 42 lonely and our global charity partners, including Plan We help to provide the resources that are isolated older people have been supported essential to secure a healthy, thriving International, Help Age International and by Prudential volunteers, with some Junior Achievement.
Each volunteering future for our customers, our people and volunteers having now been involved in our communities.
We work with local project focuses on one or more of our the programme for more than six years.
Strong Foundations themes and allows communities to develop strong, sustainable In 2015, M&G Investments continued projects that meet local needs.
For example, us to support both large, well-established to provide support to some of the most charities and innovative, smaller-scale Jackson employees are actively engaged in deprived and disadvantaged communities our commitment to communities by taking activities with volunteers as well as financial located near its offices.
Prudential donates 150 to our part in programmes such as the Jackson charities and community organisations National Community Fund Advisory charity partners for every employee who Our communities in focus The programme offers the opportunity to The Jackson Board Corps programme is changing the increase the charitable involvement of Jackson while also developing professional way employees volunteer with charitable organisations.
Since leadership skills for employees, which not its launch in 2014, 40 Jackson only provide valuable contributions to the employees have been trained boards they serve on but also benefit their to serve in leadership positions careers and personal lives.
At the for non-profit organisations.
conclusion of each Jackson Board Corps class, Jacksons CSR team helps pair each The Board Corps programme consists employee with a charitable organisation of a series of classes and group work in line with their area of interest.
led by philanthropy experts, along with non-profit site visits.
The classes and group work allow employees to further develop their leadership skills, while the site visits help participants explore what type of charity and mission resonate with them personally.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 63 Corporate responsibility review continued registers for the programme.
Charity followed the same course as the amateur Political donations partners use this money to seed-fund riders earlier in the day.
All the weekends It is the Groups policy neither to make charitable projects for Prudential events featured prominently on national donations to political parties nor to incur volunteers.
Employees across the Group TV and radio and in the press.
political expenditure, within the meaning of are involved in the voting process to those expressions as defined in the Political In its first three years, Prudential RideLondon decide the most innovative projects.
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. participants have raised more than The Group did not make any such donations As well as volunteering efforts on behalf 29 million for good causes throughout or incur any such expenditure in 2015. of the Chairmans Challenge, employees the UK.
We have renewed our sponsorship around the Group volunteered on a huge for a further three years to 2018 and will Protecting the environment range of other charitable projects, from focus on maximising funds raised for providing relief following disasters to charity by the organisers and through The management of environmental issues is mentoring schoolchildren, supporting the development of new and existing an integral part of managing the total risks the elderly and skills-sharing.
Part of our strategy to mitigate against climate change includes: Prudential RideLondon Charitable donations The 2015 Prudential RideLondon, the We calculate our community investment Measuring, reporting and improving worlds biggest festival of cycling, was spend using the internationally recognised environmental performance of our a great success.
This was the third London Benchmarking Group standard.
global operations: and RideLondon sponsored by Prudential and This includes cash donations to registered Improving the indirect environmental raised more than 12 million for charity, charitable organisations, as well as a cash impacts as an asset owner.
promoting health and providing a equivalent for in-kind contributions.
memorable occasion for participants and In addition to our own internal reduction In 2015, the Group spent 21.7 million spectators and an opportunity for targets, we also participate in the Carbon supporting community activities, an Prudential staff from around the world Disclosure Project.
This survey captures increase of 10.7 per cent on 2014. to take part.
Around 70,000 people took data on a whole range of different aspects to the streets of London on 1 August to The direct cash donations to charitable of an organisations impact on the global enjoy cycling on traffic-free roads in the organisations amounted to 18.8 million, environment.
Over the last three years Prudential RideLondon FreeCycle.
The of which approximately 5.8 million came we have been able to provide increasing following day, 25,000 people took on from our UK and EU operations, which levels of detail and this has improved our the challenge of cycling 100 miles through are principally our UK insurance operation disclosure score from 70 per cent in 2013 to London and the hilly country to the southand M&G.
The remaining 13 million 97 per cent in 2015, and our performance west in the Prudential RideLondon-Surrey was contributed to charitable organisations rating from D to B.
100, with more than 180 cyclists from by Jackson National Life Insurance We are also a member of ClimateWise, across the Group, including colleagues Company, Prudential Corporation Asia which is a voluntary leadership group from Group Head Office, Prudential UK and Prudential Africa.
driving an insurance industry response & Europe, M&G, Jackson and Prudential The cash contribution to charitable to the transition to a low-carbon, Corporation Asia.
organisations from our UK and EU climate-resilient economy.
As part of In addition, 160 colleagues were on duty operations is broken down as follows: our membership we report, and are as volunteers to help make the event a education 2,401,000: social, welfare independently measured, against six core success.
The programme also featured and environment 3,097,000: cultural principles.
During 2015 we were able to two professional races involving some 227,000 and staff volunteering 109,000. increase our score and ranked within the of the worlds best riders the Prudential top 10 members.
For more information the The balance of the amount includes in-kind RideLondon Grand Prix womens race latest ClimateWise report can be found at: donations as set out in our corporate around St Jamess Park on the Saturday and www.
uk publications responsibility report and prepared in the Prudential RideLondon Classic mens  accordance with London Benchmarking professional race on the Sunday, which a-climate-of-change Group LBG guidelines.
Our environment in focus Jackson opened its new, features a living-grass roof which reduces environmentally responsible energy consumption while blending in with building in Lansing which provides the surrounding landscape.
The building is capacity for more than 1,200 expected to qualify for an Energy Star state-of-the-art workspaces, as well rating that places it in the top 20 per cent of as conference facilities and other the most energy-efficient buildings in the amenities.
This focus on integrating its buildings with the natural beauty of its corporate The new building has been built to campus, along with an energy-efficient minimise long-term environmental design, allows Jackson to operate on a very impact and is connected to Jacksons cost-efficient basis while providing an existing office through a glass-enclosed  and healthy walkway, providing employees with a working environment for employees.
feeling of being in the midst of the natural landscape.
The conference centre 64 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information As a financial services business we Prudential plc greenhouse gas emissions statement recognise that one of the most significant We have compiled our greenhouse gas a number of Scope 3 emissions as a matter direct impacts on the environment results emissions data in accordance with the of best practice.
These are emissions from the operation of the properties we Companies Act 2006 Strategic and arising as a consequence of the activities of occupy and invest in.
Directors Reports Regulations 2013. the company, but occur from sources not owned or controlled by the company.
Reducing our direct impact: We have included full reporting for all occupied properties For the purpose of the 2015 report these Scope 1 direct emissions such as Scope 3 emissions include: water new We monitor and publish Group combustion of gas for heating, fugitive performance data for our CO2e emissions, metric for 2015, waste generated in emissions and emissions from owned operations in the UK and US, and business water and energy use in over 400 sites vehicles and 2 indirect emissions for across 24 countries.
travel booked from the UK.
We are consumption of electricity, heat or steam continuously working with our business emissions where operational control of the We have strategies in place to reduce units to review the extent of our Scope 3 emissions of the sources concerned was energy, waste generated, water reporting and increase where practicable.
We have also reported on consumption and paper use.
In the past year, Prudential sourced 27 per cent of electricity from renewable or non-fossil Assessment parameters Baseline year: 1 October 2014 - 30 September 2015 fuel sources.
Assurance: Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance over selected environmental metrics in Reducing our impact: accordance with the International Auditing and property investment portfolio Assurance Standards Boards ISAE3000 Revised M&G Real Estate forms part of the international standard.
Please refer to the 2015 M&G Group of Companies, the asset Prudential corporate responsibility report for management arm of Prudential plc in the further detail.
Its approach to responsible property investment enables it to manage Consolidation approach Operational control and respond to the growing range of Boundary summary environmental and social issues that can All entities and all facilities under operational control including those owned were included impact property values.
It also helps M&G Real Estate to protect and enhance fund Consistency with the This period does not correspond with the Directors and asset performance for its clients.
financial statements report period January 2015 to December 2015.
Responsible property investment is The reporting period was brought forward by three integrated within M&G Real Estates months to improve the availability of invoice data day-to-day investment practices.
It enables which often lags by one month or more after the them to adapt and respond to the challenges usage period and reduce the reliance on estimated and opportunities posed by various issues, data.
Prudential owns assets, which are held on its such as rising energy and resource costs, balance sheet in the financial statements, over greater legislative demands and stronger which it does not have operational control.
These tenant and investor requirements.
are excluded from the data below.
Assets not included on the balance sheet but held under an M&G Real Estates focus on embedding operating lease and where we have operational responsible property investment principles control are included.
into its investment activities has achieved some significant results.
In the past year, Emission factor data source Defra 2015 obtained from M&G Real Estate has: www.
co. uk Reduced global energy consumption Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Revised A Corporate and carbon emissions by 3 per cent at Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised properties held consistently for Edition 2004 two years: Achieved four Green Stars in the 2015 Materiality threshold 5 per cent Global Real Estate Sustainability Intensity ratio Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent per metre Benchmark survey in recognition of its squared Net Lettable Area market-leading performance: and 2 Ensured that more than 640,000 m of floor space has environmental certification, providing independent verification of its performance.
M&G Real Estates progress can be found in its annual responsible property investment report at www.
co. uk institutions realestate responsibleinvesting www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 65 Corporate responsibility review continued Greenhouse gas emissions source Emissions source 2015 2014 2013 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Occupied Estate 8,409 8,486 6,019 Tonnes CO2-e Investments 8,845 10,044 13,062 Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for Occupied Estate 62,695 61,550 65,730 own use Tonnes CO2-e Investments 28,691 39,573 42,079 Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions Tonnes CO2-e Occupied Estate 71,104 70,036 71,749 Investments 37,536 49,617 55,141 Total Scope 1 and 2 Tonnes CO2-e 108,640 119,653 126,890 2 Normalised Normalised Scope 1 and 2 kg CO2-e m Occupied Estate 132 135 139 emissions Investments 10 13 15 2 Total Scope 1 and 2 kg CO2-e m 25 28 31 Scope 3 Waste generated UK and US Tonnes CO2-e Occupied Estate 77 201 166 Investments 244 387 840 Water consumption Tonnes CO2-e Occupied Estate 80 Investments 174 Air travel Booked from UK only Tonnes CO2-e Occupied Estate 13,451 9,818 9,398 Investments n a n a n a Other business travel rail and vehicle Occupied Estate 56 50 19 Tonnes CO2-e Investments n a n a n a Total Scope 3 Emissions Tonnes CO2-e Occupied Estate 13,664 10,069 9,583 Investments 418 387 840 Total Scope 3 Tonnes CO2-e 14,082 10,456 10,423 Scope 1, 2 and 3 Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions Tonnes CO2-e Occupied Estate 84,768 80,105 81,332 Investments 37,954 50,004 55,981 Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Tonnes CO2-e 122,722 130,109 137,313 2 Normalised Normalised Scope 1, 2 and 3 kg CO2-e m Occupied Estate 157 154 157 emissions Investments 10 13 16 2 2 Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 kg COe m 28 30 33 Following a detailed review of the Groups comparisons for absolute change and approach to reporting emissions resulting normalised change are not directly from investments, investment data has comparative.
For more information on been restated.
Due to the changing size sustainability progress, please refer to the and nature of the investment portfolio, annual M&G Real Estate Responsible absolute and normalised comparisons Property Investment report for further between years are not comparative.
Net details, including like-for-like comparisons.
lettable area is reported for all properties Overall Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the held within the reporting period.
In line global occupied estate have increased with best practice, environmental data is 1.53 per cent from 2014, and decreased collected for properties at acquisition and 0.9 per cent from the 2013 baseline.
at date of divestment, therefore 66 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Accountability and governance Local governance for corporate responsibility In M&G, Jackson and Prudential UK there are governance committees in place with The Board senior management representation that The Board regularly reviews the Groups agree strategy and spend.
In Asia, the corporate responsibility performance Prudence Foundation has been established and scrutinises and approves the Group as a unified charitable platform to align and corporate responsibility report and maximise the impact of community efforts strategy on an annual basis.
Code of Business Conduct Supply chain management Consideration of environmental, social and It is our policy to work in partnership with community matters is integrated in our third parties whose values and standards Code of Business Conduct.
Our code is are aligned with our Group Code of reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Risk assessment Procurement practices in Prudential UK For more information on the risks facing our have been successfully accredited with the business see page 49.
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply certification, an industry benchmark of recognised good practice.
Strategic report approval by the Board of Directors The strategic report set out on pages 11 to 67 is approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Mike Wells Group Chief Executive 8 March 2016 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 67 68 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
co. uk Directors European Embedded Value 01 Group overview 02 Strategic report 03 Governance 04 r emuneration report 05 Financial statements 06 EEV basis results 07 Additional information Governance 70 Chairmans introduction 71 Board of Directors 76 How we operate 76 Board roles 77 Board decision making 79 Board balance and effectiveness 81 Shareholder engagement 82 Further information on Directors 84 Risk management and internal control 86 Committees 98 Statutory and regulatory disclosures 99 Compliance with corporate governance codes 3 99 Additional information 100 Index to principal Directors report disclosures Volunteering in South Jakarta Ourcommunities Volunteers from Prudential worked to regenerate vacant wasteland and promote healthy living in a low-income, densely populated area of South Jakarta.
co. uk Annual Report 2015 Prudentialplc 69
