Corporate responsibility report Philip Howell The Rathbone Brothers Foundation has continued to Chief Executive support small local charities where its donations can make a real difference.
Our support of young people has continued in 2015 through our partnerships with English Lacrosse and Lacrosse Scotland and initiatives such as our financial awareness programme.
We were also proud to sponsor the University of Liverpools innovative ARION1 engineering team who broke the mens British land speed record for a human powered vehicle in 2015.
We remain a constituent company of the FTSE4Good Index series and a signatory to the UNbacked Principles for Social and environmental committee Responsible Investment PRI.
chairmans annual statement Philip Howell Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy aims to ensure Chairman of the SEC that social, environmental and ethical considerations are 23 February 2016 taken into account throughout the business.
The social and environmental committee SEC, which I chair, is responsible for ensuring that Rathbones effectively manages its sustainability issues.
It is formed by members of staff from key functions such as facilities, HR, marketing, IT and investment management.
It meets three to four times a year and reports directly to the executive committee of the board.
During the 2014 15 reporting period our carbon footprint increased by 174 tCO2e 6.0%.
An increase was expected due to the growth of the business as well as an increase in the number of flights following the launch of our Glasgow office and of our international distribution strategy.
On a more positive note, paper related emissions fell despite updating our printed materials as part of our rebrand.
With regard to environmental, social and governance ESG matters as they affect our business, the board believes that the SEC has identified and assessed the significant risks to the company.
The SEC, however, is not only about highlighting potential risks but also opportunities for the company to play its part as a good employer and as a contributor to the communities and environment in which we work and our clients live.
This report provides an overview of our activities more information can be found on our website.
44 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Our strategy interests in the area of socially responsible or sustainable investment.
Where appropriate, the company is also able Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy can be to participate in new share issues offered by companies that summarised as follows: provide environmentally or socially beneficial products Investing for clients or services.
Maintain and develop the relationships we have with our As at 31 December 2015, Rathbone Greenbank Investments clients, treat them fairly and continue to meet their needs.
had 0.76 billion of funds under management, equivalent to 2.91% of Rathbone Investment Managements assets under Consider corporate responsibility and governance management.
The Rathbone Ethical Bond Fund had issues in the companies in which we invest on behalf 359.4 million of funds under management.
Affiliations Developing our employees Rathbone Brothers Plc has been both a signatory and Motivate and reward appropriately, encouraging their respondent to the CDP Carbon Disclosure Project since development.
We are also a signatory to the CDP sister programmes Working with communities on Water Disclosure and Forests.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments became a CDP Investor Member in 2015.
The Engage in the communities in which we operate.
group has been a signatory to the UN-backed PRI since Our environmental impact September 2009, and continues to play an active role in the PRI Clearinghouse, a global platform for collaborative Manage our environmental impact and reduce our carbon engagement initiatives which aims to encourage sustainable footprint by the efficient use of resources.
Out of over 1,000 members of this leading initiative, Rathbones was named as one of the top 20 most Investing for clients active and influential members of the Clearinghouse in 2014, Responsible investment a significant achievement given our size relative to other PRI members.
In addition, Rathbone Greenbank Investments is Rathbones specialises in discretionary private client a long-standing member of influential responsible investor investment management.
We manage assets for clients groups such as the UK Sustainable and Investment Finance based on their preferences and needs.
Central processes Association UKSIF and the Ecumenical Council for provide equity analysis, strategic asset allocation advice and Corporate Responsibility.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments other core investment processes, shared by the group, but it also became a member of the Institutional Investors Group is central to our business model that investment managers on Climate Change IIGCC in 2015, expanding engagement retain their independence to buy and sell securities for work in the realm of climate policy engagement.
As such, a general, top-down, responsible investment policy is not considered workable or appropriate for Voting Rathbones at this time.
The cornerstone of all responsible investment is an active Nonetheless, we are long-term investors and ESG and considered approach to proxy voting.
Since 2010, the factors form a key part of our equity analysis.
The issue groups voting activity has been coordinated by its corporate of governance as a risk factor is covered by the work of governance committee, established in line with Rathbones the Rathbones group corporate governance committee obligations under the PRI, and pays heed to the Financial recognising that governance issues can be material in the Reporting Council UK Stewardship Code.
Composed of companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
As investment managers and other representatives from across well as conducting our own in-house analysis, we subscribe the business, and supported by a permanent corporate to specialist providers of ESG research as part of our research governance manager, the committee maintains the group budget.
Social, environmental and ethical considerations are policy on corporate governance, and oversees its application also taken into account for specific mandates throughout the in proxy voting in conjunction with advice from an external group, particularly those managed by our specialist ethical corporate governance consultant, Institutional Shareholder investment unit, Rathbone Greenbank Investments, and a Services ISS.
Advice and research received by the number managed by our charities team.
committee supplements the analysis carried out internally as part of the investment process.
Through Rathbone Greenbank Investments and Rathbone Unit Trust Managements Ethical Bond Fund, the company is able to provide investment services tailored to clients Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 45 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Investing for clients Our clients played an important role in supporting shareholder resolutions at the annual general meetings The committee issues voting recommendations for AGMs of two major European oil and gas companies in consideration by investment managers who retain the the past year, seeking the additional reporting of climate ability to vote independently of this advice if they consider change information.
The resolutions themselves received it appropriate.
board support and were adopted with large majorities at the Rathbone Investment Management exercises the voting respective AGMs.
rights attached to approximately 90% of the UK equity it FTSE4Good ESG ratings scores holds on behalf of its clients.
Voting is also undertaken on any company if requested by an underlying shareholder.
As institutional investors around the world focus on the ESG practices of the companies they invest in, ESG risk measures Rathbone Unit Trust Management, as an institutional are an increasingly important part of the investment process.
investor, meets its obligations as a signatory to the The FTSE4Good Index and ratings have been designed to Stewardship Code.
It significantly expanded the scope of measure the performance of companies that meet or exceed proxy voting in 2015 and now employs ISS to vote actively globally recognised standards.
The Indexs latest semi-annual review for which ratings Votes are entered in line with UK corporate governance best scores were published June 2015 confirmed Rathbone practice, overseen by the corporate governance manager Brothers Plc as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, and fund investment managers.
During 2015, the committee awarding the company the following ESG ratings: oversaw active proxy voting on 4,894 resolutions at 443 company meetings.
Voting on these resolutions includes Pillars Score 0 5 consideration of such issues as executive remuneration, Environmental 3.0 auditor independence, appointment of directors and nonSocial 3.2 financial reporting.
Governance 2.7 We are committed to transparency in this area and in 2015 began producing bi-annual reports on our proxy voting and shareholder engagement activities.
These reports can be Within the Financial Services super sector, Rathbones found on the socially responsible investment section of percentile score was 82 100 2014:82 100 meaning that we our website.
outscored 82% of our peers on our management of Engagement ESG issues.
Engagement with companies on ESG matters is largely CDP disclosure and performance score undertaken by Rathbone Greenbank Investments ethical In 2015, we improved our CDP Disclosure Score from 78 research team and the corporate governance manager on to 90 while our Performance Band moved from D to E. behalf of the corporate governance committee.
Engagement The Disclosure Score out of 100 measures the level of may occur as a result of fundamental analysis of companies transparency in company responses: the Performance Band ESG reporting or through collaborative efforts initiated by AE, but only calculated for companies with disclosure interest groups such as CDP, UKSIF or the PRI Clearinghouse.
scores above 50 measures how effectively companies are It covers a wide range of themes spanning the whole of the addressing climate risk.
46 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Developing our employees during 2016 to improve leadership and management skills across the group.
Our approach We have also aligned some of our management Our business success is based on delivering a highly development to formal qualifications.
A number of managers professional and personal service to our clients and we have successfully achieved a level 5 qualification awarded believe this can only be achieved by having engaged and by the Chartered Management Institute which included a motivated employees with a diverse range of backgrounds, module on managing operational risk which was tailored to skills and experiences.
Our employee strategy, policies and the specific issues in Rathbones.
We will continue to support investment plans are all designed to achieve these goals.
this type of development where the formal recognition of We are firmly committed to evolving our people policies learning is appropriate.
and practices and increasing employee engagement in the Continuing professional development CPD coming years in line with our values.
Our goal continues to Our client-facing employees continue to meet and mostly be the delivery of the highest possible quality of service to exceed the required CPD targets set by our regulators.
our clients through talented and professional employees.
Investment managers have the opportunity to further improve their technical and management skills to ensure Employee statistics % that the highest levels of client service are maintained.
As an Female employees 50 example, this year saw some significant changes in pensions Employees working part-time 11 legislation and so all investment managers attended a Resignation rate in 2015 5 session to understand the implications.
We have implemented some enhancements to our core IT Learning systems and, as in previous years, employees have attended We continue to support the development of all our training to enable them to take advantage of increased employees and have maintained our average investment efficiencies in managing investments and per person at a significant level of 563 and an average of client service.
These figures are a very conservative estimate Talent development because there is much more employee development that Rathbones is keen to develop a pipeline of high-calibre talent has no direct cost and is conducted at the desk.
to ensure appropriate skills and succession planning for the Our aim when delivering high-quality programmes is to future.
The first apprenticeship programme which started ensure that employees have the best opportunity to put in 2013 has now finished with four apprentices joining the their learning into practice.
We do this by engaging with line organisation in the operations and investment management managers and other stakeholders in the business to ensure teams.
In light of the success of this programme a further that the opportunity and support is in place for employees group has now been recruited and their training is well to use new skills.
We have implemented new initiatives underway.
across the group to ensure that all employees have access A graduate development programme has now been to development for their current and possible future roles.
established as we have seen the increase in the employment Leadership and management development of graduate trainees.
The programme brings together We have developed a comprehensive suite of management employees from London and around the regions and and leadership courses.
This is designed to enable the comprises a combination of experience at the desk, business to identify high potential employees and progress classroom and online training on the technical skills of them through key stages of learning from being highly investment management and managing clients.
We have effective team members to ultimately growing into partnered with a very experienced training provider to tailor senior leadership roles.
In particular, a new leadership the content to the requirements of our organisation.
programme was implemented this year.
Senior managers Career development and performance management from various functions and locations came together on a We have further developed our career frameworks to help modular programme focusing on how to lead their teams employees see their future pathway for progression within to achieve corporate goals.
The programme culminated in the organisation.
There is further work to do in this area and a presentation about leadership changes and the value of there is a commitment to help employees and managers the learning.
Having established this format with our senior with the skills required for career management.
leaders this programme will cascade to other managers Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 47 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Developing our employees Performance and reward The performance management process is reviewed We offer a comprehensive remuneration package which is on an ongoing basis and during 2015 we tailored our regularly reviewed to ensure that we remain competitive.
approach further to prompt more meaningful performance This is supported by challenging objective setting and discussions.
The emphasis in 2016 will be on more regular appraisal processes to align reward to corporate goals and and informal reviews with better quality and timely motivate and encourage high performance.
All employees have the opportunity to participate in a Diversity and inclusion pension arrangement and are eligible to receive at least a 3% contribution from the company to a group personal pension Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our arrangement.
In addition, we provide health and well-being policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are initiatives including private medical cover, annual medical treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, examinations to all staff and an employee confidential marital status, age, disability, religious belief or sexual advice service.
Employees are encouraged to identify with orientation.
and to become involved in the financial performance of the Rathbones now has two women non-executive directors and group through a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Save As has thus achieved our commitment to meet Lord Davies You Earn SAYE scheme.
target of 25% female board representation.
For Rathbones Employee relations as a whole, we have a broadly 50:50 balance between males and females.
While female representation at a senior Engagement with our employees is crucial to the continuing executive management level is low, representation in senior success of the group.
We communicate regularly and openly and middle management roles in support departments, our with our employees on matters affecting them and on investment research team and within the unit trust business the issues that have an impact on the performance of the is good and continues to improve.
group and actively seek their feedback on these matters.
In September 2015, we carried out an employee engagement Historically, women are less well represented in investment survey which resulted in an overall engagement score of management roles and addressing this imbalance is a key 88%.
We have since shared the results with our employees priority.
We are working hard to bring in more women in and in 2016 we will be following up on the feedback from all graduate trainee positions our graduate and apprenticeship areas of the business to consider what we are doing well and programmes currently comprises broadly equal numbers can build upon and where we can make improvements.
of men and women and by encouraging more applications from women to our work experience and financial career Rathbones recognises the importance of an appropriate programmes.
Our work-life balance provisions are designed work-life balance, both to the health and welfare of to be attractive to women who wish to enter our industry as employees and to the business.
Employees are not expected well as to encourage parents to remain in work with us when to work long hours on a consistent or ongoing basis and any raising a family.
Holiday entitlement begins at 25 days per annum for all employees, increasing to 30 days after We are also targeting the progression and development five years service, with the opportunity to buy up to five of existing female employees with opportunities for additional days of flexible leave each year.
training such as our early career team worker programme.
During 2014 and 2015, seven women participated in this programme and two of them have since been promoted into management roles.
At the next level, a further 23 women attended management development programmes ranging from leadership skills and introduction to management courses to the Henley Business School Leadership Programme.
48 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Working with communities Education and youth development Donations and fundraising Our corporate responsibility programme continues to develop strongly with a committed focus on youth During the year, the group made total charitable donations development.
The Rathbones Financial Awareness of 353,000, representing 0.60% of group pre-tax profits Programme is a significant element of our investment in 2014: 253,000, representing 0.55% of group pre-tax profits.
young people, which involves investment managers This included a payment of 140,000 to the Rathbone delivering presentations to 1624 year olds within our Brothers Foundation 2014: 100,000.
It also included the offices and at schools around the UK.
The programme aims matching of employee donations made through the tax to equip those attending with the necessary information efficient Give As You Earn GAYE payroll giving scheme.
to take ownership of their finances at a young age.
In 2015, Rathbones employees made payments totalling 182,000 2014: 191,000 through this scheme, which We are also lead sponsors of various other youth is administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The development programmes such as the Chalke Valley company matched staff donations of up to 200 per month History Festival for Schools, the dot-art art competition, the made through GAYE and in 2015 donated 152,000 Bang Goes the Borders science festival and the University 2014: 134,000 to causes chosen by employees through of Liverpool students attempt to break the humanthis method.
powered land speed record in Nevada.
Rathbones further acknowledges the importance of sport in the lives of young During 2015, the Rathbone Brothers Foundation, the people to teach key life skills and has agreed ongoing companys charitable fund founded in 2012, considered partnerships with English Lacrosse and Lacrosse Scotland many requests for assistance and met a number of charities.
Our involvement to date has had a significant Significant donations were made to: impact on the development of the sport, particularly with Basing House a team of volunteers from Rathbones the introduction of additional initiatives to encourage spent two days restoring the Lady of the House garden participation in the sport at community level.
at Basing House, a major Tudor palace and castle in the Further information on all of our initiatives for young village of Old Basing.
While it once rivalled Hampton Court people can be found at www.
com about-us Palace in its size and opulence, today only its foundations .
However, it is open to the public and a favourite place for families to visit.
The foundation Local communities made a contribution to the costs of the garden restoration.
Rathbones is committed to supporting the communities Autism Jersey a small local charity that enables in which it is based.
Regional offices are encouraged to get people with autism to lead full and inclusive lives and involved in their local communities and support charities enjoy a reasonable degree of independence.
Rathbones and initiatives that they feel are important to the area.
Jersey office has agreed to partner with Autism Jersey over three years.
Cambridge Central Aid Society founded in 1880, this small charity provides relief from poverty for Cambridge residents, giving grants to provide essential needs and help families maintain their dignity.
The Connections Bus Project this is a youth club open to children in all villages in the Cambridge area.
It provides internet access, sports equipment and trained staff who help to supervise and educate the young people involved.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 49 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Our environmental impact Building energy use As a responsible investor, Rathbones lead by example Our building-related emissions make up 67% of our in our approach to environmental matters.
We strive to total carbon footprint.
This year our total building energy understand our environmental impact and act, where consumption increased by 7%, from 4,793,111 kWh to possible, to reduce it.
However, our emissions decreased by 0.3% to 2,057 tCO2e as shown in the chart below.
This is the eighth annual report on our carbon footprint.
The decrease in emissions despite increased energy This year has seen Rathbones undergo rebranding and consumption is largely due to a 7% decrease in the launch an international distribution strategy.
These activities conversion factor associated with electricity.
have had an impact on our environmental performance as explained below.
Within the buildings energy use the most significant change was at our Liverpool office where electricity Scope consumption decreased by over 23%.
This was due to the Our reporting period covers the 12 months to 30 September transfer of our computing assets to an external data centre 2015 2014 15.
we opened a new office in Glasgow which has increased This move has a dual benefit in terms of reducing our our reporting boundary.
energy usage and associated emissions: energy consumption This year is the first time that we have reported our Scope 2 on-site in Liverpool has decreased, whilst we are able to emissions using the new World Resources Institutes WRI reap the benefits of a highly energy efficient data centre, market-based method.
This new method recognises the use which has driven down energy usage associated with our of low carbon electricity tariffs and allows organisations to IT.
The emissions related to these relocated IT assets have realise this benefit in their carbon footprint.
Consequently moved from Scope 2 when on-site in Liverpool to Scope 3 we are reporting two emissions totals: the traditional total where we account for our outsourced IT activities.
using location-based conversion factors and a total using There was also a 15% increase in gas consumption, which the new market-based conversion factors.
This approach may be due to 2014 15 being a slightly colder year with 14% ensures that our reporting is in-line with best practice.
more heating degree days than in 2013 14.
Change in building-related emissions tCO2e 2,200 54 -107 2,150 39 2,100 116 2,062 -108 2,050 2,057 2,000 1,950 1,900 13 14 building Electricity Electricity Portfolio gas Net electricity Reduction due to 14 15 building emissions reduction at increase at increase changes at all conversion emissions Liverpool Manchester data other sites factors centre - tCO2e tCO2etCO2e 50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Our environmental impact However, we will need to monitor our use of the building and energy consumption carefully to ensure there is no During the year we opened a new office in Glasgow performance gap between the designed energy efficiency of and increased our office space at our Liverpool site.
the building and its actual performance in use.
Consequently, the average total internal floor area increased 2 2 by 88m to 14,518m.
Employee numbers also increased Travel during the year with an 11% increase in full time equivalent FTE employees from 867 to 965.
However, our buildings Emissions from business travel increased significantly this carbon footprint per FTE employee, did not match this year to 689 tCO2e, an increase of 46% over 2013 14. Business growth, falling by 10.4% to 2.13 tCO2e FTE due to more travel accounts for 22% of our total carbon footprint.
Total efficient usage of space.
business travel emissions per FTE employee have increased by 31% to 0.7 tCO2e FTE.
Building carbon emissions per FTE employee tCO2e FTE The increase in emissions is mainly due to travel by the new international distribution team to Europe and North 2.4 2.38 America, and flights to and from our new Glasgow office.
2.2 2.13 Emissions from business travel tCO2e 2.1 2.0 2013 14 2014 15 During 2015, Rathbones submitted notification of Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS compliance to the Environmental Agency.
ESOS is a mandatory energy assessment scheme set up by the UK government in response to the EUs 2012 Energy Efficiency Directive.
In order to comply with ESOS: Rathbones measured 100% of their building energy consumption and staff business mileage for 2014 tCO2e % Flights 418.8 61 Carbon Smart carried out an energy audit of the Non-company cars 149.9 22 Curzon Street office in London, which accounts for Rail 111.6 16 54% of Rathbones total gas and electricity use.
This Taxis 8.7 1 included the identification of energy efficiency improvement opportunities.
Seven energy saving opportunities were identified: four were rejected due to a poor return on investment.
The most significant viable opportunity was related to plant upgrades at Curzon Street.
However, given the imminent move away from Curzon Street, this opportunity will not be pursued.
In early 2017 Rathbones is moving the London office from 1 Curzon Street to a BREEAM Excellent rated building in the City.
This move should result in future reductions in the 2016 17 carbon footprint assuming the transition period when two buildings are in operation is minimal.
1 BREEAM is the BREs sustainability assessment for buildings.
Excellent is the second highest certification rating Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 51 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Our environmental impact Waste Paper This year the amount of waste generated per FTE employee rose to 380 kg, an increase of 4% on 2013 14.
2014 15 saw a small decrease in the emissions relating to our We did, however, reduce our waste electrical and electronic paper use.
Our emissions fell to 308 tCO2e from 311 tCO2e in equipment by 377 kg to 2,364 kg.
Although we produced 2013 14. more waste, we actually recycled a greater proportion Whilst the business has grown with an increase of nearly of it.
This year our recycling rate hit 85% compared with 81% 3,000 additional managed investment accounts, paper use in 2013 14. per managed investment account fell from 1.8 kg to 1.7 kg.
Part of the increase in total waste can be explained by the maturity of the new waste protocol implemented over the Mass of paper used per managed investment last year which has improved the granularity of the data account kg available from our London and Liverpool offices, where most 2 of our waste is produced.
Sending food waste to compost 1.8 1.7 has contributed to the increase in the recycling rate.
1.5 Of the 15% of our waste that is not recycled, approximately 1 25% is sent to energy from waste facilities and the remainder is sent to landfill.
0.5 Refrigerants 0 2013 14 2014 15 This is the third year we have collated our refrigerant figures.
We are pleased to report that only our external data centre This reduction is pleasing as Rathbones went through a in London required a refrigerant refill during the reporting rebranding exercise in 2014 15.
This was carefully managed year.
This contributed 2 tCO2e to our carbon footprint, to ensure that old stock was run down over time, minimising a considerable reduction on the 51 tCO2e attributed to wastage.
However, much of the rebrand work took place refrigerants last year.
Consequently, there may Carbon footprint be an increase in the next reporting period and an increase in 2016 17 due to the London office move although effective Our total carbon footprint for 2013 14 was reported as 2,926 resource management, as demonstrated this year, should tCO2e.
However, in the course of calculating this years minimise this increase.
footprint a minor error was found, which means the 2013 14 results need to be restated as 2,907 tCO2e.
A further success was the 17% increase in the recycled content of the paper that we use, reversing and improving For 2014 15 our total carbon footprint is 3,081 tCO2e.
This on last years 7% decline.
is a 6% increase on the restated 2013 14 results.
Compared to our baseline year of 2012 13, our carbon footprint has Percentage of the pulp that went into making our paper and printed increased by 7% from 2,882 tCO2e.
materials that was post-consumer recycled % The most significant increase has come from the increased 80 emissions from flights.
The move to the Manchester data 67 centre means that there has been a transfer of emissions 60 50 from Scope 2 to Scope 3.
40 Carbon intensity 20 Despite the overall increase in our carbon footprint, our staff carbon intensity has fallen by nearly 5% this year to 0 2013 14 2014 15 3.2 tCO2e per FTE employee.
Our emissions in relation to operating income have also reduced to 13.39 tCO2e m from 13.89 tCO2e m in 2013 14.
We remain confident that further efficiencies can be delivered as we execute our growth strategy.
52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Our environmental impact a project cutting carbon and providing access to safe drinking water through the provision of gravity-driven, Best practice Scope 2 reporting methodology point-of-use water filters in Kenya.
The use of the filters In 2015, the WRI introduced updates to the Greenhouse Gas reduces demand for wood as a fuel as families no longer Protocol GHG stating that organisations should provide have to boil water for purification two numbers to reflect the emissions from the purchase a project distributing more efficient cook stoves to families of electricity, heat, steam or cooling.
The Gyapa model cook stove requires half of the method reflects average emissions intensity of grids on fuel of a traditional stove, cutting energy use and reducing which energy consumption occurs.
The Global Burden of Disease Study method reflects emissions from electricity that companies 2010 estimates that four million premature deaths occur have chosen.
every year as a result of smoke exposure from Electricity is arranged through the landlord for the majority traditional cooking of sites including the largest sites in London and Liverpool.
a wind energy project in Rajkot district, Gujarat, India.
In these instances, it has not been possible to obtain a The development of a 25.2MW wind farm across five specific tariff and consequently a market-based conversion villages provides clean, renewable and more stable factor.
For the sites where Rathbones have a direct contract supplies of energy to the local communities, reducing with the electricity supplier Aberdeen, Chichester, Kendal, demand for coal-fired generation in this region.
Newcastle and Winchester it has not been possible to obtain a market-based conversion factor.
Consequently the national 2 Carbon footprint tCO2e grid average emission factor has been used throughout 2014 15 2014 15 and this year the location-based and market-based carbon locationmarket- 2013 14 based based restated 2012 13 footprints are the same.
This is not an unexpected outcome Scope 1 as this is the first year of the protocol and the required Natural gas 301 301 261 281 market-based conversion factors are not yet widely Refrigerant 2 2 51 23 available.
With time this situation should improve and Scope 2 there may be an opportunity for Rathbones to engage Purchased electricity 1,332 1,332 1,450 1,463 with its landlords and move to tariffs containing a greater Scope 3 proportion of renewable energy, thus reaping the benefit of a 3 Data centre 314 314 224 133 reduction in the market-based carbon footprint.
Business travel 689 689 473 311 Paper 308 308 311 333 Carbon offsetting Waste 25 25 11 9 We have used the services of ClimateCare to purchase Electricity transmission 3,081 tonnes of carbon credits to offset our residual CO2e and distribution 110 110 127 136 emissions.
This years portfolio again comprises three highTotal tonnes tCO2e 3,081 3,081 2,907 2,882 quality emission reduction projects, which also offer tangible community benefits: Carbon intensity Carbon intensity tCO2e 2013 14 2013 14 2014 15 restated 2012 13 2014 15 restated 2012 13 Staff FTE 965 867 829 3.2 3.4 3.5 2 Net internal area of offices m 14,518 14,430 14,430 0.21 0.20 0.20 Operating income m 230.1 209.3 176.4 13.39 13.89 16.34 Funds under management bn 29.2 27.2 22.0 106 107 131 2 Carbon intensity is total all scopes tCO2e per: FTE: m : m of operating income: bn funds under management 2 The Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines three scopes of greenhouse gas emissions.
Please refer to the glossary for further information 3 Many of our core IT facilities at our London and Liverpool offices have been outsourced to data centres.
As per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, emissions from the data centre have been moved to Scope 3.
However, where we have stated a figure for overall electricity use we have included the data centre, as we felt this is the more transparent approach Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 53 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Our environmental impact Carbon Smart opinion statement Carbon Smarts statement Objectives provides Rathbones and Progress against our 2014 15 objectives its stakeholders with a third party assessment of 1 Increase our efforts to encourage client usage of the quality and reliability Rathbones Online, which will lead to a reduction in of Rathbones carbon paper printing and postage costs.
footprint data for the reporting period 1 October 2014 to Achieved 30 September 2015.
It does not represent an independent The number of registered Rathbones Online users third party assurance of Rathbones management approach increased from 21,956 to 26,086 in 2015.
Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbones for 2 Explore the use of video conferencing for client meetings.
the eighth consecutive year to calculate Rathbones carbon footprint for all offices for its 2015 corporate responsibility Not achieved report.
Through this engagement Carbon Smart has There are a number of security issues associated with the assured Rathbones that the reported carbon footprint is use of video conferencing for client meetings and so this representative of the business and that the data presented has not been progressed.
is credible and compliant with appropriate standards and 3 Explore options for extending food waste collection to industry practices.
Data has been collected and calculated other offices.
following the ISO 14064 part 1 standard and verified against the WRI GHG Protocol principles of completeness, Not achieved consistency and accuracy.
Where offices were large enough to warrant the use of a private food waste collection service, this option is not Carbon Smarts work has included interviews with key currently available.
Rathbones personnel, a review of internal and external documentation, interrogation of source data and data 4 Seek advice from our suppliers on increasing the recycled collection systems including comparison with the previous content of the paper they use in publications.
Achieved Carbon Smart has concluded the points listed below.
Paper stocks with a mix of virgin and recycled sources have been reintroduced across the range of our printed Relevance marketing materials.
We continue to endeavour to select We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately paper stocks that are Forestry Stewardship Council reflects the GHG emissions of the company and serves the FSC certified wherever possible.
decision-making needs of users, both internal and external Our 2015 16 objectives to the company.
1 To ensure that energy efficiency measures are Completeness adopted where possible during the fit-out of the new Rathbones continues to use the operational control London headquarters.
approach to defining their organisational boundaries.
2 To ensure that furniture, fittings and equipment at Rathbones calculates total direct Scope 1, 2 and major the Curzon Street office are recycled or reused Scope 3 emissions.
Reported environmental data covers wherever possible.
all employees and all entities that meet the criteria of being subject to control or significant influence of the 3 To minimise travel that is not booked through our reporting organisation.
agents or which is not in accordance with the group travel policy introduced in 2015.
4 To encourage our landlords to source energy from renewable sources.
54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Carbon Smart opinion statement Compliance with regulations Consistency Rathbones complies with the regulations for reporting greenhouse gas emissions.
Following an operational control In order to ensure comparability, we have used the same approach to defining our organisational boundary, our calculation methodologies and assumptions as for the 2014 15 greenhouse gas emissions from business activities previous year.
amounted to: Transparency 303 tCO2e resulting from the combustion of fuel and Where relevant, we have included appropriate references to the operation of any facilities classified as Scope 1 in this the accounting and calculation methodologies, assumptions report : and and re-calculations performed.
1,332 tCO2e from the purchase of electricity by Accuracy the company for its own use classified as Scope 2 in this report.
To our knowledge, data is considered accurate within the limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
For 2013 14 our greenhouse gas emissions resulting from business activities amounted to 312 tCO2e for Scope 1 Data quality and 1,450 tCO2e for Scope 2.
It has not been practical to Carbon Smart has assessed the data quality against the gather data on energy use at our Birmingham, Glasgow WRI GHG Protocol principles.
Data from each emission and Lymington offices 6% of the total floor area of our source has been rated 1 poorest to 5 best.
We have used typical energy consumption no change in the rating for 2014 15: overall data quality has benchmarks to calculate the energy use at these sites based remained at 4.0.
Our observations on data quality include: on floor area only gas at Birmingham.
We have stated the following carbon intensity metrics for 2014 15: 106 Rathbones relies on benchmarking performance for tCO2e per bn funds under management and 13.39 tCO2e gas and electricity at Lymington and the new office at per m operational income.
For the previous reporting Glasgow.
Benchmark data is also used for Birminghams period, this was 107 tCO2e per bn and 13.89 tCO2e per gas consumption m respectively.
Gas consumption at London, Liverpool and Cambridge The methodology used is in accordance with the which account for 88% of total gas consumption is requirements of the following standards: the World extrapolated based on proportion of occupancy of the Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised buildings version this includes the new best-practice Scope 2 The new waste monitoring protocol improves the rigour guidance using the market-based method: Environmental applied to waste analysis by supplying more discrete data.
Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance Defra, October 2013 Data quality and ISO 14064 part 1.
Whilst our financial reporting year % of total carbon footprint 2014 15 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 is the calendar year, our reporting period for greenhouse gas emissions is 1 October to 30 September.
Overall 4.0 4.0 3.8 Scope 1 10% 4.3 4.0 4.0 Scope 2 43% 4.0 4.0 3.0 Scope 3 47% 4.3 4.5 4.5 Ben Murray Director Carbon Smart Limited 23 February 2016 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 55 Our performance Corporate responsibility report Glossary Heating degree days Baseline year These are a measure of the severity and duration of cold weather.
For every degree the outside temperature drops This is the year that we measure our performance in below 15C in a day counts as a degree day.
The colder the subsequent years against.
The 2012 13 data is now our weather, the larger the degree day value for that day.
For baseline for performance comparison because of significant example, two days at 10C counts as 10 degree days.
Historically 2007 08 was the baseline year.
kWh Operational control approach A kilowatt hour is a unit of energy.
One kWh is roughly equivalent to using a desktop computer for four hours.
This refers to how our organisational boundaries have been defined.
We use an operational control approach, Location-based emissions which includes direct and indirect emissions from those For Scope 2 emissions, a location-based method reflects buildings which we have operational as opposed to the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy financial control over.
consumption occurs using mostly grid average emission BREEAM factor data.
A sustainability assessment method for buildings.
The Market-based emissions BREEAM assessment process evaluates the procurement, For Scope 2 emissions, a market-based method reflects design, construction and operation of a development emissions from electricity that companies have purposefully against targets that are based on performance benchmarks.
chosen or their lack of choice.
Assessments are carried out by independent, licensed assessors, and developments rated and certified on a scale Reporting regulations of Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent and Outstanding.
The Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e Regulations 2013.
This is a universal unit of measurement that allows the Scope global warming potential of different greenhouse gases to be The Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines three categories or compared as prescribed by the Kyoto Protocol.
CDP Scope 1 Direct emissions : emissions directly into the An independent organisation that works with companies atmosphere e. g. from natural gas and refrigerants to measure and disclose self-report their environmental Scope 2 Indirect emissions : emissions from the information including data on greenhouse gas emissions and consumption of purchased electricity water use.
In 2014, nearly 2,000 businesses reported climate change data to CDP.
Scope 3 Other indirect emissions : emissions from Rathbones use of products and services such as business Conversion factors travel, water, paper etc.
These are used to convert different activities into tonnes of Transmission and distribution T&D carbon dioxide equivalent tCO2e.
For example, consuming 1,000 kWh of UK gas is currently equal to emitting This is the energy loss that occurs when getting the approximately 0.185 tCO2e.
The amount of CO2e generated electricity from a power station to the point of use.
To per kWh of UK grid electricity changes from year-to-year account for electricity emissions fully, Defra requires following changes to the way we generate our electricity.
that organisations account for the T&D loss associated with the electricity they purchase.
Defra have historically Environmental, social and governance ESG included T&D under a single conversion factor for electricity ESG is the term for the criteria used in what is known as consumption.
Since 2012 13 purchased electricity has socially responsible investing.
ESG factors offer portfolio been separated into Electricity generation and Losses from managers added insight into the quality of a company's T&D.
This change resulted in a proportion of our carbon management, sustainability, ethical impact, culture, risk emissions previously being reported against Scope 2 being profile and other characteristics.
56 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 Our performance Governance 58 Directors 61 Directors report 63 Corporate governance report 67 Executive committee report 69 Group risk committee report 70 Remuneration committee report 85 Audit committee report 88 Nomination committee report 89 Approval of strategic report 90 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the report and accounts Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2015 57
