Sustainable banking 33 Sustainable banking Our areas of focus Sustainable banking means serving todays customers in a way that also helps future generations.
It requires us to put Support for enterprise customers first, make RBS a great place to work, support RBS and NatWest support more businesses our communities and be mindful of environmental impacts.
in the UK than any other bank, but we are determined to do more to get behind the This section gives a short overview of our two main areas entrepreneurs and businesses that power the UK economy.
One of the ways were of focus: supporting enterprise and financial capability.
doing this is through our partnership with It also provides details of our key disclosures on carbon Entrepreneurial Spark, the free business emissions, inclusion and human rights.
By the end of 2015 there were seven business accelerator hubs Sustainable Banking Report, independently assured to in Brighton, Birmingham, Bristol, Leeds, AA1000 standards, provides a much more comprehensive Glasgow, Edinburgh and Ayr and we will open six more around the UK by 2017.
These hubs overview of our approach to these areas and other offer free workspace, hands-on mentoring, a material issues affecting the bank.
Further information is start-up bootcamp and a free programme of up to 18-months of advice, support and available at rbs.
funding clinics for entrepreneurs and high growth businesses.
2015 also marked the successful conclusion of our Inspiring Enterprise initiative.
In 2012 we began supporting and helping to fund organisations that work with young people, women and social enterprises to help them develop and progress their business ideas.
By the end of the three year period, our support had directly contributed to the creation of 2,173 new businesses across the UK and we exceeded our initial targets by assisting 114,059 young people, 28,365 women and 5,349 social enterprises to develop their ideas and take their next steps on their enterprise journey.
34 Our areas of focus Financial capability A cornerstone of our ambition to become No.
1 for customer service, trust and advocacy by 2020 is our commitment to help people manage their money better.
This means supporting peoples financial capability both day-to-day and through significant life events.
One of our most established initiatives is MoneySense, which is one of the longest running financial education programmes for young people in the UK and Ireland.
Over 60% of secondary schools were registered to use MoneySense in 2015, gaining access to a range of resources and interactive materials for teachers, staff volunteers and young people to help them get to grips with money and how to manage it.
To celebrate the programmes 21st birthday, we re-launched MoneySense to open it up to primary schools for the first time and introduced new materials to make learning about money more real, relevant and fun for 5-18 year olds.
The programme continues to empower young people to take control of their own financial journeys and build financial capability throughout their lives.
Carbon emission disclosures centres, whilst also ensuring the delivery CFG combined Scope 1, 2 and 3 footprint RBS has a set of five year environmental of reliable and innovative services to our totalled 101,240tCO2e.
targets running from 2015-2020, which customers remains a key priority.
Weve sit alongside our pre-existing 2012-2020 made changes in our waste reporting, by Inclusion targets for business travel and paper.
At expanding our data collection streams Building a more inclusive bank is essential the end of year one, we can report that and working closely with suppliers to find for our customers and colleagues.
Our due to efficiency initiatives across our innovative ways to meet targets.
inclusion policy standard applies to all our UK property portfolio, weve continued people globally.
to reduce our combined Scope 1 and 2 Our ambitious Zero Waste to Landfill emissions, putting us well on track to meet target remains challenging and if we are During 2015 we continued our roll out our global 2020 energy reduction targets.
to meet it, will require us to find new of unconscious bias learning for all Similarly, our Scope 3 business travel approaches to collaboration.
We have introduced a gender reductions remain on track, as a result of reporting year has seen the removal of goal to have at least 30% of women in our internal policies to reduce cost and Citizens from our environmental footprint, the banks top three leadership levels promote more sustainable modes of travel.
and so to remain in line with best practice, by 2020.
Further, we aim to have 50 50 weve applied our re-baselining strategy balance at all levels by 2030.
This is We continue to strive to reduce the energy to remove CFG emissions and normalise supported by the launch of a female and associated emissions of our data our environmental footprint.
An increased For full information about how Sustainable banking 35 we manage sustainability at RBS visit rbs.
focus on disability has led to the There were 701 senior managers, introductory training on sustainability to development of a comprehensive plan to which comprises our executive employee members of our procurement team.
support our colleagues and customers population and individuals who are with additional needs and will help RBS directors of our subsidiaries.
The RBS Our Environment, Social, Ethical ESE achieve its ambition of becoming a Board of directors has eleven members, Risk policies include sector-specific human disability smart organisation.
From an consisting of eight male and three female rights risk screenings and are regularly LGBT perspective, we continue to deliver directors.
reviewed and updated to ensure best improvements to our people policies practice.
We conduct due diligence on and customer operating procedures, Our approach to Human Rights clients relating to human rights standards, including the introduction of guidance to RBS recognises its corporate responsibility and expect our clients to share our support employees going through gender to respect and uphold human rights.
commitment to respecting human rights transition, introducing the Mx honorific, We regularly review our policies and within their operations.
In all sectors, and improving our customer gender procedures to ensure that we avoid we will not provide financial services to change process.
We are finalising plans to infringing on the human rights of others companies involved in harmful child labour improve our ethnic representation within throughout our sphere of influence.
senior roles and are continuing to support our 15,000 strong employee-led networks.
The RBS Code of Conduct Our Code sets We also participate in projects with our out the standards we expect our people peers through the Thun Group and UNEP RBS has been recognised for its work on to work to, including a clear commitment FI to better understand and implement Equality, Diversity and Inclusion by our to respecting human rights.
We conduct the human rights responsibilities of banks Platinum ranking from Opportunity Now regular consultations with employees on as defined by the UN Guiding Principles gender : our Gold ranking for Race for key aspects of their working environment, on Business and Human Rights.
We have Opportunity race : retaining a position in and operate a confidential helpline facility adopted and contributed to a number of the Times Top 50 Employers for Women: that allows employees to discuss any internationally accepted codes, notably and improving upon our ranking in the matter of concern with regards to their the Equator Principles and the UN Global Stonewall Workplace Equality Index LGBT.
We are an accredited living Compact, which specifically address the As at 31 December 2015, of our global wage employer.
management of human rights issues.
population of 90,158 employees actual headcount excluding temporary workers, Our Sustainable Procurement Code sets RBS welcomes new legislation the 42,892 48% were male and 47,266 52% out our expectations of the companies Modern Slavery Act 2015 to combat female.
It states that our slavery and human trafficking.
We are suppliers should not engage in breaches obliged to produce a public statement Male Female of human rights or labour rights, or in under this Act for the reporting year 2016, Executive employees 133 80% 33 20% discrimination.
We are also committed to and we are identifying the steps necessary Directors of subsidiaries 459 86% 76 14% equal opportunities for suppliers, and we to ensure there is no modern slavery recognise that diversity strengthens our within our organisation and supply chain.
During 2015 we conducted Assessment Parameters Baseline year 2014 Consolidation approach Operational control Boundary summary All entities and facilities either owned or under operational control Emission factor data source DEFRA 2015, US Environmental Protection Agency eGRID 2014 Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised edition 2004 Materiality threshold Materiality was set at group level at 5% Intensity ratio Emissions per full time employee FTE Limited assurance provided by Ernst & Young LLP over total reported 2015 Independent assurance Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions.
Scope 2: Emissions from electricity, district heating and district cooling used in RBS premises.
Scope 3: Emissions associated with business travel air, rail and road by RBS employees.
