48 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT St. Jamess Place is committed to growing our business in a way that considers the economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
We understand that responsible management is important to all our stakeholders shareholders, clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
Our commitment to responsible management was established in the founding principles of the Company and is expressed in both the Our Approach document, which is shared with all members of our community, and the What it means to be a member brochure, which sets out the expectations for our Partners.
We believe responsible management continues to be embedded in our culture, and reminders and encouragement to live by this philosophy are provided regularly through team meetings, and employee and Partner newsletters.
By living up to the expectations established within our culture, we believe we will be able to demonstrate trustworthiness, reliability and a commitment to the common good.
In a world where the reputation of the financial services industry is constantly under pressure, we aspire to create an authentic alternative which all our stakeholders can trust, and which the communities we are part of can appreciate and respect.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 49 Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility ST. JAMESS PLACE COMMUNITY & CULTURE EMPLOYEES & PARTNERS LOCAL CHARITY ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITIES We are constantly seeking to improve our delivery, but recent public endorsements include: We have received various awards relating to our client offering over the years.
Most recently, these have included the Wealth Adviser Award for Best Private Client Investment Manager third year running, the Personal Finance Awards Best Financial Adviser sixth year running, FDs Excellence Awards Best Pension Provider, City of London Wealth Management Company of the Year Award and two Financial Times Investors Chronicle Awards for Best Wealth Manager for Inheritance Tax and Succession Planning and Best Wealth Manager for Trusts: Our business model has been recognised through winning the 2015 16 Britains Most Admired Companies Award in our sector, which is run in association with Management Today: and Our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, which comprises companies that meet globally recognised corporate social responsibility criteria, recognised our positive culture and ongoing commitment to responsible management.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 50 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED CSR Governance Responsible management is central to our culture, and the task of maintaining this culture including our CSR ambitions is a key focus of the Executive Committee of the Board, with oversight by the full Board.
The Executive Committee of the Board is supported in this objective as in all of their work by a number of sub-committees, which are chaired by Directors or senior management.
MANAGING COMMITTEE REMIT Our Culture Executive Committee of the Board To ensure the strength and maintenance of the unique culture throughout our community.
CSR overview, Local Community, CSR Group To co-ordinate the Groups approach to Volunteering, Suppliers and the CSR and CSR Department with Environment particular focus on promoting local community engagement and environmental matters.
Investment Management Approach Investment Committee To manage our Investment Management Approach and oversee our fund managers.
The St. Jamess Place Foundation Foundation Trustees To manage the St. Jamess Place Foundation, including overseeing grant-making and compliance with the charitys objectives.
Community Support The St. Jamess Place Foundation We have always recognised our social responsibility to our local communities and, from the founding of the Group, have encouraged our staff and Partners to use their expertise to help local charities and other voluntary organisations.
The desire to provide support to the less fortunate in society resulted in the establishment of the independent St. Jamess Place Foundation which continues to receive support from all parts of the St. Jamess Place community: employees, Partners, clients, suppliers and shareholders.
This has been another record year for fundraising by members of our community and as a result the matching grant from the Company was 4.3 million including gift aid.
Since 1992, the St. Jamess Place community has raised over 46.6 million for the Foundation to distribute to good causes.
Additional information from the St. Jamess Place Foundation about its activities is provided on pages 56 to 59 or available from its website at www.
Community Volunteering and Support St. Jamess Place has a strong tradition of volunteer support for the work of the Foundation, but more recently we have sought to recognise the other community volunteering in which our employees engage.
In 2015 we were pleased to support 86 employees offering over 13,500 hours of community support with grants of up to 1,000 to support their volunteering efforts.
We are aiming to expand this initiative further in 2016, reaching out to all our UK offices.
We have also started two new volunteering initiatives.
Firstly, we have started offering community support team challenges.
These provide an opportunity for groups of colleagues to undertake community and charity projects together, which can also be beneficial in strengthening teamwork and motivation.
Over 600 hours of community work have been undertaken this year, working with causes local to our offices including local charities, conservation projects, and an NHS trust.
Secondly, we have been seeking out opportunities to link the professional skills of our employees to the professional needs of local charities, particularly through support for the Involve Gloucestershire initiative.
We plan to build on both of these initiatives during 2016.
We also continue to support community organisations and charities local to our offices through grants.
For example, support for core costs has been given to The Churn Project which works to improve the quality of life and well-being of isolated and disadvantaged people within Cirencester.
We are also delighted that over 30 of our employees volunteer for The Churn Project, allowing them to make a direct contribution to the community around their place of work.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 51 Employability Skills for Young People St. Jamess Place is an entrepreneurial organisation and we have always been keen that the next generation should be able to contribute successfully through employment.
Cirencester College St. Jamess Place has now been providing support to Cirencester College, a further education college local to our head-office, for over 11 years.
During that time, we have been able to offer 69 internships to students from Cirencester College, with 26 of them turning into full time employment opportunities, often in our Apprenticeship scheme see below.
However, our main involvement has been providing support for the four Academy Programmes, each designed for students who aspire to work in a particular market sector.
These programmes are operated in conjunction with the national charity Career Ready and our support includes providing students with paid summer internships as well as providing 14 mentors to provide support and business coaching to many students.
Apprenticeships Working in conjunction with Cirencester College, which provides the training, our apprenticeship programme is now well established.
Our 2015 September intake of 12 has included a pilot Financial Services apprenticeship alongside our existing apprenticeships in Business Administration, Marketing, IT and Accountancy.
A further intake of 12 apprentices is planned for September 2016.
The value of these opportunities for both the young people and the local community has been recognised through a variety of awards ranging from a special award by our local Cirencester Chamber of Commerce, to a commendation as a finalist in the National Apprentice Scheme awards for Newcomer Large Employer of the Year.
Other Employability Skills Training We have continued our work with the charity Young Gloucestershire to provide employability skills training for young people in the area, many of whom are less academically able or from a disadvantaged background.
A range of volunteers from the Company have fulfilled roles as trustees and mentors and financial support has also been provided.
The support helps the young people to present themselves in the best possible way to potential new employers through CV skills, personal presentation tips and interview techniques.
We have also built upon our 2014 pilot with the charity Active Communities Network ACN, working with inner city young people, often from disadvantaged backgrounds.
Supporting their Urban Stars programme in Tower Hamlets, Poplar, Bermondsey and the Aylesbury Estate, 58 volunteers from our Field Management Team and the Partnership worked with over 110 young people, helping them with business planning, CV writing, interview skills and financial education.
This year we have also looked to support organisations like Young Enterprise and EmployabilityUK to help young people bridge the gap between education and work.
Financial Education As one of the leading providers of financial advice to individuals and business owners in the UK, we recognise the importance and value of financial education and this continued to be a core focus in the year.
During 2015 we ran several of our Year 9 and 6th form Financial Education courses with schools delivering a flexible modular programme to fit the PSHE Personal, Social and Health Education and Maths curriculum.
Our material has been delivered by teachers through normal lessons with content tailored to meet the students needs and curriculum requirements.
But we have also used internal training sessions to build up a team of experienced employees who can volunteer to support the delivery of the courses.
This support has allowed other schools to deliver the course on an inset day for a class or full year group, and provides pupils with experience beyond their teachers.
We have also developed our advanced education material for year 12 and 13 students for use in out-of-school settings.
Working with OPENhouse in Stroud and Young Gloucestershire we have tailored materials and delivered sessions to vulnerable children and young adults who have additional educational needs and to some who are currently NEET.
The Financial Education programme will be a key focus in 2016, when we will seek external accreditation for our programme and expand delivery to more schools and alternative youth work locations across the UK through all our offices.
This roll out will be led by volunteer employees and Partners, linking our offices with local educational provision.
Loughborough University Swimming In the build up to Rio 2016, we are pleased to continue our sponsorship of the Loughborough University Swimming programme.
This enables the squad to receive additional coaching, and, since our relationship started in 2007, the team have medalled in all major UK and International events including European, Commonwealth, World Championships and the Olympic Games.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 52 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED During the year, the squad had a strong presence in the FINA World Championships in Kazan, Russia and the IPC World Championships in Glasgow.
Fran Halsall anchored the Great Britain 4 x 100m mixed medley relay team home to claim the gold medal and a world record at the FINA World Championships in Kazan, Russia.
Fran said: I think we all stepped up and did a great swim.
To swim a world record and be world champion is incredible its a nice way to start my week.
Loughboroughs Rachael Kelly swam the butterfly leg in the qualifying round and was also awarded a Gold medal.
Loughboroughs Paralympic swimmer Ellie Simmonds OBE won Gold with a new world record in the 200m individual medley at the IPC Swimming World Championships in Glasgow.
Ellie also won a Silver medal and two Bronze medals.
James Hollis also achieved new British records in the 50m and 100m butterfly.
Suppliers and Supply Chain St. Jamess Place believes in treating all our stakeholders fairly.
We also believe in the benefits to be gained from building long-term relationships based on mutual trust.
As a result, many of our key suppliers have been associated with the Group for a number of years and we have been able to cultivate very strong and mutually beneficial relationships, such as our providers of outsourced administration services: IFDS, Capita and State Street.
More generally, we expect all our suppliers to act in accordance with the standards embedded in our culture, and will undertake due diligence on new service providers to ensure we are comfortable with their approach to socially responsible management.
An important development for us in 2014 was accreditation with the Living Wage Foundation, which involved us working closely with our supply chain.
We are particularly pleased that many of our suppliers share our desire to make a positive and lasting difference to the lives of those less fortunate than ourselves, and we are very grateful to all those who have provided support to the St. Jamess Place Foundation, both through donations and through active participation in many of the events.
St. Jamess Place has always placed great reliance on the support of third party suppliers and the continued success of our business reflects, amongst other things, our success in cultivating and managing successful relationships with suppliers.
We are pleased to have signed up to the Prompt Payment Code which is encouraged by the Department of Business Innovation and Skills BIS and demonstrates a commitment to good practice between organisations and their suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit to paying their suppliers within agreed and clearly defined terms, and commit also to ensuring that there is a proper process for dealing with any issues that may arise.
The Environment St. Jamess Place is committed to managing our environmental impact through effective management of energy systems, travel, water usage and waste recycling.
We recognise the effect our business can have on climate change and we take a positive approach to managing our business activities, whilst at the same time encouraging all Partners and staff to consider their own personal impact on the environment.
Oversight of our environmental strategy is through a Corporate Social Responsibility Group CSR Group with ultimate responsibility resting with David Bellamy CEO.
The group meets on a monthly basis and reviews environmental performance.
We measure our environmental data from October to September and the following tables summarise targets and progress, expressed in terms of both absolute and normalised CO e emissions for our core business activities in recent years.
Core business activities are 2 defined as those within Operational Control.
In previous years, we have explicitly excluded our investment property portfolios held on behalf of clients, but in 2015 we are extending our reporting to include them, and also to include Well to Tank WTT emissions for all scopes within the progress table.
The assessment uses the CarbonNeutral Company Protocol together with the 2015 conversion rates as provided by Defra for all our emission categories.
The data was verified and reporting information calculated by Carbon Clear.
In previous years St. Jamess Place has purchased carbon credits in order to offset our carbon footprint and achieve carbon neutral company status.
However, following a review of our environmental strategy in 2015, we are now focusing our efforts on managing our carbon footprint directly, and on stewardship of our funds under management including the environmental implications of those companies in which we invest.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 53 1 Targets Absolute Emissions Targets % of % increase Base Year Emissions in p. a. from Emissions ID Scope Description Scope Base Year Base Year tonnes CO e Target Year 2 Abs1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 100% 5% 2013 851 2016 Abs2 2 Electricity 100% 5% 2013 2,218 2016 Business travel, waste, Abs3 3 hotel stays, electricity T&D 100% 5% 2013 3,704 2016 Normalised Emissions Targets Base Year Normalised % of % increase Emissions Emissions in p. a. from tonnes CO e 2 ID Scope Description Scope Base Year Base Year per 000 sqft Target Year Int1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 100% 0% 2013 3.03 2016 Int2 2 Electricity 100% 0% 2013 7.90 2016 Business travel, waste, Int3 3 hotel stays, electricity T&D 100% 0% 2013 13.18 2016 In 2014, we set new targets for the next three years for both absolute and normalised measurements.
We are targeting that normalised emissions targets will remain constant, i. e. a nil increase, but in absolute terms emissions will be limited to a 5% p. a. increase, which compares to forecast business growth of 15% p. a.
The targets also explicitly take into account the commissioning of a second head office building in Cirencester.
This is being built to accommodate business growth and is due to be completed during the target period.
We hope to achieve a BREAM rating of very good for the new building.
2 Progress Absolute Emissions Progress Actual Emissions in Year % variance from ID Scope tonnes CO e Target Comment 2 Emissions from gas and owned vehicles have fallen due to a reduction in the number of Company-owned Abs1 1 764 -19% cars and reduced mileage.
Emissions from electricity have increased this year due to the inclusion of our operations in Asia, although previous plant Abs2 2 1,984 -19% improvements mean we are still ahead of target.
We remain well ahead of our Scope 3 emissions absolute target, Abs3 3 2,559 -37% driven mainly by a significant reduction in long-haul flights.
3 Property Trust Investments and Two extra Scope 3 categories are being reported this year Abs3.1 WTT 12,182 n a SJP Property Trusts and WTT for all Scopes.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 54 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Normalised Emissions Progress Normalised Emissions in Year tonnes CO e % variance 2 ID Scope per 000 sqft from Target Comment In all areas, the reduced floor space compared to the original Int1 1 2.62 -13% expectation has partially offset the impact of the reduction emissions.
Int2 2 6.81 -14% In 2016 new office premises are expected to be added, which will change this analysis.
Int3 3 8.78 -33% Comparative data for 2013 is presented as the Base Year information in the Target tables above.
Since then we have seen reductions in all areas of our carbon footprint, despite continuing growth in the business.
Key reasons for the improvements are documented in the table above, but, looking to the future, we anticipate higher Scope 2 emissions in 2016 as a result of taking on additional office premises in London, and from moving into our new building in Cirencester.
Since the increase will arise from new buildings, we are expecting that the normalised emissions level will improve compared to target.
3 Emissions Trend excluding Investment Property Portfolios and WTT Gross Emissions tonnes CO e 2 ID Scope Activity 2013 2014 2015 Abs1 1 Gas and owned vehicles 851 932 764 Abs2 2 Electricity 2,218 1,888 1,984 Abs3 3 Business travel 3,704 2,366 2,559 Total 6,773 5,186 5,307 ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
