12 BUSINESS MODEL IN ACTION OUR PEOPLE We are a relationship business where people are our most important asset.
This statement is a core cultural belief and a fundamental element of the success of St. Jamess Place.
Members of our community tend to share core values that are highly compatible with the values that are central to the business and established at the outset expertise, integrity and discretion.
They are passionate about our business and believe in hard work and dedication.
Age, race, colour, creed, sexuality, disability and gender are irrelevant: merit and experience are of greatest importance.
They treat each other with mutual respect, openness and fairness and are driven by a desire to do the right thing by all our stakeholders.
This is our culture, which is central to our success.
We are therefore proactive in building and reinforcing it.
For this most important of business differentiators it is the Board that provides both tone at the top and oversight.
The Board is committed to being consistent and clear-sighted in its leadership and support of the culture, and in particular the principle that St. Jamess Place will seek to do the right thing for its clients and for all its stakeholders.
In a world where the reputation of the financial services industry is constantly under pressure, we aspire to create an authentic alternative which clients and suppliers can trust, and which the communities we are part of can appreciate and respect.
However, we recognise that we wont always get everything right, and so we also believe in acknowledging mistakes made, rectifying them and learning from them.
ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 13 Our people are a sustainable competitive advantage, so we aim Our regular employee survey, which we conduct every other year, to attract the best and help them fulfil their potential.
We secure provides important insights, crucially on employee engagement.
their commitment by providing them with an interesting and The most recent survey was in 2014 and we received a strong challenging career within a first class working environment.
survey response rate of 87% compared to 86% in 2012.
Our We reward them competitively, as well as encouraging equity overall engagement score was 87%, which was significantly ownership, including in the Partnership.
We are a Living Wage higher than the financial services benchmark of 72%.
We plan to employer and have committed to meeting the living wage for all continue with the bi-annual process, which means our next survey our employees and suppliers.
As a result of the strong engagement we also have low levels of staff turnover, being 10% in 2015 2014: 9% for We recognise that as our business grows we will have to take the UK business, and the proportion of UK employees that are care with our culture.
Our employee numbers now exceed temporary staff is just over 4% 2014: 7% in 2016 we will reflect 1,300 in the UK 1,400 worldwide and the number of Partners experience of our Asian business as well.
exceeds 2,000 over 3,000 advisers with over 4,000 support staff, and these numbers will continue to grow in future years.
Information about the breakdown of employees by gender is shown below.
To ensure continuity of our culture, we ensure that all employees and Partners joining the business are selected for their fit with our corporate values, as well as their competency, and that they are given a full induction as the first step in their career BOARD MANAGERS & with our business.
This includes receiving a booklet entitled DECISION MAKERS DIRECTORS Our Approach, which gives guidance on the culture and values of St. Jamess Place, and the employee handbook includes a statement about our Code of Ethics.
We believe it is important that our community knows and understands our objectives, including the ethos behind the St. Jamess Place brand and how 2 Female 71 Female its integrity and values should be maintained.
We also encourage 7 Male 303 Male shared commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Maintaining freshness of commitment to our culture is promoted through a variety of activities including an Annual No change % women increased from Company Meeting, employee and Partner Surveys, regular 16% to 19% Partner meetings, feedback opportunities for employees with Directors and a Leadership Conference for senior management.
TOTAL They all provide opportunities to renew our joint understanding EMPLOYEES and encourage commitment to our shared culture, as well as ensuring a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
665 Female 697 Male % women consistent at 49% ST. JAMESS PLACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
