Business environment A year of divergence In 2015, the major economies continued the recovery Europe, Japan, China and India.
Asia will continue to drive global seen in 2014, supporting global growth which likely growth.
Africa could face short-term pressures.
The eurozone grew faster term fundamentals suchas demographics andurbanisation thanin 2014 while growth in the US stabilised.
remain positive, theaccumulation of foreign-currency debt, Emergingmarkets saw softer growth in 2015, with together with a dependence on commodities, leaves the region Chinas slowdown continuing and commodity prices vulnerable tochanges in the global environment.
In the Middle East, oil producers have prudently made use of Asia, excluding Japan, likely expanded GDP by 6 per cent past savings to absorb shocks to their domestic economies.
in2015: Africa grew by 2.4 per cent and the Middle East by Inthe Gulf Cooperation Countries GCC, we expect fiscal policy 3.5 per cent.
Despite its slowdown, China continued to be to tighten as oil prices remain below budget breakeven points oneof the fastest-growing economies in the world, likely incountries such as Saudi Arabia and the UAE for most of expanding by 6.9 per cent in 2015.
Liquidity is also likely to tighten as governments draw an impressive growth rate of 7.4 per cent in 2015, slightly down their deposits with local financial institutions to fund their abovegrowth in2014.
As the authorities use up domestic deposits to fund budgets, liquidity on the ground should begin to tighten.
China focused on rebalancing, with policy makers working toboost consumption and services relative to investment, We expect the eurozone economy to improve further in 2016 manufacturing and construction.
The US started to normalise compared with 2015, supported by buoyant domestic demand.
its monetary policy, with a 0.25 percentage point interest rate Growth should remain underpinned by low oil prices, a low hike in December 2015, the first rise in interest rates since 2006. trade-weighted euro exchange rate, and relatively low financing Despite the end of quantitative easing in the US, global costs.
Monetary and fiscal policy should be more supportive monetary policy remained easy, with the Bank of Japan BoJ, in2016, and strong consumer sentiment helped by falling the European Central Bank ECB and the Peoples Bank of unemployment and rising real incomes should drive China PBoC all easing monetary conditions.
Bank lending to companies began to rise again in divergence is likely to continue in 2016 as Chinas growth eases 2015, but ongoing deleveraging and high non-performing loans back to aslower pace and oil-exporting economies mark time, are likely to limit investments contribution to growth.
The main while developed economies accelerate.
risks are that high unemployment brings political instability, damaging confidence, and that slow progress on reforms, The outlook for 2016 especially in France and Italy, depresses confidence and limits growth potential.
In Japan, Abenomics and its combination of The macroeconomic outlook is subdued.
No economy fiscal and monetary stimulus have helped to push up growth.
isbooming, and global growth is likely to ease slightly to Lower oil prices are also a significant benefit to Japan, though 2.7 per cent during the year.
In 2016, China and the US Federal the resulting lower inflation will delay progress towards the Reserve Fed are likely tocontinue to set the beat for global 2 per cent inflation target.
The risks are that China does not achieve a soft landing and that the Fed tightening cycle Asia derails the USrecovery.
However, we expect increased policy clarity from theUS and China to create a more palatable We expect Asias growth to be 6.1 per cent in 2016, compared backdrop for emerging markets in 2016.
While the lack of to 6 per cent in 2015.
After an eventful and volatile summer in momentum in the world economy is likely to persist, market 2015, there is market concern about whether Asia is heading sentiment is poised toimprove as markets readjust foranother recession like that seen in 1997 to 1998.
We do not expectations regarding the Fed and China.
expect this, as Asias fundamentals are significantly stronger today than they were heading into that crisis.
The first critical Chinas economy is indeed slowing, but, following recent difference is that todays more freely moving exchange rates market volatility, we expect policy makers to prioritise economic growth in the short run.
As a result, we expect growth to stabilise over the coming quarters.
We also think concerns of ahard landing are overblown.
The market has focused on the In 2015, Chinas economy likely expanded 6.9 per cent, one of the fastest growing in the world manufacturing sector, which is facing pressure, but we think this misses the bigger picture of Chinas economic rebalancing.
The services sector, which now contributes more than 50 per cent of Chinas GDP, is robust.
Following the rate hike in December 2015, we expect no further Fed rate increases in 2016, making the Fed tightening cycle very shallow.
Weexpect the Fed funds rate to peak at 0.5 per cent by the first quarter of 2016, lower than the market anticipates, and forthe Fed to cut rates again in late 2016 as US growth slows.
Thissuggests that beyond the initial period when markets reprice risk, interesting opportunities will arise for investors.
Meanwhile, we expect oil prices to stay low in the first half of2016, before rising in the second half due to non-OPEC production constraints.
Low oil prices in the near term should boost growth in all the major economies including the US, 32 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Group overview The Business environment report has been produced by ourGlobal Research team.
The forecasts for 2016 reflect their projections.
Indias financial year starts in April can adjust to changes in fundamentals, such as terms of trade, implementation of infrastructure investment plans.
President without leading to major knock-on credit events.
Asias external Jokowi appears to have an increased sense of urgency on debt is now denominated in both local and foreign currency, thisfront.
and most foreign-currency debt is hedged or matched with In India, the government announced regulatory changes late in known future foreign exchange FX receivables.
Malaysias 2015 that should provide a significant long-term boost to foreign  debt now accounts for just investment, raising foreign direct investment limits for sectors 47 per cent ofits total external debt, down sharply since before such as construction and single-brand retail, and improving the Asian crisis.
Ratios of FX reserves to short-term debt and procedures for investors.
The immediate challenge to the imports have also improved.
While risks from prior leverage investment outlook is the planned public-sector pay rise, which excesses insome sectors and economies may reduce policy we think will cost the government 0.7 to 1 per cent of GDP in makers options to boost growth, we think these risks the 2017 fiscal year.
This is likely to divert fiscal resources from aremanageable.
public investment, which has driven Indias investment recovery Chinas economy is likely to grow by 6.8 per cent in 2016. in the 2016 fiscal year.
As a result, while growth may be higher Weexpect more policy clarity in the coming months, with next year we forecast 7.6 per cent, versus 7.4 per cent in the theemphasis on supporting shorter-term growth.
The key 2016 fiscal year, it is likely to be driven less by investment and support for Chinas growth is likely to come from fiscal policy, more by the one-off boost to consumer incomes.
complementing the monetary easing already implemented.
Meanwhile, key reforms at the central government level Interms of fiscal policy, China is likely to continue to use including amendments to the land acquisition law and quasi-fiscal policy stimulus via the recapitalisation of policy implementation of the Goods and Services tax havestalled.
banks in order tosupport growth.
Reforms that support State governments may make better progress.
While passage longer-term growth, particularly state-owned enterprises of the amended Land Acquisition Act a key precondition for reform, may also make more progress in the coming months.
an investment recovery faces political opposition at the central This should stabilise sentiment towards China and the region.
level, state governments may implement the law at the state level.
The biggest risk to this view would be a further sudden, Tamil Nadu, Indias southeastern state, has already done so.
sharpweakening in the CNY, which we do not expect.
Elsewhere in Asia, progress is likely to continue to be made on Sub-Saharan Africa SSA domestic stimulus measures.
Across Asia, we forecast further We expect sub-trend growth in SSA economies to continue monetary easing in Australia, Malaysia and Indonesia or no in2016.
We estimate growth to rise modestly to 3.2 per cent policy change in the first half of 2016.
In the second half, we in2016 from 2.4 per cent in 2015 but still below previous trend expect some economies totighten monetary policy, though levels of around 5 per cent.
An expected recovery in Nigeria only modestly and from ultra-accommodative levels.
This will willprovide much of the momentum in 2016, after a year of bepartly in response to agradual uptrend in inflation as energy negligible per-capita income growth driven by the oil-price price inflation resumes in 2016.
Risks to our view are skewed collapse and the election-related slowdown.
With a new cabinet towards the dovish side given persistently disappointing in place, the hope is that 2016 will bring accelerated reforms external demand in recent years and the lack of pent-up and greater growth momentum.
FX availability is a constraint inflation pressure.
Monetary conditions are also relatively tight inNigeria.
Our expectations of a 2016 recovery may be inmost economies: the only exceptions, by our estimates, disappointed if the real economy continues to bear the burden areMalaysia and South Korea.
Elections will be the main focus of adjustment to weaker oil prices, with efforts to hold back of 2016 in South Korea and thePhilippines.
demand in order to support a fixed exchange rate.
South Africa In Indonesia, public investment is also accelerating, albeit has been caught in weak, sub-trend growth since the 2008 to froma low base.
While consumer spending is the bedrock of 2009 global financial crisis.
Efforts to increase fiscal stimulus Indonesias growth, the swing factor for 2016 is likely to be the have not yielded the desired results.
There is now little room for 33 Business environment An expected recovery in Nigeria will bring growth momentum While oil prices are low, MENA economies have taken the opportunity in 2016 toreform subsidies further stimulus as South Africa faces a higher public-debt Abu Dhabi, Oman, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait are producing oil ratioand the likelihood of further rating downgrades.
The atclose to full capacity in order to expand their oil sectors in countrys best hope for growth is to engage in meaningful real terms and mitigate the impact of the oil price shock in structural reform.
This strategy has proven effective, as 2015 real GDP growth has slowed only slightly and remains above the Elsewhere in SSA, the growth picture varies.
The impact of global average of around 3 per cent.
However, applying this Chinas slowdown has already hurt SSA economies, largely strategy in2016 will prove much more difficult.
There is limited through the channel of weak commodity prices.
The impact room formanoeuvre, and despite oil and gas investment efforts, isvaried: economies dependent on mining and oil are the first expanding current capacity will take time.
We expect oil-sector toshow signs of slowing, demonstrating rapid transmission growth to slow to 1-3 per cent for most GCC economies through this channel.
Economies more dependent on soft in2016.
commodity exports have been better off, but only up to a point.
In 2016, the commodity-led slowdown and FX volatility that Both oil-exporting and oil-importing MENA economies have marred much of 2015 are likely to translate into greater risk taken the opportunity to reform subsidies while oil prices are aversion towards SSA economies in general.
The pace of subsidy reform has picked up in 2015, and weexpect it to accelerate further in 2016 as policy makers The regions growth tends to have a drawn-out reaction determine the most suitable reforms for their respective toglobal shocks.
In 2016, the second-order effects of the economies.
The UAE has initiated the boldest subsidy reform slowdown already underway might be what matter.
The todate, rationalising its fuel and diesel subsidies as of 1 August absence of bank lending, new foreign direct investment and 2015.
Saudi Arabia followed by raising water tariffs for industrial portfolio flows, and the greater difficulty SSA economies might entities.
Abu Dhabi increased water and electricity tariffs earlier face in obtaining foreign financing, could lead to a second wave in the year.
of slowing in SSA economies.
We do not expect this to take place consistently throughout the year, however.
This bearish GCC economies have financed their fiscal deficits by issuing trend is likely to be concentrated in the first half of 2016: more local-currency bonds and tapping savings, whether in the form dovish rhetoric from the Fed after its initial tightening, and of deposits with commercial banks or foreign-currency reserves confirmation that Chinas stimulus efforts have yielded positive abroad.
This has kick-started the development of local currency results, should trigger a turnaround later in the year.
A recovery debt markets, creating opportunities for market participants.
in commodity prices will also beimportant.
Italso enhances fiscal discipline and helps governments to focus on spending priorities.
Middle East and North Africa MENA Conclusion MENA countries are likely to see slightly lower growth in 2016.
The Gulf Cooperation Council GCC economies are likely to The global economy still lacks momentum.
While we are less witness slower growth on the back of cuts in government optimistic than the markets on the US economy and think it has spending, including both current and capital expenditure, and already peaked, we also expect the Feds rate-hiking cycle to slower oil-sector growth.
GCC oil production is close to full be much shallower than the markets anticipate.
Our view on capacity, with limited room to increase it at this point.
Various China is more optimistic than the consensus we think that policies have been implemented in 2015 to deal with the market concerns about a hard landing are overdone.
In 2015, oil-price shock, limiting the shock to the real economy and these two factors have weighed heavily on confidence.
Bystarting to reform energy subsidies, Emerging markets have been in retreat.
Given our views on the governments have laid the groundwork for better fiscal US and China, we expect market sentiment and confidence to management in the long run: this would have not occurred improve in 2016, especially for emerging markets even with inahigh oil-price environment.
