SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report 27 Diversity and Corporate Social Responsibility Overall responsibility for the implementation of the Board Diversity Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Policy rests The Company has no employees.
Two of the five with the Board.
Board Directors are women and the Company will The Boards strategic priorities with respect to the seek to maintain at least a 25% proportion of female CSR policy are: Board membership.
Shareholders Employees, Social, Community and HumanRights Issues Our objective is to ensure that our operations address Shareholders policies relating to Following the sale of Aberdeen SVG Private Equity environmental, social and governance issues.
Managers Limited ASVGM to Aberdeen Todothis we aim to: Asset Management plc AAM, the Company no longer has any employees.
The Company k maintain a high standard of corporate receives investment management services from governance.
ASVGM, whose staff are employed by AAM and k respond to Shareholders environmental, social are therefore covered by the AAM corporate social and governance concerns as they relate to our responsibility policies.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions k give full consideration to Shareholders concerns as they relate to our investment The Company has no premises, and, as such, activities.
consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable Funds in which we invest carbon footprint.
Our objective is to develop strong relationships, ASVGM provides investment management services balancing the legitimate needs of the general to the Company.
partners of the funds in which we invest with our Details of AAMs policies on diversity, employees, interests and the expectations of our Shareholders.
social, community and human rights issues can be We aim to do this by: found in AAMs report and accounts.
k ensuring the highest levels of integrity in our Corporate social responsibility relationships with general partners.
The long-term business success of the SVG Capital k developing strong and open working plc requires effective management ofboth financial relationships with general partners, so that we and non-financial performance.
Our business can maintain trust without unnecessary relies in particular on strong relationships with our restrictions and unrealistic requests.
investment manager, ourShareholders, and the k undertaking early and constructive general partners ofthefunds in which we invest.
engagement on environmental, social and Although we are a major investor in private equity governance issues oflegitimate concern to our funds, regulations and commercial realities limit the Shareholders.
Prior to investment, we evaluate degree to which we can have an active influence on how the general partners assess such issues as those funds.
We aim to develop open, long-term part of their due diligence on underlying relationships with the private equity managers with companies and how they report on such issues.
Nonetheless, we do engage with k seeking to ensure our investment manager is general partners to identify where non-financial part of a group that is a signatory of the United issues may have an impact on our reputation Nations Principles of Responsible Investing.
and on that of our Shareholders.
We also engage with relevant industry associations and participate in other initiatives tohelpraise awareness and understanding of these issues, both within and outside the sector.
