Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Culture Corporate Social Responsibility In 2015 Tullett Prebon looked to further embed its corporate cultureacross the business, which was founded on shared values As a leading international company, Tullett Prebon is strongly andprinciples that it believes are essential for the success of the committed to acting in a responsible way that serves all its Company in the long term.
These values and principles should guide stakeholders as well as society at large.
This is reflected in the decision-making and behaviour in todays financial environment, Companys ongoing commitment to maintaining sound business andhelp employees to always take the right course of action practices, developing its employees, supporting the communities to thebenefit of clients, shareholders, employees and to society.
itserves and protecting the environment.
In 2015, Tullett Prebon made significant progress on this journey: Governance employees have been engaged in an ongoing dialogue on culture Strong governance underpins responsible business practice andthe values and principles have been, and will continue to be, andaccountability for social, ethical and environmental matters embedded into all of Tullett Prebons business and people processes.
rests with the Board, and is included in its Terms of Reference.
The Respect at Work training was provided to all employees globally Chief Executive is the Board member responsible for driving the and the Company also launched a new Code of Conduct, which Corporate Social Responsibility CSR agenda.
The Companys CSR focused on appropriate employee conduct, which summarises Governance Committee was established in 2009 and comprises all standards to ensure employees do the right thing.
The goal is to members of the Companys Executive Committee.
This Committee make the values and principles an integral part of how Tullett continues to oversee and guide the CSR activities oftheCompany Prebon does business.
and meets as required to discuss CSR matters.
Cultural change at Tullett Prebon is an evolving journey and will Business ethics continue throughout 2016 and beyond.
The Board expects the Company to maintain high standards of governance and of ethical behaviour throughout the business.
Employees Policies and procedures exist to ensure employees at all levels The Company recognises that to deliver superior performance maintain the high standards of conduct and behaviour expected forshareholders and clients, it needs to foster an environment in ofthem.
which its employees feel valued and take pride in their work.
The Company recognises that people are its most important asset and The Company has a clear set of values namely Honesty, Integrity, that investment in their development is essential for the delivery Respect and Excellence.
These together form the foundation of ofthe Companys strategy.
how the Company conducts its business, informing the principles under which the Company operates and the standards of Tullett Prebon continues to invest significantly in employee behaviourthat are required of all employees and contractors development led by Group Human Resources.
In May 2015, the engaged by the Company.
2 Company launched its on-line training and performance portal tp to deliver e-learning and e-training across the whole organisation.
In The Companys approach to ethical behaviour and corporate addition, the Company is developing other training and development governance is documented in its policies and procedures, for programmes for its employees designed to develop their skills and observance by all employees and contractors, and provides for: capabilities including instructor-led development courses through maintaining high standards of compliance and risk management toindividually tailored programmes for senior executives.
ultimately the responsibility of the Chief Executive, and In 2015, compliance and risk management training was monitored by the Board and Audit Committee: deliveredtoTullett Prebon employees and contractors.
Leadership fully complying with legal and regulatory requirements in andmanagement training was also provided to more than 350 eachof the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the managers and desk heads reinforcing the Companys cultural FCAsConduct of Business Sourcebook and the Bank of values and building best business practice.
 Products Code: Also during 2015, the Company successfully introduced a new prohibiting corrupt practices such as inappropriate payments Performance Management process across the Company as part toany third party, directly or indirectly: ofits stated aspiration to be the employer of choice in the fully complying with tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in brokerage industry.
whichit operates relating to its affairs and the deduction of taxes from staff remuneration: trading fairly, knowing its clients and properly understanding itstrades with its clients.
The Company has a policy of not participating in trading activities which it suspects may not befor legitimate trading purposes, or whose sole purpose appears to be tax reduction by the counterparty: guiding employees involved in procurement activities, includinga requirement to adhere to the highest ethical andsocial standards: and maintaining appropriate guidelines on gifts, hospitality, entertainment and conflicts of interest.
In formulating its policies, the Group has due regard to human rights considerations.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 25 Strategic Report continued Employee welfare remains a serious matter for the Company, Social and community issues especially given the demanding nature of the broking environment.
Tax and other social payments The great majority of Tullett Prebon employees work in an office The Company continues to maintain a Low Risk rating from HMRC.
environment and therefore there are no significant areas of risk The Company has earned this Low Risk rating in each of the last toreport.
Overall responsibility for employee welfare and the seven years since HMRC started to disclose the names of those management of stress rests with business line management assisted companies achieving this important status.
Tullett Prebon is by the regional Human Resources departments.
This is supplemented registered, regulated and publicly listed in the UK and will continue by an Employee Assistance Programme which provides counselling to pay the right amount of tax at the right time.
and advice to employees and their families, and the use of occupational health specialists if required.
The Companys policies Tullett Prebon made payments to tax authorities in the UK and onhealth and safety provide a formal framework and inform line theUnited States the main jurisdictions in which it operates management in the discharge of their responsibilities in this area.
for2015 of 193m 2014: 189m, comprising corporation tax, premises taxes, employers social security payments, income taxes Equal opportunities and social security paid on behalf of employees and VAT sales Tullett Prebon is committed to attracting, retaining developing taxes.
In addition, the Company makes further tax payments to andadvancing the most qualified people without regard to their thetax authorities in other tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
race, ethnicity, religion or belief, gender, age, sexual orientation or HM Treasury has adopted the requirements set out under disability.
This commitment is underpinned by policies on equal CRDIVandissued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country opportunities, harassment and discrimination, to which all Reporting Regulations 2013 effective 1 January 2014.
The legislation employees are required to adhere.
requires the Company to publish additional information, in respect In the event that an employee becomes disabled, the Groups policy of theyear ended 31 December 2015, by 31 December 2016.
This is to make reasonable adjustments, including arranging training, information will be available by this date on Tullett Prebons website, toenable the employee to continue working for the Group.
At 31 December 2015 the Companys Board comprised two women Donations and six men: the senior managers of the Company excluding the The Company has maintained the policy of making no donations Board comprised six women and fifty-three men: and the Group topolitical parties.
Charitable donations require the approval employed 556 women and 2,129 men.
The policy on charitable donations is currently beingreviewed.
Key performance indicators Records on employment matters are maintained as required in Environment each legal and regulatory jurisdiction.
Key performance indicators Tullett Prebon, as an office-based business, is not engaged inactivities are as follows: that are generally regarded as having a high environmental impact.
However, the Board has agreed that it willseek to adopt policies to The Company employed 2,694 full time equivalent employees and safeguard the environment to meet statutory requirements or where Directors worldwide in 2015 47% in Europe, 31% in the Americas such policies are commercially sensible.
and 22% in Asia Pacific compared with 2,536 staff in 2014 47% inEurope, 31% in the Americas and 22% in Asia Pacific.
Total The emission of greenhouse gases as a result of office-based remuneration for all staff in 2015 excluding payments made under business activities and from business travel is the Companys the cost improvement programme was 462m 2014: 409m.
mainimpact on the environment and statistics relating to these emissions are set out in the Directors Report.
The table below sets out the retention levels across the Group in2015: The Company also measures its annual carbon footprint.
Detailscan be found in the Directors Report.
2015 EMEA 5 years service 60% 10 years service 39% Americas 5 years service 48% 10 years service 33% Asia Pacific 5 years service 52% 10 years service 28% 26 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015
