Strategic Report Sustainability Review During 2015, the formal materiality assessment undertaken in 2014 to identify and prioritise material sustainability issues for the Group was completed.
The assessment, conducted in line with the Global Reporting Responsible Initiative G4 guidelines, identified and prioritised the sustainability issues that have a direct or indirect impact on our business.
We took the opportunity to also review our existing sustainability priorities and examine their Corporate sustainability underpins our strategic continued relevance for our business.
The review found priorities and is intrinsic to the Groups purpose that our six key priorities continue to encompass the most significant material issues for our business and and values.
We believe that acting in a sustainable stakeholders and, as a consequence, our sustainability way protects and creates long-term value, not just strategy remains appropriate to our evolving business, for our shareholders, but for all our stakeholders that of our critical suppliers and key customers, and the and the long-term future of our business.
changing global climate in which we operate.
These priorities are important to us as we are aware Sustainability is a broad topic and it is important that we have the opportunity to effectively manage our that we understand our key priorities so that we can impacts and create and influence positive outcomes.
allocate time, resources and investment accordingly.
By integrating these priorities into our business strategy, For several years our sustainability approach has daily activities and operations, we will ensure that, focused on six priorities that balance the broad wherever we operate, we are doing so fairly, ethically environmental and societal benefits of our business and responsibly.
The following sections present the six with potential impacts arising from our operations.
priorities, our performance in each of these areas over the past year and the policies and practices currently used to monitor and manage our performance and deliver on our commitments.
We will continue to review the balance and content of our reporting so that it reflects the development of our current and future programmes.
Our sustainability priorities Health and safety Environment Products and Our people Our communities Ethics technology Protecting the Creating Respecting and Working with, and Doing business the health and safety opportunities to valuing the people adding value to, right way to Embedding of our people, improve who work in and the communities provide positive innovation into supply chains and environmental with our business: in which we impacts: working product the broader performance of their motivation, operate.
at all times in an development to communities in our operations development and ethical and help our which we operate.
and those of our security is transparent customers customers.
imperative to our manner and increase resource business success.
selecting supply efficiency, operate chains and more safely and business partners become more that share our resilient to the ethos.
The Weir Group PLC 50 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III EHS ROADMAP The refreshed EHS roadmap has 15 work streams which cover a range of areas from health and technical knowledge, to best practice in high risk areas such as work, pressure testing and material handling.
Fundamental to the success of this approach is collaboration across the Groups three divisions to deliver consistent standards and best practice across our global operations.
WEIR EHS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Weir EHS Management System not only provides context and guidance but also establishes a common set of EHS standards and expectations for addressing the risks that our operations face.
Its purpose is to embed health and safety within our culture, behaviours and DEAN JENKINS actions.
The EHS standards cover nine primary areas Chief Operating Officer of risk, from supply chain to field operations, and provide step-by-step guidance on the minimum requirements expected at all of Weirs operations anywhere in the world.
On an annual basis our internal auditors test each Health and Safety facilitys compliance with these standards.
For the third consecutive year the Groups average score has increased significantly with the vast majority of businesses The Weir Group is committed to a zero harm improving by more than 10%.
Four facilities recorded slightly lower scores than 2014 and action is being taken environment for our people, supply chains and to redress this.
The overall improvement is pleasing as broader communities in which we work.
During the standards businesses must comply with have become 2015 we have seen substantial progress as we steadily more stringent over the past three years.
aim to achieve our ambition of lowering our WEIR ZERO HARM BEHAVIOURAL SAFETY SYSTEM Total Incident Rate TIR to zero.
Progress continued in the roll-out of the Behavioural Safety System, known as Weir Zero Harm.
The Weir Zero Harm programme is focused on establishing demonstrable Leadership for this crucial part of the Groups performance behavioural change across the entire Group.
It consists is direct from the Board with a clear recognition of the of three major strands: i Safe Start: ii climate surveys: importance of safety among the entire Weir workforce.
In 2015, we completed In 2015, there were no fatalities reported.
The Group training of all operational employees in Safe Start and has a number of initiatives to keep our people safe and made significant progress in climate surveys.
In 2016, we measure progress towards our ambition through in line with the Roadmap, we will implement the third regular monitoring.
strand of the system: training employees in our participant observation programme.
EHS EXCELLENCE COMMITTEE The Environment, Health & Safety EHS Excellence Committee has been tasked by the Board to set and assess rigorous standards to improve EHS performance across the Group.
In 2015, the committee confirmed the successful implementation of The Weir Group EHS Roadmap 2012-2015 and developed the next phase of the roadmap which will operate up until 2018 and include new objectives to make Weir an even safer place to work.
The Weir Group PLC 51 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued Case study A Aw war ard winning d winning EHS prom EHS promotion otion Throughout 2015 Weir Power Among the priorities were hand MEASURING PROGRESS These efforts contributed to a reduction in the Groups & Industrial India took part and finger protection and fire TIR which measures lost time and recordable incidents in a range of initiatives to safety training.
The intense and divided by 200,000 hours worked.
The results for 2015 further embed the culture creative approach to promoting show that our incident rate reduced by 25% compared of continuous improvement EHS improvement over 2015 to the previous year.
helped to increase the business EHS audit scores and was These included regular campaigns recognised with awards including: TIR performance and training aimed at making the Confederation of Indian 2.0 staff aware of moderating their Industry: Frost & Sullivan India behaviours to reduce the Industrial Technologies Awards 1.5 likelihood of incidents occurring.
2014: Asian Workplace, Health, Safety & Environment Leadership 1.0 1.0 0.8 Every employee was tasked Award: and a 1st Prize at the 0.6 0.5 with identifying a minimum of Karnataka State Level Safety one safety risk every month.
Awards, organised by the 2013 2014 2015 In March, during Indias National Government of Karnataka.
Safety Week, the business KEEPING OUR PEOPLE SAFE AND HEALTHY maintained momentum During the year, we appointed a Group Head of Security through safety quizzes and to a newly created role designed to improve the ways in employees sketches.
which potential concerns regarding security as detailed on page 25 are addressed and mitigated.
Across the Group, businesses engage in a range of individual initiatives to keep our people safe and healthy.
Weir Power & Industrial India EHS audit scores These include hazard hunts to try to identify potential issues and, more generally, health assessments including 100 fitness tests and annual hearing and pulmonary 82 80 preventative tests.
63 60 40 36 20 2013 2014 2015 The Weir Group PLC 52 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 y y f f ii t t y y n n f f ii a a a t t t c I n n u u o d e e q q n e t n d d r e t I I k o d d h l i s f t s i n n y y r a i f r a a f i s t e s f n r o u a e r r u q t g u h a a Q i r e n n e r d d d M M a a m m m n n n ii I: Strategic Report II III The new construction will meet the LEED Silver Standard for Commercial Interiors Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.
Disposal of old materials, Environment new construction materials, fixtures and furniture, and arrangements for operations must meet strict environmental standards in order to achieve the The Group operates on a global scale, supporting LEED certification.
Through this project, NETE will be customers through a network of more than 200 eliminating the remainder of its heating, ventilating and manufacturing and service facilities around the air conditioning systems that contain ozone depleting substances ODS and will be implementing an energy world.
By integrating environmental issues into efficient heating and lighting system.
Whilst the project long-term strategic plans and decisions as well as is funded and managed by the Canadian Department of our daily operational activities, we continually work National Defence, Weir Marine Engineering is providing support as the operator of NETE.
hard to improve environmental performance of our operations and those of our customers.
IDENTIFYING POTENTIAL RISKS AND IMPACTS Our risk management policy defines how we expect risks to be identified, assessed, and managed throughout the The Groups strategy for environmental management organisation.
Risks, including environmental factors, are is three-fold: assessed in terms of impact and likelihood of occurrence 1. identify and quantify key potential risks within and before, and after, mitigation.
The Groups key business facing the business: risks are detailed on pages 24 to 29.
2. manage and minimise potentially adverse impacts: and 3. monitor and report on the most significant To ensure we continue to focus on the right priorities, potential impacts.
a materiality assessment was undertaken during 2014 in line with principles of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines.
This was completed in 2015 and the assessment identified the environmental, social and governance issues with greatest potential to impact our business strategy over the next five-year period.
The report reviewed Group-level management systems and controls, and disclosures made within our Annual Report and Financial Statements and via our corporate website.
Recommended updates from this review will be prioritised for action, starting in 2016, to ensure our sustainability programme and risk management process remain relevant and robust.
The Weir businesses design and implement their own programmes to engage employees and communicate their individual obligations, along with those of the Company, to identify and manage potential environmental risks.
For example, during 2015 Weir SPM in Aberdeen introduced a new Environmental Awareness training session to raise staff awareness of potential environmental risks and impacts.
The training is a half day training Where we acquire or open new sites, we assess the session covering a wide range of environmental topics means by which potential environmental risks can be such as ISO 14001 requirements, compliant waste minimised and look to recognised good practice as well disposal and the control of hazardous substances.
The as new technologies to help achieve this.
We also strive training has been completed by all operational staff and to innovate and enhance the positive benefit of our will subsequently be rolled-out to office staff.
Weir Canadas Marine Engineering Division manages the Naval Engineering Test Establishment NETE in Montreal on behalf of the Government of Canada.
The NETE facility is currently undergoing a major renovation, scheduled to be completed in January 2017, during which two existing wings are being demolished and rebuilt.
The Weir Group PLC 53 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 n n a a ii g g t m m h s Q e e ii e y k u s s f s n i a e e t i e r n n t t e e r i i f d s I h y k t t t r r r r r o o o o o p p t t t t t iiiiiiii e e e II n n d d r r o o e e m m n n d d ii t t M M M M M M t t t r ii ii n n g g f f r o a a y y o a a p t t t ii t t i n n n e h h r g g e e o d c c M e e o o n x x n n a ii t t s s r r t t o o ii ll s s n n g g Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued During the financial year, one Weir business settled an MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL RISK Environmental, Health & Safety EHS environmental fine of $7,000 with the Utah Department Management System of Environmental Quality for a minor infringement of Identifying and managing environmental risks is a key environmental legislation which occurred during 2014. component of Weirs internal control framework.
The Weir EHS Management System sets out 11 key elements for Extreme weather events assessing and measuring potential environmental impacts Six incidences of adverse business impacts due to and the required control measures.
These include, for extreme climatic events were reported during 2015. instance, the use of registers to support compliance with These were as follows: permit and authorisation requirements, adherence to 1.
Extreme snow and ice created transportation issues storage, containment and handling criteria to mitigate for Weir Valve & Controls USA employees and potential soil and groundwater impact, and assessment impacted the site in Ipswich.
The estimated financial of environmental noise for all operations.
Together, such impact was $25,000 in snow clearance and almost measures are designed to enable conformance with all $100,000 in lost labour.
Weir Minerals Chile was impacted by flooding when slurry and water affected Copiap city and operations ISO 14001: Environmental Management System were stopped due to absenteeism.
Weir customers ISO 14001 is an  standard were supported from an alternative technical centre which sets out a framework for effective environmental and the company provided support to those management systems.
Certification to ISO 14001 also employees whose houses were affected.
helps to demonstrate our ongoing environmental 3.
In April 2015, Weir Minerals Australia suffered minor performance in terms of legal and environmental policy water ingress at the Beresfield service centre due to requirements.
All our continuing operations are required storm events.
Whilst there was no significant property to maintain ISO 14001 accreditation.
As part of the damage, it resulted in four days downtime due to integration process, new acquisitions are expected to a power outage.
Measures are in place to minimise implement an environmental management system and any potential disruption in the event of a long-term seek external ISO 14001 accreditation.
Drought has resulted in the Weir Minerals foundry Extreme weather events in Isando, South Africa, facing possible water As a business with global reach we can be exposed restrictions.
Mitigation measures have included to a wide range of extreme weather events in different the temporary use of water from back-up storage geographic locations.
Due to the variety of our operations, tanks.
The Alrode facility already harvests rainwater the length of, and any impact from, environmental for use on-site.
Weir India employees in Chennai were affected by climatic event risks and inform crisis management plans flooding as a result of a cyclone in December.
The for our operating sites, to reduce both the risk of harm sales office situated there was closed for over a week.
to our people and to minimise disruption to operations 6.
Flooding in the North of England in December 2015 and customers.
We also review our management plans impacted two Weir sites: the Weir Minerals Europe following key extreme weather events to ensure our site in Todmorden and a Weir Valves & Controls UK management strategies are appropriate and our assets storage facility at Sowerby Bridge.
elevation defences were in place at Todmorden but a small amount of localised flooding occurred requiring MONITORING PERFORMANCE subsequent clean-up to the Distribution Centre.
Plans The Group operates an EHS audit programme which are now in place to prevent a reoccurrence.
Water assesses compliance against a set of globally applicable ingress resulted in structural damage to the Pattern EHS standards.
A minimum standard has been prescribed Store at Sowerby Bridge with some loss of content.
against each of the criteria within the 76 EHS standards Alternative premises have now been identified.
and ensures that there is both a leading EHS indicator of performance and an assurance process for all relevant Greenhouse gas emissions stakeholders that EHS risks are adequately controlled As an energy and carbon intensive business, operating across our operations.
The 2015 audit programme gave seven foundries worldwide, the Group recognises the an average 10.4% increase across our subsidiaries.
importance of measuring and minimising the greenhouse Further details can be found on page 51. gas GHG emissions from operations over which it has control.
Environmental incidents and fines No significant environmental incidents were reported at The Groups total annual GHG emissions in tCO e for 2 sites under the operational control of the Group during the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016 was 127,633 tCO e 2 the 52 weeks to 1 January 2016.
2014: 156,236 tCO e. We are continuing to see a 2 reduction in absolute GHG emissions across the Group.
The restated 2013 emissions figures comprise the baseline against which year-on-year performance is measured.
Scope 1 direct emissions sources are from activities owned or controlled by the Group that release emissions straight into the atmosphere, such as combustion of fuel for the operation of our facilities.
Scope 2 indirect emissions sources comprise those emissions for which the Group is indirectly responsible, such as from the electricity and heat we purchase to use in our operations or equipment.
We do not currently measure or report on Scope 3 emissions, which relate to sources not within our direct control, such as third-party warehouses and transport in vehicles not owned by the Group.
Whilst such a trend can be encouraging to see, decreased MINIMISING POTENTIAL IMPACTS levels of production during the year are likely to have made Product stewardship and innovation a large contribution to this reduction.
When the GHG The most important component of our long-term strategy emissions are normalised by annual revenue an increase that has been influenced by climate change is innovation: in overall carbon intensity for the business since 2014 can developing new products and technologies to provide be seen.
ourselves and our customers with competitive advantage.
Our products and services aim to meet customer demands The Group now operates seven foundries, which accounted and their corporate sustainability goals, for instance, for almost 42% of our total GHG emissions in 2015.
As the through reducing energy consumption, water usage and most energy intensive areas of the business, monitoring waste generation.
Our Engineering Excellence Committee foundry performance is particularly important for driving supports product design which delivers improved energy onward performance.
Our foundries emitted a total of efficiency during manufacturing and product use.
Further 53,541 tCO e during 2015 2014: 60,409 tCO e. When this details on our products and technology are detailed on 2 2 is analysed per tonne of cast weight poured, a decrease in pages 58 and 59. the carbon intensity of foundry production since 2014 can be seen.
An example of this can be found at Weir Minerals China where one of its customers operates a Warman MCR 550 The decrease in emissions intensity for foundry production pump in their mine in Northern China.
The pump utilises indicates that certain foundries were able to operate more a relatively smaller power unit and its efficiency has efficiently during 2015, despite a decrease in production.
resulted in an estimated financial saving of 1 million However, the overall increase in emissions intensity for the RMB approximately 100,000 per year to the customer business as a whole by annual turnover suggests that other through reduced energy costs compared to the use of operational facilities were more energy intensive during an equivalent pump on the market.
We continue to actively seek improvements in energy efficiency to reverse this trend, examples are During 2015, Weir Minerals Netherlands have utilised provided on page 56. technology for the safe disposal of waste materials in mining and minerals processing, which has traditionally Annual emissions figures for 2013 and 2014 have been focused around minimising costs for the operational lifetime restated to correct a data processing error common to both of the facility.
These waste materials, or tailings, need years, which had resulted in an overstatement and was to be mixed with water to allow for their transportation.
identified during our standard review process.
Following Unsurprisingly, the cost of water and the ongoing surge in a full review of our existing internal calculation processes, tariffs for energy remain key drivers in the choice of tailings we have instigated specific improvements to prevent storage facilities.
Long-term sustainability is increasingly a similar error occurring in the future.
an essential consideration as mineral processors look to create long-term environmentally sound tailings facilities.
Our calculation methodology remains aligned with the requirements of the UK Government for Mandatory Water scarcity and the location and operation of large Carbon Reporting and with the principles of the tailings dams present real challenges to mine owners, WBCSD WRIs Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate driving a requirement for high density tailings solutions, Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Full details of minimising both the use of water and energy.
Weir our methodology and approach are available on the Minerals is a market leader in this area with the GEHO Companys website at www.
suite of High Concentrate Slurry Deposit HCSD technology.
By pumping tailings slurries at a solid content in excess of 65%, users are able to save millions of litres of water annually and benefit from a high integrity disposal area, a dry and safe deposit without the need for a dam and land that can be reclaimed.
The Weir Group PLC 55 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued Energy and carbon reduction measures Resource efficiency One of our sustainability improvement priorities is to As part of our environmental sustainability strategy, our reduce our energy use and in relative terms associated businesses also focus on improving resource efficiency: GHG emissions.
Our focus to date has been to set and for instance, increasing the proportion of waste materials manage targets at an operating company level.
We have that are recycled and reducing the total quantity of waste aspirations to define carbon and potentially broader going to landfill.
12,600 tonnes of metal were reused sustainability performance goals across the business internally in our foundry operations in 2015 2014: 13,000 to supplement the site level process.
Any future plans tonnes and 39% of all metal poured in the foundries in will take into consideration the findings of the recent 2015 was reused internally 2014: 39%.
Foundry recycling 000 tonnes We continue to have operations in the hydro, wind 15 and nuclear energy industries which contribute to the 2013 2014 2015 12.9 production of cleaner, low-carbon energy.
12.6 12 11.9 9 Details of some of the improvement measures undertaken and targets set during 2015 are: 6 4.5 4.1 As part of a systematic approach towards a more 3.6 3.1 3.2 3 2.6 0.7 0.6 0.5 sustainable business, Weir Minerals Netherlands aims Foundry metal Foundry scrap Foundry metal Foundry timber to reduce its total business carbon footprint by 20% reused metal purchased recycled to recycled internally from customer third party Tonnes by 2020.
Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Weir Minerals Australia set a target to reduce energy usage per tonne of product manufactured at the Artarmon facility In 2015, Weir Minerals China introduced a power station by 5% during 2015.
Whilst this was not achieved by year customer to its ceramic reshaping technology.
The end, the company met its other target of a 5% reduction Tancang power plant was upgrading its flue-gas in total scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions during desulphurisation FGD unit and replaced the four pumps the same period.
This was achieved through a combination they had been operating since 2007 with new ceramic of a reduction in absolute electricity consumption and lined pumps from Weir China.
In an effort to recycle as an improvement in the carbon intensity of the New much of the old equipment as possible, Weir inspected the South Wales electricity grid.
Reductions in electricity old pumps and reused the impellers in the new ceramic consumption from a major lighting retrofit conducted lined pumps.
Given the wear that was evident on the at the end of 2014 were realised during the year.
impellers following extended operations Weir reshaped Weir Power & Industrial India have replaced the use the impellers using the ceramic technology to build back of light diesel oil with bio-diesel in boilers, resulting the missing material, creating an impeller that was in in them meeting their target of 40% reduction in compliance with all specifications.
The reshaping of the carbon emission against a baseline year of 2013. impeller increased the efficiency of the pump to as new Weir Specialty Pumps, USA, completed an energy levels whilst at the same time reusing a part that still was reduction project which included, among other substantially operable.
It is anticipated that this reshaping improvements, the installation of LED lighting to the service offered by Weir China will be of increased interest exterior of the building, as well as stairwells and the foyer to other customers who wish to extend the life of the area, with an estimated annual saving of 35,000-40,000 impeller and improve the efficiency of the pump.
kWh of electricity and 17-20 tCO emissions.
2 WESCO Abu Dhabi, as part of a five year project Weir Minerals Brasil, as part of ISO 14000, offers the to improve energy efficiency at its facility, has been option to some customers to return worn parts to the installing additional skylights in various workshop company.
This results in a positive environmental impact areas to improve ambient light sufficient for safe through their reuse in the foundry as well as providing working without the need for powered lighting.
It is a disposal solution for customers who considered the estimated that this will result in an annual saving of parts as scrap.
The service also helps promote stronger 150,000 kWh of electricity and 100 tCO emissions.
relationships with our key customers.
2 The Group continues to make use of telepresence Weir Minerals Australia is a member of the New South video-conferencing facilities at its major sites worldwide.
Wales NSW Government Sustainability Advantage There are now 16 sites in nine countries with dedicated programme.
The purpose of the programme is to improve telepresence conference rooms.
These allow meetings to resource efficiency and environmental risk control in NSW be held throughout the Group as though attendees were businesses through workshops and sponsored consulting.
During 2015, these facilities were During 2015, Weir Minerals Australia actively participated used for a total of 6,740 hours.
The facilities were used for in a Waste Wise Forum and Circular Economy Forum both Board and Group Executive meetings as well as as part of the programme.
The forums comprised budget review meetings during the year, and their use presentations from consultants and industry leaders on continues to result in a notable avoidance in air travel waste reduction initiatives and circular business models and related GHG emissions.
We estimate that the use along with networking sessions where participants could of telepresence for these meetings alone has saved share ideas.
Information from the forums has been used as 1,300 tCO e during 2015 2014: 1,300 tCO e. part of strategy development at Weir Minerals Australia.
2 2 The Weir Group PLC 56 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Weir Minerals Mexico have introduced a waste Case study management initiative that, through the optimisation of the reuse of wood packaging from import pallets and export crates, has successfully reduced waste wood by 20% during 2015.
The company has now extended In Inte tellige lligen nt t their target to achieve a further 10% reduction by the end of 2016. per perf fo or rm ma an nc ce e REPORTING ON PERFORMANCE CDP Climate Change Initiative moni monitor tori ing ng sys syst te em m The CDP scheme formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project is a global, voluntary initiative for major companies to measure, disclose and share information about sustainability performance and associated risk management Mathena, based in Oklahoma, The environmental benefits of and performance with transparency and accountability.
USA, has introduced an the MGS-IS include a reduction intelligent performance in potential spills due to the MGS In 2015, we achieved a disclosure score of 92 out of a monitoring system IS to its overfilling.
The potential benefits possible 100 and a C rating for our carbon management range of Mud-Gas Separator of this to the customer are performance relative to that of other participants.
This MGS products, providing fourfold: reduced regulatory continues our year-on-year improvement in our results real-time information to reporting and fines for uncontrolled since we started participating in the programme in 2011, contractors and rig operators discharge of MGS overfill: reduced reflecting our ongoing commitment to continued during the most critical stages drilling mud losses: reduced improvement in all aspects of sustainability.
operational interruptions and shut downs: and eliminated clean-up The MGS-IS can be used to costs for MGS overfill scenarios.
CDP disclosure score actively control MGS performance and better manage unexpected Improved mud-gas separation 92 pressure spikes when smaller efficiency also reduces total 2% reserves of gas are encountered drilling mud volumes and provides while drilling for larger oil or gas greater mud recycling capability.
The MGS-IS helps the In addition, the product helps 92 90 operator control the unexpected maximise the percentage of 80 77 pressure spike quickly and safely, vent gas which is flared instead separating the mud from the gas of simply vented into the 60 and providing real-time information atmosphere.
Flaring converts on MGS internal pressures and volatile compounds like methane 41 40 40 fluid levels.
Trial data indicates that and ethane to water and carbon due to its pioneering intelligent dioxide.
One other important 20 monitoring system, the system is feature is the reduction in vent gas capable of handling vent gas emissions due to uncontrolled 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 spikes twenty-times more severe vent gas discharge, which has than the handling capability of important safety benefits by A full copy of our 2015 CDP submission is available to current passive MGS units.
reducing the risk of the gas download from our website at www.
igniting and potentially causing a fire or explosion.
UK Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Following a regulatory review in 2014, it was determined The MGS-IS product was installed that the Group would be required to participate in Phase 1 at a customer site in 2015 and of the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS performed continuously without Regulations 2014.
ESOS forms part of the UK Governments failure.
With further performance implementation of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive and reliability testing complete, 2012, which requires member states to introduce a the product will be launched in framework of measures for promoting energy efficiency.
2016 and is set to provide Companies who qualify under ESOS are required to customers with better visibility measure and record energy consumption from all and monitoring information.
The buildings, transport and industrial processes to determine system allows the Weir Mathena their significant areas of energy consumption.
Audits from team to improve safety and a representative sample are then undertaken to identify efficiency on customer sites.
Weir cost effective energy saving measures.
plans to use data gathered from operating the product in the field The Group has engaged an external adviser to assist to inform the development of with the oversight and review of the energy audits and to future intelligent system ensure full compliance.
In order to identify the audit sites, performance alarms and alerts, a GAP analysis of the total UK business energy and fuel further enhancing the information consumption was undertaken.
A sampling approach was available to customers and adopted and out of our 20 UK sites, we conducted energy improving safety, reliability audits at our sites in Todmorden, Yateley and Alloa during and efficiency.
2015 to identify energy efficiency recommendations.
Any energy conservation or carbon saving measures identified will be reviewed by the businesses in 2016.
The Weir Group PLC 57 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued deliver leading-edge technology and innovation.
During 2015, the Committee focused on driving the development of Synertrex smart connected products platform and Products and additive manufacturing, also known as 3D printing.
DESIGN AND INNOVATION Technology The Group spent 29.0m 2014: 24.8m on research and development during the financial year.
Weir continues to increase its expenditure on fundamental research and development in line with the corporate strategy of Our technology innovation focuses on producing growing through innovation and technology development.
equipment and services for our customers that Focus continues to be on fast-moving data acquisition, storage and analysis, as this activity is critical in improve resource efficiency and emissions continuing to improve the product operating performance, performance, contributes positively to workplace reducing environmental impact and lowering our safety and enables lower overall operating costs.
customers total cost of ownership.
Our product development and sustainability goals The Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC is Weirs are closely aligned, with new products designed central research and development R&D hub, supporting to operate safely and with greater efficiency.
each of the three divisions.
The Group has links with over 20 universities around the globe.
Weirs international academic partners carry out fundamental and applied Weirs network of academic partners continued to grow research in the following areas: materials and surface during 2015, with new research projects initiated with treatments, advanced manufacturing processes, fluid a number of institutions, including Imperial College flow and wear mechanisms.
During 2015, the Group London, Manchester University and Sheffield University initiated research at Cambridge University, Imperial in the UK: the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology College London and Manchester University in the UK.
in Australia: and Aachen University in Germany.
Technology developed at WARC has continued to support the launch of innovative new products into the market In 2015, Weir launched the worlds first continuous place for the benefit of Weir customers.
duty hydraulic fracturing pump, which meets customer requirements for 24 7 production.
Full details on the WARC moved into the University of Strathclydes SPM QEM 3000 can be found on page 37.
Technology and Innovation Centre TIC in Glasgow in September 2015 following its official opening by Her Field trials on oil and gas and mining customer sites Majesty the Queen.
The aim of the TIC is to transform were initiated using the new Weir Synertrex technology the way that academia partners with industry and the platform smart connected products during 2015. public sector.
The WARC team includes 11 PhD students, An agreement was signed with Microsoft Corporation three Research Associates, three members of the Open to develop Internet of Things technology for minerals, oil Innovation team and four other staff members.
and gas, and power customers.
This shows our continuing commitment to provide leading edge solutions for optimal WARC, either independently or in collaboration with performance in potentially adverse operating conditions.
the University of Strathclyde and other strategic partners, has been successful with a number of applications for ENGINEERING EXCELLENCE COMMITTEE both UK and European research funding.
These include Weirs Engineering Excellence Committee comprises the following: senior engineering and technology leaders from around Five new PhD projects funded by the European Union the business, including the Group Head of Technology, Horizon 2020 scheme.
technology directors from each of the Groups three A programme to introduce the sourcing of new ideas divisions, the business head of EnSci Weirs dedicated from outside of the Company, known as Open Innovate UK engineering services team, and the director and project Innovation is being supported by Scottish Enterprise is the UKs innovation agency, manager of the Weir Advanced Research Centre.
Its role an executive non-departmental for a two-year period.
public body sponsored by the is to ensure that Weir is sharing and implementing Innovate UK is supporting a one-year leading edge Department for Business, best practices across all of our engineering teams and, Innovation & Skills BIS.
specifically, to push each of the Groups businesses to The Weir Group PLC 58 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Case study fide Des si igne gned d for e for ef ff fi ic ci ie en ncy cy During 2015, Weir continued to investigate the benefits In 2015, Weir Minerals or corners.
This reduces of Near Net Shape Manufacturing.
An assessment of launched the Cavex 700CVX turbulence inside the hydrocyclone our Control Valve range highlighted an opportunity to hydrocyclone.
A hydrocyclone, which helps maximise separation switch our manufacturing process from machining to or cyclone, is a device to efficiency, hydraulic capacity centrifugal casting.
By eliminating the need to machine classify and separate particles and wear life, while minimising large amounts of material from the component core, in mining operations.
localised wear in the feed in the case of components above 250mm in diameter, chamber and vortex finder.
we were able to reduce our machining hours by 35 man The Cavex can achieve up days, reduce scrap material by 12.25 tonnes and reduce to 50% higher throughput in The hydraulic design of the the average component cost by almost 30% with an comparison with any other Cavex 700CVX inlet head, with expected saving of around 50,000 at one facility.
Plans competitor cyclones in the its smooth spiral laminar shape, are now being made to consider the wider implication 26-inch diameter range due reduces turbulence, which when across other valve products within the Companys to its larger inlet and vortex coupled with the largest inlet open portfolio.
This was made possible through collaboration finder configuration: delivering area, and largest maximum vortex between WARC and our engineering and procurement substantial productivity and finder available, results in a leaders at our UK Valves business in Elland.
product providing substantial efficiency gains.
Recognising the need to improve collaboration and Cavex hydrocyclones have been innovation, Weir Seaboard, based in Houston, Texas, highly-regarded for their proven In addition to new installations, established a new cross-functional Product Development efficiency and high capacity the Cavex 700CVX hydrocyclone Team in 2015.
The team, the majority of whose members performance for decades.
The has also been designed to fit into consist of people outside of the engineering department, CVX hydrocyclones are designed existing cyclone clusters for easy was set up to gain a deeper understanding of customer to withstand severe abrasion retrofitting.
This enables existing needs and create solutions to meet those needs.
caused by the rotational flow of customers to benefit from its solids and slurry.
The unique increased productivity with During the year, the team has invited customers, Weir field shape of the Cavex hydrocyclone minimum impact to their operations.
service technicians, district managers, outside sales range features a laminar spiral inlet and production team members to participate in the geometry that allows the slurry development of new wellhead systems.
Since March to follow a natural path without 2015, five new wellhead systems have been developed encountering any shelves, edges under this arrangement.
TECHNOLOGY ADVISORY BOARD During 2015, Weir established a Technology Advisory Board under the chairmanship of Sir Jim McDonald, one of the UKs leading engineering academics and a Non-Executive Director of the Weir Group.
The board includes highly regarded experts from a variety of disciplines, both academic and industrial, and is designed to ensure that Weir continues to be at the leading edge of technology development in our chosen industries.
The main focus of the boards work is ensuring that the best technological ideas, wherever they may come from, are available to our engineers and customers.
The Weir Group PLC 59 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued OUR VALUES The Weir Group believes in doing business in an ethical and transparent manner at all times.
Our core values underpin this belief, as follows: we value, support and care for our colleagues working towards a common purpose: we act with integrity and are accountable to ourselves and others: we strive to make our customers successful: we explore ideas and possibilities to deliver innovative solutions: and we are committed to quality in all that we do.
Since refreshing our values, we have continued to make progress in embedding them across the organisation.
PAULINE LAFFERTY Values posters and cards are displayed prominently in Director of Human Resources English and local languages across each of our major facilities and offices.
In addition, our internal blog Talking Weir has been redesigned to ensure that articles are themed around our values.
Our People However, displaying our values in isolation is not enough.
We must continue to ensure that our employees follow our values as examples of the standards we expect, regardless Motivated, skilled and effective people are of geography.
That is one of the reasons why our values continue to be embedded within our personal development imperative to our business.
In a year in which planning process through regular employee appraisals and challenging markets have resulted in a substantial within all of our personal development programmes.
reduction to our workforce in some parts of the The Weir Group is among a growing list of organisations world, this philosophy is even more critical.
which have signed the UK Governments Armed Forces Covenant.
The document is a written and publicised Having the right people in the right place at the right time voluntary pledge from businesses and charitable is at the heart of our business: it is this approach that lets organisations which wish to demonstrate their concrete us serve our customers quickly and, in the process, helps support for the armed forces community.
The covenant them become more efficient.
In doing so, we seek to: commits Weir to supporting the armed forces and its ensure no form of prejudice stands in the way of alumni by employing veterans, offering flexibility to recruitment, development or promotion opportunities: employees who are reservists and supporting local cadet encourage, invest in and support our employees to units.
While the document has been produced by the achieve their full potential: UK Armed Forces community, the Group aims to adopt identify the training and development needs of these principles, where possible, in every region in which employees and find ways to fulfil those requirements: it operates.
use the Weir Group Personal Development Plan PDP to address how we can support the development of ENSURING A SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT our employees: We believe all accidents are preventable and as such we employ and retain people who share our values and work to create a zero harm workplace in which all of our behaviours and actively discourage those who do not: employees can return home safely to their families.
We work to maintain a business environment where invest in the safety of our employees across the world individuals feel valued and respected: and and each of our employees is empowered to stop any provide development opportunities to internationally work which they believe is unsafe.
You can read more mobile employees by encouraging overseas about our targets and performance in this area alongside appointments wherever possible.
our approach to safety on pages 51 and 52.
PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT We continue to make substantial investments in the personal development of our employees across the world.
We do this because it makes good business sense.
Our personal development programmes help to develop the skills and qualities necessary to run a successful organisation now and in the future.
The Weir Group PLC 60 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Case study W We eir ir U Un niv iver ersit sity y c co ontinue ntinues t s to o e ev volv olve e It is for this reason that we make a broad range of For nearly five years, Weir One such module is the Weir personal development opportunities available to our University has given employees First Line Leadership Programme employees, regardless of level of skill or experience.
easy access to training and which can be completed by development courses which managers across the organisation Weir Leadership Programme increase their skills, knowledge in a timeframe which allows The Weir Leadership Programme aims to deliver a and capability.
Weir University them to balance their personal sustainable step change in Weir leadership capability, is an online learning platform development with the needs of specifically addressing our drivers of growth, known created in 2011 and available to the role.
This was launched in as our four pillars: innovation, collaboration, value chain all employees using a computer, June 2014, and by the end of excellence and global capability.
2015, 781 first line leaders had accessed the programme.
More The nine month programme consists of residential events There are a range of courses information on the Weir First Line and monthly virtual conferences.
Participants are asked to available, from mandatory Leadership Programme can be bring with them a strategic business objective to progress modules on ethical behaviour, found earlier in this section.
along with a set of learning goals for the programme.
the Weir Code of Conduct and Pre-work includes completion of a 360 degree Weir Leader information security to advanced Throughout 2015, Weir University Feedback Survey, Myers-Briggs Type Indicator and modules in project management, proved to be one of the most pre-reading.
The Group Executive and members of the Weir leadership and managing popular areas of the Groups leadership team are involved in delivering elements of the communications in a global Global Intranet with over 9,400 programme and in actively supporting the learning process.
In addition, hours of training completed language courses are available to online during the year.
Since its In 2015, 24 senior managers completed the second assist our employees learn a new inception, employees have residential event: with a total of 275 managers taking language due to a new job role or completed over 16,600 hours part since the programme was launched in 2011. relocation to a new country.
Weir Business Management Programme Since its creation, the application Training undertaken on The Weir Business Management Programme, run in has continuously grown and the Weir University hours conjunction with the University of Strathclyde Business increasing number of modules School, puts in place a contextualised executive education available has helped to support 10,000 programme that provides our leaders with the required Weirs drivers of growth: 9,490 management skills and knowledge to succeed within innovation, collaboration, value 8,000 the Group.
chain excellence and global capability.
There are currently 6,000 Participants work towards the completion of a postover 24,000 learning resources, graduate certificate in management studies through including books videos and 4,000 modules including operations management, commercial modules.
These are continually law and innovation.
As well as the academic benefits, available online for employees 2,430 2,000 the programme promotes greater networking and global to work through, helping them 1,890 collaboration by bringing together a team of people from develop their career at the 0 2013 2014 2015 a mix of divisions, regions and functional backgrounds, Weir Group.
who complete the programme together.
In 2015, 17 managers took part in the programme, with a total of 158 managers taking part since the programme was launched in 2012.
Weir MBA Programme Participants of the Weir Business Management Programme have the opportunity to obtain a full Masters in Business Administration MBA qualification.
There are currently 20 managers undertaking their Weir MBA journey and we look forward to their graduation in November 2016.
Weir First Line Leadership Programme The Weir First Line Leadership Programme was developed and rolled out across the Group in 2014, targeted at employees who are stepping up to their first line management role, or who are preparing to do so shortly.
The Weir Group PLC 61 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued This programme has added to our management and On 1 January 2016, we employed 14,720 people across leadership development framework and is a key building the Group 2014: 16,347, a decrease of 10% since last block in developing future managers and leaders to ensure year.
This decrease is a result of the challenging markets the ongoing success of our business.
Since its launch in that the Group has been operating in over the last year.
2014, 781 first line leaders had accessed the programme Of our total employees, 12,847 are male 2014: 14,317 via the Weir University, as featured on page 61. and 1,873 are female 2014: 2,030.
There are ten Directors of The Weir Group PLC: eight males and two The programme offers a solution that is built around females.
The Company has a Board Diversity Policy, 12 key Weir leadership attributes including safety, details of which are contained in the Nomination innovation and planning.
Its online accessibility makes Committee Report on page 87. it a flexible development resource that first time managers can fit round the demands of their job.
The Senior Management Group is made up of 271 people During 2015, 5,571 learning assets were completed 2014: 302, 240 of which are male 2014: 269 and 31 and over 2,817 training hours recorded.
In addition, there are 83 individuals who are directors of subsidiary companies of The Weir Developing our graduates Group PLC 2014: 99, who are not part of our Senior Our graduate development programme was established Management Group.
Of these, 73 are male 2014: 90 in 2011 and is designed to provide people joining Weir and ten are female 2014: 9. as a graduate with greater leadership understanding and experience.
It prepares our graduates to take on more A joint cross-business group is in place to drive best demanding roles as their career within the Group develops.
practice in embracing diversity and inclusion across the organisation and our Group Finance Director, Jon Stanton, As part of the programme, 18 graduates from across the is the executive sponsor for diversity and inclusion.
Group attended a week-long residential development In 2015, the team built the platform for our diversity programme in Scotland during 2015.
In preparation, and inclusion strategy.
The broad-ranging programme graduates complete pre-work including a learning style includes the use of management support tools such questionnaire and associated reading materials.
as self-assessment diagnostics, maturity models, standardised metrics and measures and education The programme includes the following elements: business content.
This all-encompassing approach, which has been overview presentations from each of the divisions: various endorsed by the Group Executive, provides our operating briefings from the Weir Group Head Office team, including companies with the requisite resources to create a more a breakfast talk from the Weir Group Chief Executive, inclusive workplace.
In addition, we are in the early Keith Cochrane: a visit to a Weir facility in the UK: various phases of working with specialist providers of talent team building projects: an innovation challenge set by one with Autism Spectrum Disorder and a pilot programme of the divisions: and personal development which covers is being conducted in the Australian business in 2016. leadership styles, team building, communications and the creation of action plans to take forward after the event.
We are a member of Race for Opportunity, the race campaign from Business in the Community, and CSCLeaders Opportunity Now, the women at work campaign from CSCLeaders is a specialist global leadership development Business in the Community.
Race for Opportunity is conference run by Common Purpose which assembles committed to improving employment opportunities exceptional senior people from across the Commonwealth for ethnic minorities across the UK.
Opportunity Now to tackle challenges that businesses, governments and empowers employers to accelerate change for women society face today, with the aim of building global in the workplace.
In 2015, another two of our senior leaders participated in the CSC programme.
SUCCESSION PLANNING Over 140 years of knowledge and expertise has enabled DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Weir to become the global engineering solutions provider We seek to recruit and develop people regardless that it is today.
We recognise the absolute importance of background or personal circumstance.
All of our of strong succession planning to identify our engineers businesses operate in compliance with the inclusion and leaders of the future.
As such, we have developed and diversity laws and regulations in their respective a robust management and leadership development countries.
In addition, there is a Group Diversity and framework which supports the succession planning Inclusion Policy which applies to all our employees.
process across each of our businesses.
This provides guidance on the importance of diversity and inclusion for Weir and the responsibilities of all We recognise the importance of balance in developing Weir employees in achieving our diversity and inclusion talent from within the Group, as well as bringing in mission, which is to engender an inclusive environment external expertise in order to successfully compete where individuals are valued for their diversity and in the competitive markets of the future.
empowered to reach their full potential.
The Weir Group PLC 62 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Case study Wo Wor rl ld d r re ec co or rd d cy cyc cl le c e ch halle allenge nge Initiatives at a local level seek to ensure knowledge During 2015, the Weir Group Through Weirs charitable giving is retained within the business.
In various parts of our supported the record breaking programme, we are providing business, we pair high potential employees with mentors round-the-world cyclist and 10,000 of sponsorship funding who are nearing retirement.
This programme actively ultra-endurance adventurer to the charity, in support of supports succession planning and knowledge transition Mark Beaumont as he cycled Marks bike ride, for its project from our highly-skilled workforce.
alone from the top to the with the Sachibondu Health bottom of Africa.
As the EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT only health centre within 300km, We believe strong employee engagement is an important Mark undertook the 10,000km most patients travel long attribute of a successful and innovative organisation.
challenge starting in Cairo and distances to reach the Centre, Over the past 12 months, the development of our arrived in Cape Town 42 days from within Zambia and over the employee engagement channels has focused on a greater later, setting a new world record.
neighbouring borders with Angola amount of newsworthy content being made available He arrived at the finish line and the Democrative Republic across the organisation.
escorted by a group of fellow of Congo.
cyclists which included Weir At our offices, factories, workshops and service centres employees.
He reached Mouille The Centre provides a wide range across the globe, our employees take part in regular Point, Cape Town eight days of general health care including meetings known as Town Halls.
These sessions ahead of schedule, averaging tuberculosis, malaria and HIV typically last 60 minutes and are designed to educate, 238km per day in his 10,000km clinics, and also works hard to inform and share knowledge and understanding of best challenge.
As he completed increase awareness, testing and practice and occasionally include external speakers.
his world record breaking ride education in order to reduce the Topics regularly featured include safety, conduct and through Africa, more Weir numbers of new infections.
employees gathered to cheer Lessons in food nutrition and him on.
cookery are also provided to help An internal employee blog called Talking Weir was families overcome malnutrition introduced in late 2013 and is consistently one of the The British TV presenters and improve childcare standards.
most popular areas of our Global Intranet.
In 2015, a adventure helped raise funds Orkidstudios aim is to work significant number of blogs and news items have been and awareness for Orkidstudio, alongside the Sachibondu staff, published covering a range of topics.
A series of blogs a humanitarian design organisation patients and local community have been published in support of work under way to whose focus is to benefit children to develop new and renovated improve Value Chain Excellence across the organisation.
and communities worldwide infrastructure which will enhance This has included sharing case studies and videos to through innovative architecture the medical environment provide greater context and understanding at all levels and construction.
With Weirs through innovative approaches within the Group.
Stories have also focused on safety, well-known expertise in engineering to ventilation, light and health and well-being with the aim of increasing excellence and innovation and our sourcing water.
awareness of these important subjects.
In total, 85 blogs charitable focus on healthcare and were published during 2015 2014: 83. education, supporting the charity made perfect sense.
Members of the Group Executive meet monthly to discuss operational issues and Group strategy.
Group Executive members take turns to write a blog after each meeting to highlight what is discussed and demonstrate openness and transparency at the most senior level.
This trend began in 2014 and continued during 2015.
The Group also publishes an online newsletter, available to employees, which was recently integrated into the organisations website with the addition of a Newsroom area.
Employee engagement is measured throughout the year using a combination of methods, including Net Promoter scoring which assesses and evaluates employee satisfaction.
Further information on our employment policies and employee involvement and feedback initiatives is contained in the Directors Report on page 119.
The Weir Group PLC 63 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued As a 145 year old engineering company, we are also particularly keen to develop engineering excellence.
Weir was the first company in Scotland to set up an apprentice Our Communities school and our commitment to training is as strong in the 21st century as it was in the 19th.
Today, we are a founding member of the Institute of Primary and Secondary The Weir Group operates in over 70 countries around Engineers, an institution which seeks to promote science, the world.
We support those communities through technology, engineering and mathematics subjects to the payment of taxes, employment and philanthropy school children of all ages in the UK.
and strive to make a positive impact.
CHARITABLE GIVING In 2015, the total amount of charitable donations made by Group companies was 477,800 2014: 597,700.
We do not make any political donations.
This includes cash We have clear expectations for how each of our and non-cash items such as services, materials, employee businesses interacts and engages with people and time and use of corporate facilities.
The Group continues organisations around the world.
Wherever we operate, to work in partnership with AMAR International Charitable we aim to: Foundation AMAR, a British not-for-profit organisation.
be safe and responsible employers and neighbours: In 2013, we made a commitment to support AMAR respect the communities we operate in: financially to improve health, education and training in seek to enhance the local community by running our Basra, Iraq, where Weir has operations.
In 2015, the Group operations ethically and responsibly: and contributed almost 150,000 to AMAR, which has been invest in the communities for the long-term mutual used to support two education and training centres and benefit of the community and Weir.
We firmly believe that the best people to look after the Charitable donations interests of the communities near to our operational sites are those who live and work there.
Like any good neighbour, we build close relationships by keeping local Community people informed about projects which might affect them.
Education 12% When issues do arise, we listen and do our best to help Health find a solution.
Our Ethics Helpline is available for any individual to use if they wish to raise concerns about ethical and compliance related conduct involving any 31% Weir Group company.
More details on the Ethics Hotline 57% can be found on page 71.
In addition to approaching community relations in an open and transparent manner, we seek to support charitable organisations through monetary donations and volunteering.
The interaction of our businesses is far reaching but is governed by our desire to support and improve the communities in which we work.
We recognise that as an organisation with a global reach, our influence is not insignificant, particularly in developing countries.
As such, our charitable and philanthropic work centres around the key priority of improving the health and education of both our employees and the local community.
Our experience demonstrates that contributing to these two areas can have an enduring effect on the local area.
As well as directly supporting charitable organisations, Weir supports local communities by being a source of employment, education and training, through the payment of taxes and, in many instances, the contribution to local supply chains.
Such benefits are often not overt but can make a substantial positive contribution to the communities in which we operate.
The Weir Group PLC 64 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III The Group continues to support The Arkwright EDUCATION Our businesses provide experience and training to Scholarships Trust following initial engagement in 2012. develop the next generation of engineers.
Whilst our Partnering with organisations in industry and professional focus may be on engineering, we also provide work engineering institutions, the programme identifies and placements and internships across all sectors.
Our nurtures high-potential students in UK schools, encouraging placement projects allow school children and young them to pursue engineering or technical design at university people from around the world to see the opportunities or through a higher-level apprenticeship.
In 2015, the two available to them by working for a global business.
scholars who were recruited in 2014 undertook a ten day summer placement in our main manufacturing facility in In 2015, the Group provided 20,000 to Primary Engineer, Santiago, Chile.
We were delighted to welcome another a not-for-profit organisation which aims to encourage two scholars onto the programme at an awards ceremony young people to consider careers in science, technology, in Glasgow in October 2015.
One of the scholars was engineering and mathematics STEM related professions a former winner of the Weir Group Engineering in Schools by offering primary schools a way to deliver practical competition.
During 2015, we have been exploring how mathematics and science to design and make activities.
we can work in collaboration with Arkwright to take the The class projects are aimed at each year group, mapped scholarship programme into other countries where we to the curriculum and designed to engage and inspire.
This has resulted in the programme being Programmes include teacher training, interactive and launched in Chile for 2016. paper-based resources, and regional and national competitions.
All projects are linked to practicing In 2015, the Weir Group have been piloting the creation engineers to provide a real-world context.
of a Weir Ambassador network consisting of individuals who have engaged with Weir in the recent past through In 2015, Weir Minerals Europe in Todmorden, England, a number of our early career initiatives in the UK.
To was approached by a local primary school, Sacred Heart launch this, we partnered with WildHearts, a charity Catholic Voluntary Academy, who were requesting which in the UK and North America aims to stimulate support with a project to improve its current facilities.
entrepreneurship, deliver enterprise education and create Working with the school, based in Sowerby Bridge, employment opportunities for young people via, among Halifax, the manufacturing team at Weir Minerals Europe other things, their Micro-Tyco programme.
Micro-Tyco came up with an innovative solution to assist with the is a month long competition that enables participants to project by improving the external facilities through practice and learn fundamental business principles.
Teams recycling waste pallets and cable drums into tables and from schools, universities or businesses have one month chairs that could be used as outdoor furniture in the to turn 1 seed capital into as much money as possible school playground.
The initial design was created by and a group of ten Weir ambassadors participated in the William Mannion, Operations Director, with the chairs programme in November 2015. painted Weir blue and the seats covered with Linatex rubber.
The finished products were delivered to the All money created by the Micro-Tycos is invested school in November 2015 and the school is now looking by WildHearts in micro-loans for disadvantaged to work with the Todmorden team to introduce site tours entrepreneurs in the developing world.
During 2015, the of the Weir Minerals Europe facility as part of their Weir teams managed to raise just over 600.
This will be science and technology curriculum in the future.
used to fund three microloans, which in turn will be recycled three times a year as the average loan repayment timeframe is four months.
WildHearts estimates that each loan impacts on an average of seven people which means that the money raised by the teams will help transform approximately 63 lives on average every year.
Id really like to thank Weir for giving us this fantastic opportunity to participate in the Micro-Tyco challenge.
Other examples of the education initiatives undertaken by our businesses internationally include Weir Minerals It has allowed us to gain some extremely valuable Floway, which formed a partnership with the ITT Technical skills that I have no doubt we will all take forward Institute, a higher learning institution in the United States and put into practice.
offering career-related educational programmes to Ruth Bryce, Micro-Tyco participant undergraduate, graduate and continuing education students.
During 2015, two interns attended the facility under the programme.
They were teamed with experienced employees to learn about the business, with a focus on manufacturing and quality assurance.
The Weir Group PLC 65 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued In March 2015, Weir Minerals Brasil hosted a group of Weir India has partnered with a local not-for-profit 35 MBA students from Wisconsin School of Business in organisation, Mahila Vidya Peetha, to offer Hospital Madison, USA.
One of the students, Richard Rindy, is also Oriented Nursing Aide Training, a one-year vocational an employee of Weir Minerals North America in Madison.
course which, on completion, qualifies the students as The students received a presentation about the mining Auxiliary Nurse Midwives.
A total of 20 female students market in Brazil and undertook a tour of the facility to learn from the local community, who in some instances were about the products and processes involved.
also relatives of Weir employees, were trained and placed for employment as part of the programme in 2015.
Weir Minerals Africa offers bursaries to third and fourth year engineering students from the University of the For a number of years now, Weir Minerals Netherlands Witwatersrand WITS and the University of Pretoria in has sponsored the Venloop, a popular athletic event held Johannesburg.
These students are eligible to join the annually in Venlo.
The 2015 Venloop marked the events companys graduate development programme upon ten year anniversary and consisted of multiple walking graduation, and upon completion of the programme they and running races over two days.
The focus of the event may be offered permanent employment if a position was participation with 26,000 entrants, of which 180 becomes available.
were Weir employees from the local Venlo facility.
HEALTH During the year, the Group also sponsored humanitarian Being a truly global company, health can play a key issue design organisation, Orkidstudio, on the redevelopment in the communities in which we operate.
The Group of Sachibondu Health Centre in Zambia to provide supports the health of its employees, their families and significantly increased healthcare facilities for the communities through various programmes and initiatives, increasing numbers of people in the local community which are often run in partnership with local service who rely upon this vital service.
A small selection of the activities undertaken be found on page 63. by Weir companies is outlined below.
Weir Minerals Andean delivered a training programme to relatives of employees and the local community during the year with a focus on first aid and food.
The objective The 2015 Weir Venloop once again demonstrated of the programme was to generate new options of that it is an event for the whole community, for all employment for those that attend, for instance working in ages and abilities.
Weir Minerals Netherlands is proud the food industry or as a carer for people with special needs.
to be the main sponsor of such a prestigious and The Ebola outbreak in West Africa, which was first successful event.
reported in March 2014, rapidly became one of the deadliest occurrences of the disease since its discovery in 1976, with more than 28,000 suspected cases subsequently being reported.
During this time, the Weir Group supported aid efforts to transport much needed medical supplies to the region.
In addition, the Weir Minerals Ghana offices in Accra supported the immediate community and employees with the provision of basic foodstuffs, water, latex gloves and other supplies.
The Weir Group PLC 66 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III Case study An e An el le ep phan hant t for Gl for Gla as sgo gow w In 2015, the Weir Group William Mannion, Operations EMPLOYEE ACTIVITIES The Group is very proud of the charitable work that our worked with Scottish artist Director of Weir Minerals Europe, people undertake.
Our businesses operate their own Kenny Hunter and House for an Todmorden, and responsible for policies for supporting these, whether by matching Art Lover, an art gallery and the project said, Weir exhibited donations, providing support or equipment or by allowing visitor attraction in Glasgow, at the Empire Exhibition in employees to participate in charitable activities during Scotland, to create a life-size 1938 and as a Glasgow-based working hours.
Asian elephant which has been global engineering business, installed on the site of the we have operations in many A small selection of the numerous projects undertaken famous 1938 Empire Exhibition Commonwealth countries.
We by our employees in 2015 is highlighted below: in the citys Bellahouston Park, were therefore delighted to help Employees at Pressure Pumping in Fort Worth, Texas, where House for an Art Lover turn Kenny Hunters and House spent a day building a home as part of Habitat for is also based.
for An Art Lovers exciting Humanity and 29 employees participated in a 'Color concept into reality.
As engineers, Me Rad' 5k run raising funds for Ronald McDonald A year in the making, the 11 tonne we always like a challenge and Houses, a not-for-profit organisation which provides elephant formed part of the Legacy creating a life-sized Asian free home away from home accommodation for 2014 project and commemorates elephant is one of the more families with children in hospital.
the citys hosting of the unusual requests weve had, In 2015, Weir India employees donated 226 units Commonwealth Games in the but we are delighted it has been of blood for the community and 33 employees summer of 2014.
It was cast in such a success.
signed up to the Indian Stem Cell Registry to help iron at Weirs Todmorden foundry blood cancer patients looking for a matched unrelated in Yorkshire using now redundant The elephant was unveiled at stem cell donor.
and scrap locomotive parts made House for an Art Lover during Weir Minerals Floway employees in Fresno, California, in the shipyards of Govan, a ceremony attended by Weir participate in Toys for Tots, a not-for-profit organisation Glasgow and exported to the engineers and delegates in in America, where toys are collected and donated Commonwealth.
At the ceremony, to local children whose parents cannot afford to buy casting needed to be hollow Garry Sanderson, CEO of House them gifts for Christmas.
The company typically otherwise it would have weighed for an Art Lover said, We are matches the contributions made by employees.
closer to 50 tonnes, so it was thrilled to be unveiling the During the year, Weir SPM Canada employees in very much a test of the business elephant and hope that it will Edmonton, Alberta, donated non-perishable items engineering skills.
The team used become a new landmark for to a food bank for the less fortunate in the community: computer modelling to ensure the south side.
Its a celebration provided Christmas holiday hampers containing food the structures appearance was of our citys strength and and gifts to five families in the local community and maintained in the process.
contribution to industrial and collected winter clothing for the homeless.
cultural developments across Employees of Weir India in Hubli volunteered to the Commonwealth and a educate local school children regarding road safety, reminder of the very successful hygiene, health and AIDs awareness.
They undertook Commonwealth Games the a two hour presentation and donated small hygiene city hosted in 2014. kits to approximately 300 pupils.
The Weir Group PLC 67 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued CODE OF CONDUCT All our employees operate under a Code of Conduct, which provides a clear framework for decision-making in line with our values and behaviours.
The Code promotes compliance with applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations and provides details on how we expect our people to conduct themselves on a day-to-day basis.
It requires prompt internal reporting of any breaches, which can be carried out without fear of retribution.
Following its introduction in 2011, the Code was revised in 2014 and is available to download from our website.
Supporting the second edition of the Code of Conduct is a mandatory e-learning programme.
Training is targeted at employees who are deemed to have a potentially higher ANDREW NEILSON risk of exposure to bribery and corruption as a consequence Director of Corporate Affairs & Strategy and Company Secretary of their decision-making responsibilities with regard to third parties, including customers, suppliers and sales agents.
This includes the Senior Management Group, as well as sales and marketing, purchasing and finance employees within certain sectors of the Companys operations.
Ethics Since the launch of the second edition of the Code of Conduct in 2014, in excess of 4,000 employees have As a company we are committed to business undertaken the anti-bribery and corruption online compliance training which accompanies it.
All new integrity and high ethical standards.
We operate employees who are deemed to fall into the higher risk under a Code of Conduct which promotes honest category must also undertake the training as part of their and ethical behaviour and our aim is to ensure that induction.
After completion of the training, all participants are asked to complete a compliance statement to confirm our customers, suppliers, investors, employees that they have read, understood and comply with the and the communities where we operate have the Code of Conduct in their work for Weir.
confidence to trust us and our business.
The Code of Conduct is also reinforced through various means of communications with our employees, such as Town Hall meetings, conferences, training courses and our 100 day integration plan for new acquisitions.
During 2015, face to face training was undertaken by the Weir Legal team with employees of various operating companies worldwide including, Weir Minerals Mongolia, Trio USA, Weir Minerals West Africa and Weir Solutions Dubai.
The Code applies to everyone who is employed by the Weir Group and compliance is of the utmost importance.
As a Business Integrity Forum Member company, we not only stress the importance of complying with the Code but also encourage our employees to report any concerns or apparent breaches they may have.
Anyone found in breach of the Code may be liable to disciplinary The Weir Group is a member of FTSE4Good, The Company is a member of Transparency an equity index series that is designed to International UKs Business Integrity Forum, action, up to and including termination of employment or facilitate investment in companies that meet the UKs leading anti-corruption forum for cancellation of contract.
globally recognised corporate responsibility businesses in all sectors.
Companies in the FTSE4Good up to a set of principles and are dedicated to Index Series have met stringent ensuring their operations and business Information on the Code of Conduct and its application environmental, social and governance dealings are corruption free.
in the Companys supply chain can be found under the Suppliers and third parties section below.
The Weir Group PLC 68 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE MODERN SLAVERY ACT In 2015, the Company introduced a new conflicts of As part of its human rights policy, which can be found on interest policy.
This was produced to provide clear the Companys website at www.
weir, guidance to all employees of the Company with regards the Company has adopted a series of human rights to the mandatory requirements for the identification, principles across all of its businesses.
These principles reporting and management of actual or potential conflicts relate to: anti-discriminatory attitudes and respect for of interest.
In particular, it outlines what may constitute ethical values: employee rights, which include health and a conflict and the correct process for disclosing any safety, living wages, working hours, freedom of perceived conflict to management.
association and the right to collective bargaining: and prohibition of child labour.
As part of our commitment to continually monitoring and improving anti-bribery and corruption practices within By promoting sound ethical values and human rights the Company, our Internal Audit department undertake principles, Weir aims to be a business with which people anti-bribery and corruption reviews.
They maintain are proud to be involved.
The Weir Group Human Rights a cyclical, risk-based plan with 14 specific anti-bribery Policy expresses the organisations commitment to and corruption reviews undertaken during 2015, in addition promoting and upholding the common standard of to our standard internal audit programme of both full and achievement for all people and all nations, as endorsed limited scope reviews.
From this work there were no by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Other indicators of any bribery or corruption found.
guiding principles include those of the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation and the United Nations During 2015, the Weir Group scored 93.6% on a Corporate Convention on the Rights of the Child.
These manifest Anti-Corruption Benchmark report produced by Transparency themselves in Weirs anti-discriminatory attitudes and International.
11 Business Integrity Forum members respect for ethical values, providing our people with a participated in the report, comprising some of the largest safe and healthy working environment and fairness in companies with the most robust compliance systems employment terms.
For example, national living wage in the UK.
Weirs score ranked fourth in the sample.
is applied and working hours determined in accordance with applicable laws, as well as the recognition and COMPETITION LAW non-discrimination of rights of association in collective Following a comprehensive review of the Companys bargaining.
In addition, the Company has a zero tolerance competition law anti-trust policies and procedures in of the employment of children in any of its businesses 2014, the Weir Group Competition Law Manual was and no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour produced and is accessible to all employees via the is permitted.
Training to accompany the manual continues to be administered on competition law, We will not exploit anyone, wherever in the world we focusing in particular on employees in roles which have are working.
We will respect the human rights of all been identified as potentially high risk.
This is delivered those working for or with us, and of the people in both face to face and through e-learning.
the communities where we operate.
We will not do business with companies, organisations or individuals The manual is being translated into different languages that we believe are not working to acceptable human to reflect the Companys global footprint, with the latest rights standards.
This was rolled out during 2015 in conjunction with targeted training to an increased We expect employees to maintain the highest standards sales team located in Russia.
of conformity with these principles and their adoption, and adherence is contained within Weirs Code of During 2015, targeted training was also administered to Conduct.
There were no human rights violations reported 40 employees in Brazil on Brazils Clean Company Act through the Ethics Helpline during 2015.
The introduction of this legislation prohibits, among other actions, bid rigging and fraud in public procurement In October 2015, the Modern Slavery Act 2015 came and direct or indirect acts of bribery or attempted bribery into force and as a result the Company will need to make of Brazilian public officials and foreign public officials.
a statement on its website in 2017 detailing what steps, if any, we are taking to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any of our supply chains or in any part of the business.
In preparation for this requirement coming into effect next year, we are undertaking a review of our current policies and practices in light of the new legislation.
As a consequence we have updated our Human Rights Policy to specifically refer to the Modern Slavery Act.
Weir already has a number of measures in place to protect human rights including the The Weir Group PLC 69 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability Review continued Case study La Law wy yers ers in Sc in School hools s Code of Conduct, Weir Supply Chain Policy, Weir EHS In January 2015, the Newlands which supports schools and Standards and a programme of supplier audits and Junior College opened in colleges to deliver empowering reviews.
In 2016 we will be reviewing these to confirm Cathcart, Glasgow, on the site citizenship education.
Lawyers that they adequately deal with modern slavery.
A training of the former Weir headquarters in Schools is a skills-based programme will also be developed for Procurement to and factory.
This is a newly employee volunteering increase awareness of the Modern Slavery Act and established vocational school programme designed to raise Weir's responsibilities.
providing career opportunities young peoples awareness and to young people who may have understanding of the law and day SUPPLIERS AND THIRD PARTIES become disengaged with the to day legal issues.
Whilst the We source raw materials, components and services traditional educational system programme has been established across the globe.
Our suppliers play a critical role in our and yet have the potential to since 1999, Lawyers in Schools business and our relationships with them are based on excel in their field.
was only launched in Scotland in achieving best performance, product, delivery, service 2015 and the Weir Group is proud and total cost in an ethical and sustainable manner.
Each year, the school aims to be one of the first Scottish Embracing a closer relationship with our key suppliers to recruit 30 pupils from local companies to participate in it.
is fundamental to our Value Chain Excellence initiative.
schools and put them through In 2015, we have expanded our supplier business review an alternative approach to their During 2015, three members programme designed to fully engage our key suppliers in education in their third and fourth of the Groups legal department performance reviews and mutually agreed improvement year of Secondary School, when visited Newlands Junior College programmes.
The introduction of a global supplier pupils are approximately 15 and on four separate occasions to performance scorecard provides insightful information 16 years old.
This, in addition work with the pupils and debate to identify and support such joint improvement activity.
to academic subjects, combines issues including human rights, vocational training and motivational social media and the law.
The The Group recognises that its responsibilities extend to training with sports, nutrition and programme will continue into our supply chain.
We have a Supply Chain Policy which outdoor activities.
2016, when it will address sets out the minimum standards we expect our suppliers consumer law, youth justice to abide by with respect to: As part of the sustainable and discrimination.
how they treat their workforce: partnership that Weir has legal and regulatory compliance: developed with the college, Andrew Neilson, Director of health and safety: the Weir Group Legal team Corporate Affairs & Strategy business ethics: and has participated in a Lawyers and a member of the Group environmental standards.
This is run Executive, is also a Trustee through the not-for-profit of the College.
During 2015, the Group has continued to work on increasing Citizenship Foundation, the level of contractual agreements in place with our supply base.
These now equate to over 50% of our total spend.
Weir is also a member of the UK Government sponsored Prompt Payment Code, which is a scheme designed to support on time payment to small and medium sized suppliers SMEs.
In addition, our Code of Conduct is issued to our key suppliers.
Assessments are undertaken with regard to compliance with Group standards as part of the vetting process for new suppliers.
We also audit our key suppliers regularly to assess ongoing compliance with the Supply Chain Policy and other relevant Group standards.
Wherever possible, we work with our suppliers to support them to address weaknesses identified.
The Group is committed to working only with third parties, including customers, sub-contractors, suppliers and joint venture and strategic alliance partners, whose business ethics and behaviours are consistent with our own Code of Conduct.
During 2016, we will be increasing our focus in this area through the introduction of a web based compliance tool, designed to assess our key suppliers compliance with our Code of Conduct.
The Weir Group PLC 70 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I: Strategic Report II III the helpline are free and lines are open 24 hours a day, EXTERNAL SALES AGENTS The Group engages a number of external sales agents seven days a week.
Reports can be made in a wide range across the globe to act on its behalf in locations where it of languages, reflecting our global footprint.
Online does not have a permanent sales presence, or in regard reporting remains the most common form of reporting to specific projects.
The Group has a Commercial Agents matters, with 85% of reports being made in this way.
Manual which sets out the Group requirements with regard to appointing and reappointing agents, as well as During 2015, 58 reports were submitted via the Weir the ongoing monitoring requirements.
Due diligence is Ethics Hotline with each report being fully investigated.
performed prior to all appointments and reappointments Details of the geographic location of the reports and their and overseen by the legal department.
The standard Weir respective resolutions can be seen below.
Whilst the contract must be used unless the legal department has majority of reports were from employees, the service agreed modifications, but the terms of the agreements was also utilised by persons connected to employees always include a stipulation that agents must comply with and our suppliers.
The agents are required to confirm in writing their compliance with the Code of Conduct.
Weir Ethics Hotline reports by country In 2015, the Weir Group became a member of TRACE International.
TRACE International is a non-profit business Australia association that pools resources to provide members China 9% 9% Indonesia with anti-bribery compliance support.
During the year we 9% Peru have begun to utilise these tools to undertake additional South Africa USA due diligence and compliance checks on our overseas 9% Zimbabwe external sales agents.
37% 9% GIFTS AND HOSPITALITY 18% Although in some markets gifts and hospitality are a prevalent and fundamental part of business transactions, such practices can also leave an organisation vulnerable to accusations of bribery or corruption.
To ensure that Weir Ethics Hotline case resolutions all of our employees operate ethically, the Group has a Gifts Policy and a Hospitality Policy.
Both of these were updated during 2015 to address the use of gift Added training certificates, the giving of Christmas or national holiday Allegations 2% 8% unsubstantiated 16% gifts and to provide greater clarity on the difference 12% Helping dialogue between gifts and sponsorship.
The revised policies Investigation 6% Other received Group Executive approval in January 2016 and 6% Response, no were subsequently circulated throughout the Company.
immediate action 10% Targeted communication Employees should only give or receive gifts or hospitality Termination for business if they are reasonable and not if they could 40% influence a business decision improperly.
All gifts and hospitality above a minimum threshold detailed in the policies must be pre-approved using an online gifts and The Strategic Report, covering pages 1 to 71 of the hospitality register.
Our Internal Audit team assess Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015, has been compliance with the Groups gifts and hospitality policies approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with during audit visits and desktop reviews.
Summary reports The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors of the register are shared with senior management on Report Regulations 2013. a monthly basis.
On behalf of the Board of Directors REPORTING ISSUES The Group encourages our people to discuss any ethical concerns they may have with local management or the legal department.
In addition, the Weir Ethics Hotline, an independent and confidential telephone helpline and online reporting system, is available for our employees, ANDREW NEILSON partners and third parties to call or email with any concerns Company Secretary that they have concerning unethical behaviour.
Calls to 24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 71 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
