Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Assurance statement Independent assurance statement by Deloitte LLP Deloitte to Big Yellow Group PLC Big Yellow on their Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Report What we looked at: scope of our work Big Yellow engaged us to perform limited assurance procedures on selected corporate social responsibility CSR performance indicators for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The assured data are indicated by the symbol in the Report.
Carbon footprint indicators: Store electricity tCO e 2 Store flexi-office gas emissions tCO e 2 Refrigerant emissions tCO e 2 Absolute carbon dioxide emissions tCO e 2 Store electricity use, CO emissions and carbon intensity: 2 Electricity use kWh Absolute carbon emissions tCO e 2 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e m gross internal area 2 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e m occupied space 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e revenue 2 Renewable energy generation and CO emissions reductions: 2 Total renewable energy kWh Carbon dioxide saved by renewable energy tCO e 2 Renewable energy percentage of total store use % Staff health and safety: Average number of employees Minor Injuries Reportable injuries RIDDOR Annual Injury Incidence rate AIIR per 100,000 staff Notices What we found: our assurance opinion Based on the assurance work we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected CSR performance indicators, as noted above, are materially misstated.
What standards we used: basis of our work and level of assurance We carried out limited assurance in accordance with the International Standards on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE 3000.
To achieve limited assurance ISAE 3000 requires that we review the processes and systems used to compile the areas on which we provide assurance.
It does not include detailed testing of source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls.
This is designed to give a similar level of assurance to that obtained in the review of interim financial information.
The evaluation criteria used for our assurance are the Big Yellow definitions and basis of reporting as described at: http: corporate.
aspx 52 What we did: our key assurance procedures Considering the risk of material error, our multi-disciplinary team of CSR assurance specialists planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations we considered necessary to provide sufficient evidence to support our assurance conclusion.
Our work was planned to mirror Big Yellows own group level compilation processes, tracing how data for each indicator within our assurance scope was collected, collated and validated by corporate head office and included in the Report.
Key procedures we carried out included: gaining an understanding of Big Yellows systems through interview with management responsible for CSR management and reporting systems at corporate head office: reviewing the systems and procedures to capture, collate, validate and process data for the assured performance data included in the Report.
We did not test back to source data: and reviewing the content of the 2015 CSR Report against the findings of our work and making recommendations for improvement where necessary.
Big Yellows responsibilities The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Report and for the information and statements contained within it.
They are responsible for determining the CSR goals, performance and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived.
Deloittes responsibilities, independence and team competencies Our responsibility is to independently express a conclusion on the performance data for the year ended 31 March 2015.
We performed the engagement in accordance with Deloittes independence policies, which cover all of the requirements of the International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics and in some cases are more restrictive.
We confirm to Big Yellow that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year, including the fact that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair that independence and objectivity in the provision of this engagement.
This report is made solely to Big Yellow in accordance with our engagement letter.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company those matters we are required to state to them in an assurance report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Big Yellow for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed.
Deloitte LLP London, United Kingdom 18 May 2015 53
