How we create Places People Prefer 27 Strategic Report CREATING PLACES PEOPLE PREFER Innovating to keep our retail offer up to date Introducing new ideas across our Retail offer.
1 Trialling new formats in food We launched Eats from the Street, a mobile street food concept which visited our parks in Edinburgh, Glasgow, Chester and Teeside, showcasing the best in British street food.
We also experiment with pop ups: Pizza 1889 opened its debut pop up store at Nugent Shopping Park, the first of its kind at an out-of-town location.
11% 4% increase in average increase in average 1 1 off-peak retail spend off-peak dwell time 2 Introducing new leisure concepts New start up Rock Up opened the UKs first indoor climbing experience at our retail location at Whiteley Shopping.
We supported the company with a flexible lease and profit share arrangement.
Rock Up has outperformed and its impact on footfall and retail sales, particularly at adjacent units, has been very positive.
1 89,000 sq ft P eak surveys include Christmas Food and beverage lettings across the trading, off peak survey take place between March and October retail portfolio 28 3 Improving our convenience offer At Ealing Broadway Shopping Centre, we trialled Doddle, a Click and Collect store opening early and closing late, allowing customers to Click and Collect at a time that suits them.
4 Piloting new technology We used iBeacon technology at our Ladies Night event at Meadowhall to create a unique shopping 9.2m experience, enabling those who downloaded the app to receive real time special offers to their extra visitors to our assets this year smartphones at hotspots across the Centre.
Retail and leisure performance review see pages 40 to 43 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Strategic Report CREATING PLACES PEOPLE PREFER CONTINUED Moving with the times in London Engaging work spaces which reflect todays lifestyles.
1 Creating vibrant places This year, Broadgate welcomed Olympic and Commonwealth medallists to the finale of the Street Velodrome Series and thousands watched live screenings of Wimbledon, the Tour fide France, and the FIFA World Cup.
Nearly 300 people 2 watched Shakespeare in the City and 35 companies participated in a Providing flexible and Broomball tournament on our ice rink.
co-operative workspaces 176,000 sq ft We partnered with co-working Retail and leisure at Broadgate providers WeWork and Central Working to offer flexible work spaces within an entrepreneurial community, supporting businesses at each stage of their development.
86,000 sq ft Retail and leisure at Regents Place Offices and Residential performance review see pages 44 to 47 30 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3 Providing design-led buildings At Blossom Street, Shoreditch, we have submitted planning for a 347,000 sq ft mixed use development.
This design-led scheme will provide character offices, within the historic fabric of the area.
This environment will not only appeal to the growing tech sector, but also reacts to a broader trend towards less corporate, more creative work environments.
The relatively small floor plates also make it suitable for smaller businesses.
4 Focusing on sustainability At 5 Broadgate we have created a BREEAM Excellent sustainable office for UBS.
The building has 520 cycle parking spaces, 512 lockers, 50 showers and uses 50% less energy than required by regulation.
150 local jobs The Leadenhall Building have been created during construction, We welcomed over 7,500 people to the including almost 20 apprenticeships, Leadenhall Building, when it headlined Open and 65 unemployed local residents House London on 20-21 September 2014. were provided with training through www.
com our partnership with Blackstone, Mace and The Corporation of London.
601,000 sq ft Of modern flexible office space British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Strategic Report CREATING PLACES PEOPLE PREFER CONTINUED Making an exceptional environment at British Land Creating a great place to work for our colleagues.
1 Delivering a new working environment Our new office space reflects our corporate identity and culture, helping us to promote general wellbeing and positive changes in the way we work.
We have added new breakout areas, as well as formal and informal meeting places to create a modern workspace which enhances collaboration.
2 Working with our communities At our annual company-wide community day, we supported jobseekers in London, inspired students about careers in property, volunteered at a hospice, a city farm, an arts centre and more.
Our volunteer programme includes maths and reading support, student mentoring and skills-based volunteering.
83% of our staff took part in community activities in 2015.
32 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3 Upholding our values We believe our culture and our values set us apart: a small entrepreneurial team doing what is right, not what is easy: working effectively as one team: making commercial decisions that create long term value: and making things happen.
4 Committing to diversity and gender equality To succeed over time we need to reflect the diversity of the people who work, shop and live in our buildings.
To improve the future diversity of our sector, we support Reading Real Estate Foundations Pathways to Property summer school, encouraging a broader range of young people to consider real estate careers.
Board of Directors as at 31 March 2015 Male 82% Female 18% Since the year end we have appointed another female Non-Executive Director bringing the figure to 25% Senior management as at 31 March 2015 Male 63% Female 37% Employees as at 31 March 2015 Male 52% Female 48% Top REIT on Business in the Communitys Workwell Index 2014 for reporting wellness and engagement of employees British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Strategic Report CREATING PLACES PEOPLE PREFER CONTINUED Promoting a sustainable future Delivering social and environmental initiatives which make a positive difference.
2 Supporting communities We build trust by supporting successful, integrated local communities.
Whiteley Shopping in Hampshire was created with local people in mind, from the public spaces and access routes, to the wildlife sculptures reflecting nearby 32,300 nature.
More than 17,000 schoolchildren are participating in literacy events at our properties through our five year jobs created through our development partnership with the National Literacy Trust.
projects over the last five years 1 Promoting wellbeing To read more go to We drive preference by designing and www.
com sustainability managing spaces that promote wellbeing and productivity.
We provide safe environments and are partnering with occupiers on wellness and productivity.
We have certified 3.5 million sq ft of BREEAM Excellent space, reflecting our focus on wellbeing, efficiency, ecology and other sustainability measures.
34 34 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Global 100 British Land ranked in the Global 100 most sustainable corporations in the world by Corporate Knights 2015.
3 Focusing on smart, efficient buildings Ensuring our buildings are fit for the future means investing to ensure they are as efficient as possible, generating cost savings for our occupiers and benefiting the environment.
It means keeping them up to date, ensuring we can attract the next generation of occupier.
We generate cost savings and income assets that are operationally efficient and protect against flood risks.
This is positive for the environment, reduces costs for our occupiers and protects asset value for investors.
4 Developing skills and opportunities We provide opportunities for local people to develop skills and for local businesses to grow.
We are working towards 3% of employees in our supply chain being apprentices and supporting local training programmes where we can.
More than half of expenditure at our properties benefits local firms.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
