OUR PEOPLE Our HR strategy, which is fundamental to the Group achieving its strategic objectives, aims to attract, support, retain and develop talented employees.
116 Number of employees 90% Employee retention rate for 2015 239 Volunteering hours 53,500 Training spend for2015 The working environment is progressive and challenging which keeps working life interesting and engaging.
68 Strategic report Our structure We have five core teams that are supported by a number of other departments.
We operate with a at organisational structure which allows and encourages collaboration.
In order to deliver our strategy, we recognise individual strengths and work exibly, which gives us the ability to handle complex challenges, make quick decisions and deliver effectively.
Our organisational structure is reviewed on a regular basis.
When opportunities arise, we look to ll any management positions by internal promotions wherever possible.
Not only does this enable us to retain our most valued and talented employees, it also strengthens the levels of management below the Board.
The fact that 25% of employees have more than ten years service is testament to our high staff retention and ensures KATY LEVINE thatwe have continuity.
This is balanced by the growth in the HEAD OF HUMAN RESOURCES business which has seen 42% of our employees recruited inthe last five years, bringing with them new ideas, skills andexperience.
Employee engagement Our employees are a key component of our business.
In order to understand their views we conducted our first employee survey in 2015.
100% of respondents agreed they were proud Organisational structure to work for Derwent London and that it is a great place to work.
96% of respondents felt satisfied with their job and 81% saw their long-term career with the Company.
The most suggested improvement was to the ofce facilities and the Board believe this will be delivered by the current ofce refurbishment.
Acquisitions A steering group is being created to address other suggested investment recycling changes, which include more exible working and better interdepartmental communication.
6 The positive responses demonstrate that we have a highly Executive committed, loyal and engaged workforce, and explain why Committee Asset Development the staff retention rate is very high at 90%.
management 4 Our culture 14 30 Professional, Progressive and Passionate were the top three BOARD OF words used by our employees to describe Derwent Londons DIRECTORS culture, followed by Creative and Focused.
These, together with integrity, a consultative leadership style and commerciality, 13 are key to the Groups performance and define what we stand for and how we behave with our stakeholders.
Finance Leasing We believe we have a duty to take appropriate measures 19 7 to identify and remedy any malpractice either within the Group or elsewhere that affects us.
We also expect all employees to maintain high standards of behaviour, as set Other out in our Employee Handbook and Company policies, which are updated regularly.
We also encourage our staff 23 to report any wrongdoing that falls short of those standards.
Our Whistleblowing Policy enables them to do this and ensures their concerns are investigated and appropriate action is taken.
To date, no calls internally or externally have been made to Length of service the helpline.
As we continue to grow, we adapt to changing conditions Under and focus on retaining our culture and open door policy.
31 3 years 3-5 18 years 5-1 0 38 years 10-15 13 years 15-20 7 years 20 9 years Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 69 OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED All employees Senior management excluding Directors Number % Number % Male 67 58 Male 14 70 Female 49 42 Female 6 30 Board Ethnic origin split Number % Number % Male 11 85 White British 79 68 Female 2 15 White other 14 12 Asian 12 10 Black 8 7 Other 3 3 Equal opportunities and diversity Training and development We are an inclusive employer, which encourages creativity We recognise the importance of career development and and provides a balanced environment for all our employees.
progression to our employees and how these can support The Group has a strong commitment to ensuring equality and our succession plans which are fundamental to the future diversity in all its forms and we support the Core Conventions growth and stability of the business.
We hold six-monthly of the International Labour Organisation.
We give full and fair reviews and regular open discussions to highlight any training consideration to all employment applicants and our policies, requirements, future objectives and aspirations.
All appraising practices and procedures for recruitment, training, reward managers have received training on coaching skills which and career progression are based purely on merit.
For these reasons, we have had no discrimination claims to We continued to offer a range of other internal and external date and have a relatively balanced workforce of 58% male personal development opportunities.
For example, we ran and 42% female, while within our senior management team two induction programmes for our new joiners, two Building 30% are female.
In addition 80% of our employees classify Manager conferences and four internal technical workshops themselves as white and 20% as non-white.
with the aim of sharing knowledge across the business.
In addition, we invested 53,500 in staff training, professional We are also committed to diversity at Board level.
This year qualications and 1-1 coaching.
weappointed two new non-executive Directors, Cilla Snowball and Claudia Arney, who bring a wealth of experience to In 2015, our department heads received 360-degree feedback theBoard.
which identied areas for personal development.
A Managing Upwards training session was held for those in non-management During the year, we signed up to the Property Week Diversity positions, with the aim of enabling them to communicate with Charter and pledged our commitment to adopt and continually management condently so as to reinforce our consultative improve against the six principles of the Inclusive Employer leadership style.
Quality Mark launched by RICS see opposite.
During 2016 we will be updating our website to highlight our approach to equal opportunities and diversity.
70 Strategic report Community and volunteering During the year we continued to provide support to charitable The six principles of the RICS Inclusive Employer organisations, both nancially and through mentoring Quality Mark: programmes, a careers workshop, apprenticeships, and Leadership and vision demonstrable commitment through our internal volunteering programme.
This encourages at the highest level to increasing the diversity of every employee to take one day per year to work with a charity the workforce: they feel passionate about, or be involved with an initiative Recruitment engage and attract new people to the arising from our Community Investment Fund.
During the year industry from under-represented groups: best practice 36% of employees participated, spending a total of 239 hours recruitment methods: volunteering across a range of projects.
Staff development training and promotion policies Last year our first apprentice, Maruf Miah, won the Outstanding that offer equal access to career progression to all Achievement by an Apprentice at the City Gateway awards.
members of the workforce: Since then Maruf has been offered a permanent position with Staff retention exible working arrangements and us in the role of Building Manager andwe also have a second adaptive working practices that provide opportunities apprentice at our Stephen Street building.
for all to perform at their highest levels: Please refer to our Sustainability Report 2015 to read our Staff engagement an inclusive culture where all staff interview with Maruf and for more information on our engage with developing, delivering, monitoring and community initiatives.
assessing the diversity and inclusivity policies: Continuous improvement continually refreshing and Reward and recognition renewing the rms commitment to being the best To achieve our strategic objectives we need to attract, nurture employer: and sharing and learning from best practice and retain our talent.
Our approach is to reward people based across the industry.
on individual performance and their contribution to the performance of the Group.
Annual salary increases and bonuses are linked to an overall performance rating which is allocated through our appraisal system.
We were pleased to note that 86% of the survey respondents agree that their effort is recognised and appreciated.
The success of our efforts has again been recognised externally through Management Todays peer assessed annual awards where we came third overall in Britains Most Admired Companies up from ninth place in 2014 and, for the sixth successive year, placed first in the property sector.
In order to continue to be seen as an Employer of Choice and maintain our high level of employee retention, we aim to provide market competitive remuneration and a comprehensive benefit package.
This includes a non-contributory pension scheme, share options, discretionary bonus scheme, maternity and paternity provision, life insurance cover, private healthcare, a healthcare plan, season ticket loan and access to salary sacrifice schemes which include childcare vouchers and a cycle to work scheme.
We recognise and reward the valuable contribution made by our employees to the success of the Company.
