SUSTAINABILITY 2015 has been another busy and successful year for our business, and this is reflected inour sustainability work, which continues to go from strength-to-strength.
A key priority for 2015 has been to build on our refreshed sustainability approach, which we launched at the beginning of2014.
This saw us develop a new sustainability framework for our managed properties complemented with a new building sustainability plan process, designed to help us achieve our tough resource efficiency performance targets across our managed portfolio.
Another significant step forward in 2015 saw us decide to strengthen our overall sustainability reporting approach, and align our annual reporting to the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI.
As part of this move, we undertook another, broader materiality assessment of our business, highlighting the significant sustainability issues that pertain toour business.
A summary of this is presented in our annual sustainability report.
As with previous years, our hard work has yet again been recognised externally, garnering recognition in a number of indices and awards.
We received a gold award for our annual sustainability report in the EPRA Reporting Awards our third JOHN DAVIES successive year.
Likewise, we retained our Green Star HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY status for the fourth year in a row in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
In addition, we improved PAUL WILLIAMS our CDP disclosure rating by four points to 92, also winning EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FOR SUSTAINABILITY an award for the biggest relative reduction in carbon emissions at the 2015 UK CDP awards.
Our community fund continues to support organisations across Fitzrovia with over 66,000 shared amongst five projects during 2015.
Now in its third year, the fund has supported 17 projects with well over 200,000 invested so far.
We are continuing to provide funding in the Fitzrovia area, with a further 150,000 added to the fund to be invested overa three year period.
In addition, we also announced that the focus of the fund would expand to cover our Tech Belt portfolio.
Like the Fitzrovia extension, we will be making 150,000 available for this area to support a range of projects and initiatives.
We hope the summary presented here gives you a sense of our progress and achievements made during 2015.
However, please do take a look our 2015 annual sustainability report at www.
com sustainability, where we set out a comprehensive review of our work, together with our full suite of sustainability datasets and measurement indicators.
2015 has seen us again make significant steps in developing oursustainability agenda.
66 Strategic report Our performance 2015 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS For 2015, we re-focused our approach to setting our performance targets.
We introduced a number of longer-term stretch targets, which are simultaneously challenging us Resource efficiency whilsthelping to demonstrate continuous improvement to ourstakeholders.
Moreover, we also created a set of internal KPIs based on some of our previous years targets, which aredesigned to ensure we maintain our high standards 10.5% 6% andperformance on a day-to-day basis.
reduction in carbon increase in our As mentioned in our report last year we wanted to show in our like-for-like recycling rate performance against both these sets of measures to give portfolio from 62% to 68% agreater sense of perspective and understanding of our performance.
Therefore, we have set out a breakdown of ourperformance in each set of targets below.
Looking at our external facing targets, we achieved 78% of 3.2% our2015 targets compared to 97% in 2014.
This represents reduction in energy asmall decrease compared to 2014, which is due to us use electricity, gas, introducing a number of stretch targets at the beginning oil andbiomass in our of2015, which will be measured in the coming years.
like-for-like portfolio Achieved 76% Not achieved 5% Communities Ongoing 19% 245,000 2.2m awarded to date community to projects in contributions Fitzrovia from the via planning Community Fund Moreover, we achieved 82% of our internal KPIs.
Achieved 82% Ongoing 18% AWARDS AND RECOGNITION EPRA Sustainability Reporting Combining both these sets of measures, we achieved Awards 2015 78%ofour performance measures, which demonstrates Gold Award for our 2014 Annual thecommitment and hard work of our teams.
SustainabilityReport Achieved 78% GRESB Global Real Estate Not achieved 3% Sustainability Benchmark 2015 Ongoing 19% Green Star status retained for the  with  CDP 2015 Disclosure Rating score of 92 Award for the biggest relative reduction in emissions for our carbon management workatthe2015 UK CDP Awards Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2015 67
