Our culture and people Our experienced team brings together specialist skills used tomanage our portfolio on an asset-by-asset  priorities.
How we behave, human rights Operational measures and supplier stewardship 2015 2014 We aspire to the highest standard of conduct based on honesty Employee retention 87% 95% and transparency in everything we do.
Our Executive Committee 1 Days training provided per employee 3.6 3.0 has a high level of oversight over policies and procedures and carries out regular reviews of the appointment of contractors, Employees participating consultants and suppliers.
Whilst we do not have a separate inShareIncentive Plan 77% 72% human rights policy, we seek to avoid causing or contributing 1.
to adverse human rights impacts through our activities.
In our business relationships we seek to demonstrate a commitment Our culture the GPE way to fundamental principles of human rights through our own behaviour and look to engage with suppliers whose values and Our culture is entrepreneurial and pragmatic, with a high level business principles are consistent with our own.
We regularly of involvement from senior and executive management and an meet with suppliers to share information on best practice with emphasis on cross-discipline teamwork.
We recognise the benets regards to health and safety, employee pay rates and responsible of such a positive culture and work hard to maintain it through: sourcing.
Our Code of Ethics sets out the Groups approach a at management structure: in its relations with tenants, the local community, investors, regular and effective communication with an open door policy: employees, suppliersand regulators and the clear standards a formal and extensive induction process for new joiners: of behaviour weexpectall of our people to demonstrate and adhere to.
Our Ethics and Whistleblowing policies, which are regular meetings held weekly, monthly and quarterly across the various teams on different aspects of the business: reviewedannually by the Board, can be found at www.
encouraging our people to be innovative: a disciplined approach providing clear policies and procedures For more on how we have engaged with our suppliers, and instilling a strong sense of responsibility for active see pages 35, 57, 60 and 61 risk management: a collegiate style, with recognition of a projects success being based upon the contribution and smooth interaction of every member of the team: recruiting high quality individuals with a constructive mindset and valuable experience: matching the right people to the right roles and taking action where there are gaps: an effective performance management system: providing well-constructed and fair reward systems designed to incentivise superior performance and align employees and shareholders interests: Our culture and people lie ensuring continual improvement of the skills and competency of our employees at all levels and across all disciplines through at the heart of our ability appropriate training and development courses: and to achieve our strategic fostering a friendly environment which engenders a priorities, unlocking strong camaraderie.
potential across our Where appropriate, we support part-time working and exible hours portfolio.
Our culture with 13% of employees enjoying some form of exible working practices.
This year, our employee retention has fallen largely as a is fundamental to our result of retirement and a number of employees deciding to take a ability to attract, develop, different direction in their careers.
motivate and retain our talented employees.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive 44 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review 52 39 21 11 8 7 3 Senior Middle Gender diversity Board management management Supporting diversity Our integrated team Our culture is grounded in mutual respect and non-discrimination Our team brings together specialist skills used to manage our irrespective of age, disability, gender, race, religion, sexual portfolio on an asset-by-asset basis to ensure the achievement of orientation or educational background.
Our aim is to foster a culture our strategic priorities.
Each of our department heads, collectively of respect and fairness where individual success depends solely our Senior Management Team, interact daily with the Executive on ability, behaviour, work performance, demonstrated potential and Directors and report regularly to the Executive Committee.
perhaps the most key of all, the ability to work as part of a team.
This year we have augmented our Senior Management Team, with Sally Learoyd joining as our Head of Human Resources to help us Whilst our policy remains that selection should be based on the further enhance the development of our people.
best person for the role, we recognise the benets of gender diversity.
From March 2015, we have amended our policy so For more on what our team has done during the year: that when recruiting, where possible, at least 30% of potential Investment management see pages 30 and 31 Development management see pages 32 to 35 candidates identied should be women.
Asset management see pages 36 and 37 Financial management see pages 38 and 39 Employee prole age number of people Number of employees 12 3 1930 Executive Directors 19 3140 Asset Management 4150 Investment Management 28 50 Development Management 1 Financial Management 22 34 91 91 employees employees 38 20 6 1.
Includes IT, Insurance, Company Secretarial and Human Resources.
Employee prole gender diversity number of people 60 Retaining, remunerating 50  40 Our ability to attract and retain talented and committed individuals 30 is based on three key building blocks: 20 an effective performance management system: 10 a well-constructed and fair remuneration system designed to 1 incentivise superior performance and align employees and 0 shareholders interests: and continual development of our employees at all levels and across Women Men all disciplines.
See pages 46 and 47 for more details W hat was great about the customer r service training was that it provided the opportunity to discuss real life examples with colleagues from across the business.
Chris Cassar Building Manager Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 45 Our culture and people Our appraisal process and performance management February February March September Pre-performance review meeting by the Chief Year-end performance review held between Half-year pre-performance review meeting Executive with line managers.
bythe Chief Executive and line managers.
Employees are briefed on the year-end Employees and line managers discuss and Six monthly performance review held between performance review process and the focus set personal objectives and targets for the line managers and employees of: of sustainability objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
progress against personal objective forthcoming year.
Review of training undertaken in the andtargets: and previous year, development needs and training undertaken.
Feedback provided from the line managers to Recommendations made by line managers the Executive Committee following the half to the Executive Committee as to the year appraisal process.
Feedback provided from the line managers tothe Executive Committee following the year-end appraisal process.
Remuneration January February March May Market review and benchmarking of Executive Committee review salary levels vs. Payment of corporate bonuses, where employee salaries.
market review, performance against personal targets met.
objectives and targets, proposed discretionary bonuses and proposed LTIP awards.
Remuneration Committee review of remuneration levels proposed for all employees and approve Senior Manager and Executive Director salary levels, discretionary bonuses and LTIP awards.
April June Payment of discretionary bonuses.
LTIP awards vest where targets met.
Formal feedback to employees of salary reviews and discretionary bonuses.
Training and development February March July December Review of training undertaken in the prior Lunchtime seminar Construction costs and Lunchtime seminar Financing GPE, our year current training needs and proposal for unlocking potential through BIM James 1.3billion debt book Martin Leighton, further training as required.
Pellatt, Head of Projects, and Martin Quinn, Head of Corporate Finance, and Aditya Gokal, Project Manager.
September February Review of training undertaken by individuals Lunchtime seminar GPE Investor Relations with line managers.
Stephen Burrows, Head of Financial Reporting and Investor Relations.
46 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Through a formal six-monthly appraisal process, line managers Aligning individuals objectives with the meet with employees to review their progress against these Companys strategy objectives and the training undertaken.
At the year end, the In February each year, the Chief Executive meets with the Senior outcome of this review helps form the basis for reward under Management Team and other line managers together to run the personal objectives element of the Groups bonus plan with through the Companys strategic priorities for the year to highlight recommendations being presented by line managers to the areas where employees can think about how best to contribute to Executive Committee.
and support them in their particular role.
Following discussions with their line managers, at the start of the financial year, employees Plans for 2015 16 agree their personal objectives designed to help the Company For the year ending 31 March 2016, we plan to: meet its strategic goals together with any development needs andproposed training.
refresh our mid-year and annual employee objective setting and performance review process to help us to establish more targeted learning and development: and review and update our employee health and well-being policies.
personal objectives and targets, proposed discretionary bonuses How we remunerate our people and planned long-term incentive plan awards.
The outcome of this Remuneration plays an important role in retaining and motivating process is then provided to the Remuneration Committee which our people and an annual exercise is undertaken to benchmark reviews remuneration levels proposed for all employees and decides salaries against market.
Annual bonuses are used to reward upon recommendations made for Senior Manager and Executive all employees for achieving and exceeding corporate and Director salary levels, bonus awards for achievement of personal personal objectives.
objectives and proposed Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
A number of Senior Managers also participate in our three-year The base salary increase for employees will be 3% for the year long-term incentive plans, where the vesting of awards is based ending 31 March 2016.
Base salary increases ofmore than 3% onour performance against the Groups strategic KPIs of: were given to some employees due to market alignment and or growth in absolute EPRA Net Asset Value per share: a number of increases in responsibilities, such that the average relative Total Shareholder Return: and increase in base salaries for employees for the year to 31 March 2016 is 4.6%.
See more on our KPIs on pages 20 and 21 Plan for 2015 16 For the year ending 31 March 2016, the corporate performance In addition, all employees have the opportunity to join our two measures under the Employee Bonus Plan will be changed to for one Share Incentive Plan with over 77% of our employees mirror those used under the Executive Bonus Plan to ensure currently participating.
As part of the year-end remuneration complete alignment with the Executive Team in driving capital process, the Executive Committee reviews salary benchmarking andnet asset growth for shareholders.
against market comparators, individuals performance against This year, as part of our desire to continuously improve our Developing our people for the long term relationships, 48 of our employees across our Asset, Development We encourage our people to develop in their careers with us, and and Finance Teams with day-to-day tenant contact undertook a provide both funding and study leave to enable them to access days customer service training.
A follow-up session was held in professional development opportunities, including: April 2015.
Lunchtime presentations were also provided by the personal development courses: Project Management and Finance Teams.
We also encourage our formal training for professional qualications: employees to take up roles outside of their day job which will serve in their development as individuals.
external degrees: and vocational skills.
Plan for 2015 16 Training and development needs of all employees are formally For the year ending 31 March 2016, we plan to ensure more considered every six months through the appraisal process.
targeted learning and development for individuals to support our During the year, 49,269 was invested in formal employee and people in achieving their objectives.
Non-Executive Director training providing 2,283 hours of training, averaging 3.6 days per employee.
Training programmes included See more on our training and development on pages 62 and 63 business-related topics, sustainability actions, personal skills and facilities management qualications.
Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 47 Our culture and people Joining us How we engage and communicate with our employees All new employees receive a bespoke induction to the Group, including formal meetings with different teams, property tours and The Board is responsible for setting our strategic priorities and training in the GPE way, to help them understand our culture from monitoring performance against them see pages 10, 11, 20 and the very start.
The Senior Management Team is accountable for working with their teams to develop individual and team performance targets, New joiners also complete a questionnaire in their first year to: and for ensuring that employees understand how they contribute identify ways in which the induction process could be tothe overall business objectives.
improved further: We believe that regular and effective communication lies at the identify any ways in which their experience with the Company heart of our employee engagement strategy.
differed from their expectations: Our approach is based on: determine any processes or practices in operation at their previous place of work that we could usefully introduce to an open door policy: the Group: weekly meetings held across and within departments: review their understanding of their role and our expectations of weekly meetings with non-head ofce-based employees to them: and ensure their involvement and to encourage the sharing of ascertain their aspirations for their own personal development.
best practice: Feedback from our questionnaire this year was generally very weekly presentations from members of the Financial, Asset, positive.
One of the observations made was that the process at the Investment and Development Management Teams to the Executive Committee.
Areas covered include credit control, start is very concentrated.
Therefore, we will look to address this marketing to prospective tenants, investment transactions with the identication of a go to colleague for ongoing support in and opportunities and development updates.
In each case, the first three to six months, together with regular follow-ups by line discussions focus on the management of risk.
From time to time, managers and Human Resources.
Senior Managers are also asked to present to the Board and Audit Committee on a variety of topics: employees at all levels being involved in developing our operating policies: feedback from the half year and year-end performance review process from line managers to the Executive Committee together with discussion of proposed actions: quarterly presentations to all our people from the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors on our results and progress and plans for the coming year, together with presentations from Senior Managers on specic projects.
These presentations ensure that our people are fully engaged in our plans and activities, and also act as a forum for the Executive Directors to answer any questions.
In the year ended 31 March 2015, T he lunchtime seminars from we held one quarterly presentation off-site at Oxford House GPE team members provided overlooking our Rathbone Square development with a presentation by Helen Hare, Project Manager, on the start of me with aninsight into other work on-site and Rebecca Williams, Marketing Manager, on the peoples rolesand have been residential marketing.
Tours of our various properties were also provided to our new joiners: and extremely interesting.
informal team lunches and drinks with the Executive Directors Louise Manuel Property Development Accountant together with one-to-one lunches.
48 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Supporting employee charitable initiatives Recognising employees efforts Every year, we support two charities chosen by our employees All our Building Managers had a personal objective to save which for this year were Little Havens and Battersea Dogs and 2.5% energy at their properties during the year ended Cats Home.
In addition, employees are also encouraged to support 31 March 2014.
As a result of Lisa Hudson-Fords exceptional other charities through our employee donation programme.
As part efforts in reducing consumption at City Place House, EC2 of this, our Building Managers co-ordinate with our tenants to by 12%, Toby Courtauld awarded Lisa our inaugural Energy support charities at our properties.
In 2015, 9,327 was raised by Saving Award at our August 2014 quarterly review.
our Building Managers for 14 charities.
We also donated furniture with a value of 11,000 to Keech Hospice, a charity nominated by one of our Asset Managers.
