Sustainability Our approach to sustainability is an integral part of our business strategy, designed to address our material risks and enhance the long-term value of our business through responsible acquisition, development and management of our buildings tomeettheneedsofour key stakeholders.
The Board approves the Groups sustainability strategy, objectives Performance highlights and targets proposed by our Environmental Policy Committee 2015 2014 following a review of the Groups material sustainability risks.
Change in total energy consumption This review ensures that our targets address the interests of across ourmanaged buildings 1% 15 % our stakeholders including employees, tenants, investors, local community and suppliers, whilst also developing our strategy to Waste diverted from landfill keep pace with legislative requirements and changes in industry from managedbuildings 100% 100% best practice.
In order to incorporate these goals in our day-to-day Construction waste diverted operations, our annual targets are devolved down into individual fromlandfill 99% 99% employees objectives and targets across our teams.
Progress is BREEAM Excellent achieved 240 95 monitored quarterly at our Health and Safety, Environment and Blackfriars Wigmore Corporate Responsibility Working Group and through our external Road Street assurance process, undertaken by Deloitte.
Annual reports on sustainability and health and safety are provided to the Board as Walmar City 1 BREEAM Very Good achieved House Tower part of the Companys annual Strategy Review and regular reports are provided during the course of the year from Neil Thompson as 1.
Portfolio Director and Executive Director for health and safety.
How we set, monitor and meet our targets See progress against our key targets on pages 60 to 63 The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating to See achievement against all our targets together with the alignment ofsustainability objectives and targets to key risks on our website social, environmental, ethical and health and safety matters and at www.
co. uk responsibility our-approach is determined to apply high standards to all areas in which the Group operates, including the management of the joint venture operations on behalf of the joint venture partners.
This year the Board considered the impact and risks related to legislation including Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards, the Carbon Reduction Energy Efficiency Scheme, the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme and new Construction Design and Management Regulations 2015.
How we set our sustainability strategy Board oversight Board Operational Committees Environmental Policy Committee H&S, Environmental and CR Working Group Sustainability objectives Objectives Investment Management Development Management Asset Management People Enhance long-term value Reduce obsolescence and Meet changing tenant needs Engage our people to support by considering sustainability risks enhance long-term value by and minimise voids by managing strategic sustainability procedures.
in investment cycles and communication developing sustainable buildings.
Policies and procedures Sustainability strategies 54 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement T hrough the Heart of London Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement includes all emission Business Alliance, we are helping sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report shape the destination marketing of and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 for the financial year to 31 March 2015 and includes further comparison on a like-forthe area to inuence and attract the like basis.
2015 2014 Tonnes Tonnes Rob Russell-Smith Asset Manager and GPE representative of CO2e of CO2e on Heart of London Business Alliance Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation Our wider contribution ofour facilities 2,455 2,492 Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent the Operation of facilities refrigerants 165 252 Groups views and contribute to the development of the property Scope 2 industry.
The Group also supports a number of organisations including the New West End Company, Westminster Property Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 7,725 6,699 Association, British Property Federation, British Council for Ofces, Head ofce usage 92 77 London First, Bond Street Development Group, the Baker Street Total footprint 10,437 9,520 Quarter Partnership, Jermyn Street Association, Heart of London Intensity Measure Business Alliance, Shoreditch Property Owners Association and 2 Emissions per m gross internal area 0.0388 0.0400 Better Bankside.
Like-for-like emissions Absolute emissions on a like-for-like basis 8,333 7,999 For more details see our Directors biographies on pages 50 and 51 2 and our website at www.
co. uk responsibility communities Emissions per m on a like-for-like basis 0.0401 0.0385 Like-for-like data compares emissions at properties held for the Communication with investors entirety of 2014 and 2015.
During the year we directly approached our largest investors to seek to understand their perception of our sustainability strategy Our methodology and received positive feedback on reporting within our annual For our greenhouse gas emissions statement, we have used the report and on our website.
In addition to this engagement we operational control consolidation method as this best reects our participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, GRESB and respond property management arrangements and our inuence over energy to questionnaires from EIRIS.
For 2014 we were awarded a consumption.
Included in our operational control data is emissions GRESB Green Star with top quartile performance.
We are also a from our managed properties including 100% of emissions from constituent of the FTSE4Good Index.
This year we have aligned our joint venture properties and head ofce usage.
Not included within external reporting with EPRA Best Practices Recommendations on this data is tenants usage or emissions from our development sites Sustainability Reporting, achieving EPRA gold award in September as these are considered to fall out of our scope 1 and 2 emissions.
For the first time this year, Deloitte have also assured all our Emissions in relation to our development sites are reported EPRA key sustainability indicators.
separately on our website, www.
Emissions from vacant space have been excluded as the related See our sustainability targets on pages 60 and 61 carbon emissions are expected to be below a materiality threshold of 5%.
There are no Company-owned vehicles to be reported.
Our awards We have used DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate our emissions.
A full data report in line with EPRA Best Practices Recommendations on Sustainability Reporting requirements can be viewed at www.
co. uk responsibility our-performance Independent assurance Independent assurance is provided by Deloitte LLP, in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000.
For Deloittes scope and assurance statement on our greenhouse gas emissions see our website at www.
co. uk responsibility ourperformance  For Deloittes scope and assurance statement on progress against targets see our website at www.
co. uk responsibility our-approach Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 55 Sustainability Each asset has an Energy Action Plan which we use to manage Addressing our key sustainability risks: the implementation of energy efficiencies within our investment Investing in assets we can reposition portfolio.
In order to reduce energy consumption both in landlords, areas and the tenants demise, we need to work closely with our We recognise the importance of including sustainability tenants.
We do this by: considerations within our investment decisions.
As part of our property acquisition due diligence procedures, we ensure that engaging with our tenants on resource consumption issues at EPC ratings are obtained prior to purchase.
Where EPC ratings tenant meetings and through Environmental Working Groups: are below an E rating, consideration is given to the level of providing energy and water consumption information on each further investment required to improve the EPC.
Costs related to building through our dedicated tenant website: and introducing energy efficiencies are included in our refurbishment providing reports to tenants on progress made in implementing plans.
Our investment team ensures that key sustainability energy efficiencies recommended by our energy audits.
information related to the management of the building is collected In order to improve on the accuracy of the data provided to our through a sustainability checklist which is provided to the asset tenants, we are continuing to roll out automatic metering for management team prior to completion on the building.
As part supplies where half-hourly information is not already available.
of our ready for sale procedures, similar information is prepared for purchasers.
We also use our smaller refurbishments and t-out worksasan opportunity to improve the energy efficiency of our managed Improving resource management at our assets properties.
We undertake SKA ratings to carry out an environmental Legislation to enforce energy efficiency within existing buildings assessment of all our significant refurbishments under 50,000 sq continues to develop.
During the year, in addition to preparing for ft.
The SKA rating provides a exible framework to manage the the introduction of Minimum Energy efficiency Standards, we sustainability impacts of refurbishment works and challenges our put plans in place to comply with the Energy Savings Opportunity smaller contractors and designers to rethink how our refurbishment Scheme and continued to work on our carbon footprint report for works are designed and delivered.
We also provide details of the our first submission under the Carbon Reduction Commitment SKA rating assessment tool within our tenant guide to encourage Energy efficiency Scheme.
our tenants to follow a similar approach where undertaking these works.
For the year to March 2016, we will ensure that all refurbishments under 50,000 sq ft achieve a silver SKA rating.
Minimum Energy efficiency Standards In March 2015, the UK Government introduced the long anticipated Minimum Energy efficiency Standards.
These regulations will make it illegal to let property with an Energy Performance Certicate rating EPC of F or G to a new tenant from April 2018.
There are significant challenges ahead for the industry with the implementation of these regulations, not least due to the varying quality of EPCs undertaken since they were introduced in 2008.
In anticipation of this legislation we have operated a watch list of properties with an E, F or G rating for the last two years.
A key aspect of our business is to purchase unloved assets in strong locations and this can often lead to properties being purchased with lower rated EPC, which are then improved once they enter our development programme.
All EPC recommendations are included within our asset Energy Action Plans to ensure that these are considered as our properties are refurbished, as tenants vacate and when properties are redeveloped.
Where we believe that original EPCs may require review due to assumptions made in 2008, we have engaged consultants to undertake this work.
1 Our buildings energy performance ratings Very energy efficient lower running costs A 0 A 31 B 87 C 57 D 30 E 2 3 15 Five buildings to be redeveloped, four exempt, four 2008 EPCs under review, two under payback review.
F 2 3 Two buildings to be redeveloped, six exempt, nine under payback review.
17 G Not energy efficient higher running costs 1.
The EPC ratings above include both ratings for individual buildings or demises within buildings.
Where EPC recommendations will not payback within prescribed timescales, implementation is not required.
56 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Developing sustainable buildings A collaborative approach with our contractors In order to ensure that we continue to deliver exible, high In order to deliver successful developments, it is essential that quality space, it is critical that the sustainability credentials of our we build positive relationships with our contractors.
We take developments outperform current environmental standards and a collaborative approach on health and safety: our principal anticipate future needs.
contractors provide monthly reports on health and safety at our construction sites and where reportable incidents occur, these are Meeting and exceeding regulatory requirements immediately reported to our Project Management team to ensure prompt investigation of the incident.
In addition to engaging with We regularly review changes to regulations, best practice and our contractors at site level, we also liaise with our contractors planning requirements to ensure that our sustainability strategy for at senior management level to discuss health and safety trends development keeps pace with regulatory change.
Our Sustainable across the industry.
As a result of this engagement, we have Development Brief and Tracker are designed to assist our included a new target for 2016 to ensure that occupational health teams in achieving the best practical environmental option when support is provided at all our major construction sites.
considering energy, water, waste and biodiversity strategies for our developments.
We regularly exceed Building Regulations We take this same collaborative approach on sustainability with our requirements for the energy efficiency of our new developments, contractors to ensure that: aiming to deliver buildings that are 35% more efficient than 2010 designing out waste workshops are undertaken early in the requirements.
We use our Sustainability Tracker to develop an process to minimise waste arising from the construction process: energy strategy for each project early in the design process and waste generated is diverted from landll where possible: this is reviewed at each stage of the development to ensure that options are considered to: carbon emissions from our construction sites are monitored: responsible sourcing standards are supported: maximise the energy efficiency of the building: payment is made promptly to contractors with 14-day payment include clean technology such as ground source heat pumps terms and twice-monthly valuations: and and combined heat and power plant: and community initiatives are instigated to maximise employment install sources of renewable energy opportunities and to support local schools and colleges.
In order to ensure that we meet or exceed planning requirements, we continue to target BREEAM Excellent ratings for new build developments.
Regular BREEAM updates are provided by our teams to allow us to monitor progress in achieving these ratings.
In May 2014, a revised BREEAM code came into force for new projects.
In anticipation of these changes, we had already undertaken a gap analysis of all our new build developments to understand how they could be adapted to achieve the changed requirements and updated our Sustainable Development Brief to capture new elements of the BREEAM process.
See our sustainability targets on pages 60 and 61 Hanover Square, W1, design updated to 2014 BREEAM requirements Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 57 Sustainability Meeting tenant needs Post occupancy evaluation feedback from To ensure that our developments continue to meet tenant 33Margaret Street, W1 expectations, it is essential that we work with our tenants during 33 Margaret Street was completed in 2013 and fully let to their t-out process to ensure that the transition of the building Savills plc on a full repairing and insuring lease.
The post from development, through commissioning, t-out and into occupancy evaluation of the property was undertaken with occupation is managed effectively.
We committed to following the full support of the tenant and included a review of the the soft landings approach on all our new build developments tenant t-out in addition to the basebuild.
A questionnaire was and major refurbishments in April 2014, ensuring that our circulated to all Savills employees.
designers and constructors stay involved with our new buildings beyond practical completion and that our facilities and building management team are involved early in the design process.
A number of positive outcomes are resulting from this process: regular meetings between designers and our facilities management team ensure that operational issues are considered throughout the design process: training of building management staff on systems at new buildings occurs prior to completion, during commissioning and two months after completion, ensuring a broader understanding of the new building by our on-site teams: the provision of training lms provides a bank of information to be used by mechanical and electrical contractors once the building is in use: and the co-ordination of tenant t-outs ensures that tenant systems are integrated with our building systems.
We continue to implement our soft landings framework across our development portfolio.
For the year ending March 2016, we have committed to carrying out studies to review the projected energy in use consumption at design stage.
Part of the soft landings process is to undertake post occupancy Question YesNo evaluation 12 months after tenant occupation.
In the year ending 31 March 2015, post occupancy evaluations were undertaken at Does the building meet your needs?
98% 2% 33 Margaret Street, W1, and 95 Wigmore Street, W1.
Do you feel proud bringing visitors to33Margaret Street?
99% 1% Is this building a good home for Savills?
100% 0% Does the layout of the ofce support theneedsof the staff and business?
90% 10% Post occupancy evaluation provides an opportunity to feed back to our consultant team on potential areas for improvement on future developments.
In relation to 33 Margaret Street, some issues were raised such as the design of the cycle store and zoning of spaces to enable exible and user-centred lighting controls.
These are now included within our design briefs on future developments where appropriate.
During the forthcoming year, we will be feeding back the findings of all our post occupancy evaluations to our external consultant team.
We will also be continuing with our programme of post occupancy evaluations on our recently completed developments.
58 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Working with the local community Maintaining high health and safety standards It is imperative that we consider our neighbours and the local We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of health community, particularly where we are undertaking development.
and safety at our buildings in order to minimise the risk of accidents Public Realm studies and extensive community consultation are and incidents to our tenants, contractors and employees, and carried out as a matter of course in addition to making Section also to comply with legislation.
We review the health and safety 106 contributions as part of the planning process.
Neighbour and record of all contractors prior to instruction and ensure that our tenant action plans are produced for each development and employees are provided with regular health and safety training refurbishment to minimise disruption caused by the construction updates.
Our collaborative approach with our contractors on process and where possible, we support local initiatives.
This has matters of health and safety was well illustrated at 240 Blackfriars led to donations to the Soho Arts Fair and West End Community Road, SE1, where in October 2014 a single outer pane of a Trust and the provision of advertising space on our hoardings for double glazed unit fell from the building.
There were no reportable Depaul UK through our development at 30 Broadwick Street, injuries resulting from the incident.
However, we worked with our W1.
At Hanover Square, W1, we worked with the Bond Street contractors and consultants immediately to ensure the safety of Management Group to commission four young artists working our tenants and neighbours including the erection of a protective in textiles, ceramics, photography and make-up to produce a five scaffolding canopy around the lower levels of the building whilst storey high art installation to enliven the unoccupied facades of simultaneously carrying out an investigation into the cause of the four of our buildings on New Bond Street, W1, forming part of incident.
A detailed investigation revealed that a piece of masking our Hanover Square development project see CGI below.
At our tape used during manufacture was inadvertently left in place on 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 development, an Employment and this single pane which eventually caused it to become detached Skills Manager has been engaged to co-ordinate work experience, from the cladding unit.
Our investigation works are almost complete training and apprenticeships on-site which has led to 25 learning and we expect to establish that the manufacturing error was limited outcomes and ten job starts during the year.
We continue to work to this individual pane of glass.
with Westminster University to provide tours and presentations to students and we are establishing links with schools in Westminster For more on our health and safety see www.
co. uk responsibility health-and-safety to support pupils  courses.
See our sustainability targets on pages 62 and 63 CGI of art work in place at our four buildings in New Bond Street, W1 Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 59 Sustainability Achievement against our key sustainability targets Investment Management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By engaging with our investors, we Failure to communicate our Investors Enhance long-term value by considering sustainability ensure that our external reporting sustainability strategy to risks in investment cycles and communicating our meets their needs.
Asset Management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By reducing energy consumption we Adverse regulatory risk.
Tenants Meet changing tenant needs and minimise voids reduce costs to tenants through our bymanaging buildings efficiently.
Engagement with tenants improves Failure to maximise income from Tenants performance on sustainability and investment properties through low reduces costs through the service tenant retention.
By maintaining positive relationships with our tenants it enables us to manage our void rate in accordance with our wider strategy.
Development Management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By working closely with our Poor development returns relating Suppliers Reduce obsolescence and enhance long-term value contractors we improve working topoor development management.
By adapting in advance of Poor development returns relating Tenants regulatorychanges we reduce to the quality and benchmark of the Suppliers obsolescence and increase the completed building.
60 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Target Achieved To offer to engage with our top ten investors to 9 of our top 10 investors were contacted.
understand their perception of our sustainability 90% I believe that GPE is well positioned to take strategy.
advantage of the growing demand for green 2016 Target To offer to engage with our top 30 investors.
buildings and its sustainability disclosure is appropriate for the business and well communicated Andrew Mason Responsible Investment Analyst, Standard Life Investments Target Achieved To achieve a 2.5% reduction in energy A 2% reduction in landlord energy consumption was achieved across our consumption across the investment portfolio like-for-like properties.
80% onalike for like basis by March 2015.
2016 Target To achieve a 10% reduction in energy consumption across the investment portfolio on a like-for-like basis by 31 March 2016 based on our March 2012 baseline.
To provide energy and water consumption data Energy and water consumption data provided on all tenant websites at our multi-let onthe tenant website for all managed buildings.
100% Provide a report to all tenants in buildings where 164 tenants provided with reports on progress on energy saving initiatives.
energy and water studies have been undertaken 100% on recommended initiatives and progress on the implementation of those initiatives by March 2015.
Target Achieved To meet with all our principal contractors to improve Initially a forum to improve reporting from the monitoring of carbon emissions, energy, water 100% our construction sites, our meetings with and waste from our construction sites.
contractors have become a valuable opportunity to exchange views on trends in sustainability and health and safety.
James Pellatt Head of Projects, GPE Achieve a BREEAM rating of Excellent on all new Projects completed during the year ending March 2015 build developments and Very Good or Excellent 100% New build property BREEAM Rating on refurbishments.
240 Blackfriars Road Excellent 2016 Target Target retained.
Refurbishment property BREEAM Rating Walmar House Very good cert awaited Projects on-site during the year ending March 2015 New build property BREEAM Rating targeted 12 14 New Fetter Lane Excellent 30 Broadwick Street Excellent 73 89 Oxford Street Excellent Rathbone Square Excellent Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 61 Sustainability Achievement against our key sustainability targets Development Management Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By diverting waste from landll we Poor development returns relating Suppliers Enhance long-term value by considering sustainability reduce the impact on the environment to the quality and benchmark of the risks in investment cycles and communicating our and reduce costs associated with completed building.
By involving facilities management Poor development returns relating Suppliers team early and keeping the design to the quality and benchmark of the Tenants team involved after practical completed building.
completion we ensure a smooth transition of our developments into occupation.
By working with our construction Reputational risk.
Suppliers partners to introduce apprenticeships Community we assist in attracting new talent to the construction industry and help create local jobs.
Workplace Opportunity Risk Stakeholder Objective By developing our people we seek to Strategic priorities not achieved Employees Develop a sustainable business in partnership with our improve their personal job satisfaction because of inability to develop employees, the local community and oursuppliers.
whilst enhancing the effectiveness andmotivate talented employees.
To build on our reputation as Strategic priorities not achieved Tenants acompany that people want towork because of inability to develop and Employees with.
62 | Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Annual review Target Achieved Divert 95% of non-hazardous demolition and strip 99% of non-hazardous demolition waste diverted from landll.
out waste and 90% of non-hazardous construction 100% and t out waste from landll.
99% of non-hazardous construction waste diverted from landll.
Incorporate the Soft Landings Framework at all Involving our facilities and building new build developments and major refurbishments.
100% management team early in the design 2016 Target process and implementing our soft Target retained.
landings framework at Rathbone Square will ensure a smooth handover process.
Helen Hare Project Manager, GPE Work with our construction partners to create By working with GPE to increase the number of 15apprenticeships at our construction sites 100% apprenticeships at construction sites we provide duringthe year ending March 2015. employment to the local community and encourage 2016 Target Working with our construction partners, create the next generation ofyoung people into the 20and maintain a further 30 apprenticeships construction industry.
at our construction sites during the year ending March 2016.
Mark Reynolds Chief Executive, Mace Target Achieved Provide an average of at least two days training Total number of training hours peremployee per annum.
100% 1,000 982 800 600 450 416 400 292 200 44 99 0 Governance Environmental Estates Finance Health IT Management & Safety Provide customer service training for all personnel Customer training number of employees with day-to-day customer contact.
100% 30 26 34 20 13 10 7 6 2 0 Asset Investment Development Financial Management Management Management Management Annual Report 2015 Great Portland Estates | 63
