Corporate and social responsibility Environment Equality and diversity In line with Hansteens policy of being environmentally Hansteen has a diverse workforce and commitment to and sociably responsible, environmental legislation and being an equal opportunities employer.
We understand relevant codes of practice are adhered to.
Where possible, that the performance and engagement of our employees Hansteen seeks to reduce emissions and pollution.
Details is critical to our business success.
Our employment policies of our Greenhouse Gas emissions are detailed in the and practices reflect a culture where decisions are made Directors Report.
solely on the basis of individual capability and potential in relation to the needs of the business.
Community Hansteen continues to support local and national As at 31 December 2015, the composition of Hansteens charities.
Regular events are held in each office to support employees, including both Executive and Non-Executive charitable causes.
We will support staff who voluntarily Directors, is as follows: give up their time to participate in charitable programmes Number during working hours.
We continue to run a work Male Female experience programme with a local school in London.
Directors including People Non-Executive Directors 7 2 Hansteen recognises that its present and future success Senior managers is dependent upon its ability to recruit, motivate, manage and Company Secretary 4 3 and retain appropriately qualified staff.
As part of our All other staff 46 40 commitment to help reduce barriers to entry, enhance the learning experience and support institutions offering Real Estate courses, we decided to run our Human rights first nationwide intern programme during 2015.
Hansteen is respectful of human rights and aims to provide assurance to internal and external stakeholders that we are In June 2015, Hansteen recruited five paid interns committed to the principles of the Universal Declaration of across the UK, offering them the chance to manage a Human Rights.
We incentivised the interns on lettings achieved within their property portfolio.
We are committed to creating and maintaining a positive Each intern demonstrated striking creativity in the and professional work environment that complies with marketing of their properties and had exposure to general human rights principles.
the negotiation of letting and tenancy agreements.
The scheme was designed to offer the interns a comprehensive view of asset management so we could enhance the learning experience as well as their employability after graduation.
The feedback we received was that the scheme more than met the interns expectations and they felt they could draw on the experience in their ongoing studies.
They were also more aware of the various graduate career options available to them outside the traditional milk round.
Hansteen has recruited one of the interns as a Graduate Surveyor in our North West Office.
We very much look forward to him joining the team when he finishes his studies in June 2016.
22 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Case study Intern programme Enhanced learning for asset management interns In June 2015, Hansteen recruited five paid interns across the UK, offering them the chance to manage a set number of properties.
Each intern demonstrated striking creativity in the marketing of their properties and had exposure to the negotiation of letting and tenancy agreements.
The success of the intern programme in 2015 has led to this being repeated in 2016 and extended to Germany as well as the UK.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23
