Strategic report Governance Financial statements Hansteen Saltley Unit Trust HSUT Outlook and prospects Saltley Business Park, the 95,500 sq m industrial estate in Light industrial property is a late cycle capital performer central Birmingham is 98% let with a passing rent of 2.9 and, notwithstanding the substantial valuation growth we million per annum and a value, at 31 December 2015, of 39.3 have enjoyed in 2014 and 2015, our overall yield on passing million.
Like-for-like passing rent increased by 0.3 million in rent for the whole portfolio is 7.8%.
As an example, this can 2015, as the rent concession for the biggest tenant at the be compared with the previous peak valuation of AIF in estate expired during the year.
Since the year end we have December 2006 which was around 6%.
This is in stark acquired, at a small discount to the year-end NAV, the other contrast to the office and retail property sectors which 50% of the units in HSUT which owns the estate.
surpassed their previous yield lows value highs during 2015 if they had not already done so in 2014.
The yield gap Hansteen Property Unit Trust ll HPUT II between industrial property and the cost of money remains The biggest single sale during the year was the sale of high, on an historic basis.
HPUT II for 192.1 million to a fund advised by Brockton Capital LLP in a partnership with Dunedin Property.
At the Our reading of the current cycle continues to be that of a time of sale, HPUT II had a passing rent of 14.3 million and long, grinding, corrugated stretch of low interest rates and a vacancy rate of 11.0%.
The sale created an internal rate of low returns which should play to the strengths of our return to the HPUT II investors in excess of 27%, with business.
Our portfolio is extremely diverse, with over 5,000 Hansteens return higher due to the asset management tenants in five countries.
Despite the tough environment, fees in addition to the investment return.
the fundamentals of occupational supply and demand continue to be positive.
In all three of our regions, our Long-term performance properties are valued at less than replacement cost: hence Hansteen has been in business now for ten years, from there is little or no new supply of multi-let light industrial December 2005.
This was a period that was particularly property coming to the market.
Recent months have difficult for property companies.
marked a tipping point on the demand side, with increasing numbers of commentators taking the view that industrial Many property companies lost material value, were forced is the new retail.
The transfer of goods from shops to sellers or required rescue rights issues during the financial sheds is a trend that is not going to be reversed in the near crisis of 2008 to 2012.
Hansteen though performed well future.
Aside from this, light industrial property will continue throughout this period: realised profits grew consistently to provide flexible, affordable, commercial space for the new and we were able to buy many property portfolios at occupiers of 2016 and beyond.
Occupational strength will distressed prices from businesses in difficulty.
continue to underpin investment values and growth prospects.
Equally importantly, the high and resilient Hansteens performance, measured by 100 invested at the income characteristics of well managed diverse pools of time of the Companys initial public offering in 2005, ranks in light industrial property ensure that this business continues the top five out of the 120 property companies publicly to generate and distribute high returns to shareholders in quoted at the time or floated in 2006.
Equally notable is the an era where such returns are increasingly difficult to find.
robust character of Hansteens returns relative to this peer Our feeling is that these fundamentals will further group.
Over the period in question, Hansteen was unique in strengthen values and liquidity this year, in all three of terms of maintaining covered dividend growth and a lower our regions.
downward volatility of share price.
The Founder LTIP, created at the launch of Hansteen in 2005, is based on high absolute returns over a long period, rather than on relative performance.
Despite Hansteen having continually outperformed the sector, in the first Morgan Jones and Ian Watson seven years, covering two LTIP periods, the absolute Joint Chief Executives returns did not beat the required hurdle of 10% per annum compound, hence no Founder LTIP award was made.
14 March 2016 During the third measurement period from December 2012 to 2015, the annual total returns have been 14.9% in 2013, 17.1% in 2014 and 17.3% in 2015.
As a result, the first Founder LTIP award has now been made.
This has been accrued throughout the period and is fully accounted for in the 2015 results.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
