56 intu properties plc Annual report 2015 Our people Our people are at the heart of intus success and are passionate about what they do, helping to deliver compelling shopping experiences to our customers We increasingly recognise the change programme.
We built on Highlights of the year importance of our people to our the success of our world class service intu Retail Services achieved silver business.
From apprentices to senior programme with development sessions Investor in People accreditation at managers, we look for the best people in for all staff focusing on delivering a 14 intu branded shopping centres the business to keep us at the forefront compelling experience and we introduced and for its central team, and retained of the shopping centre industry and a national apprenticeship scheme to grow gold standard at intu Trafford Centre provide the trademark intu experience our own talent.
An outstanding success Every member of staff has taken part and embodiment of our values that sets has been the achievement by intu Retail in brand engagement development us apart from our competitors.
Services of silver Investor in People Our new national apprenticeship accreditation at 14 intu-branded shopping scheme took on its first apprentices at As our business grows our strategy is centres and its central team, and retaining intu Lakeside and intu Milton Keynes to ensure our people grow with it.
We the gold standard at intu Trafford Centre.
11 senior managers from across focus on nding and retaining the best the business took part in the Firey people, engaging them in our purpose, leadership development programme, developing their talent and rewarding with a further 15 working through their effort.
We measure our success other programmes which will feed in by reducing turnover and increasing the number of posts we ll from internal promotions.
Our employees Our values We have 2,544 staff employed in 16 locations across the UK, in 15 centres and at 40 Broadway, and in Spain.
Of these, 2,131 are frontline shopping centre staff, directly employed by intu Retail Services.
We look at the familiar and we see something Turnover was 21 per cent for frontline different: we are insightful and imaginative, but staff and 14 per cent at 40 Broadway.
not for their own sake, for we never lose sight of The apprentice what is important and relevant Recruitment Adam Gillespie was among the initial We ensure we have the right talent to be intake of intus first national apprenticeship able to promote from within the business programme, joining the customer supported by processes that mean we services team at intu Lakeside in October employ the best potential talent from but circulating around a number of We act condently and decisively, always outside.
This year we recruited 529 staff departments for his first year to help knowingly, perhaps at times controversially, externally and promoted 50 from within.
but never rashly or without consideration Talent development Adam says: I thought apprenticeships Our aim this year has been to give more were a good way to get into the work staff insight and understanding of the environment: you get paid and get a strategic direction of the business and to qualication at the end.
It is harder than increase the opportunities for people to college but I prefer it.
You can really make take on new skills.
We introduced the a difference to people.
I helped plan our We are true to ourselves, act fairly and Firey leadership programme Building Halloween event and had a sense of communicate clearly: we say what we mean better futures to 11 senior managers fullment watching the customers smile and we mean what we say.
We recognise our and 15 other managers embarked on as they looked at the display of pumpkins obligations to our stakeholders and the wider a Leading self, leading others, leading knowing that I had played a part in it.
society, and commit to put our utmost into everything we do intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report 57 Our people Human rights At intu we respect the dignity, liberty and equality of everyone we work with.
Our policies and procedures are consistent with the United Nations universal declaration of human rights, which sets a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations.
We are committed to implementing the UN guiding principles on business and human rights.
We only work with people who choose to work freely and we respect their rights to equal opportunities and freedom of association.
Employee engagement Making sure our staff understand We work with our suppliers, retailers and our business and know how they can associated companies to ensure they meet 84% contribute to intus success is crucial acceptable standards of human dignity of staff are proud to work for intu to our progress.
in their own sourcing policies.
We will 2014: 83% continue to evaluate the pay and conditions We use a range of channels to of all our employees, in particular new staff communicate with our staff, wherever on or near to minimum wage, to bring them they work in the business, from the into line with the rest of our staff in terms of intranet and staff meetings to toolbox wages and benets and ensure fair working 89% talks.
This year we have improved internal conditions.
Fair treatment of people who of all staff took part in the survey communications networks further by work for intu or our suppliers is a key focus 2014: 84% ensuring each location has its own staff of our corporate responsibility approach.
As appropriate our Board CR Committee and CR Management Committee consider Gender prole Our annual staff survey continues the potential human rights risks faced by to reect widespread employee intu and assess approaches to mitigate Female Male engagement, with 84 per cent 2014: those risks.
We will implement the Modern 83 per cent of staff proud to work for Slavery Act in 2016 to ensure our suppliers 1,032 1,512 intu, and 94 per cent 2014: 91 per cent meet our standards on human rights.
2014: 973 2014: 1,486 agreeing intu puts customers at the heart of everything we do.
This year 89 per cent of all staff took part in the survey, up Gender prole senior managers five per cent from 2014, and the overall We will continue to develop our engagement index improved for the leadership programmes and extend Female Male fifth year in succession, from 747 to 769. the capabilities of our talented management, both in 40 Broadway 9 20 Understanding of intus values and and in operational management in 2014: 9 2014: 22 vision both now stand at 90 per cent our centres.
and there were major improvements in staff recognition that performance We will work to achieve the National is accurately evaluated and rewarded Equality Standard, a groundbreaking appropriately and that individuals could initiative for businesses to set clear contribute directly to our success.
equality, diversity and inclusion criteria Reward and recognition that can be independently assessed.
This year we introduced Win We continue to encourage staff to achieve Your Dream, a peer-to-peer their personal and professional goals Our graduate programme is to be more nomination programme that and to take part in our corporate structured to enable graduates to gain a acknowledges staff who have shown responsibility, community support broader experience across the business exceptional performance in displaying and sustainability programmes.
and enhance their chances of becoming our values and delivering our brand future leaders in intu.
The programme includes a Our plans for 2016 tiered award structure with monthly prizes As the intu business spectrum expands We are also going to link our induction at each centre and 40 Broadway, four we will be providing more opportunities and training programmes, so that national quarterly winners and the ultimate for functional specialists to develop employees benefit from a complete accolade, the annual winner who receives a broader understanding of our development package that is more 10,000 to spend on their dream.
