S St tr ra at te egi gic c re rep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn nanc ance e F Fi in na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me ent nts s A Ad dd di itio tion na al l in inf fo or rm ma atio tion n People Strategy L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 0 019 19 OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY Organisation Talent management The capabilities and commitment We work to ensure that the organisation We invest to ensure we can attract the best is well matched to the current market talent and that we are widely recognised as of our employees help set us environment and the world we see ahead, a great place to develop a career.
Our people strategy is particularly the changing needs of our to build a deep understanding of the talent about creating the conditions customers and communities.
We also work pools from which we recruit, both now and to create a structure that provides clarity in the future.
And to keep our employees where they can flourish and on who is accountable for what at all levels, engaged, we work to provide great career employees can make the while promoting the rapid sharing of opportunities through effective succession knowledge and cross-team collaboration.
planning, training, education and other greatest possible difference to development activities.
The strategy aims to ensure we: Truly understand the changing needs of our customers, whether they are retail or office occupiers, or people who visit our buildings.
This means developing deep and enduring relationships with our customers: having access to and sharing current insights on business and consumer trends: and measuring the experience we deliver for our customers and acting on the results.
Accurately read the cycle of the markets in which we operate, then anticipate and respond accordingly.
This means investing in best in class research and analytical skills.
It also means being clear on who has accountability for decision making so we can maximise the opportunities presented by the market, and manage risks appropriately.
Deliver complex projects by drawing on our depth of technical expertise and building sustained and trusting relationships with a variety of stakeholders, some of whom will have conflicting interests.
Reward for performance Engagement Apply our commercial dexterity to maximise We put in place total reward packages We provide a clear framework that defines the value of our investment portfolio.
This including base pay, benefits, annual bonus the culture of Land Securities purpose, goal, means being nimble so we spot commercial plans and long-term incentives designed to vision and values while giving people the opportunities, restructuring deals at pace motivate our people to make the biggest opportunity to bring it to life in different where needed, and having the courage to possible contribution to the performance ways, both inside the business and in the take difficult decisions when necessary.
of the company as a whole, and to inspire way they interact with customers, them to be the best they can be in their communities and partners.
We recognise To make these happen we do four key things individual roles.
and celebrate great examples of our values see right : at work, and encourage the sharing of knowledge and experience.
We value different backgrounds and perspectives, and give all our people the opportunity to put forward ideas and have a voice in making Land Securities a great place to work.
Over the course of 2014 and 2015 we have put in place new human resources initiatives designed to support our strategy and deliver the business capabilities that differentiate us.
For more on our actions in the year see pages 2021
