144 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 SUSTAINABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY: PERFORMANCE AGAINST KEY TARGETS In order to be a sustainable business we look beyond short-term financial goals Water and recognise the need to balance the creation of shareholder value over time Commitment: reduce the water use of our five largest water-consuming with wider social and environmental objectives.
Our aim is to be the leader managed buildings by 15% by 2020 against a 2014 baseline.
in the UK-listed real estate sector.
We have recently undertaken a comprehensive external review of our Table 89 approach which, coupled with the fact we have met a number of our Key measures: water reduction performance of the following Performance highlights environmental targets ahead of time, has resulted in a series of nine Times Square, EC4 13% reduction due to the installation of long-term commitments.
We believe they are enduring and demanding: more efficient bathroom fixtures they each involve stretching targets or clear objectives.
Early progress against these are outlined below: more can be learned from our Sustainability Report at Cardinal Place, SW1 6% reduction due to changes in www.
80-100 Victoria Street occupation levels The Galleria, Hatfield No movement Development Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth We believe a 1% increase is due to Commitment: design all our new developments to meet or exceed best practice increased footfall guidelines for carbon emissions and the use of energy, water and materials.
St Davids, Cardiff A 23% increase is currently under investigation as there is no immediately Table 87 clear reason for the variance.
We have Key measures Performance highlights commissioned a water audit Outperform Part L of the Building On-site developments are performing Overall performance 1% reduction Regulations well against previous Part L Building Regulations 2010 target.
Developments in design are targeting performance Waste against their Part L Building Regulations Commitment: send zero waste to landfill with at least 70% recycled across all 2013 target our operational and construction activities by 2020.
BREEAM Very Good for retail schemes On-site developments are meeting their BREEAM Excellent for office schemes targeted rating BREEAM Very Good for Table 90 offices and retail.
Developments in Key measures Performance highlights design are making good progress towards London Portfolio: their targeted rating BREEAM Excellent diverted 100% for offices and Very Good for retail recycled 50.6% Embodied carbon performance In the first phases of assessing at Retail shopping centres: Westgate, Oxford.
We have set a 15% diverted 99.8% reduction target for new developments recycled 71.1% Performance against our own Ultra Low Westgate, Oxford, and Zig Zag, SW1, are Leisure sites: 2015 is the first year we publicly Carbon standard on target to meet or exceed Ultra Low report figures Carbon design standard diverted 92.6% recycled 57.1% Energy Construction waste: 2015 is the first year we publicly Commitment: reduce the absolute energy consumption of our five largest report figures energy-consuming managed buildings by 15% by 2020 against a 2014 baseline.
diverted 100% This target details waste reduction performance across the portfolio.
The chart Table 88 101 overleaf shows performance in our like-for-like portfolio only.
Key measures: energy performance of the following Performance highlights Times Square, EC4 8% reduction through move from electric Natural habitat to gas heating and improved controls Commitment: maximise the biodiversity potential of all our development and Cardinal Place, SW1 4% reduction through improved cooling operational sites.
80-100 Victoria Street controls and changes in occupation levels Table 91 New Street Square, EC4 2% reduction through upgraded lighting buildings 4, 5 and 6 and control sensors Key measures Performance highlights One New Change, EC4 6% increase due to an increase in Develop a strategic plan We are working on a plan to deliver this occupancy levels of the offices across the portfolio of development and operational sites Thomas More Square, E1 21% reduction due largely to change in occupier profile, including areas out of Record zero environmental incidents No reportable incidents have been operation during the refurbishment recorded this year Overall performance 7% reduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Additional information Land Securities Annual Report 2015 145 Diversity Additional performance highlights 2015 Commitment: make measurable improvements to the profile in terms of There are some additional disclosures we have not made within the body of this gender, ethnicity and disability of our employee mix.
And lead our industry in report.
These relate to our performance against industry benchmarks and indices.
removing the employment barriers faced by these groups.
We also disclose the amount of money raised for our charity partners, and the value of investments made in community initiatives.
Table 92 Table 96 Key measures by 2020 Performance highlights Activity Performance Ethnicity: increased representation from Roll-out of unconscious bias training to less than 5% in management roles and all hiring managers Benchmarking above Introduced a new induction module on Carbon Disclosure Project CDP 2014: disclosure 96 score Ainclusive culture Gender: increased representation of 2013: disclosure 88 score B women from 25-40% in leadership roles Commissioned benchmarking exercise 2012: disclosure 92 score B and standards review 2011: disclosure 60 score D Global Real Estate Sustainability 2014: score 78% Employment Benchmark GRESB 2013: score 67% Commitment: help 1,200 disadvantaged people to secure jobs by 2020.
2012: score 68% Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI 2014: score 70 Table 93 2013: score 72 Key measures Performance highlights 2012: score 70 Secure employment for 125 candidates 157 candidates secured employment FTSE4Good We continue to retain our established through our Community Employment position in the FTSE4Good Index Programmes EPRA Received a Gold Award at EPRA Sustainability Awards 2014 for Safety and health sustainability reporting Commitment: maintain an exceptional standard of both safety and health in all Community the working environments we control.
Value of resources given 3m equivalent value of time, promotion and cash investment Table 94 8,940 hours spent by employees Key measures by 2020 Performance highlights volunteering Safety: reportable H&S incidents We report six RIDDORs this period.
Our National charity partnership 135,489 raised for partner Mencap in RIDDORS accident frequency rate is 131 reportable the first year of our two-year partnership accidents per 100,000 workers, against an industry average of 260 Business in the community Finalist: Freshfield Work Inclusion Award winner notified July 2015 Health: transferable occupational health We have begun this process by records required for workers on our introducing occupational medical construction sites surveillance on all developments lasting longer than six weeks Wellbeing: wellbeing policy obligation for Within our own business we have taken key supply chain partners the first steps in this area by issuing a wellbeing survey to our employees.
The responses will play a significant part in the design of our long-term health and wellbeing strategy Fairness Commitment: make sure the working environments we control are fair.
Table 95 Key measures by 2020 Performance highlights Payment of a Living Wage to those who Employees: our own employees are paid work on our behalf, in environments we at least a Living Wage control Service partners: full-time London office portfolio workers and shopping centre teams in Lewisham and the O2 Centre are paid at least a Living Wage.
Other centres have a programme of increases in place Construction: work with main contractors has begun to ensure a robust process is in place for payment of Living Wages before our 2020 target date
