020 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 development activity for high potential, early career having a fulfilling career with us, irrespective of PEOPLE professionals from all three businesses.
background, ethnicity, gender or disability.
Our actions We believe that the creation of a learninghave included the extension of unconscious bias PERFORMANCE focused organisation, and the nurturing of talent, training to all hiring managers, and the introduction is about more than training, however.
By clarifying of a new induction module about inclusive culture.
our organisations structure, holding inspiring Our statistics on gender are positive, with women open events, including on the communication now making up 51% of our workforce, and with some of the Groups results, and using new internal very strong senior role models 29% of the Executive communications technology like Yammer, we are Committee, 42% of the London, and 57% of the supporting ongoing development for all employees.
Retail Executive Committees are women.
Further Organisation We are also applying insights from teams that have diversity information can be found in the governance Following last years reorganisation of the Executive joined us through acquisition.
For example, our report on page 44.
However, our ethnic mix has not Committee, we took further steps this year to improve Bluewater team has brought additional insights on improved, and we are convinced that the key to our organisational structure.
Our objective was to effective ways to engage consumers on a large scale.
changing this is for us to work even more closely with better support the core skills outlined in the People the communities in which we operate.
Along with our Strategy on page 19, and to start to embed our newly existing range of employment initiatives, this year we refined purpose, goal, vision and values.
created a Land Securities school leaver trainee The management structure, in particular our academy.
Although small, this has provided a very creation of two new Managing Director roles and the welcome injection of new talent into the business.
Reward for performance appointments of Scott Parsons and Colette OShea The Employee Forum previously known as the The creation of new development programmes is only to those roles, is now well established.
Both have Exchange Forum is supporting the Executive one strand of the way we retain our best people.
This built strong leadership teams with broadly Committee on clearly defining and communicating year we also conducted a fundamental review of our consistent structures.
This focused on making our annual In Retail, we have evolved the Business Unit bonus scheme more engaging for employees and more structure over the course of the year in line with our suited to the varying roles we have within the company.
Safety, health and wellbeing transformation of the portfolio.
This has included the The new arrangements, which will apply for 2015 16, We are committed to having an exceptional full integration of the Operations and Portfolio teams, will help people to prioritise Group objectives, as standard of safety, health and wellbeing in all who now manage our assets as one team.
We have opposed to Business Unit objectives, fostering a sense the working environments we control.
We aim also appointed a new Head of Commercial for of one company.
The scheme is more flexible and to make the following three objectives standard Retail, who is responsible for developing a deeper provides an additional bonus opportunity to those in across our construction sites by 2020: understanding of our customers changing commercial and delivery roles who deliver truly Safety zero reportable health and safety requirements and embedding this in marketing, outstanding results.
incidents this includes our managed operations leasing and customer relationship management.
We have continued to review our full range of Health every worker to have a transferable, This year we created a new Corporate Affairs and financial benefits, including our People Into Action occupational health record Sustainability team, which included the recruitment recognition programme.
This has gone from strength Wellbeing key construction and managed of Miles Webber in May 2015 to head that team and to strength over the year and culminated in a group of portfolio partners to have implemented a join the Executive Committee.
His appointment as quarterly winners coming together for a celebration wellbeing policy.
Director of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability We are working hard across the company and dinner.
A number of best in class winners were reflects our ambition to lead the industry on with our key partners to make this happen.
rewarded for achievements that truly went above and sustainability and the need for all environmental beyond day-to-day expectations.
Values in short and socio-economic matters to be represented We also believe that one of the most powerful ways Customer Service at Executive Committee level by one person.
in which we can retain our best talent is by providing Be sure you understand your customers and the opportunity to work on some of the most dont let them down.
groundbreaking and complex developments in the UK.
Innovation Lower resignation rates, particularly in London, Be open to new ways of doing things.
In our most recent employee Talent management Excellence Pulse Survey 96% of people in the London Business Be the best possible version of you.
Unit said they were proud to work for Land Securities.
Our Learning and Development Strategy is built around Integrity the core capabilities required by the business.
This year Be open, honest, reliable and consistent.
we focused on building a leadership pipeline for the future.
This recognises that technical and functional Accountability skills, although very important, are not enough.
Be responsible for your actions.
Engagement During the year we launched two new large-scale Respect development programmes Positive Impact, aimed Our values form the cornerstone of the Land Securities Be fair with everyone.
at all those who manage teams of people: and culture.
Feedback from our employees indicates that, Human rights Positive Influence for our 20 or so most senior in the main, our values are very well embedded, but Last year the Board approved our human leaders below the Executive Committee.
More than we have more to do to ensure that we are a truly rights policy which aims to recognise and 100 people have commenced these programmes, inclusive organisation.
This year we gave attention to safeguard the human rights of all citizens in which focus on the broader skills essential to leading re-articulating and bringing to life the values as a the business areas in which we operate.
This the business through the next phase of the market framework to guide behaviour.
We added year we extended the policy to key supply cycle leading through change, coaching for Accountability as a value to promote a real sense of chain partners.
The policy was issued to our performance, and engaging teams.
The Positive responsibility for the performance of the business, principal suppliers and we have received a Influence programme has also given leaders the and many of the actions we have taken this year have compliance statement from 56%.
Over the opportunity to work in cross-business teams to helped to crystallise team and individual responsibilities.
next 12 months we will look further into our broaden their skills by tackling live business projects.
As we reported last year, the diversity statistics supply chain to see how the issues are For the first time, we also joined forces with two for the property industry are not what we would like managed and how we can influence best other organisations in our sector, the Grosvenor them to be.
Internally, we have tried to break down practice through procurement.
Group and the Peabody Trust, to provide a joint the barriers, whether real or perceived, to anyone S St tr ra at te egi gic c re rep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn nanc ance e F Fi in na an nc cia ial l s st ta at te em me ent nts s A Ad dd di itio tion na al l in inf fo or rm ma atio tion n People Performance L La an nd d S Se ec cu ur ri it ti ie es s A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 15 5 02 021 1 ENGAGEMENT THE POWER OF SURVEY RESULTS COLLABORATION Mizuho Group will occupy our 2 New Ludgate, EC4 development, making it their European headquarters.
This will represent a further milestone in a 93% remarkable collaboration.
The building of our people are proud to work for needed to meet Mizuhos exact Land Securities.
A resilient power supply was essential to support its 24 7 financial operations, for example.
To meet the customers 89% needs we brought together experts in would recommend Land Securities as a development, engineering, leasing, good place to work.
property management and project management to work as one team from day one.
By creating strong MENCAP STORY relationships within the company, 87% We partner with other organisations to create we have been able to create a strong feel that the Executive Committee training, work experience and job opportunities relationship outside the company, provide a strong sense of direction.
overcoming tough technical challenges for people who are finding it difficult to enter along the way.
employment, including those with a learning disability.
This year we worked particularly closely with Mencap, our national charity partner.
Weve 83% seen for ourselves how difficult it can be for people feel that decisions are consistent with with these disabilities to gain employment.
also seen that those individuals often make superb employees.
Over the 12 months our collaboration with Mencap and supply chain partners helped 15 people with a learning disability get permanent jobs.
ROUTES TO EMPLOYMENT Opportunities and outcomes Candidates via Academic programmes locally identified Land Securities initiated activity to Schools colleges raise awareness of opportunities and improve skills facilitated by School children 16 yrs Land Securities volunteers.
At school or in further Land Securities education 1618 yrs and its peers ACADEMIC School leavers PROGRAMMES Undergraduates New or returning to work Graduates programmes Post-graduates Land Securities initiated structured programmes designed to prepare young adults or those returning to work.
With retail or Industry office occupiers exposure, skills and experience Candidates via Employability hubs locally identified Initiatives driven by Land Securities Referral partners but working in partnership with referral partners and relying on Not in education, Through supply chain supply chain job placements.
employment or or other partners COMMUNITY training NEETs Long-term unemployed EMPLOYMENT Learning disability Grants volunteers PROGRAMMES Homeless Financial grants or Land Securities Offenders time contributed to charitable or social enterprises designed to Progress to further deliver employment outcomes.
