Strategic report Responsible business We have made considerable progress against our Responsible Business Roadmap in 2015.
Our performance puts us firmly on the road to ensuring that the management of material sustainability risks and opportunities are embedded in our core business activities.
Marion Dillon Responsible Business lead, LondonMetric Our approach to responsible business Responsible business framework Our Responsible Business Strategy pulls Within the scope of our Responsible Business together and summarises the approach framework as illustrated below we have we take across the business to managing developed a Responsible Business Policy, our sustainability performance.
It sets out supported by our Responsible Business our sustainability priorities across the four Roadmap which encompasses both short key areas that reflect our core activities: and medium-term targets.
The Roadmap our business operations, our property sets out a clear strategic framework investments, asset management and designed to deliver added value to each short-cycle developments.
Our approach of our core activities within the context is supported by the foundations of of: increasing legislative pressure on good risk management and a focus environmental issues: growing demand from on creating and maintaining excellent investors for sustainability disclosure: and stakeholder relationships.
the potential long-term risks to asset value associated with less resource-efficient assets.
Of the 26targets we set ourselves over the two-year period to March 2016, 13 have already been achieved, 7 are currently in progress and the remainder are scheduled for next year.
For more detailed information on our targets, please see our annual Responsible Business report which can be found in the Responsibility section of our website.
Responsible investments Generating sustainable value Responsible business Managing stakeholder relationships and risk well Responsible Responsible development asset management Future-proofing Responding our pipeline to occupier needs Responsible business report www.
com LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 49 Responsible business continued Responsible investment Our progress In 2015 the Company made charitable We aim to ensure that material sustainability Responsible business donations of 24,820. risks and opportunities are integrated In addition 26,583 was into the way we buy and sell assets Under our Responsible Business Strategy raised by sixemployees with specific attention paid to energy we are undertaking actions at a corporate who rowed across and carbon liabilities, flood risk and level to reduce sustainability risks throughout theChannel transport infrastructure.
our operations and effectively engage with key stakeholders.
Our areas of focus During 2015 we updated our pre-acquisition include legislative compliance through due diligence and decision-making process environmental monitoring and risk to ensure that all material sustainability assessments, managing human resource factors are appropriately addressed and issues such as staff attraction, retention and considered.
Risks assessed include energy diversity, working with our supply chain to efficiency and energy costs, CRC liabilities, improve sustainability performance and EPC risks, vulnerability to flooding and increasing awareness of our Responsible other extreme weather events, and site Business Policy with joint venture partners.
As part of asset preparation for We also maintain a wider commitment sale, we review sustainability performance to society through a programme of indicators to ensure that the key benefits sponsorships and charitable donations and opportunities of the asset are aimed at the local communities in which communicated effectively to the market.
Our sustainability risk profile has altered Our priorities for 2015 on legislative risk significantly following the disposal of the management have included mapping majority of our office portfolio in this year.
out our expected financial liabilities having As a result our direct energy consumption qualified for Phase 2 of the UK Governments has reduced as the majority of our portfolio CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, ongoing is now comprised of retail and distribution portfolio risk assessment and mitigation in warehouses with minimal landlordline with the new Minimum Energy Efficiency controlled energy consumption.
Standards MEES for commercial property, and implementing a plan to manage Responsible asset management the mandatory energy auditing scheme and development ESOS introduced this year.
For more on our To ensure our buildings continue to be fit for performance and approach, see pages 52 purpose, we engage in practical measures to 54. with occupiers to understand and mitigate We have implemented a staff training material risks and take advantage of programme covering these and other win-win opportunities such as the installation sustainability issues material to the of low carbon energy sources.
By doing business and the new procedures that so, we respond to the needs of occupiers, have been introduced to manage these promote the long-term sustainability of our issues effectively.
assets and enhance their value.
Staff development, satisfaction and During 2015, actions included establishing wellbeing is very important to the business: baselines and benchmarks for the we aim to attract, retain and motivate environmental performance of our portfolio.
high performing individuals, and recognise We now collect and report comprehensive the importance of employee wellbeing.
data on energy, carbon, water and waste To achieve this aim we actively promote on a quarterly basis and have set internal healthy living and encourage volunteering performance targets to drive further and sponsorship activities including reductions in resource use.
For information support for local organisations close to on our carbon footprint, in line with the UK our assets and head office, plus ongoing governments mandatory carbon reporting support for national charities with a requirements, please see the How we property focus.
This includes direct financial performed section on page 52. contributions and in-kind support such as pro bono services, which provide benefits both to the charities and to the team members involved.
LondonMetric Property Plc 50 Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Having qualified for Phase 2 of the UK Partly in response to the Governments Projected energy Governments CRC Energy Efficiency Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS savings identified byour Scheme in 2012 13, our quarterly data requirements, we have commissioned external lighting audits collection and reporting programme energy audits across our retail parks and of retail warehouses has allowed us to map out our expected identified areas where we can deliver total 30% of their liabilities which for the year are expected to significant reductions in future energy annuallighting bills be c. 60,000 in CRC Allowance costs.
Under ESOS, we are required to report the findings of our energy audits to Following the sale of offices at Forest House, the Environment Agency by December Crawley and Carter Lane, London this year, 2015 and intend to action all the costBREEAM Very Good total energy consumption for the year to effective recommendations.
certifications on track 31 March 2015 dropped by 37% compared for development with the previous year, and our total Core to our development activities is projects covering GHG emissions fell by 42% over the same the creation of flexible assets that meet 2.4msq ft period.
As the majority of our portfolio now changing economic, environmental and comprises retail and distribution warehouses social demands.
In line with our goal to our carbon footprint is mainly based on achieve a minimum BREEAM Very Good external car park lighting.
certification for all new developments and This year we saw a 37% major refurbishments, we are on track at our Forecast CRC liabilities for 2015 drop in total energy redevelopment of Kirkstall Bridge Shopping consumption across 75,828 Park in Leeds.
We have put in place a 80,000 ourportfolio compared series of measures that will enhance its to 2014 environmental performance during both 60,000 59,650 construction and operation, while working 40,000 with local partners to deliver benefits to the broader community through ongoing 20,000 employment opportunities.
Apr-14 Jul-14 Oct-14 Jan-15 Apr-15 We are also working with contractors Current year actual Previous year actual to enhance the management of Current year estimated sustainability issues covering health and safety, supply chain, energy and waste by The newly legislated Minimum Energy incorporating minimum requirements into Efficiency Standards MEES reinforced the .
need for a comprehensive review of our portfolio EPC ratings, an exercise that began in 2013.
As part of our annual asset management plans, we have started to review and develop risk management solutions for the assets in our portfolio with EPC ratings below the required 2018 standard.
EPC ratings by ERV estimated rental value B 25.46% C 33.62% D 11.74% E 17.73% F 2.28% G 0.58% Missing EPC 1.10% Unknown EPC 7.49% Kirkstall Bridge Shopping Park case study seepage 36 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 51 Responsible business continued 2014 Global Real Estate Sustainability How we performed During the year we Benchmark GRESB results have achieved 13 Performance against responsible andprogressed 7 of our During the year, as in previous years, we took business targets 26 two-year targets part in a survey carried out by GRESB, an investor-backed organisation that assesses Within the scope of our Responsible the sustainability performance of property Business framework we have developed companies and property investment funds.
a Target Roadmap which encompasses The 2014 survey results showed a significant both short and medium-term targets.
improvement in both our score and our The Roadmap sets out a clear strategic peer ranking compared to 2013, particularly framework designed to deliver added value on the Management and Policy theme to each of our core activities within the where we achieved a 60% score.
Overall we context of: increasing legislative pressure on achieved a score of 34%, exceeding our environmental issues: growing demand from target of 30%.
We are hopeful that the investors for sustainability disclosure: and past years worth of implementation and the potential long-term risks to asset value measurement activities will allow us to associated with less resource-efficient assets.
improve our overall score sufficiently to meet Of the 26 targets set for the two-year period our target for the 2015 survey of 50%.
April 2014 March 2016, during this first year we have already achieved 13 and made good progress on 7.
For more detailed information on our targets, see the Responsibility section of our website.
Performance in 2014 GRESB Survey % 100 50 0 0 50 100 Implementation and measurement This entity Peer group average Peer group GRESB average Responsible business report www.
com LondonMetric Property Plc 52 Annual report and accounts 2015 Management and policy Strategic report Total energy consumption MWh Performance data Energy consumption 15,000 Energy and greenhouse gas GHG 37% emissions 10,000 Our office portfolio accounts for the vast majority of our energy and carbon footprint, 5,000 GHG emissions therefore the sale of offices at Forest House, Crawley and Carter Lane, London 2013 14 2014 15 in the year has dramatically reduced 42% Electricity our exposure.
Total energy consumption Natural gas dropped by 37% in 2015 and our total GHG emissions fell by 42% over the same period Water consumption excluding residential asset.
Like-for-like energy consumption by asset type MWh Next year we expect to see further 12% 6,000 reductions in landlord-controlled energy use as we continue to reshape our portfolio.
4,000 We also hope to see significant savings in like-for-like energy consumption across our 2,000 retail warehouse portfolio as we implement the recommendations identified in the external lighting audits carried out this year.
2013 14 2014 15 Corporate o ce O ce Retail warehouse Mandatory GHG emissions reporting Year to Year to 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Direct greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 combustion of fuel and operation facilities Scope 1 576 766 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2 1,857 3,448 Total carbon footprint in tonnes of CO e 2,433 4,214 2 Scope 1 and 2 intensity tonnes of CO e per m net 2 income after administration costs 52 160 Data qualifying notes We have reported on all of the emission sources Data for the year to 31 March 2014 has been restated, required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic including associated intensity metrics, as additional Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. energy consumption data has been obtained since the previous report was published.
We have used the main requirements of ISO14064 Part 1 and the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Landlord-controlled emissions in the year to 31 March and Reporting Standard Revised Edition for our 2014 from the wholly-owned residential portfolio methodology, using energy consumption data from are not included in this disclosure as they were not our owned and occupied properties.
We have material to our total carbon footprint represent 2% chosen to report greenhouse gas emissions under of total emissions.
This portfolio was substantially sold our operational control.
These sources fall within our in the year to 31 March 2014.
Emissions from our joint consolidated financial statements.
We do not have venture residential property at Moore House, London responsibility for any emissions sources that are not have been included for the year to 31 March 2015. included in our consolidated financial statements.
No data was available for the previous year.
Emissions factors are taken from the latest the Scope 1 data does not include refrigerant emissions UK Government DEFRA conversion factors for as these have been determined to not be material company reporting 2014. represent 2% of total emissions : owned fleet does not apply.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 53 Responsible business continued Water consumption Employee gender diversity Waste diverted fromlandfill During 2015 the total water consumption Indicator 2015 from our investment portfolio fell by 12%, partly due to disposals.
We also saw a 23% 100% decrease at our remaining office asset, The number of Marlow International, which now accounts 1 10 persons of each sex for 89% of our total water footprint including who were Directors ofthe Company our corporate office.
3 Total water consumption m 8,000 The numbers of 6,000 persons of each sexwho were 3 7 4,000 senior managers of the Company 2,000 other thanpersons identified as Directors 2014 2015 Corporate o ce O ce The number of persons of each 17 24 Waste management sexwho were employees of During 2015 we began recording nontheCompany construction waste data for the first time.
98% of our waste is generated from our office portfolio with our corporate office accounting for the remaining 2%.
Human rights concerns All landlord-controlled waste is diverted Our operations are based solely in the UK from landfill.
and are very low risk in relation to human Total waste by disposal method tonnes rights issues.
No human rights concerns have arisen within our direct operations or our 100 supply chain during 2015.
80 60 40 20 LondonMetric One Curzon Street portfolio Incineration with energy recovery facility Recycling facility See our annual Responsible Business update report on our website for ourfull reporting against the sustainability KPIs required to be reported under EPRA Best Practice Reporting recommendations.
com LondonMetric Property Plc 54 Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance Introduction from the Chairman 56 Governance at work 57 Board of Directors 58 Leadership 60 Effectiveness 64 Nomination Committee report 66 Accountability 70 Audit Committee report 70 Remuneration 76 Remuneration Committee report 76 Report of the Directors 91 Directors responsibility statement 94 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2015 55
