Strategic report Corporate social responsibility As responsible property owners we have a real opportunity to contribute to the longterm resilience of the local environment and the prosperity of the local communities in which we invest.
36 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information The new CSR strategy forms an integral part of our culture and seeks to strike the right balance between acknowledging the opportunities to contribute to the communities in which we operate whilst delivering longterm sustainable returns to our Shareholders.
Michael Watters Chief Executive Officer Redefine Internationals strategic CSR framework Resilient governance We will uphold the highest standards in ethical behaviour and support our workforce.
We seek to operate in a manner that fosters open stakeholder engagement and demonstrates best practice in social and environmental risk management.
Resilient investment We undertake to realise the full potential of our investments for both our Shareholders and the communities in which we operate.
Resilient assets We are mindful of our wider role as placemakers and we aim to contribute to the longterm prosperity of the communities in which we invest.
In doing so, we will undertake asset management which minimises risk and maximises asset value whilst providing the best experience possible for occupiers and visitors alike.
CSR strategy Gender split across the Group For Redefine International, Corporate Social Responsibility CSR means understanding and actively managing the social and environmental risks and opportunities that can impact on income growth and net asset value, whilstalso taking account of the Companys responsibilities towards 212 stakeholders, in particular investors and Shareholders, employees, the businesses we work with and employees the communities in which we operate.
The CSR Committee, comprising three Executive Directors MichaelWatters, Stephen Oakenfull and Adrian Horsburgh, and attended by our asset managers and the CompanySecretary was formed in 2014 to establish a formal CSR strategy for theCompany.
The strategy seeks to ensure that our governance and risk management framework together with our investment and asset strategy were resilient to the changing economic, social and .
Men 66% Our CSR strategy focuses on this objective and sets out a series of actions for the short and Women 34% mediumterm.
Responsibility for the implementation of our CSR strategy sits with the CSR Committee.
The Gender split across the Group Group uses targets and carefully selected KPIs to measure implementation progress, with various individuals within the business responsible for the daytoday management of those targets.
The CSR Committee meets on a quarterly basis to review progress against the CSR Roadmap, review 11 environmental performance data and receive updates on UK and German CSRrelated legislation.
Board During 2015 the Company had made a number of achievements, including: establishing a system to capture and report environmental performance data for the UK andGermany: participating in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark survey: defining and communicating our CSR policy and programme of works to our employees and property managers: Men 91% achieving an 11% reduction in energy use yearonyear in 23 of our UK based properties:and Women 9% realising a 9% reduction in carbon emissions within the Hotel portfolio yearonyear, .
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 37 Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Resilient governance Approach Performance Redefine International seeks to operate efficient processes and procedures In 2015, all employees and third party property managers were trained on that demonstrate social and environmental risk management, and foster the environmental and social issues material to the Company, and our new open stakeholder engagement.
The Group will also continue to uphold the CSR Policy and Roadmap was communicated in order to fully establish highest standards of ethical behaviour and actively support our workforce.
our CSR strategy and related programme of work with all relevant internal stakeholders.
The Groups approach to maintaining these commitments includes: The Group also established an environmental data reporting system and complying with all applicable regulation and preparing for anticipated was able to collect and analyse quarterly performance data from a growing future regulation, and its implications: scope of managed assets in the UK and Germany.
disclosing the management of social and environmental risks and The data collection system contributed to the programme of work in place opportunities to stakeholders through participation in industry to enable the Company to meet our obligations under the CRC Energy benchmarks, including the Global Real Estate Sustainability Efficiency Scheme.
The total cost of allowances purchased to cover Benchmark GRESB : 2014 15 emissions of 8,211 tonnes of CO e was 134,693.
2 ensuring all employees receive an appropriate level of training on In keeping with our commitment to investors, Redefine International social and environmental issues, and providing bespoke training on submitted a response to the GRESB survey for the first time to trial the sustainability topics to all appropriate staff: survey reporting process.
This was a useful learning opportunity, and maintaining good practice in H&S management to the benefit of leaves the Company wellpositioned to become a full participant in 2016. tenants, contractors, customers and employees: The Company is also going through a process of updating the content on our website to reflect our new approach to CSR and to provide a more operating a robust data management system to ensure our disclosure detailed account of performance to stakeholders.
and reporting is accurate: and The Company has sought to extend diversity within the Group.
Board commitment to a culture of openness in which legitimate concerns can diversity is unchanged during the year, but is being addressed by the be reported anonymously via a whistleblowing hotline.
Nominations Committee and further details can be found in its report on With respect to our employees, the Group will: pages 54 and 55.
Diversity at senior management level has improved with ensure that no applicant or employee is discriminated against either two female senior managers appointed during the year.
directly orindirectly: Employee turnover has been relatively high compared to previous years, treat all employees, prospective employees, agents, contractors, but is not unusual given the improved confidence in the economy and the tenants, and suppliers fairly and equally, regardless of their gender, pace of change the Group is currently experiencing.
age, race or anydisability: All employees are based in the UK and Germany, where there are few promote staff training and development with a particular focus on human rights issues.
No human rights concerns or whistleblowing reports were received from employees during the year.
fostering innovation: seek to diversify our workforce to reflect the nature of the Companys operations or the community in which we operate, whilst maintaining our responsibility to select the best candidate: recognise our social and moral duty to offer opportunities to people with disabilities and doing all that is practicable to meet this responsibility: and uphold our commitments under the Code ofEthics.
Employees and diversity 1 1 Total Men % Women % Board nonexecutives 7 6 86 86 1 14 14 Board executives 4 4 100 100 Senior management 8 5 62 83 3 38 17 Other employees 200 131 65 63 69 35 37 Total 219 146 67 65 73 33 35 2 All employees working part time 45 20 44 25 56 2 All employee leavers total 24 1 Percentages for 2014 are shown in brackets.
38 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Resilient investment Approach Performance Redefine International seeks to implement an effective investment strategy In the latter half of 2015, we have started to take some important steps in that realises the full potential of our investments for both our Shareholders establishing our resilient investment strategy.
and the communities in which we operate throughout the investment The Group is working on developing and implementing formalised lifecycle.
jurisdictionspecific acquisition checklists that include environmental and The Group will achieve this by: social criteria such as liabilities related to carbon and energy regulations and costs: energy labels ratings: building certifications and flood risk.
identifying investment risks during acquisition due diligence and identifying opportunities to add value: Secondly, the Group is in the process of establishing guidance for asset managers and agents to ensure social and environmental credentials are considering the social and environmental performance of our assets: incorporated into sales and letting materials and dialogue.
and Furthermore, the Group commenced the process of identifying metrics for monitoring and measuring key metrics.
each asset type that can be used to track and communicate improvements to rental income or capital value achieved as a result of environmental or social improvement measures.
The Group also identified assetspecific examples of situations where CSR initiatives have resulted in both financial and social environmental benefits, suchas: St. Georges Shopping Centre, Harrow, replaced all service corridor and stairwell lighting with T5 fluorescent lighting, enabling an initial cost saving of 12,551: cutting maintenance costs on tube and lamp replacement by 90% and reducing CO emissions by 14,397kg per 2 year: and Grand Arcade Shopping Centre, Wigan, implemented a LED lighting retrofit which reduces energy consumption and enables cost savings of around 17,000 per year with a payback of less than 12 months.
Resilient assets Approach Performance Redefine International will undertake asset management which maximises In 2015, Redefine International focused on establishing systems net asset value whilst providing the best experience possible foroccupiers and procedures to manage environmental risks, reducing costs and and visitors alike.
futureproofing assets across our portfolio.
This work involved: Redefine International will uphold this commitment by: implementing a robust system to monitor energy, water and waste data across the managed portfolio: engaging with and contributing to charitableand community initiatives commencing a review of the UK portfolios exposure to risk from onanongoing basis: anticipated minimum energy efficiency standards legislation, with engaging with local authorities and supporting their a view to identifying and integrating applicable EPC improvement communitycampaigns: measures into asset business plans ahead of legislativedeadlines: and collaborating with tenants to conceive and promote joint implementing a standard lease structure with green clauses, and communityprojects: developing guidance for legal teams involved in negotiations.
understanding, enhancing and promoting the Groups role as a The Group continued to implement our phased roll out of LED lighting placemaker, with a focus on creating and maintaining prosperous across our UK Retail portfolios.
To date this has enabled an approximate communities in the local areas where we invest: 50% reduction of power consumption and we will soon be in a position to ensuring key environmental and social risks are well managed when calculate the further impact of this programme in terms of energy efficiency the Group is undertaking development activities and throughout the improvements and GHG emission reductions during 2015. management of our portfolio: We are developing a tenant satisfaction survey which, amongst other monitoring and measuring our resource consumption to identify points will seek feedback on CSR issues.
We aim to work towards efficiencies, particularly relating to energy and reduce our carbon developing a process to identify and integrate material sustainability risks footprint and the operational costs for our tenants: and opportunities into the asset business planning process.
engaging with tenants to better respond to their needs and position With respect to developments, the Group will develop formalised ourselves to anticipate future requirements: and jurisdictionspecific development checklists for major refurbishment, work with thirdparty service providers to ensure they are meeting our extension and development projects that highlight upcoming legislative CSR requirements.
requirements and include criteria on materials: waste management: energy consumption and running costs: carbon footprint: resource efficiency: community engagement and building labels certifications.
Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 39 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Performance data In November 2014, Redefine International instigated a formal propertylevel environmental performance data collection and reporting process, the early results of which we are pleased to be able to include in this yearsreport.
Energy consumption 2013 14 v 2014 15 25,000 During the year the 23 UKbased properties which we are able to include in the likeforlike Natural gas portfolio analysis collectively achieved an 11% reduction in energy use.
Energy consumption was Electricity 20,000 found to have decreased in the UK portfolio at 17 out of 23 properties.
District steam 15,000 At these properties, electricity consumption in particular decreased by 8%, while natural gas consumption decreased by 16%.
10,000 From 2013 14 to 2014 15, Germanybased properties collectively achieved a 3% reduction in energy use.
Energy consumption was found to have decreased at six out of the eight properties 5,000 that we can report data for in our German portfolio.
At these properties, electricity consumption in particular decreased by 7%, while use of district steam decreased by 6%.
0 2013 14 2014 15 2013 14 2014 15 Germany UK UK carbon footprint 2013 14 v 2014 15 10,000 During the year, total carbon emissions generated from UK assets in the likeforlike portfolio Retail fell by 10% to 7,581 tonnes.
The largest decrease occurred in the hotel sector where properties Ofce 8,000 collectively reduced emissions by 349tonnes representing a 9% reduction.
Hotel See page 68 in the Directors report for mandatory carbon reporting data for the wholeportfolio.
6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2013 14 2014 15 UK Total water consumption 2013 14 v 2014 15 80 During the year, the five Germanybased properties and seven UKbased properties which we are Retail able to include in the likeforlike portfolio analysis are collectively responsible for a 4% increase in 70 Ofce water consumption.
60 50 However, at assetlevel, water usage was found to have decreased at seven of the 12 sites 3 reporting data, with the largest reduction 3,377m, representing an 18% decrease achieved at 40 ourBerlin shopping centre, the .
30 The Germanybased properties collectively achieved an 18% reduction in water consumption, 20 while UKbased properties were collectively responsible for a 17% increase.
10 0 2013 14 2014 15 2013 14 2014 15 Germany UK Total waste arising 2014 15 100% For the two German assets for which waste data is currently reported, 97% of waste is incinerated Composting anaerobic 0.02% digestion facility at a wastetoenergy facility, whilst 3% is recycled.
The two UK assets reporting waste data, on the 37.02% Incineration 80% other hand, achieved a positive 63% recycling rate, with the remaining 37% of waste disposed of with energy recovery at a .
Recycling facility 60% Waste data coverage of the portfolio is currently fairly limited but over the coming year we will seek 96.85% to increase the extent of coverage.
40% 62.98% 20% 3.13% 0% Germany UK 40 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 3 % of asset waste by disposal route Water consumption 000m Total energy consumption MWh Scope 1 and 2 emissions tCO e 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information Case study Reducing environmental impact West Orchards Shopping Centre, Coventry The key objectives of the project were to reduce On a single store size escalator savings of 900 When West Orchards shopping energy consumption and CO emissions in a year can be achieved.
centre in Coventry opened in 2 relation to the operation of passenger escalators, 1991 the technology installed was As a result of installing the inverter system, reduce operating costs of the passenger energy savings of up to 40% were achieved stateoftheart but over time has escalators in order to benefit the retailers and dependent on passenger traffic, load, motor become outdated and ineffective.
tenants, and maintain customer flow levels in and drive, 2560 kWh per year and a carbon As a shopping centre with six levels, the areas serviced by the passengerescalators.
footprint reduction of 1,240kg CO per year 2 movement of visitors is facilitated using lifts and All 12 passenger escalators were fitted with a permachine.
escalators which is costly to both the service standby speed EN115 inverter system which Total carbon footprint reduction as a result of charge and the environment.
reduces the speed of the escalators when no the inverter system is 14,880kg CO per year.
2 As part of Redefine Internationals corporate passengers are travelling on the machine, saving The operating cost of escalator lighting has social responsibility programme, a decision was energy, and reducing operating costs and wear been reduced by more than 11,000 compared made to embark on a project that would improve of the components.
with conventional lighting costs, a reduction the functionality, cost and environmental In addition, LED lighting was installed on all of 86%.
This corresponds to a total annual impact of the 12 passenger escalators within 12 escalators, which has dramatic benefits reduction in carbon emissions of 60 tonnes at the scheme whilstmaintaining existing levels of compared to conventional lighting both in the shoppingcentre.
lighting performance but also in the reduction of energy consumption and lower CO emissions.
2 Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 41 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Case study Community Movie Hub at the mall Reelscape launch one year due to the overwhelming success of As a result of The Movie Hub at Weston Favell, In January 2015, Weston Favell the programme.
During the course of 2015, Reelscape Communities has managed to shopping centre partnered with over 200 young people from local schools, support and inspire hundreds of young people Reelscape Communities to mark colleges and community groups within the who, before participating in the workshops, the centres fortieth year at the area participated in workshops and activities had not considered the career opportunities heart of the community.
for the preproduction of Fortune Cookies, a available to them.
In addition, Reelscape A lotteryfunded organisation, Reelscape feature length film that will appear in cinemas Communities has also secured over 40,000 in Communities needed a partner that would help nationwide in 2016. additional funding from having an interface with them deliver the idea of using their contacts, the public and business communities as a result In addition to supporting The Movie Hub with experience and knowledge of the film industry of their location within the centre.
This additional space and marketing guidance, staff from to engage disadvantaged young people in funding will enable the operation to continue to Weston Favells management and operations Northampton.
benefit the local community, and young adults team also gave up their free time to help in particular, for the longer term.
Weston Favell Weston Favell became Reelscapes official facilitate and support the workshops, helping continues to support The Movie Hub.
partner in launching the Movie Hub, a participants to gain a better understanding of community workspace and fully operational being in the work place, managing workload film studio, which was installed for an and coping with the demands of others.
eightweek period in the centre, extended to 42 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information CSR target roadmap Targets with a deadline 31 August 2016 Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets Ensure accurate environmental performance Identify metrics for each asset type that can be Establish a baseline for energy, water and data collected on a quarterly basis for all used to track and communicate improvements waste data managedassets to rental income or capital value through sustainability improvement measures Develop an induction session for new joiners Create short assetspecific case studies from Set energy and water reduction and waste covering Redefine Internationals CSR strategy the past year to share best practices where recycling targets for the managed portfolio and implementation procedures sustainability initiatives have created both financial and social environmental benefits.
Deliver bespoke training on specific Establish guidance for asset managers and Develop and implement a tenant satisfaction  procedures to be provided agents to ensure key asset sustainability survey including sustainability questions to all relevant staff credentials are incorporated into sales and lettingmaterials anddialogue Participate in the 2016 Global Real Estate Develop and implement formalised Identify and integrate necessary EPC Sustainability Benchmark survey and disclose jurisdictionspecific acquisition checklists that improvement measures into all asset results to stakeholders include at minimum the following sustainability business plans, to meet legislative deadlines criteria: liabilities related to carbon and energy Develop a procedure to identify and integrate regulations and costs, energy label rating, material sustainability risks and opportunities building certification and flood risk into the asset business planning process Develop and implement formalised jurisdictionspecific development checklists for major refurbishment and development projects that highlight upcoming legislative requirements and includes the following sustainability criteria: materials, waste management, energy consumption and running costs, carbon footprint, resource efficiency, community engagement and building labels certifications CSR advisers statement As Redefine Internationals strategic adviser on corporate social responsibility CSR, JLL would like to highlight the positive steps that have been taken by Redefine International to create and implement its CSR strategy.
The establishment of robust data collection and reporting systems provides a strong basis on which to focus environmental efficiency improvements and strengthen reporting against best practice standards and benchmarks, whilst the prompt initiation of an EPC risk review across the UK portfolio has put the Company in a good position to prepare for the upcoming MEES legislation.
Redefine International is a dynamic company that takes the CSR agenda seriously.
Our engagement with the Company has shown that staff have a very positive attitude to the CSR programme and are well equipped to proceed with its implementation and, by ensuring that sufficient time and resources are made available, will effectively tackle both the straightforward and the more challenging targets which have been approved within the CSR roadmap.
JLL will continue to support Redefine International over the coming year to deliver the CSR programme and anticipate providing a more extensive report on progress in next years Annual Report and website update.
Matthew Tippett Director Upstream Sustainability Services, JLL Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 43
