Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Our People Our Environment Our employees are at the heart of our business, In 2015 we continued to pursue the managing and investing in our assets, working environmental goals set out in the SEGRO with our customers and ensuring the Company 2020 strategy.
This was introduced in 2013 in runs smoothly.
response to changing customer demands and increasing legislation.
It sets clear environmental Probably the most important achievement of impact targets for building design, new build the year was the establishment of SEGROs and refurbishments in terms of energy and new Purpose and Values.
Every member of the water efficiency and obtaining recognised Company was involved and the initiative has had building certifications.
a palpable effect on the way we operate both internally and externally.
The new Purpose We create the space that We create the enables extraordinary things to happen space that enables emphasises the pride we have for our buildings extraordinary things and for our customers who use them for a huge variety of different purposes.
We feature many to happen SEGRO is more than a landlord.
examples in this Annual Report.
As an employer of over 280 SEGRO Purpose This initiative has featured heavily in our external people and a developer, owner recruitment efforts and we were pleased to welcome 65 new people into the business over and manager of buildings, we have the past year.
We continue to encourage all our a responsibility to our employees, employees to maximise their potential in and We have met, or are close to meeting, all of our stakeholders, and to the out of work and have invested in both training our targets and I am pleased that our carbon opportunities and in wellness initiatives to help communities and environments footprint has improved during the year but there employees maintain a healthy lifestyle.
We also support our employees to engage in We have worked hard to integrate new charitable activities, regularly matching fundFor almost a century, we have known that acting technologies in our existing buildings and raising efforts and encouraging everyone to use responsibly is the right thing to do and that developments where possible to assist us in their annual day of giving.
SEGRO employees it makes clear business sense.
We are proud of delivering lower carbon buildings, achieving donated a total 103 days to local charities, and this heritage.
Today, as society faces ever more greater resource efficiency and generating we collectively contributed over 880,000 to complex challenges, we have an even greater energy from renewable sources on site.
imperative, and a responsibility, to be a good We improved our GRESB score to become corporate neighbour to the communities we a Green Star for the first time, alongside work in as well as to our own employees.
Our Community improving our CDP score for the fourth We have a responsibility to the communities year running.
Introducing the Responsible SEGRO in which we operate as well as to our partners framework at the local authorities, customers and to other Our Stakeholders stakeholders.
Through our development projects In 2015, we have invested time in looking at We have a wide variety of stakeholders, and our relationship with our customers, we what SEGRO means to our employees and including our customers, suppliers and are in a great position to create skills and our stakeholders.
The results have changed shareholders, quite apart from our own employment schemes to help develop a local, how we think about and report on corporate employees and our communities.
sustainable and talented workforce from which responsibility.
Our new Responsible SEGRO our customers can recruit.
framework focuses on four areas: Our People, SEGROs reputation depends on strong Our Community, Our Stakeholders and Our relationships with all of our stakeholders and The Slough Aspire initiative and our London Environment.
In future, we will set specific we maintain a continuous dialogue with them.
Community Fund are two practical examples goals to drive our activities across these areas.
We are fully committed to making our business of the role we play in the communities in which For now, we have provided the highlights and and our properties safe and healthy places we operate.
We look forward to implementing key details of our activities across the four areas to work and visit, by achieving the highest similar initiatives in some of our newer markets in this report.
standards in our health and safety performance.
in future, most immediately in East London where we will be involved with the exciting We aim to uphold the principles of excellent regeneration of the area.
customer service and we commission an 44 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Purpose & Values Partnerships Health, Safety Jobs & Skills & Wellbeing Talent Charity Suppliers Materials Industry Energy Customers Waste independent customer satisfaction survey to We will continue to embed our Purpose and ensure that our customers have the opportunity Values into the fabric of the Company: to tell us what we are doing well and where we We will offer every employee a Companycan improve.
In the 2015 survey, 77 per cent of sponsored day of giving and we are customers said that they were satisfied with our encouraging everyone to use them: performances, which is a high proportion, but Im confident we can do even better.
We will continue to pursue our SEGRO 2020 targets: and We work hard with our suppliers to ensure that they comply with our own requirements and, in We can always be better at customer service return, we commit to paying them promptly.
and will look to improve on our already high satisfaction levels in our Customer We work with our shareholders and our debt Satisfaction Survey.
providers to make sure that they are kept informed about the Companys progress.
In 2016, we will continue to improve our practices and build on what we have achieved.
What to expect in 2016 We have achieved a great deal in 2015 but there David Sleath is always more to do including, but not limited Chief Executive to, the following objectives: 45 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility Our People SEGRO employs 285 people, serving 1,200 customers across ten European countries.
2015 has been another great year for the 285 business a success that is down to the hard work and commitment of all our people, combined with our efforts to create an open and employees serving engaging workplace.
1,200 customers We believe people are attracted to join and stay with SEGRO because of the unique culture and career opportunities we have successfully developed and nurtured over time.
In return, SEGRO takes its responsibilities to its people seriously, with robust policies on health and 14% safety, equal opportunities, ethical working and human rights.
increase in headcount since December 2014 Graduates Graduates play a vital role in our talent 7% pipeline.
Our Graduate Scheme provides new recruits with on-the-job experience from day employee turnover in 2015 one.
Over the two-year programme, they undertake three roles in different areas of the business.
The first two placements are in business units covering roles such as Asset, 0 Leasing or Development Surveying.
The third placement is in the Investment team, where accident frequency rate in 2015 they gain valuable exposure to investment strategy, valuations and buying and selling.
2,301 hours of training delivered in SEGRO I have thoroughly enjoyed my experience of the Graduate Scheme at Talent SEGRO.
On joining, Iwasgiven a comprehensive overview of the business, SEGROs success depends on attracting and met with a number of senior people and began to understand the different retaining people who thrive on challenge and areas of SEGRO.
I have been involved in a variety of leasing and asset responsibility, and developing them to their full management work as well as having the support and autonomy to complete potential.
In 2015, 65 new employees joined the business including employees of Vailog, one of new lettings myself.
In 2016 I am looking forward to continuing to drive down Italys leading logistics real estate development vacancy rates in the estates that I work in and gain exposure to landlord and companies, acquired by SEGRO in 2015. tenant work.
Then, I will move into a new rotation and develop skills in a different area of commercial property practice an opportunity I am relishing As an extension of the Executive Committee, our strong and talented Leadership Team meet and onewhich will get me ready tosit the APC in 2017. regularly to participate in strategic discussions Joshua Whitlock and policy reviews.
During the course of the 2015 Graduate year, they also contributed to Talent Reviews with Executive Directors to identify development opportunities for our most talented people.
46 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Purpose and Values Purpose and Values In September 2014, we embarked on our journey to define SEGROs Purpose and build Over a six month period, the SEGRO In response to these workshops, a number on our Values.
Our objective was to sustain Leadership Team and senior management of ways in which SEGRO operates have and build on our engagement by focusing our worked with innovation consultants to establish changed, including: people on the reason SEGRO exists, beyond a Purpose statement and five Values that delivering shareholder value our Purpose, and A permanent research function has been reflect the core beliefs that underpin how we to define how we work together, strengthening established to ensure employees are kept up conduct our business and make decisions.
our shared culture our Values.
to date with trends in both our own and our Once established, members of the Leadership customers markets.
Team hosted dynamic and vibrant workshops Our monthly business unit meetings involving every SEGRO employee to provide are more interactive, showcasing how a forum to discuss what the Purpose and our customers are using the space we Values mean to them and what was needed to provide them.
transform them from words to tangible actions.
Executive Directors hold regular, Companywide webcasts to provide updates on the business as well as an opportunity for all employees to ask questions about areas ofinterest or concern.
At the root of our Purpose is pride in our buildings and in the huge variety of ways our customers use them.
This is reflected in our Annual Report which focuses not just on what our warehouses look like on the outside, but the extraordinary things which happen inside them.
Equal Opportunities We are committed to offering equal Every SEGRO employee undertakes diversity Employees by gender opportunities to all our employees.
training as part of their induction and, in 2015, our Executive Directors completed We believe that being fair, open minded and 159 Unconscious Bias training to raise their free from bias will lead to better business understanding of diversity issues.
decisions and help us attract the best people.
If an employee becomes disabled while in We are committed to ensuring that we offer 126 our employment, we will offer appropriate equal opportunities to people with disabilities.
support, retraining, equipment and facilities to enable them to continue in their role with SEGRO.
With few exceptions, we advertise internal vacancies openly to give all employees the opportunity to apply.
During 2015, we signed up to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark.
All employees participate in our annual Bonus 14 9 Scheme and are invited to participate in our 5 1 Share Incentive Plan.
Board Leadership team Workforce Male Female 47 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility Our People continued Health and Safety We have an excellent health and safety We take seriously our responsibility for record and management procedures across protecting the health and safety of our the Group.
Health and safety is embedded In 2015, our accident frequency rate for within the culture of the business.
We do this SEGRO employees was zero 2014: 0.19 and through managing our risks by prevention, there were no Health and Safety prosecutions, tighter controls, training and raising awareness.
The Health & Safety Manager reports monthly SEGRO was awarded the prestigious RoSPA to the Chief Operating Officer, Operations Gold Award for exceptional work in health and and Executive Committee and the Board on safety for the third consecutive year.
Every incident is thoroughly investigated, recommended For more information on this aspect, please procedural changes are implemented and we see page 51 in this Annual Report and report back on this during the monthly meetings the CSR report, which can be found at with senior staff across the Group.
com sustainability Code of Ethics We operate a stringent policy on giving and We take pride in operating to the highest receiving gifts and corporate entertainment, business standards, and conducting our business allof which are recorded on a central register.
in an ethical and honest way is fundamental to All our employees complete online training our success.
on the Code of Ethics as part of their The SEGRO Code of Ethics explains the key induction and are required to certify they principles which guide our business practices haveunderstood and have complied with and the activities of all our employees.
It includes the Code on an annual basis.
Any breaches policies on bribery, corruption and fraud, or serious concerns raised over cases of conflicts of interest, dealing with confidential non-compliance with the Code of Ethics are information, political and charitable donations, investigated by the General Counsel or Group whistleblowing and managing relationships with HR Director, as appropriate.
Human Rights We offer a flexible working policy across the Our respect for human rights is at the Group, and we never use zero hour contracts.
core of all our employment practices In accordance with the Modern Slavery and supplier engagements.
Act 2015, we are legally required to make a statement in respect of the 2016 financial year setting out the steps we have taken to ensure slavery and human trafficking does not take place in any part of our business or our supply chain.
We will provide Shareholders with further information in our 2016 Annual Report.
48 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our Community authorities to help prepare the unemployed Achieving more in partnership We are more than just a landlord.
members of thecommunity become job-ready.
We aim to maximise the socio-economic We understand our responsibility benefits delivered through our developments.
to the communities in which we Developing employment and skills We engage with community leaders, local operate and the opportunities we intheLondon borough ofHillingdon authorities and non-governmental organisations to understand the issues facing local can create for people to work in In 2015, SEGRO received the Uxbridge College communities, and identify areas where our Employer Champion Award for our work their local areas.
At the same time, operations can help.
Not only does this benefit in the West London borough of Hillingdon.
we recognise the role thriving communities, it also builds trust in our business Our Employment and Skills Programme, and helps manage risks that could impact on our businesses can play in the wider in partnership with Hillingdon Council and investment and development plans.
Uxbridge College, provides training and work economy, and the importance for opportunities for the local community and our customers to have access to a Focusing on jobs and skills guaranteed interview opportunities across local sustainable and skilled workforce.
In 2015, we made great progress with our partners in delivering tangible and positive We also worked with Whitbread to develop outcomes for local communities.
We have a hospitality training course that has enabled created jobs, developed training programmes, local people to secure jobs at the new Premier launched college courses, funded start-up Inn and Beefeater restaurant development businesses and raised the aspirations of local at Riverside Way in Uxbridge, West London.
people who previously would not have had We provided 57 apprenticeship weeks, thechance to enter employment.
10weeks of work experience and 33 weeks ofemployment for local residents.
Our Employment and Skills Programme focuses on three key areas: Investing in the future of Slough Training and skills working with partners to SEGRO has a special relationship with the create programmes that help meet local training local community in Slough which spans the and development needs.
Employment and apprenticeships joining In 2013, we helped to establish Slough Aspire as forces with our customers and others to provide a first port of call for training and learning needs jobs and apprenticeships for local people.
It delivers events and courses for Financial support and equipment students, businesses and the local community.
supporting grassroots community projects that In 2015, highlights included: address employment and skills needs in the 2,235 young people engaged: local community.
207 employees took part in the Local Our customers play a fundamental role.
Workforce Development programme: They need access to a local and sustainable workforce and are often willing to offer 2,028 people visited the Slough opportunities to train and interview Aspire Centre: suitable candidates.
564 people attended 40 job clubs: and In 2015, we created employment schemes in 13 new local business start-ups five London boroughs.
One of these was with were supported.
Mash Purveyors, a quality greengrocer based on our flagship development, Origin, in Park We expect to invest 130 million in Royal which resulted in 10 per cent of their development and other initiatives in Slough workforce being recruited through a SEGRO over the next five years to attract more inward employment scheme.
Looking ahead, in 2016 we intend to require all of our construction contractors for our Greater London developments to offer apprenticeships or work experience placements to local residents.
We will also continue work to establish a virtual Skills and Employment Team with local 49 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility Our Community continued In 2015, our employees raised 92,147 for 44 per cent of beneficiaries are disabled or Charitable donations LandAid through activities such as a golf day, have mental health issues: We support our employees efforts to make a cake bakes, a sailing day and the Industrial difference in their local communities.
75 people have undertaken work experience Agents Cycle Challenge.
placements: and We operate a central Charity Committee for Andy Gulliford, our Chief Operating Officer, the Company with local sub-committees for 250 people have indirectly benefited through sits on the LandAid Fundraising Committee the Business Units which agree independently the funding.
and two SEGRO employees are currently which charities to support.
Membership of the LandAid Ambassadors.
One beneficiary was Groundswells Volunteer committees is open to all employees and we Progression Programme VPP which aims support as many of our employees charitable In 2016, we will encourage every employee to to support five formerly homeless volunteers efforts as we can.
use their day of giving to support LandAids to deliver their Homeless Health service in activities, and we will encourage more of our In 2015, we donated the equivalent of 886,741 Hounslow.
The project started in April 2015 with people to become LandAid Ambassadors.
in the form of direct donations 212,845, a three month co-design phase to develop new employee fund-raising 53,691 and assistance partner relationships within Hounslow, establish London Community Fund in kind 620,205.
In addition, our employees the monitoring framework, and train their more than doubled the amount of their time Our annual 60,000 London Community Fund volunteers.
By October, they had already trained they gave to charities, from 44 to 103 days.
is designed to support grass roots community three formerly homeless volunteers, developed projects in the areas in London where SEGRO partnerships with four homelessness agencies operates.
In 2015, we funded 13 projects in and five GP surgeries: delivered 24 health Supporting LandAid Brent, Ealing, Hounslow, Hillingdon, Enfield and promotion sessions, and held 14 one-to-one We are a long-term supporter and partner Barking & Dagenham.
Together, these projects engagement meetings.
of LandAid, the charity for the UK property have delivered wide-ranging outcomes: industry that aims to improve the lives of children and young people who experience 176 direct beneficiaries: disadvantage due to their economic or Around 25 per cent of beneficiaries social circumstances.
are women: East Plus In October 2015, the Greater London Authority GLA and SEGRO agreed to form a development partnership to regenerate 35 hectares of land at London Riverside, East London known collectively as East Plus.
It is the largest deal of its kind between the public sector and aprivate land developer in the capital.
Key facts Work experience and training to students to beoffered on all of our construction sites 1,000 students will be sponsored through the prestigious CEME Gateway to Skills programme 300,000 fund to support grass roots community projects to deliver employability training for hard-to-reach residents Local employment partnerships to be created to help our customers identify local talent and support residents to access job opportunities created We are delighted to have been selected as the exclusive development partner to the GLA to enable the redevelopment of one of Londons most important industrial areas.
We have the commitment, expertise and knowledge to help the GLA meet the needs of a growing population and deliver one of the most sustainable and attractive industrial areas in London and the South East, aswell as creating over 6,500 jobs across a range of sectors.
David Sleath 50 SEGRO Chief Executive SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our Stakeholders corruption policy and practices apply equally SEGROs goal is to be the best toour own staff and to our external suppliers.
owner, manager and developer 1,200 We are a signatory to the UK Prompt Payment of industrial property in Europe.
Code and, when backed by a valid purchase We want to be the partner order, we aim to approve and pay invoices within customers of choice, creating strong 30days.
During 2015, 83 per cent of invoices with validpurchase orders were paid within and enduring relationships 30 days.
with our customers, suppliers In early 2016, we expect to implement a and shareholders.
77% new online service the SEGRO Supplier Relationship Management SRM system occupier satisfaction in our which will be a major step forwards in improving Engaging with our customers transparency, compliance and communication 2015 customer survey It is vital to our continued success that our across our supply chain.
customers are satisfied with the product and service levels they get from us.
We consistently Health and safety in our supplychain aim toexceed their expectations.
It is our key priority to ensure the highest SEGRO encourages its customers to take part 300m standards of health and safety for our customers in its independent, annual customer satisfaction and suppliers.
The feedback is shared throughout the supplier spend business and shapes our business development In line with our occupational health and safety and customer engagement activities.
This year, reporting, updates, incidents or issues are logged we achieved an overall score of occupier and reported to senior leaders and the Board on satisfaction of 77 per cent.
80.1 per cent of our a monthly basis and lessons learned are taken customers rate SEGRO as easy or very easy to back to the business.
We investigate all serious 83% work with.
incidents and near misses as soon as we are made aware of them.
In 2015, we set up a newCustomer Relations invoices with valid PO paid Management initiative, ledby the Chief In October 2015, we implemented the SEGRO within 30 days Operating Officer.
The aim of the initiative is to Health and Safety Construction Standard.
improve our understanding of the challenges All contractors must be able to demonstrate and opportunities facing our customers allowing that their health and safety procedures meet New Health and Safety us to offer potential solutions tailored to their real orexceed the levels set in the Standard.
launched in 2015 Developing our supply chain We spend over 300 million a year with approximately 3,300 suppliers across the Group.
Our supply chain ranges from small local business groups up to multi million pound Construction standard construction contracts.
Developing a transparent, secure and sustainable supply chain is critical to In 2015, SEGROs Cross Border Technical Group SEGROs ongoing success.
developed and implemented a new Health and Safety Construction Standard.
This Standard provides a As a responsible business, we ensure our benchmark for all construction activities undertaken supply chain complies with all relevant laws, by our contractors across the Group.
It provides clear standards on Leadership and Behaviour, Designing safeguards the environment, and protects the forHealth and Safety, Workplace Health and health and safety of employees and users of Performance Management.
All potential suppliers undergo a thorough assessment to ensure that they can meet our stringent requirements for health and safety systems, environmental protection and good business practices.
Our anti bribery and 51 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Corporate Social Responsibility Our Environment reuse and recycling before the 2020 deadline first time, alongside improving our CDP score SEGRO 2020 Recap last year, and have invested in key areas again for the fourth year running.
As one of Europes leading landlords, we own throughout 2015 to help drive continuous or manage 6 million square meters of space.
For a high level summary of Data Coverage Consequently, we have a significant opportunity our performance, see the table below.
and responsibility to create sustainable There are some instances where it may not be buildings while also meeting our customers possible to collect all data for certain SEGRO Technical sustainability is a central function at needs and legislative demands.
2020 targets, mostly affecting refurbishments SEGRO, and supports the local development, and developments.
This is due to factors such refurbishment, and operational teams in We believe that business should play an as project completion dates and being reliant delivering the SEGRO 2020 objectives.
important role in preserving the environment.
on third parties to provide data, but there is also The team provides guidance and support on Through our SEGRO 2020 sustainability scope to improve our internal procedures to changing legislative requirements to ensure that strategy we have committed to reducing our increase coverage.
This will be an area of focus we are compliant, and are meeting or exceeding environmental impact in key areas such as for 2016 and will involve working with internal our customers requirements.
We constantly energy and water consumption, waste reuse and external stakeholders, alongside improving look to integrate new technologies that help andrecycling, and renewable energy.
our internal reporting tools which includes the us to deliver lower carbon buildings, achieve sustainability toolkits we use to gather data SEGRO 2020 was introduced in 2013 and greater resource efficiency and generate energy for new developments and refurbishments.
realigned our technical sustainability goals for from renewable sources.
We invest in projects Working through the data assurance process the Group in response to changing customer and programmes to reduce the environmental has helped us identify where we can improve demands and increasing legislation across the impacts of our buildings, and report our carbon our procedures in this area.
It specifically targets building emissions to established standards such as EPRA, design, new build and refurbishments, energy GRESB and CDP.
and water efficiency and obtaining recognised In 2015 we were again awarded Gold by EPRA building certifications such as BREEAM and for our reporting disclosure, and improved our LEED.
We have achieved, or are close to GRESB score to become a Green Star for the achieving, a number of our targets such as waste 2015 progress Improvement Target by 2020 towards target Improving operational efficiency against our baseline 80 per cent reuse or recycling of construction demolition waste On target 77 per cent 2014: 87 per cent 60 per cent reuse or recycling of excavation waste Target met 87 per cent 2014: 92 per cent 40 per cent reduction in energy intensity On target 19 per cent reduction vs 2012 baseline 2014: 7 per cent reduction 20 per cent reduction in water intensity Not available We have encountered data quality issues with this target and cannot report progress for 2015.
We will resolve these issues during 2016.
Improving the design standards of our new buildings and refurbishments 100 per cent to have water efficient technology installed Target met 100 per cent 27 buildings, of which 21 were qualifying developments and 6were refurbishments 100 per cent of qualifying buildings to be at least 40 per cent more efficient than On target 70 per cent of buildings met the target 15 out of 21 our2009baseline developments and 8 out of 10 qualifying refurbishments 2 100 per cent of qualifying new developments by SEGRO over 10,000m to be BREEAM Not met 50 per cent of qualifying developments met the target certified VeryGood or equivalent 1 out of 2 developments 100 per cent of new buildings to be EPC B rated or better On target 94 per cent 16 17 of new developments achieved the target 2014: 73 per cent 100 per cent of qualifying refurbishments to be EPC C rated or better On target 75 per cent 24 32 of qualifying refurbishments achieved C orbetter 2014: 57 per cent Renewable Energy Increase renewable energy generating capacity across the group Target met 8.1 MWp capacity of SEGRO owned renewable energy 2014: 1.6 MWp Target met 5,558 MWh of renewable energy generated in 2015 2014: 2,088MWh 52 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Table of Emissions GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS DATA IN TONNES CO2e EMISSIONS FROM: 2015 2014 Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 5,755 8,848 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling location-based 21,438 27,860 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling market-based 19,096 N A Total carbon footprint tonnes of CO2e 27,193 36,708 SEGROS CHOSEN INTENSITY MEASUREMENT 2 Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes of CO e per m of responsible space 0.0236 0.0242 2 Electricity emissions are calculated using the location-based method using national average emissions factors.
Electricity emissions for the UK are calculated and reported using the market-based method, using supplier specific emissions factors.
For Continental Europe, supplier specific emissions factors could not be obtained, and electricity emissions are therefore calculated using the location-based method.
SEGRO intends to obtain supplier specific emissions factors for a larger proportion of the portfolio for 2016 reporting.
Selected information within the scope of KPMG limited assurance.
Mandatory Greenhouse Gas GHG KPMG Limited Assurance The level of assurance provided for a limited EmissionsStatement assurance engagement is substantially lower than We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake an a reasonable assurance engagement.
In order This section has been prepared in accordance independent limited assurance engagement, to reach their opinion, KPMG performed a with our regulatory obligation to report using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and range of procedures which included interviews greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Section7 ISAE 3410 over Selected Information included with management, examination of reporting of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report in this Annual Report.
The Selected Information systems and data testing.
A summary of the and Directors Report Regulations 2013. within the scope of this assurance ishighlighted work they performed is included within their with the symbol in the Table of Emissions, The table above provides information on assurance opinion.
KPMG LLPs full statement is available on SEGROs greenhouse gas emissions for our website at www.
com csr reports and Non-financial performance information, 2015.
We are pleased to report a decline in KPMG has issued an unqualified opinion onthe greenhouse gas quantification in particular, is comparable absolute emission levels, due Selected Information.
subject to more inherent limitations than financial substantially to disposals of non-core assets, information.
It is important to read the Selected anda 2.5 per cent improvement in SEGROs Information in the context of KPMGs full limited chosen intensity measurement.
assurance statement and the reporting criteria Total carbon footprint reported consists of as set out in the SEGRO reporting guidelines the sum of Scope 1 emissions and Scope 2 available at www.
com csr reports location-based emissions, for comparability withprevious years.
The absolute greenhouse gas emissions for scope 1 and 2 have decreased since 2014.
This is partly attributable to the sale or demolition of a number of assets, including the sale of the majority of the Pegasus Park estate in Belgium, Zandsteen in the Netherlands, and SELP Adopts SEGRO Energy Park in Italy.
2020 In addition, a significant enhancement in team engagement, data collection methodologies and During 2015 we have focused on bringing our data cleansing has enabled greater clarity over Continental European operations in line with whether consumption is the responsibility of the UK in terms of sustainability progress in our new developments, refurbishments and standing SEGRO, or exclusively for occupier consumption.
This has involved working closely This has allowed more accurate apportionment with our local teams to ensure the objectives of of tenant consumption as Scope 3 emissions as SEGRO 2020 are understood and embedded in opposed to Scope 1.
As a result of this effort, in 2015 the SELP Methodology joint venture formally adopted SEGRO 2020, which paves the way for further investment in Our reporting methodology is aligned to sustainability projects throughout 2016. theGHG Protocol using operational control as the boundary and EPRA methodology for intensity metrics.
For further information pleasesee ourreporting guidelines at www.
com sustainability 53 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2015
