Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Operating a responsible and sustainable business is essential to the continued long term financial success of our Company.
During 2015 we undertook a green review of our assets.
This review was to build on our pre-acquisition intelligence and identify any areas of opportunity or concern.
As a responsible owner of investment assets we believe that and circulation, planning requirements and we commission an our properties should, whenever possible, fulfil their purpose environmental survey that includes a review of previous site whilst minimising impact on their surroundings and the broader uses.
For forward funded developments we also consider the environment.
We encourage sustainability, both in new specification, construction method and environmental design development, maintaining and upgrading existing building fabric elements such as rainwater harvesting and renewable power.
and by encouraging our tenants to adopt sustainable principles in their business activities.
Each of our Big Box assets are currently let to a single tenant.
We aim to develop strong and open relationships with them, regularly The property industry predominantly uses two different measures reviewing and discussing their property requirements with a view to to assess building energy efficiency and environmental impact: the creating and maintaining fit for purpose Big Boxes which suit their Energy Performance Certificate EPC and the Building Research needs and which are environmentally efficient.
Part of the business Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM.
plan for each asset includes identifying potential opportunities to enhance its environmental attributes.
We commissioned a An EPC, required by law whenever a building is bought, sold or review of our properties to assess the viability for roof mounted rented, gives a property an energy efficiency rating from A most solar generated power and this initiative was well received by our efficient to G least efficient.
The Minimum Energy Efficiency tenants, strengthening our business relationships.
Currently ten of Standards MEES, which implement the UK Energy Act 2011, our properties harvest rainwater and six utilise either solar or wind place requirements on Landlords to ensure that leased assets generated power and with our input we believe that this number achieve EPC ratings at above the grades of F or G by 2018 and will increase.
Other initiatives include enabling rail connectivity, this is a key criterion of our pre-acquisition review.
By gross energy efficient lighting, insulation and plant replacement.
internal area our portfolio is rated: A 31%, B 20% and C 30%.
None of our properties are rated F or G. The Company purchases no utilities and has no influence, through the terms of the leases on its properties, on aspects BREEAM is voluntary.
It measures the sustainability of buildings such as greenhouse gas emissions or water consumption, which via six ratings ranging from Outstanding to Unclassified.
are the responsibility of the tenant.
Consequently the Company We expect all of our pre-let developments to achieve ratings does not submit performance data to benchmarking indices of at least Very Good.
such as Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark.
The Company does benefit from a range of tenants which publicly Before acquiring an existing investment property or forward publish commitment to such items and disclose initiatives to funded development, we consider material environmental achieve CSR targets.
These can involve an application for risks such as EPC rating, flood and storm risk, connectivity Landlords consent in order to vary operational practices ranging from recycling to improving staff facilities such as the construction of a gymnasium, canteen or staff shop.
These factors combined help to improve the long term sustainability of our assets, underpinning potential for longer term income and makes those properties better suited to the business needs of our tenants.
The Company does not have any employees and does not maintain its own office space.
The Board is comprised of four male Non-Executive Directors.
Our business is based solely in the UK and we consider the risk of human rights abuses for the Company to be low.
It is important to us and to the continued service we receive from the Manager, that it has effective employment practices in place.
The Manager has a bespoke 28 bonus payment policy and a low staff turnover rate.
See AIFM Remuneration policy applied by the Manager p58
