CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Why CSR is important to us At the heart of Our business is built around our customers.
We provide flexible, innovative workspace for new and our business growing companies and we pride ourselves in our unique offering.
This extends far beyond the space, location and value for money that we provide, but also resides in the CSR strategy that we have embedded throughout our business.
It differentiates us in the marketplace, makes us a location of choice for our customers, creates stronger communities in the areas in which we operate and ensures that we manage our operations as efficiently as possible.
Summary highlights With customers at the centre of our business, supporting them in driving their own success is fundamental to our culture.
This year alone, we hosted 300 business networking and educational events for our customers, with over 10,000 people attending.
We also supported the launch of Informed Funding, which provides independent advice to our customers on financing their business growth.
These programmes have delivered huge benefits to our customers and we are committed to expanding these, as well as a number of other exciting projects, in the coming years.
Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer, While customers are at the centre of our business, on site at Pill Box.
the sites that we operate form the heart of the communities in which they sit.
We believe that supporting those communities in education, employment, entrepreneurship, environment and enjoyment through our E5 strategy is fundamental to being a strong community partner.
Building on CSR components these principles, this year we linked our own business with those of our customers to provide 75 work placements for local students as part of InspiresMe week.
This is just one of a number of exciting community projects that we have delivered in the year and more of our achievements are highlighted below, as well as on our website.
Customers Moving forwards, we are committed to continuing to innovate and drive further positive change, both within our own business and in partnership with our suppliers, customers and local communities.
Suppliers Environment and partners Jamie Hopkins WORKSPACE Chief Executive Officer UNDERSTANDS ITS RESPONSIBILITIES Employees Communities 34 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Awards and accreditations GRESB Global Real Estate FTSE4Good We were once again included in the FTSE4Good Sustainability Benchmark Index, which helps us assess our achievements We received the title of Global Sector Leader against a transparent and evolving global Diversified Office Industrial property type corporate responsibility standard.
and gained a Green Star for the 2014 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Survey.
Compared to the global average we outperformed by 20 points and were in the top quartile of all submissions.
The GRESB allows us and our investors to measure our sustainability performance within the real estate sector.
Business in The Community EPRA European Public Real We retained our CommunityMark from one of Estate Association the Princes charities Business in The Community We were awarded a Gold in the European Public BiTC.
This recognises businesses that have an Real Estate Association EPRA Sustainability integrated and strategic approach to community Awards for 2014.
We were only one of 16 investment and are making a measurable difference companies judged to have the highest compliance to communities through their programmes.
with the EPRA Sustainability best practices recommendations.
The EPRA ensures we are adhering to sustainability reporting best practice.
Investors in People CDP Carbon Disclosure Project We continued to hold our Investors in People In 2014, we increased our Carbon Disclosure Project accreditation for the 12th year in a row.
score from 70 to 86 points and improved our rating from a D to a B.
The average disclosure score for a FTSE 350 company in 2014 was 77 and the average performance band was a C. The CDP shows our investors what we are doing internally to manage our carbon emissions and protect ourselves from climate change risk.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 N O D N O L CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Customers The relationships we build with our customers are essential to achieving the high levels of customer satisfaction and loyalty which are key to the success of our business.
We foster those relationships by going beyond what might normally be expected of a landlord: we help our customers to connect with local communities by participating in our community programmes, to grow their businesses by connecting with other customers, and to improve the environmental performance of our centres by sharing best practice advice with them.
INNER LONDON Method of travel by commuters into London Underground Rail DLR Cycle Today the majority of our properties are near to major Bus Tram Walk transport hubs and we are installing cycle racks in many Car Motorcycle Workspace of our properties.
All of this helps make us the natural business centres home to Londons new and growing companies.
36 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 R E T U O Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Performance highlights Achieved a score of 77% in our 2014 15 customer experience survey.
This was marginally down 1,000 on the previous year due to significant price increases.
However, we maintained a high score Customers surveyed over last on the components of the survey related to quality three years.
Worked with our customers to provide work placements in their businesses for 75 students as part of InspiresMe week in conjunction with the GLA and BiTC.
50 Workspace surveyed 1,000 customers over the last three years to ascertain the key pillars of Engaged with 50 customers sustainable success for London-based new and for the pilot survey of our growing companies.
This research was used at the Healthy Buildings study.
NGC Forum, a parliamentary reception bringing together key stakeholder groups and influencers from the political, NGC and financial spectrum.
Supported the launch of Informed Funding, which aims to put businesses in touch with finance providers that best match their needs, and provided Workspace customers with premium access to the service, making it easier for them to find the right finance solution to help them grow.
Launched Workspace Business Insight Dinners to bring together senior Directors from our customer base and industry experts to discuss relevant challenges facing growing businesses.
In conjunction with the GLA, we promoted National Apprenticeship Week to all centres.
We launched the pilot survey of our Healthy Buildings study which builds on the 2014 WGBC Health, Productivity and Wellbeing in Offices report.
We have so far engaged with 50 customers with a view to rolling the full survey out to 450 customers at three centres.
Case study NGC Forum On Tuesday, 13 January 2015, in the Churchill Room at the House of Commons, Workspace hosted the inaugural NGC Forum, to focus on how new and growing companies are powering the London economy.
Our sponsor for the event, Mary McLeod, then the Small Business Ambassador for London, made it clear that NGCs are so essential to what were trying to do as UK plc.
The panel focused on the threefold challenge faced by NGCs, namely the availability of finance, premises and skills, with Professor Peter Tyler from Cambridge Economics Associates, who also attended the Forum, commenting that 48% of NGCs reported access to finance as a growth constraint.
Targets for 2015 16 Build on customer networking and growth opportunities such as Informed Funding, NGC Forum and Business Insight Dinners.
Increase participation of businesses in InspiresMe week to provide work placements for 100 students.
Continue to engage with our customers in relation to sustainability and CSR issues.
Demonstrate how Workspaces property portfolio contributes to tenant employee productivity.
Issue Green Leases to our new customers on at least 12 sites.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Performance highlights Suppliers Approved signatory of prompt payment code.
Procured over 90% of our total electricity and partners consumption from renewable tariffs.
The Light Bulb and Grand Union Studios contractors have been awarded Performance We aim to build long-term relationships with Beyond Compliance certification for Considerate our suppliers by being a responsible purchaser Constructors Scheme.
We also work closely with The Light Bulb and ScreenWorks schemes our partners to integrate sustainability into the achieved BREEAM Very Good certification.
design, construction and redevelopment of Workspace centres.
Case study Working with our partners to reduce environmental impact A requirement on all Workspace construction projects 2 over 2,000m is that principal contractors divert at least 75% of the weight of non-hazardous demolition waste and 90% of construction waste from landfill.
In the past year we have had three schemes exceed this requirement, with ScreenWorks in Islington, The Light Bulb in Wandsworth, and Grand Union Studios in Kensal Rise, all achieving more than 99% non-hazardous waste and materials landfill diversion.
We also require Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS registration on all major development and refurbishment sites, targeting a score of at least 34 50.
We achieved a score of 41 50 at The Light Bulb scheme excellentexceptional and 43 50 at Grand Union Studios exceptional, with both schemes receiving Performance Beyond Compliance certification from CCS.
We also aim for BREEAM certification, with the ScreenWorks and The Light Bulb schemes achieving BREEAM Very Good.
We have three schemes in development also targeting BREEAM, with Grand Union Studios and Barley Mow designed to Very Good, and Hatton Square Business Centre designed to Excellent.
The Light Bulb achieved more than 99% non-hazardous waste and materials landfill 99% diversion.
Average non-hazardous construction and waste Targets for 2015 16 materials diversion away Achieve a Considerate Constructors score from landfill achieved at ScreenWorks, The Light Bulb of at least 40 50 for all relevant projects.
Continue to divert at least 90% weight of non-hazardous demolition waste and 75% of construction waste from landfill for all developments and refurbishments.
Suppliers to demonstrate that a minimum of 80% of timber is procured from certified 100% sustainable source FSC equivalent.
Refresh and recirculate The Signpost, FSC timber procured at Grand Union Studios.
38 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Performance highlights Employees 65% increase in training days completed by our employees 631 training days completed.
We provide a safe and rewarding work environment 24% increase in number of employees to ensure we attract, develop, motivate and retain undertaking training 146 people trained.
Our commitment Held Director-led presentations at a number of to diversity encourages innovation and ensures our our centres in 2014.
These presentations ensure workforce reflects the diversity of the customers all employees are aware of the performance of and communities in and around our centres.
the business, the strategy and the role they play in driving performance.
27 long service awards presented to staff for 5, 10, 15 and 20 years service, with 20 awards for 10 years service.
Employees spent a total of 35 days volunteering for our nominated charities: XLP, FareShare and First Love Foundation.
27 Funding for further studies Long service awards We are committed to developing the skills of our presented to staff.
staff and will fund courses for employees who wish to gain professional qualifications and undertake studies that will enhance their careers.
A new process was introduced to ensure that any qualifications or studies employees want to undertake are in line with the strategy of the business.
Employees must put a 65% business case together covering rationale, fees, how the course will enhance their skills and how Increase in training days the Company will benefit.
Case study Investing in our people Tim Balsom, Senior Building Surveyor, recently completed his MBA in Real Estate and Construction Management.
The course was undertaken in two and a half years and was fully funded by Workspace.
The course has enabled Tim to expand on his knowledge of property and construction, improved his construction management skills, allowing him to manage larger design teams, and helped him to better understand how the Company chooses its development projects.
Following the course, redevelopment will now become part of his role.
The Company supported Tim financially but also Working to tackle hidden hunger through the provision gave him the necessary time off to complete his of emergency donations of studies and provided additional support in the form food enough for a minimum of colleagues sharing their expert knowledge.
Tims of three days and support completion of the course benefits Workspace as well, to those facing real crisis.
as he will be able to make a greater contribution to the continued expansion of the development programme, which is a major driver of asset value and income.
Targets for 2015 16 Introduce a digital platform showing all staff benefits and total reward statements.
Continue to facilitate and encourage XLP is about creating positive further training and development.
futures for young people Increase staff participation in E5 strategy and growing up on deprived deliver at least 40 days of staff volunteering.
Food supply organisation for the vulnerable and needy.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Communities We aim to make the communities in which we operate better places to live and do business in.
We continue to enhance our understanding of the impact that our centres have both socially and economically and our flagship E5 community investment strategy supports education, employment, enjoyment, entrepreneurial and environmental initiatives in the communities in which we operate.
75 In collaboration with BiTC and the GLA, we provided 75 students with work placements at our business and our customers businesses as part of InspiresMe week.
40 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Performance highlights Our charity committee donated 99,583 in space and cash as part of our E5 community strategy and supported a total of 35 days of staff volunteering.
In collaboration with BiTC and the GLA, we provided 75 students with work placements at our business and our customers businesses as part of InspiresMe week.
Continued our successful partnership with St Gabriels School, Kennington, for the second year, to prepare them to embark on their careers and become entrepreneurs of the future.
Volunteering at Food Banks and as part of the Tesco food drive collection became an integral part of our employee volunteering opportunities.
Provided support for XLP, a charity which works with underprivileged young people from inner London, in the form of fundraising, volunteering days, provision of preferred places on InspiresMe week work placements and mentoring during their summer camp.
Case study Arctic Challenge pictured One of the many highlights of our E5 strategy saw four of our adventurous staff embark on a gruelling Arctic Challenge to raise money for KidsCo.
KidsCo provide practical, emotional and educational support to vulnerable inner-city children, and cover many of the London boroughs in which our business operates.
The extreme weekend in Norway saw our staff compete against other teams in dog-sledding, crosscountry skiing and fishing.
Much fun and many blisters were had, all while fundraising for a great charity.
Targets for 2015 16 Expand delivery of our E5 strategy in collaboration with our community partners to provide more staff volunteering days, space donation and financial support to our nominated charities and community initiatives.
Support at least 40 staff volunteering days throughout the year.
Expand InspiresMe week to facilitate a total of 100 students working with our customer base.
Workspaces Lucia, Tim, Alphie and Dale embark on the gruelling Arctic Challenge.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Performance highlights Environment Completed an updated portfolio risk review which identified that only 3% of our total gross We believe that continually improving our lettable area has F or G rated Energy Performance environmental performance creates value for our Certificates, compared to 18% of the total business.
Not only is it essential if we are to meet Landmark EPC database which are F or G rated.
the changing expectations of our customers, but Achieved a 9% reduction in absolute energy as a property company we play an important role consumption between March 2013 and March 2015. in supporting the achievement of UK environmental Implemented several energy reduction measures targets and fulfilling our role as a responsible business.
including: voltage optimisation at four key business centres, boiler optimisation at 22 centres, and LED retrofit at three centres.
Introduced water efficiency initiatives at four sites.
Achieved a recycling rate of 57%, driven by the waste audits undertaken at 12 business centres which aimed to engage customers on recycling.
Commissioned a portfolio viability analysis to install photovoltaics at our sites, identifying 10 suitable buildings.
Improved our Carbon Disclosure Project CDP submission considerably this year, achieving a rating of B and a score of 86.
Case study Reducing environmental impact of our properties This year Clerkenwell Workshops was identified as a target site to focus on reducing its environmental impact.
Gas and electricity consumption were a key area of focus: by installing AMR smart metering for both we were able to identify areas of wastage throughout the year.
We also installed several retrofit measures including boiler and voltage optimisation.
Through these measures, we achieved a total energy B-86 reduction of 13% compared to the previous year.
We also improved recycling levels from 56% to 61%, CDP Carbon Disclosure well above our portfolio target.
In addition, measures Project scores were such as site engagement with our customers and the considerably higher this year.
provision of information, newsletters and posters, have made environmental impact a key area of focus for them.
Our action plan will continue into next year with the roll-out of LED lighting, Green Leases and energy dashboards to further reduce the buildings impact.
9% Targets for 2015 16 Energy reduction when Set energy reduction targets and action plan for adjusted for occupancy.
our 10 buildings that consume the most energy.
Reduce landlord controlled communal energy consumption by 10% by April 2017.
Reduce overall carbon intensity by 20% by 2020.
Reduce portfolio like-for-like water intensity to 3 0.50m by April 2017.
57% Achieve 62% average recycling rate across Average recycling rate all existing assets where we manage waste achieved across our portfolio.
137 Our voltage optimisation project, designed to reduce electricity consumption through voltage reduction, helped to reduce four business centres combined CO 2 emissions by 137 tonnes.
42 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview 01-15 Strategy and performance 16-53Governance 54-104 Financial statements 105-147 Additional information 148-153 Customer Won Best New Place to Work at the London Planning Awards.
Suppliers and partners Environment Achieved a 100% renewable Considerate electricity purchased Constructors for site.
Recycling Scheme score rate of 80% of 34 40. achieved.
Communities Supported the local borough, providing volunteers to Tower Hamlets food bank.
Employees On-site staff worked with customers to offer three work placements to local students as part of InspiresMe week.
Bringing it all together at Pill Box Background Pill Box is surrounded by railway arches and popular East End bars and pubs.
The building embraces its historical features which include lab tile floors, blue engineering brick columns and a stunning water tower, now a two-storey office.
Each studio retains a patch of the authentic brickwork combined with a pure-white colour scheme.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43
