STRATEGIC REPORT S OUR PEOPLE TRATEGIC REPORT C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION OUR PEOPLE Talented people Our people are one of our most important assets, enabling us to deliver our strategy and create value for our stakeholders.
Through our engaging culture, common values and ongoing investment in nurturing talent we create an environment where everybody is able to develop and maximise their contribution.
CULTURE AND VALUES LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT CAPABILITY Our values continued to enhance our culture and influence our actions during 2015.
During 2015 we continued to invest heavily in developing our managers.
Our Management The most significant event was Junes relocation of our Development Programme, launched in the autumn UK headquarters to Kings Cross.
This gave us the of 2014, was a major part of this effort, with 74 managers opportunity to introduce a more agile and collaborative across the UK and France participating during the working environment enabling our London, Reading course of the year.
and Paris based teams to work more closely together than ever before.
We also continued to focus on management skills when recruiting new managers, most notably via our competency-based selection processes.
We successfully recruited 14 new managers in the UK, all of whom completed one of our management assessment centres.
Executive coaching and 360-degree appraisals remained constant features throughout the year.
To further enhance our training and development offering we entered a partnership arrangement with Capita Learning and Development which gives us access to their extensive suite of management development programmes and materials.
To help meet our Diversity and Inclusion objectives, our senior management teams in the UK and France Hammerson office, Kings Place attended workshops on unconscious bias.
The knowledge and insight gained is already helping us to achieve our One of our core values is ambition, and this was evident ambition of creating a more diverse workforce.
throughout the year as we continued to grow in size, productivity and efficiency.
The scale of our ambition Chart 40 was best demonstrated by our acquisition of the Irish Our people Key Facts loan portfolio which will require a new operating platform to be established in Dublin as well as being F France: 63 rance: 63 integrated into the wider Group.
France: 144 135 UK: 72 UK: 72 On a more operational level, we insourced the New joiners management of our shopping centres in France, enabling a more aligned management approach and France: 6.2% % greater financial efficiencies across the portfolio.
473 9.8 UK: 11.5% We also improved our approach to portfolio based Headcount Voluntary staff turnover procurement during the year, which allowed us to UK: 329 leverage our purchasing power more effectively and to deliver greater consistency across the organisation.
37 On a day-to-day basis, we embedded our values ever more Internal moves and promotions deeply within the business.
They are a core component Headcount figures as at 31 December 2015 of our  processes and the two day Corporate Induction Programme attended by all new employees.
The values continue to drive positive behaviours and outcomes across the Group.
C. COM OM 49 49 Our people continued RESOURCING, TALENT MANAGEMENT We conducted our employee survey during 2015 AND SUCCESSION PLANNING using the globally established Great Place to Work programme.
In the UK, we achieved a positive As in previous years, we successfully retained and engagement score of just under 70% which is 13% developed our talent during 2015 whilst strengthening higher than the average for organisations with a our teams with the appointment of many experienced similar headcount.
Further analysis showed particularly high levels of Voluntary staff turnover in both the UK and France engagement in the areas of Strategy and Direction, remained low at 11.5% and 6.2% respectively.
However, Diversity and Corporate Social Responsibility: the with a number of people leaving the business as a result latter score exceeding the average of similarly sized of us relocating our UK headquarters, the progression of organisations by an impressive 34%.
our development projects and further investments in our multichannel and IT teams, resourcing requirements In France, employee engagement was even higher and were high.
135 new people joined the Group during the we achieved a positive engagement score of 79%.
In course of the year, many of whom successfully completed addition, 89% of employees responded positively to the a competency based assessment centre.
statement Taking everything into account, I would say this is a great place to work.
All senior management In our 2014 Annual Report we stated the clear objective vacancies filled via internal that any gender gap in employee engagement should be no greater than 5%.
This was one of three Diversity and promotions in 2015 Inclusion targets that we set ourselves to achieve on an Our improved approach to senior management ongoing basis.
When considering our combined UK and succession planning started to pay dividends in 2015.
France results, the gender gap in our 2015 employee This involves using job evaluation to help identify survey was 4.5%.
possible career paths for high potential employees and engaging with them about their own aspirations and 80% employee participation in development needs.
As a result, we started the process of mapping out structured development plans for all the survey concerned.
We filled all of our senior management Highly engaged teams in the vacancies via internal promotion during the year, UK and France including our new Director of Retail for Ireland.
UK employee engagement far Launched in 2011, our established UK Graduate Programme continued to flourish in 2015.
One highlight exceeds average of similar saw Tom Webster, who joined the Company in 2012, sized companies by headcount gain RICS accreditation and move into an asset Engagement scores in France management role in our UK Retail Parks team.
are amongst the highest of companies surveyed Less than 5% gender gap in employee engagement levels Our collaborative and inclusive approach to internal communications was ever present during the course of 2015, enhanced by the greater use of audio visual technology.
Briefings were held regularly throughout the year in order to keep employees updated on key business issues and results.
In addition, we further embedded the Group intranet as a key communication tool and developed a new, internally branded Tom Webster, Asset Manager communication channel: Hammerson Inside.
From a reward perspective, we continue to offer employees the opportunity to share in the growth and EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT profitability of the Company as we believe this further The Company recognises the benefits of having highly engages our people.
This is evidenced by the inclusion engaged teams as we strive to achieve our business of the organisations key KPIs in our annual incentive goals.
Our positive culture, clarity of strategy and plan and the availability of a number of all employee ongoing focus on improving management capability and restricted share plan schemes.
all contribute towards this objective.
50 50 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT S OUR PEOPLE TRATEGIC REPORT C CORPORA ORPORATE GO TE GOVERN VERNAN ANCE CE FIN FINAN ANCIAL S CIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S O OTHER INF THER INFORMA ORMATION TION Chart 41 Chart 42 Chart 43 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION All employees Senior management Shopping Centre We have long understood and embraced the benefits excluding Board Managers of maintaining and nurturing a diverse workforce.
It is therefore not surprising that 2015 was a year during which we continued to develop our strategy and build on the good practices already in place.
In addition, we implemented a number of key initiatives designed to 217 256 30 11 12 7 drive meaningful and sustainable change.
Following the success of the unconscious bias workshops attended by our Group Executive Committee in 2014, similar sessions were held for our Chart 44 Chart 45 entire UK and France senior management teams during Male UK Graduate Board the first half of the year.
These had the objective of further broadening diversity awareness within the Programme workplace, while further engaging senior management in the process of enhancing inclusion.
Diversity training for all employees will be introduced in 2016.
1 2 9 2 When appointing new talent, we continue to base our recruitment decisions on our long established competency based approach to selection.
Of the 135 Female new employees recruited in 2015, 66 were female.
Of these, over a third were employed in professional or Figures as at 31 December 2015 senior professional roles.
In addition, we wrote to all of our recruitment partners stating our diversity and inclusion related aspirations.
In doing so, we challenged HIGHCROSS APPRENTICES them to submit more diverse candidate shortlists for all To attract young people roles, including people from ethnic minorities and from into the property backgrounds that are not always associated with the industry from a more property industry.
diverse range of In recognising the benefits of gender diversity the backgrounds, we piloted Company has previously stated the aspiration that at the British Council of least 30% of our senior managers should be women.
Shopping Centres Retail By the end of 2015, this figure stood at 27%.
Trust and National Skills BCSC Retail Path graduation Academy Retail Path Within the UK, women occupy 37% of such roles and apprenticeship scheme at Highcross Shopping Centre in Leicester three of our ten Shopping Centre General Managers during 2015. are female.
Five apprentices won 12 month placements, giving them shopping Female representation in senior management roles centre management experience as well as front of house retail in France currently stands at just over 7%.
While we exposure and college based training.
Three of our retailers are looking to improve this figure over time, with the participated in the pilot scheme: TM Lewin, Love Aroma and introduction of assessment centres in 2016 anticipated Goldsmiths.
Each provided valuable training and insight for the to contribute towards this, we are pleased that four of apprentices, two of whom have now graduated from the scheme, our nine French Shopping Centre General Managers winning permanent roles with TM Lewin and Hotel Chocolat.
three who remain will graduate from the scheme in early 2016.
We have also stated the objective that women should be Everyone involved has been delighted with the success of this represented in at least 30% of the roles identified in the initiative in its first year and we intend to run the programme again Companys senior management succession plan.
The in 2016 with an extended group of retailers.
plan considers the key senior management positions across the entire organisation, including all Executive Joe Creasey, who was an apprentice on the scheme, is now a Director and Group Executive Committee roles.
By the permanent employee at TM Lewin and he said: end of 2015, this figure stood at just over 30%, a fact Working as an apprentice has given me more of an insight into the that we find extremely encouraging.
retail business and this has helped me build a greater foundation for We welcome and fully consider all suitable applications a future in Retail Management.
for employment, irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity, Holly Furnival, who is an apprentice with Goldsmiths, added: religion, age, sexual orientation or disability.
All employees are eligible to participate in career The application process was very hard, but Im really glad I stuck at it development and promotion opportunities.
Support and I love working here.
I never thought it would be as enjoyable, but also exists for employees who become disabled to its great being able to help customers, and everybody has made me continue in their employment or to be retrained for feel really welcome.
COM 5 51 1 Our people continued COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT In line with our corporate values and our commitment Our employees are enthusiastic about supporting to Serve and Invest the communities in which we are charities and voluntary organisations.
As well as a local located, we offer employees three days of paid charity bursary run by each of our shopping centres, we volunteering a year.
We believe that having the also have national charity partners.
Every two years our opportunity to participate in voluntary activity employees select two charity partners, giving them a generates positive outcomes: from team building real sense of engagement with the chosen charities.
through to wellbeing and corporate pride.
The selected charities receive a cash donation and, In 2015 we launched a new approach to volunteering, more importantly, the opportunity to develop a using our own bespoke version of The Butterfly Bank relationship with Hammerson, our employees and our Engagement Platform.
Designed to inspire and reward shopping centre teams.
We feel two years gives us an volunteering, this was actively promoted throughout excellent chance to establish a productive working the year in addition to our annual Community Day.
relationship and provides a great platform for the charities to work from.
2015 saw our ninth annual Community Day in the UK while our French team ran their third.
In a continued The charities selected for 2014 2016 were Samaritans effort to collaborate for greater impact, we were joined and Elifar: the latter of which helps to improve the lives by colleagues from the British Council of Shopping of children and adults with severe learning difficulties Centres BCSC and from our waste, facilities and and associated physical disabilities.
Samaritans was a security teams across the UK.
new relationship for us, which is very exciting.
Elifar is a continuing relationship, employees having elected to In the UK a total of 27 activities were available for continue supporting this small but highly impactful employees to choose from, ranging from river clean-ups charity for a further two years.
In France, nine activities were offered.
63% of employees across the UK and an Over the course of 2015 the Group contributed more impressive 82% in France took part in Community Day than 150,000 to charitable causes, 34,000 of which and, as always, feedback was extremely positive went to our two main partners.
from both our own people and the organisations we worked with.
As one Hammerson team member said: Over 400 volunteer days It was a really successful and worthwhile day.
delivered by Hammerson Everyone pulled their weight and was motivated to get employees in 2015 the job done in the allotted time but also to do more Continued success and high than anticipated at the start of the day.
It also struck me that this is an environment where teamwork and levels of participation in Hammersons culture and values come to the fore.
Community Days Importantly, it was also great fun.
More than 20 charities Following Community Day we have continued to bring supported by Hammerson employees opportunities to support local and national during 2015 organisations.
In October we celebrated volunteering achievements across the Group with the Hammerson More than 150,000 donated Butterfly Banking awards bringing together all our to charitable causes shopping centre teams.
Community Day 52 52 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
