10 NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Every year we spend around six per cent of our sales thats well over 100 million over the last five years on new product development, refreshing our product pipelines and extending our technical horizons.
Sometimes you will find us initiating excellence with breakthrough technology.
You will always find us refining and progressing existing intellectual property, constantly moving with the times, responding to key customer needs on issues of performance, environment and safety.
The exacting specifications to which we must design our aerospace products and mission-critical sensors means that we can find applications for them in other markets toohealthcare, for example, or the land and marine-based industrial turbine industry.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002 11 R D CASESTUDY #1 EMU engine monitoring unit 11 months in development building on 50 years world class engine condition monitoring Aero-engine suppliers who provide airlines with power by the hourand airlines who maintain engineswant to identify engine faults precisely, avoiding unscheduled maintenance, unnecessary inspection and expensive man-hours on diagnosis.
The worlds first, comprehensive on-engine condition monitoring unit is ours, just commercialised for the A380 Airbus.
Vibration, speed, pressure, temperature and oil debris information using many of our sensors combined with data from the Full Authority Digital Engine Control FADEC is linked by our electronics, and provides the most detailed image of engine IN SERVICE: condition to date.
In the next two decades, half the worlds civil aircraft are expected to be fitted with such equipment.
2006 R D CASESTUDY #2 Voodoo high speed target 2 years in development Aerial targets for training personnel and developing anti-aircraft missile systems are extremely expensive given their ultimate destiny: destruction during target practice.
The faster they golike jet-powered dronesthe greater the expense and the fewer opportunities for realistic high-level training.
Solution: Voodooa target which, powered by a liquid-cooled, four-cycle engine of 145 bhp, flies up to 350 knots, to an altitude of 22,000 feet, for around 90 minutes or 100km and is recoverableand a third of the price of competing targets.
IN SERVICE: 2003 R D CASESTUDY #3 Bleed air leak detection system BALD 3 years in development Ducts distribute air throughout an airframe.
Joined by clamps, they are vulnerable to damaging leaks that can inflict serious metal, components and wiring damage.
Manufactured using Meggitts proprietary chemistry, our unique BALD systema network of sensors throughout the aircraftpinpoints leaks in the bleed air system precisely.
It provides alarm signals to cockpits and obviates the need to deploy maintenance personnel using laborious leak location techniques.
Less manpower incurs less cost.
IN SERVICE: 2002 R D CASESTUDY #4 Pacemaker sensors Continual development from 1993 80 per cent of today's pacemakers use our patented piezoelectric and silicon micro-electro mechanical accelerometers.
These sensors generate the electrical signal to a pacemaker's circuitry that dictates the appropriate heart rate for a patient's activity.
Whether running or walking, sitting, lying in a wakeful state or sleeping, the patient will experience the quality of life associated with a normal, functioning heart.
Working closely with our customers, we continually invest in the development of our sensors, delivering the performance and reliability IN SERVICE: needed to improve the lives of patients who rely on these critical devices.
1999 R D CASESTUDY #5 Gas control valve 3 years in development GE wants to comply with tighter environmental regulations, improve the efficiency and lower the cost of operating its industrial gas turbine generators.
A breakthrough gas control valve to minimise gas fuel supply pressure and reduce emissions, is Meggitts response.
The valve incorporates a high recovery venturi that minimises choked pressure ratio, controls fuel cost and abolishes expensive gas compressors.
Its hydraulic actuators come from our strategic partner, Moog ICD.
Next phase: electro-mechanical actuation and incorporation of Meggitts world class IN SERVICE: engine diagnostics technology.
2003 R D CASESTUDY #6 Extreme environment valve programme 13 years in development Turbine clearance control components must endure temperatures exceeding 500C and survive in highly contaminated bleed air.
Meggitts first extreme environment valve compensated for the thermal expansion that reduces bypass pressure and diminishes performance.
Numerous iterations have kept pace with the exacting performance demands of new aero-engines and this continues.
The next generation turbine clearance control valve is based on our patented pressure balanced ball and seal design.
It has 60 per cent less components than the previous standard, is 40 per cent IN SERVICE: lighter and lasts longer.
This traditionally civil aviation technology is also being used for military retrofit programmes.
1990 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002
