directors report The Directors of Misys plc submit their report and the audited EMPLOYMENT POLICIES financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2002.
The Groups employment policies are included in the Operating Review People on page 25.
In accordance with the Groups equal PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW OF BUSINESS opportunities policy, people with disabilities are given the same The Groups principal activities are the development and licensing consideration as others when they apply for jobs.
Where necessary, of a variety of software products to customers in the international the Group aims to provide employees with facilities, equipment banking and securities, healthcare, and UK retail financial services and training to assist them in doing their jobs.
It also conducts transaction and claims processing for US skills and abilities, they enjoy the same career prospects and scope physicians and UK financial advisers.
for realising their potential as other employees.
Where employees The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the become disabled, every effort will be made to retain them in their preceding sections on pages 1 to 31, which provide detailed current role or to explore possibilities for their retraining or information about the Groups businesses, their financial redeployment within the Group.
performance during the year, likely future developments, The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of and the Groups commitment to research and development.
Accordingly, it is the Groups policy to manage its activities so as to avoid any unnecessary or unacceptable risks DIVIDENDS and to have in place procedures that conform to best practice in The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.09p per ordinary this area.
This, together with the interim dividend of 1.84p per share paid on 8 April 2002, makes a total dividend of 4.93p per share ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE PLAN ARRANGEMENTS for the year 2001 : 4.29p.
The Company is committed to offering employees the opportunity The proposed final dividend, if approved at the Annual General to enhance their personal wealth through ownership of the Meeting AGM, will be paid on 7 October 2002 to shareholders Companys shares.
appearing on the register at the close of business on 26 July 2002.
The Company operates a UK savings-related share option scheme approved by the Inland Revenue which is open to all qualifying DIRECTORS UK-based employees.
The UK scheme permits the grant of options Details of the Directors of the Company are given on page 33. to acquire ordinary shares linked to a Save As You Earn contract With the exception of Bob Ingram, who was appointed a nonwith a bank.
An invitation to eligible UK employees to participate executive Director of the Company with effect from 23 January in this scheme is normally made on an annual basis.
In August 2002, all the Directors in appointment on 31 May 2002 served 2001 options were granted over 2.8m shares to 1,272 employees throughout the financial year.
Their interests in the share capital at an exercise price of 275p per share.
of the Company at the year end are shown in the Remuneration The Company has extended the opportunity to participate in Report on pages 41 and 42.
Since the end of the year under savings-related share plans to its overseas employees.
Tax efficient review, it has been agreed to appoint Ivan Martin, Jasper plans are in place in the US, Ireland and France.
An international McMahon and Tom Skelton as executive Directors with effect savings-related plan is offered to all other overseas qualifying from 18 July 2002. employees in jurisdictions where this is practicable.
All of these In accordance with the Articles of Association and the Combined savings-related plans operate on broadly the same terms as the UK Code on Corporate Governance, George Gray, Ross Graham and plan.
In the year under review a total of 2.8m share options were John Sussens retire by rotation.
Ross Graham and John Sussens granted to 1,185 overseas employees under these international offer themselves for re-election: George Gray will be retiring at the arrangements at exercise prices ranging from 195p to 273p.
It being the first AGM since his appointment, Bob Ingram A phantom share option plan is offered in those jurisdictions where will retire and offer himself for re-election.
As newly-appointed local regulations mean that a share-based plan is not appropriate.
Directors, Ivan Martin, Jasper McMahon and Tom Skelton will also This is cash rather than share-based, but in all other respects retire and offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
operates as other savings-related schemes.
Ross Graham, John Sussens, Ivan Martin, Jasper McMahon and Details of the options outstanding under the all-employee share Tom Skelton have service contracts requiring one years notice of plan arrangements are given in note 5 on page 53. termination.
As non-executive Directors, George Gray and Bob Ingram each have a letter of appointment rather than a service PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS contract.
Details of executive Directors service agreements and It is the Companys policy to agree terms and conditions for its non-executive Directors letters of appointment are included in the business transactions with its suppliers.
The Company seeks to Remuneration Report on page 43. abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is With the exception of service contracts, during the year under satisfied that the supplier has abided by its contractual obligations.
review and up to the date of this report, no Director has had any The trade creditors of the Company at 31 May 2002 represent interest in any material contract with the Company.
42 days as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
