REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their Report appointed Directors on 2 August 2001. together with the audited accounts John Clifford retired at the Annual for the year ended 31 March 2002.
Manish Chande was appointed Principal Activity a Director on 12 July 2002.
The Groups principal activity is the provision of services to building Ian Stewart, Nigel Swiffen and Donald owners and occupiers.
The principal Macpherson retire by rotation and, activity of the Company is to provide being eligible, offer themselves for remanagement services to the Group.
appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Manish Chande, having Results and Dividends been appointed since the last Annual The Group profit on ordinary activities General Meeting, will retire and offer before tax amounted to 30,357,000 himself for re-election.
which, after tax and minority interest, gives profits attributable to Interests of the Directors in the shares Shareholders of 18,618,000.
The of the Company are shown on page Directors recommend a final dividend 12. of 0.9p per share which, together with the interim dividend of 0.7p per share Going Concern paid on 2 April 2002, results in a total The Directors have formed a dividend of 1.6p per share.
If judgement that there is a reasonable approved, the final dividend will be expectation that the Company has paid on 1 October 2002 to members adequate resources to continue in registered on 6 September 2002.
The operational existence for the retained profit for the year is foreseeable future.
Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the The review of the years operations financial statements.
and future developments are contained in the Chairmans and Payment of Creditors Chief Executives Statements on The Groups policy is to comply with pages 3 to 6. the terms of payment agreed with suppliers.
Where terms are not Tangible Fixed Assets negotiated, the Group endeavours to Changes in fixed assets during the adhere with the suppliers standard year are given in Note 9 to the terms.
At 31 March 2002, the Group financial statements.
had 32 days purchases outstanding 2001 41 days.
Donations Charitable contributions made during Employee Involvement the year amounted to 10,469 2001 The Group offers equal opportunities 57,604.
As a matter of policy, no to all applicants for employment political contributions were made whatever their sex, race or religion.
Disabled persons are considered for employment, training, career Share Capital development and promotion on the Details of changes in the share basis of their aptitudes and abilities in capital during the year and the common with all employees, number of Ordinary Shares in issue at providing the disability does not make the year end are given in Note 16 to the particular employment the financial statements.
impractical, or the employee is unable to conform to the stringent Details of substantial shareholdings in regulations which apply to the the Company are given in Note 26. operations of the trading companies.
Directors The Directors acknowledge the Details of the Board of Directors are importance of good communications given on page 10. and employee relationships.
In each trading company there is a direct Colin Acheson, Roger Goodman, relationship between the Managing Colin Hale and Bill Robson were Director and individual employees of 7 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS the company.
In these conditions, The Group also acknowledges the complex consultative procedures are importance of competent advice in seldom required to ensure that there achieving high standards of health is an understanding of the purpose of and safety and all companies in the the business and the commercial Group have access to qualified safety realities of success.
The Directors believe that employees Environmental Matters should be encouraged to become The Group is aware of the impacts its Shareholders.
The Savings Related businesses can have on the Share Option Scheme, established in environment and is committed to 1991, currently has 1,517 contributing preventing or reducing any negative employees.
environmental impacts created by its activities.
The Group will comply with Health & Safety all national and local legislation and The Group recognises the importance will endeavour to continually improve of having a safe and healthy its environmental performance.
The workforce and the Board is conscious Chief Executive has been nominated of its responsibilities to ensure that safe by the Board to take responsibility for and healthy working conditions are the Groups environmental provided.
The Chief Executive is the performance.
Director with responsibility for health and safety.
In addition to reducing the Groups environmental impacts, the Group is The Group continues to develop best committed to working closely with its health and safety practice across all clients to support or develop their companies to reduce the incidence environmental management systems, of accidents and ill health and to particularly in the area of waste ensure legislative compliance.
To monitor the incidence of accidents and ill health a new accident To reduce or eliminate negative reporting system is being linked to the environmental impacts and to HR management software.
This will manage compliance with enable the identification of trends environmental legislation, a Group and allow early action for targeted wide environmental management accident prevention programmes.
MITIE Engineering Maintenance Ltd The Board recognises the importance achieved accreditation to ISO 14001 of training in developing a positive in February 2002 and Support safety culture.
Consequently, all Services should achieve similar subsidiary company directors accreditation in September 2002.
As undertake training to raise their part of this system, the Group will awareness of their responsibilities with establish the processes necessary to regard to health and safety.
quantify its greenhouse gas emissions, Additionally, all employees undertake waste and energy usage with the safety training according to their role intention of introducing a programme and responsibilities.
This will result in greater environmental sustainability of Each company in the Group the business.
manages its health and safety by following a documented safety The Euro management system.
The We continue to monitor the effect of management systems are designed the introduction of the Euro.
Our to incorporate Group policy and conclusion is that it will not meet legislative requirements and significantly affect the Group in the industry specific guidelines.
audit of the management system, the Group aims to ensure that the health Funding and safety risks to its employees are Group Treasury has responsibility for minimised.
The majority of the safety managing and reducing financial risk management systems are accredited and ensuring sufficient liquidity is to ISO 18001. available to meet foreseeable needs.
8 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS It operates within policies and capital, for cash without first being procedures approved by the Board required to offer them to existing which have not changed during the shareholders in the proportion of their year.
Resolution 9 renews the centrally by Group Treasury and Companys authority to purchase its made available to operating own shares.
The Directors do not have subsidiaries on commercial terms.
any immediate intention of exercising this authority.
The Boards ongoing policy is to finance the Group through retained Statement of Directors Responsibilities earnings and borrowings, placing and Company law requires the Directors investing surplus cash with major to prepare financial statements for banks and financial institutions.
each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of At 31 March 2002, the Group was in a the Company and the Group as at net funds position.
The Group had no the end of the financial year and of financial assets, other than short term the profit or loss of the Group for that debtors and cash at bank.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required The main risk arising from the Groups to: financial instruments is interest rate select suitable accounting policies risk.
At 31 March 2002, total financial and then apply them consistently: liabilities amounted to 55,000 all of make judgements and estimates which were at floating interest rates.
that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable The maturity profile of banking accounting standards have been facilities is regularly reviewed.
Well in followed, subject to any material advance of their expiry, the facilities departures disclosed and are extended and replaced.
explained in the financial statements: and Further details on financial assets and prepare the financial statements liabilities are given in Note 14 to the on a going concern basis unless it financial statements.
is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in Auditors business.
A Resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche as auditors will be The Directors have responsibility for proposed at the Annual General ensuring that the Company keeps Meeting.
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the Company Status financial position of the Company The Company was not a close and which enable them to ensure company within the terms of the that the financial statements comply Income and Corporation Taxes Act with the Companies Act 1985.
The 1988 during the year and there has Directors also have general been no change to this status since responsibility for taking such steps as 31 March 2002. are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group Annual General Meeting and to prevent and detect fraud and The Annual General Meeting will be other irregularities.
held at 12 noon on Thursday, 19 September 2002 at The Stable Block This Report was approved by the Barley Wood, Wrington, Bristol.
The Resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the Notice of Meeting on pages 38 and 39.
Resolution 8 renews the Directors authority to allot new Ordinary Shares, Corina K. Ross not exceeding 5% of the issued share Secretary 9
