N BROWN BACK END 2002 28 5 02 9:51 am Page 26 Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2002.
1 Activities and results The principal activities of the group are retailing through direct home shopping, fulfilment and financial services.
The activities are more fully explained in the Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 19.
Group profit before taxation for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2002 amounted to 58.5m 53 weeks ended 3 March 2001, 53.1m.
No geographical segmentation is provided as, apart from a small operation in the Republic of Ireland, all activities take place in the United Kingdom.
2 Dividends and reserves An interim dividend of 1.65p per share 2001, 1.45p was paid on the ordinary shares of the company on 4 January 2002.
The net cost of this dividend was 4.8m 2001, 4.2m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.10p per share 2001, 3.75p for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2002, the net cost of which will be 12.0m 2001, 10.9m.
Movements in reserves are shown in note 23 on page 54, which includes a prior year adjustment of 1.8m arising on deferred tax due to the implementation of FRS 19.
3 Acquisitions and disposals In May 2001 the group disposed of its holding in its associate undertaking, Synectics Solutions Limited, for a consideration of 575,000.
In October 2001 the group increased its holding in Eunite Limited, an e-convergence company and a provider of multi-channel e-commerce solutions from 60% to 69%.
During the year the company increased its holding in Vote It Limited, a company engaged in voting response capture and analysis, from 81% to 88%.
4 Share capital The companys authorised share capital is 39.0m 2001, 39.0m.
During the year, 703,603 ordinary shares were issued in connection with the groups Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust and Employee Share Ownership Trust.
Details of outstanding share options are shown in note 22 on page 53.
5 Annual general meeting The annual general meeting is to be held on 3 July 2002.
The notice convening the annual general meeting is being sent to members by way of separate circular.
6 Directors The biographies of the directors, all of whom served throughout the year, other than Lord Stone of Blackheath who was appointed on 6 March 2002, are shown on page 24.
In accordance with the articles of association, Tim Kowalski, Nigel Alliance and Robert Youngjohns will retire by rotation at the next annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at that meeting.
Lord Stone of Blackheath, having been appointed on 6 March 2002, offers himself for reappointment in accordance with article 71 of the articles of association.
Directors interests are separately disclosed in the remuneration report on page 35.
7 Directors and officers liabilities The group maintains insurance for directors and officers of the group, indemnifying them against certain liabilities incurred by them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
8 Major shareholders In addition to the directors shareholdings shown in the remuneration report on page 35, the directors are aware of the following shareholdings of 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital at 1 May 2002: Holding % of issued share capital Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 17,676,981 6.02 Fidelity Investment Management Ltd 15,764,500 5.37 Friends Ivory & Sime London 8,957,085 3.05 26 N Brown Group plc N BROWN BACK END 2002 28 5 02 9:51 am Page 27 Directors report 9 Ethical and social issues Ethics The board of N Brown Group plc regards achievement of the highest ethical standards as an essential feature in the way in which the group does business.
A code of ethical conduct dealing with issues of commercial standards, conflicts of interest and gifts and hospitality has been circulated to all staff.
All directors and employees of the group are required to comply with both the letter and the spirit of the code of ethical conduct in all their dealings on behalf of the group.
In their dealings with each other, other group companies and their shareholders, customers, suppliers, competitors, regulatory authorities and the wider community, employees are required to:- - conduct all dealings with honesty, integrity and fairness: - comply with all relevant laws, regulations and internal company policy: - encourage and support a business culture which exhibits and promotes ethical conduct at all levels within the organisation and: - avoid any situation or action which could cause damage to the groups reputation.
Directors of all group companies will be required to disclose details of related party transactions for review by the audit committee.
A register of gifts and benefits offered by and to suppliers and other parties whether accepted or declined is maintained under the control of the Head of Internal Audit.
Summary information will be presented to the groups audit committee.
All employees and directors are required to declare any offer of gifts or hospitality with a value of 25 or more.
The group has drawn up and issued a whistleblowing policy providing employees with an appropriate means of communication in case of ethical concerns regarding the way the group operates in its day-to-day activities.
Environment The group recognises its environmental responsibilities and is committed to minimising any damage which its activities may cause to the environment.
It has delegated specific responsibility for environmental matters to a nominated director on each of its principal subsidiary boards.
In addition, it actively pursues a number of environmental policies, including those designed to contain energy costs, the recycling of paper and packaging materials wherever practical and the use of information technology systems to reduce the level of consumption of paper by its employees.
The group is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
The group firmly believes that continuing success can only be achieved by an enthusiastic, motivated and well trained workforce.
Consequently, considerable resources are devoted to staff training.
Departmental team briefings are held and a staff attitude survey is conducted regularly.
Over 1,300 group employees either hold shares in the company or have options awards to acquire them through the groups various share option and long term incentive schemes.
Constructive relationships with the trade unions which represent its employees principally USDAW and SATA are encouraged.
Elements of the group are covered by a collective bargaining arrangement with USDAW.
The group supports the principle of equal opportunities in employment and is opposed to all forms of discrimination, including those on the grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status or disability.
Our selection processes for recruitment, promotion, training and development are non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in the best interests of employees and the group to provide these opportunities to the most suitable candidates.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of any employee becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The groups policy is to adhere to all relevant legislation to ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare at work of all employees and of other people working on our premises but not employed by the group.
We endeavour to ensure that products and services used in the workplace or sold by us are designed so that they are safe and without risk when properly used.
N Brown Group plc 27 N BROWN BACK END 2002 28 5 02 9:51 am Page 28 Directors report Customers One of the key factors of the groups success is the quality of its relationship with its customers.
Regular customer satisfaction surveys are conducted, both directly and through third parties, to ensure that the group closely monitors the opinions and requirements of its customers.
In addition, telephone enquiry and complaint calls received from customers are analysed and appropriate action taken to improve the levels of service offered to them.
Suppliers The group sources products and services from across the world.
A significant proportion of this expenditure is with suppliers with whom the group has a long term relationship, which helps to provide a continually improving quality of product and service to customers, whilst reducing costs.
It is the groups policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Trade creditors of the group at 2 March 2002 represented 29 days 2001, 30 days of purchases.
The group is aware of the potential social impact of its business dealings, particularly in developing countries.
Our standard terms and conditions for the purchase of all goods for resale require that, in relation to the manufacture of merchandise, the supplier warrants that all labour, safety and other relevant laws in the country of manufacture will be strictly observed with respect to all workers at all stages of production.
Community The group believes that it has a responsibility to invest in the communities in which it operates.
The family, health and well being programme launched last year, provides additional benefits for all our employees and is actively supported by the group.
Charitable and political donations During the year, the group made charitable donations of 39,375 2001, 32,240.
No political donations have been made.
10Pension fund The group continues to ensure that the N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed in accordance with best practice and current legislation.
The funds assets are administered by a trustee company which is controlled by a board of directors, all of whom have a vested interest in the performance of the fund, representing the interests of pension fund members, pensioners and N Brown Group plc.
The funds investments are managed by Deutsche Asset Management Limited and the actuarial and administration services are provided by William M Mercer Limited.
The last actuarial valuation of the fund was completed in 2000 and its results are disclosed in note 30 on page 55.
This has subsequently been updated to meet the requirements of FRS 17.
With effect from 31 January 2002, the N Brown Group Pension Fund was closed to new entrants.
Employees joining the group after that date and existing employees who had not joined the N Brown Group Pension Fund by that date are entitled to join a new stakeholder pension scheme providing a defined contribution pension arrangement, administered by Prudential Stakeholder Pensions.
11 Tax status The company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
12 Auditors A resolution to reappoint Arthur Andersen as auditors to the company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 3 July 2002.
By order of the board Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor Secretary 16 May 2002 28 N Brown Group plc
