Review of operations Trains We operate c2c, Central Trains, Gatwick Express, Midland Mainline, ScotRail, Silverlink, Wagn including the Stansted Express, Wales & Borders and Wessex franchises.
18 National Express Group PLC Page heads Taking a break Review of operations: Trains Right: To mark Birminghams marketing initiative to become European capital of culture of 2008, Central Trains introduced a new liveried train incorporating vibrant colours promoting Birmingham.
This train is used on services to more than 40 towns and cities across central England, the North West and South Wales.
Turnover of our UK train operations in the year was 1,553.2m We continue to invest in the trains division to ensure continued 2001: 1,458.2m, up 6.5%.
Operating profit before goodwill development of our services.
Initiatives include improved and exceptional items was 33.9m 2001: 40.6m.
The ticketing systems such as Advantix Mobile and ticket-onreduction was due to increased insurance premia and new departure machines on stations.
All these initiatives simplify the rolling stock charges at c2c.
availability of tickets and information for our customers.
We are pleased to announce that Heads of Terms were agreed Across the division since the start of the new year we have with the SRA for a two-year extension for Central Trains, noticed a small improvement in passenger numbers on the same to April 2006, with a much improved financial return.
With six out of our nine franchises coming up Furthermore, we are about to start negotiations with the SRA for renewal during 2004, we will be in a strong position to on a two-year extension for our Silverlink franchise.
We expect improve the cash returns of our trains division while at the same this to be concluded later this year.
time rebalancing our train portfolio.
Performance across the trains division was mixed.
Punctuality London and the South East and reliability are key areas and we continue to work closely Turnover for the year was 535.2m 2001: 516.4m with an through Joint Boards with Network Rail to reduce the number operating profit of 21.8m 2001: 46.7m.
The reduction in of delays on the network.
Network Rail does not expect a return operating profit resulted from increased rolling stock leasing to pre-Hatfield levels in the short term.
We have been improving charges and reduced subsidies.
our own operational performance through self-help initiatives, such as the recruitment of additional drivers and staff at stations.
Our commuter train operating companies c2c, Silverlink and Wagn, continued to make significant operational progress over To give greater operational and customer focus, we announced a the period.
Performance remains a key issue and across all new management structure for our rail division in March 2003. routes our operations have developed detailed plans to drive We have restructured our operations into two distinct geographic forward improvements.
areas which cover the north and south of the country.
Dominic Booth will oversee c2c, Wagn, Silverlink, Gatwick Express, Increased travelcard sales and improved revenue protection Wales & Borders and Wessex in his role as Divisional Director resulted in 11.6% passenger revenue growth at Silverlink.
David Franks, who recently joined the Group from GoOperational performance was, however, affected by the West Ahead Group, has responsibility for Central, Maintrain, Midland Coast Mainline project.
A two-year self-financing pay deal was Mainline, Qjump.
co. uk and ScotRail in the role of Divisional agreed with Silverlink drivers.
Productivity gains were secured Director North.
They report to Ian Buchan, Chief Executive as part of this, including increased flexibility in working of the division, whose team also addresses strategic issues.
A CCTV project to provide 13 additional CCTV systems and a control room for station staff was completed.
Secure Station accreditation was achieved at Bletchley, Milton 20 National Express Group PLC Centre: During the year ScotRail added three new stations to the network including Beauly, west of Inverness, which offers commuters a 13-minute journey into the city.
Other new stations were Brunstane and Newcraighall.
Left: Following the opening of the UKs first rail academy since privatisation, all Midland Mainline staff have passed through the 2.0m Academy, which is a multi-purpose centre for customer service, recruitment, induction and skills development.
Keynes, Northampton and Watford and a further four stations Long distance intercity will be submitted for accreditation during 2003.
At c2c the introduction of the new rolling stock fleet was With an 8.1% growth in passenger volumes, Midland Mainlines completed early in the year.
On the Wagn franchise, punctuality performance was above the industry average.
In February, we and reliability improved after the replacement of signalling ordered 23 new trains for the franchise.
In April, the new 2.0m between Bethnal Green and Cheshunt, and Chingford and Customer Service Academy was opened and all staff have Enfield Town.
During 2002, all West Anglia stations were attended courses at the centre since its opening.
The West Anglia Route Modernisation Programme, including improvements to track circuit equipment, During the year, a number of changes to the two-year franchise signalling, point motors and detection gear, continued throughout extension were agreed with the SRA.
These included a fleetwide the year.
This had an impact on the Stansted Express service, overhaul of the 13 high-speed trains, involving interior particularly at weekends, when engineering work regularly took refurbishment and exterior repaint, and new engines for 14 of place.
New early-morning and late-night services were introduced the high-speed train powercars.
The first of the refurbished to cater for changing airline schedules.
Marketing continued to trains is currently being launched onto the network and will focus on low-cost airline tie-ups and a new Air Berlin contract provide significant improvements to performance.
was signed providing a strong foothold in the market for air passengers to Germany.
As a result of the West Coast Route Mainline project, Midland Mainline will assist the SRA by running hourly services between Great Northerns performance was affected by the accident at London and Manchester from summer 2003 until autumn 2004.
Potters Bar and the subsequent imposition of temporary speed On-going construction work for the Channel Tunnel Rail Link restrictions.
To address driver shortages, 40 drivers qualified in project at St Pancras continues, however, to cause disruption.
the year bringing a full complement to the service.
In partnership with Hertfordshire and Bedfordshire County Councils, a number Regional services of train and bus through ticketing schemes were introduced.
Turnover for the year was 847.3m 2001: 779.9m with an operating profit of 6.0m 2001: loss of 19.0m.
In February Gatwick Express continued to be affected by a significant 2002, we agreed new terms with the SRA for our Central and change in the mix of airlines operating out of Gatwick Airport.
ScotRail franchises which provided 114.7m additional subsidy.
In addition, the contraction of the North American market and In return, we made a cash payment to the SRA of 59.0m and increased competition on the route had an impact on growth.
continued to operate additional services above the minimum A new marketing and sales strategy was implemented to tackle level required in the franchise agreements.
the changing market conditions and a new internet retailing contract was agreed with Easyjet.
As the market recovered, At Central, performance was affected by strike action at additional services were re-introduced into the timetable.
However, forthcoming National Express Group PLC 21 Review of operations: Trains units which promote tourist attractions and activities, and new service changes will see Central acquire some important new ticket introductions have been well received.
routes, including Birmingham to Cardiff and Liverpool.
A major focus on revenue protection during the year resulted in higher revenue at Birmingham New Street and Nottingham stations.
Other Turnover for the year was 34.8m 2001: 40.2m with an At ScotRail, the performance of the sleeper services continued operating loss of 4.3m 2001: profit of 2.4m due primarily to be affected by infrastructure issues.
The strike action earlier to losses at Qjump.
co. uk as it develops its businesses in its in the year was resolved with a self-financing three-year pay second year of operation.
The results at Maintrain were arrangement.
Developments on the network continued with impacted by higher insurance costs and lower turnover.
the opening of the Edinburgh Crossrail scheme in June.
In October, the Scottish Transport Minister Iain Gray opened Qjump.
co. uk, our on-line rail ticketing service, was launched at the new 8.5m Strathclyde customer service centre in Paisley.
the beginning of the year and won business with Arriva Trains, This controls nearly 1,400 CCTV cameras which monitor Go-Ahead Group and GNER.
Major on-line partnerships with 180 stations across the network.
This facility is operated by Expedia, Multimap, Teletext, Telegraph.
co. uk, the London Tourist ScotRail.
In addition, three new stations at Beauly, Brunstane Board and Thisislondon were also signed up.
In addition, two and Newcraighall were opened during the year.
new accounts with the Department for Work and Pensions and the Employment Service were awarded.
co. uk In December, we agreed to procure 28 additional turbostar-type launched its business service, www.
co. uk business, trains, funded by the Scottish Executive, and invested in the enabling companies to manage their travel spend by using a recruitment and training of extra drivers.
These new trains, central accounts-based system, and an affiliate programme eight of which are expected to be delivered before the end of giving Qjump.
co. uk the opportunity to advertise across many the current franchise in March 2004, will improve capacity other smaller company websites.
requirements, particularly following the opening of the new Edinburgh Park station, scheduled for 2003.
During the year, two Maintrain depots were awarded the International Standard ISO 14001 environmental certification.
At Wales & Borders, we completed the integration of the six Maintrain refurbished the high-speed trains for Midland Great Western stations into the franchise and will complete the Mainline and is currently contracted to fit the mandatory remapping process in September this year when the First North TPWS modification to approximately 15% of the trains Western train stations and services in North Wales are integrated operating on the UK network.
We submitted our initial bid for the Wales & Borders franchise and await the timetable for the best and final offer stage.
In early 2003, we agreed a unique selffinancing five-year driver pay deal for this franchise, the first of its type in the railway industry.
We continue to secure new rail performance plans RPPs which will be used to provide new and improved customer information systems at 46 railway stations in Wales and eight in England.
Due to the remoteness of many of the franchise stations, safety and security remain key areas of focus.
Initiatives such as safety signage on vehicles, initiatives to address trespass and vandalism and new fleet features such as emergency lighting and train protection warning system TPWS were all implemented.
Carmarthen station became the first station in Wales to receive the Secure Station status.
In September, an improved timetable was introduced between north and south Wales giving people in north-east Wales a real alternative to the car.
Following the creation of the Wessex Trains franchise out of the former Wales & West franchise, the SRA launched a consultation exercise on changes to rail franchises serving the South West.
In November, the SRA concluded that there would be an amalgamation of the Wessex Trains, Thames Trains and Great Western Trains franchises into a single operation from 2006.
This reorganisation will take time to implement and we are therefore discussing a two-year extension.
In the meantime, the innovative marketing of services, including branded train 22 National Express Group PLC Midland Mainlines restaurant service gives customers Enjoying the refreshments the chance to experience the great British breakfast.
