A snapshot of the year January At the beginning of this year Sydney, Australia, experienced its worst bushfires since 1994.
Westbus, one of our Australian bus operations, was instrumental in the rescue effort by providing much-needed support to the emergency services.
After the main railway line and highway caught fire in Blue Mountain, we deployed a team of buses to rescue stranded residents from the local station.
February In February, two Maintrain depots, Neville Hill in Leeds and Soho in Birmingham, achieved the International Standard ISO 14001.
This award recognises the significant efforts which Maintrain has made to enhance and improve its environmental processes at these maintenance depots.
March To coincide with this years Commonwealth Games, the Rt Hon John Spellar MP, Minister for Transport, opened our state-ofthe-art 2.7m Manchester coach station.
Located in the heart of the city, the facility is now one of the most modern coach stations in Europe.
Its features include improved facilities for less able customers, including automatic doors, disabled toilets and low-level ticket points, as well as CCTV throughout.
April In April, the UK rail industrys first 2.0m Customer Service Academy was opened in Derby by Richard Bowker, Chairman of the Strategic Rail Authority.
The centre has been designed to assist in the recruitment, induction, customer service and skills development of staff.
The drivers training room features training equipment, including route familiarisation software, which provides virtual training using a computer and CDROM.
Staff can also gain professional qualifications such as a National Vocational Qualification in Customer Services.
May After three years, the Groups graduate trainee scheme continues to attract interest.
We have extended our promotion of the scheme during the course of the year by visiting a range of graduate careers fairs.
The scheme attracts applications from individuals who want responsibility and ownership from the outset and real hands-on experience.
June To celebrate the Queens Jubilee, Travel West Midlands specially painted two of its new, easy-access double decker buses in purple and gold livery.
The buses were launched by Her Majestys official representative, the Lord Lieutenant of West Midlands, Robert Taylor.
In addition, as part of the Jubilee commemoration, the Rt Hon John Spellar MP, Minister for Transport, officially launched the Jubilee Line to celebrate 50 years of bus services on the Bristol Road route in the West Midlands.
8 National Express Group PLC May April March February January July To strengthen further our strategic position as the third-largest school bus operator in North America, we acquired Stock Transportation, Canadas largest privately-owned school bus business, for 75.0m.
Together with Durham School Services, this acquisition brings our total school bus count to over 10,500 buses operating in 20 states in the USA and two provinces in Canada.
Stock carries 80,000 students a day and operates 1,880 vehicles which are liveried On the Journey of Learning.
August As part of our on-going programme to promote the use of public transport, we launched a new initiative which enables our customers to offset the carbon dioxide emissions generated from their coach and train travel by planting trees that reabsorb carbon dioxide.
Through a tie-up with Future Forests, we are the first public transport company to offer this service for all our passengers who book coach and train tickets through our on-line ticket booking systems www.
September The success of the well-publicised 10 travel offer, which enables students and the over 50s to travel anywhere in the UK for just 10, illustrated that providing value-for-money travel attracts new customers.
During this year over 200,000 passengers travelled under this promotion.
October During the latter half of the year, Southeast Airlines began operating out of Stewart Airport, New York.
The new low-fare service operates direct services to Fort Lauderdale, Orlando, Tampa and St Petersburg.
November A major achievement for Qjump.
co. uk was being awarded Business Start Up of the Year by the Sheffield Chamber of Commerce.
The award recognised the achievements of Qjump.
co. uk in establishing a significant position in the on-line ticketing market, its growth in capturing new business and its offer of a coherent service across a number of UK train operating companies.
December Travel Coventry was launched to create a local identity for a local bus service in the city of Coventry.
The new bus logo, which features the famous Coventry three spires motif, is painted Coventry blue to reflect the heritage and importance of the city.
Travel Coventry has also introduced a package of improved services for its customers, including a new website, a dedicated customer care facility, new bus-stop plates and roadside information and smartcard technology.
These initiatives all complement a 4.5m investment in 20 easy-access double-decker buses and ten state-of-the-art bendi buses.
National Express Group PLC 9 December November October July June
