Review of operations Australia The Australian bus division operates the Blue Ribbon, Glenorie, National Bus Company, Southern Coast Transit and Westbus brands.
Operations are in Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney and employ 1,700 people.
32 National Express Group PLC Getting there on time Review of operations: Australia Turnover for our Australian operations totalled 217.9m 2001: In Queensland, NBC has been working in association with the 207.9m and generated an operating profit of 2.4m 2001: Trainlink rail-bus integration service which was introduced in 13.4m.
Turnover for the train and tram operations, which we January.
This service is promoting integrated ticketing between ceased operating on 23 December, in the year to 31 December Birkdale and Capalaba.
Additional off-peak services have also 2002 totalled 159.9m 2001: 153.0m with operating profit of been introduced on selected routes and a new busway continues 0.1m 2001: 9.4m.
Turnover of our bus operations in the year to assist with city congestion.
Integrated ticketing is still planned to 31 December 2002 totalled 58.0m 2001: 54.9m with an for introduction over the next two years.
In Western Australia, Southern Coast Transit has seen strong On 16 December we were disappointed to announce our patronage growth as the partnership with Government withdrawal from our Melbourne train and tram operations.
continues to promote local bus services as the preferred mode The one-off cost to the Group of writing off these operations of transport.
A Government trial on a bio-diesel project began.
was 125.9m, a lower figure than announced in December, including a cash payment of 49.8m to indemnify the providers In New South Wales, Westbus introduced a fleet of new of the performance bonds for these operations and to cover articulated vehicles, increasing capacity on the popular M2 other exit costs.
Since we ceased funding our operations on services into Sydneys Central Business District.
Hillsbus 23 December we have worked alongside the State of Victoria services, with their distinct branding, continue to be popular.
to achieve an orderly handover of the train and tram operations Special services such as the Beachbus, which connects the Hills and this was achieved without any disruption to services.
district to the beach, were very popular, as were the New Years We took the opportunity to assess the carrying value of our Eve services.
Glenorie Bus Company, acquired in late 2001, Australian bus division, which has resulted in a goodwill achieved improved profitability and expanded services in impairment charge of 13.5m.
At National Bus Company NBC in Victoria, a review of routes is underway to improve the inner Melbourne network and freeway services.
New services to Melbournes newest inner city development and increased bus priority measures, such as express lanes, are being implemented.
These initiatives, including the creation of Melbournes first park and ride scheme, give us a unique marketing opportunity.
Focus on preventative maintenance programmes has resulted in performance improvements.
During the year, 13 new buses were added to the fleet.
Left: With large-scale car usage in Australia, promoting the use of the bus has to guarantee additional benefits over the car.
Quick boarding, easy payment and congestion-free corridors are starting to encourage greater bus usage.
Right: Since the acquisition of Glenorie Bus Company in 2001, patronage has increased considerably in the Hills district of Sydney.
