Review of operations North America The North American division consists of student transportation, public transit operations and Stewart Airport in New York State.
Following the acquisition of Stock Transportation, the North American division employs 14,000 people, provides services in more than 300 school districts and 70 public transit authorities while operating in 31 states and two Canadian provinces.
It operates a fleet of 14,100 vehicles.
28 National Express Group PLC Page heads Arriving on time Review of operations: North America Right: Stock Transportation provides a total transportation management solution to serve the differing needs of school districts.
With On the Journey of Learning as its strapline, Stock ensures students arrive at school ready to learn.
Turnover for the North American division for the year was in Canada.
It transports 80,000 students a day and operates 408.0m 2001: 401.7m and operating profit was 32.6m more than 1,800 vehicles in two Canadian provinces.
Operating profit declined primarily because been integrated well and we are already experiencing gains in of 7.5m insurance cost pressures in our public transit division procurement, particularly in the areas of vehicle maintenance and 1.6m adverse exchange rate movements.
We believe that substantial new consolidation opportunities exist in Canada, particularly in Student transportation the province of Ontario.
Turnover for the year was 219.6m 2001: 206.2m and operating profit was 30.9m 2001: 29.1m.
Margins from The Durham School Services student management training continuing operations, excluding Stock, improved from 14.1% curriculum is a leading programme in the industry.
Turnover and operating profit were adversely the past year, significant improvements were made in the impacted by exchange movements and reported margins were programme that will help drivers and local managers in their impacted by the timing of the acquisition of Stock.
These results day-to-day roles by minimising the amount of studentinclude a 1.2m operating profit contribution from Stock, which management issues parents and teachers must address.
This was acquired in July 2002, just as it entered its summer vacation programme should also help with driver retention, since student period when fleet utilisation is at its lowest level of the year.
management is one of the most significant challenges our drivers face.
The new school year started very smoothly.
We experienced organic growth within our existing contracts, despite a general We provide training support through Durham University.
During 2002, the student transportation We are the first student transportation provider to offer division participated in an increased number of new bid management and skills using the internet which enable virtual opportunities and had significant new contract wins in Baltimore, classrooms and conferences to employees across North America.
Long Beach, Los Angeles and Seattle.
In addition, a new contract Durham Universitys Management Development Program win of 50 buses was awarded in Natchez, Mississippi, as part of provides continuing education credits recognised by the our privatisation initiative.
These developments, together with American Council on Education, the National Association of the increased focus by school boards on reducing costs against State Boards Accountancy and the International Association a background of decreased tax revenues, confirm our belief of Continuing Education and Training.
that there are plenty of opportunities for the Group in this market.
Our unique safety culture has become a key selling Public transit attribute and a powerful tool for cost containment.
Turnover for the year was 188.4m 2001: 195.5m, including an 8.1m adverse foreign exchange impact, and operating profit We were pleased to acquire Stock, a well-respected operator was 1.7m 2001: 10.2m.
Increased insurance premiums and in the industry.
It provides an excellent platform for growth accident claims costs adversely affected performance.
To address as the second-largest private provider of student transportation the divisions financial performance, we substantially completed 30 National Express Group PLC Centre: ATC provides all the buses on the famous Las Vegas strip.
This contract, which was renegotiated during the year, is one of the largest public transit systems in the USA.
Left: As well as delivering students to school, Durham School Services provides regular field trip services, summer school and camp and charter trips and services for special needs students.
an orderly exit of selected contracts, which did not meet our required financial criteria.
In addition, we raised our financial targets and, as contracts are retendered, will bid at rates that reflect a more appropriate return for the business, including the increased insurance costs.
New contracts in Chula Vista, California, and Columbus, Ohio, were won and extensive contract expansions were granted in San Jose and San Diego, California.
ATC was successful in renegotiating an extension of its fixedroute contract in Las Vegas, one of the largest public transit systems in the USA.
The new four-year contract will deliver one of the most cost-effective large transit systems in the USA.
The division received a number of awards for the quality of its fleet and services and the diversity of its workforce.
ATCs performance in training and its environmental credentials are well above the industry average.
Moving forward, we will focus on achieving higher profits by reducing our total accident claims costs and labour costs.
We have fully implemented a cost-reduction initiative designed to provide significant margin improvement in 2003.
Airport management While growth at Stewart Airport continues to be slow, regional airports in the USA have recovered at a quicker pace than international airports.
The economic environment is still challenging and the total number of daily departures nationwide continues to be substantially below pre-11 September levels.
The airport has good relationships with a number of airline operators.
During the year, it strengthened its customer base when local cost carrier, Southeast Airlines, commenced new non-stop services to Fort Lauderdale, Orlando, and scheduled new services to Tampa and St Petersburg.
In addition new flights to Baltimore and Los Angeles have been scheduled.
