Review of operations Coaches The coach division provides Britains only scheduled national coach network and serves more than 1,700 destinations.
The airport services provide premier, high-frequency scheduled coach services to all the UKs major airports, as well as airside coaching services.
Eurolines offers value-for-money European travel by coach.
24 National Express Group PLC Time to catch up Review of operations: Coaches Interactive voice-recognition technology was introduced to In the year, turnover in the coach division grew by 1.8% to simplify sales and enquiries and to increase the capacity of our 184.5m 2001: 181.3m and operating profit increased by 15.1% to 12.2m 2001: 10.6m.
This was generated by a 2% customer contact centre.
Through this and our website we now increase in passenger numbers and good cost control.
We offer a 24-hours a day, seven-days a week booking facility.
disposed of Eurolines Nederland BV in August 2002.
In March 2003, to coincide with the 30th birthday of the During the period we remained focused on improving passenger division, we launched the new National Express coach identity growth by way of product development and capacity and yield and, at the same time, rationalised the number of brands in the management.
Promotion of low-price fares continued to attract division.
The new logo will be rolled out across the fleet and a wide customer base, and increased investment in internet sales coach stations during 2003 and we have developed a marketing ensured that prices remained highly competitive.
Sales through programme around the new brand proposition.
the internet increased by over 75% year on year as new initiatives, such as e-ticketing, were added to the service.
Direct We continued to develop the network with focus on short sales and internet bookings now account for nearly 50% of to medium journeys such as CambridgeLondon, where we revenue.
Well over one million passenger journeys a year are increased frequency.
Long-distance routes to the North West now booked through our website.
We are focused on broadening the appeal of coach travel to During the past two years, Manchester coach station was a greater range of customers, including the less able.
In March, redeveloped, at a cost of 2.7m, before the Commonwealth we introduced the first scheduled coach service accessible for Games.
The new design marks a radical change in the perception wheelchair users, on the BathLondon route, with the support of coach travel and provides a blueprint for future coach stations.
of the Department for Transport.
Following an initial trial, these The facility is more attractive for customers, being modern, facilities have been extended to the entire fleet on this service.
innovative and more accessible, and offers improved passenger In addition, a new disability helpline and code of practice for information.
Since Manchester reopened, passenger numbers less able travellers was launched in May.
The 1.5m Newcastle coach station opened in March this year.
We continue to discuss our plans We increased sales through direct channels and introduced new for a new coach facility in Birmingham with the City Council technology and initiatives to speed up the planning and booking as the current facility is in urgent need of modernisation.
The introduction of e-ticketing was well received and dedicated web promotions are also marketed regularly.
To The Well Driven scheme provides valuable feedback on support our agent network we developed a new web-based driving standards and, in combination with a proactive accident portal, ensuring that our agents are kept up-to-date with the reduction programme, has reduced accident rates by 20% latest promotions.
Right: In March 2002 the first scheduled coach service accessible to wheelchair users commenced.
In advance of the legal requirements being introduced in January 2005, National Express coaches, in conjunction with the Department for Transport, introduced a new coach design which enables passengers to board and travel in their wheelchair with the aid of a mechanical lift at the side of the coach.
26 National Express Group PLC Airport services Passenger journeys on scheduled services to airports returned to pre-September 2001 levels.
We are looking to introduce new services to many of the expanding regional airports, particularly in the South East.
The growth of low-cost airlines during the year also enabled a substantial upgrading of services to Stansted airport, and the development of a new operational base close to the airport ensured that we are well placed to serve it.
With increased service frequency and new vehicles, we aim to capitalise on the growth already seen on the Airbus services between London and Stansted airport.
A new five-year contract with the hoteliers at Heathrow resulted in a new Hotel Hoppa contract, linking 17 airport hotels with Heathrows terminals 1, 2 and 3.
The 26-strong vehicle fleet will be refurbished and a new livery introduced.
European coaches Eurolines performed well, despite competition from low-cost airlines and increased costs incurred to prevent the illegal entry of immigrants on our services.
New day trips and scheduled services to Disneyland Paris are being introduced.
To bring more focus to our UK operations, we sold Eurolines Nederland BV to our partner, Eurolines France, at the end of July.
Centre: The growth of low-cost air travel has resulted in many passengers being attracted to the value-for-money proposition of the coach division.
New contracts in the airport division have resulted in encouraging growth.
Left: Eurolines provides value-for-money travel within Europe.
New services to Disneyland Paris will be introduced this year.
