Directors report Employment policies The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report and The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002. and encouraging its employees to be responsive to the needs of its Principal activities customers and continually to improve operational performance.
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of mass The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to passenger transport services.
This applies to appropriate training, career development and promotion for all employees, Review of the business regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion A review of the Groups activities, the principal events during or ethnic origin.
the year and the future development of the Group is given in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment Review of operations and the Finance Directors report set out received from disabled persons, according to their skills and on pages 10 to 39. capabilities.
The services of any existing employee disabled during their period of employment are retained wherever possible.
Results and dividends The loss on ordinary activities before tax for the year ended Employee involvement 31 December 2002 was 85.6m 2001: 115.5m profit restated The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs.
and a retained loss of 137.7m 2001: 85.8m profit restated Subsidiary companies produce a range of internal newsletters was transferred to reserves.
and circulars which keep employees abreast of developments.
In addition, the Group-wide express magazine is aimed at The Directors recommend a final net dividend of 16.4p per keeping employees in touch with the worldwide activities of the share which, together with the interim net dividend of 8.1p per Group.
Senior management within the Group meet regularly to share paid on 18 October 2002, gives a total net dividend for the review developments within the Group and matters of current year of 24.5p per share 2001: 22.0p.
Employees are encouraged to discuss matters of shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2003 to interest to them and subjects affecting day-to-day operations shareholders on the register at 22 April 2003. of the Group with management.
Dialogue takes place regularly with trade unions and other employee representatives on a wide Directors range of issues.
Employees are able to share in the Groups The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: results through a number of employee share schemes.
Michael Davies Environmental policy Phil White Details of the Groups environment policy and environmental Barry Gibson initiatives are to be found in the separate Corporate Sue Lyons Responsibility Report issued with this Report and Accounts.
Ray OToole William Rollason resigned 4 December 2002 Charitable and political contributions David Ross Charitable donations made during the year totalled 214,446.
Tim Stevenson It is the Groups policy not to make political contributions and accordingly none were made in the year.
Ray OToole and Tim Stevenson will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer Creditors payment policy and practice themselves for re-election.
Larry Durham and Adam Walker, It is the Companys policy to agree terms of payment prior to who were appointed Directors on 4 March 2003, will stand for commencing trade with any supplier and to abide by those terms election at the Annual General Meeting.
based on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
The names and brief biographies of the current Directors appear on pages 40 and 41.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 46 to 49.
42 National Express Group PLC Trade creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2002 were 35 days 2001: 36 days, based on the ratio of Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following holders of 3% or more of its issued share capital for the purpose of Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, as at 10 March 2003: Aviva plc 8,136,492 6.05% Henderson Investment Funds Limited 6,938,720 5.99% WMT Employees Shareholding Trustees Limited 6,660,378 4.96% Legal & General Group Plc 4,243,898 3.15% Percentage as at date of notification.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 14 May 2003.
Shareholders will be asked to approve three items of special business, details of which are given in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this report.
Purchase of own shares The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting in 2002 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
This authority expires at this years Annual General Meeting and a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
Going concern It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable future involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future events which are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these accounts and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board Tony McDonald Secretary 13 March 2003 National Express Group PLC 43
