Review of operations Buses Travel West Midlands is the leading bus operator in the West Midlands.
It employs over 5,300 people and has a fleet of 1,900 buses operating over 600 routes.
14 National Express Group PLC Page heads Having fun Review of operations: Buses We are working closely with Coventry city council to optimise In 2002, turnover in our bus division increased to 208.7m the design of these facilities.
2001: 208.3m following the sale in October 2001 of Bronckaers, our Belgian bus business, which contributed 3.4m to turnover last year.
Operating profit before goodwill reduced To complement the changing face and revitalisation of the city to 49.8m 2001: 52.8m due to further vehicle operating leases of Coventry, we rebranded our operations under the Travel and increasing insurance costs.
Coventry brand, giving Coventry customers their own local identity.
This initiative also included improved information, On-going redevelopment work in the centres of Birmingham a new website, new bus-stop plates and roadside information, and Coventry continued to make operations challenging.
further investment in more easy-access buses, new smartcard However, this construction work is due for completion by the ticketing technology and a dedicated Customer Care facility.
In September, we took delivery of our 1,000th low-floor bus: Fare paying passengers increased on last year and there was and, at the year end, 54% of the fleet comprised low-floor easystrong growth in day tickets and travelcards.
The number of access buses.
To mark the Jubilee celebration, two new buses concessionary passengers decreased as a result of the service were painted in the Jubilee colours and a new Jubilee Line disruptions in Birmingham city centre.
Our long-term five-year route was introduced.
pay deal, agreed in April 2000, and our fuel hedging strategy ensure key costs are kept under control.
Our involvement in Operation Safer Travel OST, our partnership with the West Midlands Police, resulted in a TWM We work with a range of partners across the region to improve representative being asked to sit on the Governments Safer public transport and continue to promote major shopping and Travel Operation Panel committee.
OST resulted in more than leisure attractions.
The launch of our new website and our one- 500 arrests for a range of offences and a reduction of over 40% stop travel and Heart of England accredited tourist information in driver assaults.
Investment in driver training continues and centre in Walsall, launched in partnership with Centro and the currently more than 40% of our drivers have achieved NVQ Walsall Metropolitan Borough Council, have helped to promote Level II, compared with the national average of 31%.
In addition, our new Travelcard Information 16% are currently working towards this qualification.
Centre in The Pavilions Central, one of Birminghams most prestigious shopping centres, provides a central facility for We continue to achieve double-digit growth in patronage information and travelcard sales.
through our quality partnerships since their inception.
Looking to the future, we are focusing on new quality partnership In Coventry, construction of the new Millennium Square routes, including the Birmingham Outer Circle and the Walsall resulted in the relocation of bus services away from traditional Showzone.
At Travel Dundee, two quality partnerships were points to modern, more accessible bus hubs around the city.
signed covering routes which serve Ninewells, a major regional Right: Operation Safer Travel is a unique partnership between Travel West Midlands and West Midlands Police which aims to combat crime, vandalism and graffiti on our buses.
Centre: The arrival of an additional 140 new easy-access low-floor buses brings TWMs fleet to over 1,800.
16% of the fleet incorporates the latest environmentally friendly Euro III buses.
16 National Express Group PLC hospital.
Revenue growth of 8% has been achieved on these routes in the year.
In January 2003, we were pleased to announce that the Group is further broadening its presence in the London bus market by working with Transport for London on the redevelopment of an existing bus facility in south London.
This facility has the capacity for 120 buses.
We begin bidding for contracts in spring and summer of this year.
Together with our existing Feltham depot we are aiming for an initial London fleet of approximately 200 buses during 2004.
Midland Metro experienced better operational performance, which continues to improve.
We are currently in discussions with Centro to improve its financial performance and stimulate passenger growth.
The new year has begun well.
Birmingham city centre is now in the final stage of redevelopment and we anticipate that the opening of new department stores, such as Selfridges and Debenhams, in autumn 2003 will attract patronage back to the city centre.
Left: Travel Shops provide a one-stop shop for all TWM services.
Open six days a week, they also sell National Express coach tickets, local and national rail tickets and short breaks throughout Europe.
