Board of Directors Michael Davies Chairman Michael Davies has been Chairman since 1992.
During a long and successful career, Michael has been a director of a number of public companies.
He has served as Chairman of Calor Group plc, Perkins Food plc and as Deputy Chairman of GPA plc.
He was a non-executive director of British Airways plc until his resignation in 2002 and continues to act as Chairman of Simon Group plc.
Phil White CBE Chief Executive Phil White has extensive experience of the transport business over many years.
He is a chartered accountant and worked for South and West Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive and Yorkshire Rider in various senior finance roles.
In July 1994 he was appointed Group Finance Director of West Midlands Travel Limited becoming Managing Director in November 1995.
He was appointed to the Board of National Express Group in January 1996 and became the Groups Chief Executive in January 1997.
Adam Walker Finance Director Adam Walker joined the Board in March 2003, as Finance Director.
Since joining the Group in October 2001 as Corporate Development Director he has worked closely with the Groups operational subsidiaries on developing their financial strategies.
Prior to joining the Group he was Director of Corporate Finance at Arthur Andersen and an Associate Director at NatWest Markets.
Barry Gibson Non Executive Director Barry Gibson joined the Board in November 1999.
He served on the Board at BAA plc as Group Retailing Director and was also involved in the Heathrow Express rail link development team.
Until October 2001 he was the Group Chief Executive of Littlewoods Organisation plc.
He is also a non-executive director of William Hill PLC.
Sue Lyons OBE Non Executive Director Sue Lyons joined the Board in May 2001.
Her career has principally been with Rolls Royce in engineering and manufacturing.
She left Rolls Royce to join Precision Castparts Corp. as Managing Director in 1986.
In 1989 Sue returned to Rolls Royce and from 1998 to 2001 held the position of Managing Director, Defence Europe.
In 1999 she was awarded the European Woman of Achievement Award Business Category.
Sue is a Visiting Professor in Principles of Engineering Design at Imperial College.
40 National Express Group PLC Ray OToole Chief Operating Officer Ray OToole joined the Board in November 1999 as Chief Operating Officer.
He has 25 years operational experience in transport.
He spent the early part of his career in various engineering management positions at Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive.
He joined National Express from FirstGroup plc, where he was responsible for its operations in Yorkshire and the North West as both Divisional Director and Group Engineering Director.
Larry Durham Chief Executive Officer, NEC Larry Durham was appointed to the Board in March 2003.
He has over 30 years experience in transport and was the owner and Chief Executive Officer of Durham School Services from 1976 until its acquisition by the Group in 1999.
Since that time, he has successfully led the Groups North American Division.
He is active in several industry associations and is a member of the American Consultants League and the National Safety Council in the United States.
Tim Stevenson Non Executive Director Tim Stevenson joined the Board in February 2001 as the Senior Independent Non Executive Director.
He had a 25-year career at Burmah Castrol PLC, retiring as Chief Executive in August 2000.
He is Chairman of Travis Perkins plc.
Tim is also a non-executive director of the Department for Education and Skills, Partnerships UK PLC and Deputy Chair of Governors of Oxford Brookes University.
David Ross Non Executive Director David Ross joined the Board in February 2001.
He is Chief Operating Officer of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC, which he joined in 1990, where he is primarily responsible for European development.
He is also a director of Big Yellow Group PLC and is a member of the English Sports Council.
Tony McDonald Company Secretary Tony McDonald was appointed Company Secretary in May 2000.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior legal positions with the in-house legal teams at Guardian Royal Exchange and BP and in private practice with Slaughter and May.
