Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2002.
Principal activities, results and future developments Nestor Healthcare Group plc is the holding company of a group of companies in the healthcare sector.
Its principal activities are organised into two divisions, Healthcare Personnel and Healthcare Services, and comprise: the provision of nurses and carers, locum doctors and other medical personnel: the provision of out-of-hours doctors deputising services through the largest independent network of out-of-hours GP services in the UK: the provision of medical staff to the Benets Agency Medical Services: the provision of homecare personnel through a network of franchise branches across the UK: the provision of healthcare and related services to Police Authorities and secure institutions: and the provision of nurse-led disease management services.
The Chairmans Statement, Operating and Financial Reviews on pages 4 to 20 provide a report on the Groups activities, trading results and future developments.
Results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders was 1,908,000 2001: 9,479,000.
An interim dividend of 3.48 pence per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 18th October 2002.
The directors now recommend a final dividend of 6.14 pence per ordinary share, to be paid to shareholders on 6th June 2003.
Following payment of all dividends for the year, totalling 9.62 pence, the deficit of 6,505,000 will be absorbed by the Groups reserves.
Directors The directors who served during the year were I C Alexander, A R Beevor, R I Burns, T C Harris, W F Holmes, M D R Horgan, D Howell, J A S Jewitt, D O Lyon, R M Nicholls, S R Page and S M Booty.
R I Burns was appointed to the Board on 1st January 2002 as an executive director and T C Harris was appointed as an additional independent non-executive director on the same date.
S M Booty was appointed as a director on 19th June 2002.
R I Burns resigned as a director on 30th October 2002.
M D R Horgan resigned as a director on 4th March 2002 but remains a full-time employee of the Group.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, S M Booty will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
W F Holmes, D Howell and S R Page will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
It is expected that M Ellis will be appointed as a director of the Company in April 2003.
Accordingly, a resolution will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for his re-election.
S M Booty, W F Holmes and S R Page have service agreements with the Company that are subject to twelve months notice from the company: D Howell holds ofce by virtue of a letter of appointment, providing for a term of ofce expiring three years from the date of his appointment, extended by three years.
Mr Ellis does not yet have a service agreement with the Company but his offer of employment provides for twelve months notice of termination from the Company.
Directors interests All directors interests, including details of shareholdings, are set out in the Remuneration Report of the Board on pages 31 to 37.
Substantial shareholdings At the date of this report the Company has been notied of the following material interests of 3% or more and non-material interests of 10% or more in its ordinary share capital: Percentage of issued Number share capital AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4,451,871 5.09% Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 4,068,875 4.65% Fidelity International Limited 3,090,333 3.53% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 2,662,346 3.04% Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the year ended 31st December 2002 are given at Note 23 to the financial statements.
28 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual General Meeting special business The Annual General Meeting of the Company will take place at The Millennium Hotel, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP on Tuesday 3rd June 2003 at 12.30 pm.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting may be found in the Notice of Meeting.
"In addition to the routine business of the meeting, the following special business will be transacted: Directors authority to issue shares Resolution 10 The Companies Act 1985 ""the Act"", prevents directors from allotting unissued securities without the authority of shareholders."
In certain circumstances this could be unduly restrictive.
The proposed resolution will give the directors a general authority to issue shares of the Company for cash, within certain constraints, without complying with the statutory pre-emption procedures.
The total number of relevant shares that the directors will have the authority to allot will be 8,500,000 ordinary shares of 10p each representing 9.7% of the share capital currently in issue.
The directors have no present intention to exercise this authority except in relation to the allotment of shares under the Groups share option schemes.
The authority in Resolution 10 will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or on 2nd September 2004, whichever is the earlier.
Restricted disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 11 The proposed special resolution will give the directors a limited authority to issue equity shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings notwithstanding the pre-emption provisions of Section 89 of the Act.
This limited authority would allow the directors to make such issues provided they do not exceed in aggregate an amount equal to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The resolution also contains provisions enabling the directors to take action to overcome certain practical difficulties that could arise in the case of a rights issue.
The authority in Resolution 11 will expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or on 2nd September 2004, whichever is the earlier.
Purchase by the Company of its own shares Resolution 12 The directors consider that it would be advantageous for the Company to renew for a further year the existing authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting, to allow the use of the Companys available cash resources to acquire its own shares in the market for cancellation.
This authority is granted pursuant to Section 162 of the Act.
Accordingly, a special resolution is proposed to authorise the purchase in the market of up to 10% of the issued ordinary shares of the Company at a price of not more than 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days prior to the date of purchase.
The directors do not intend to exercise the Companys power to purchase its own shares other than in circumstances where they consider this to be in the shareholders interests and where this would result in an increase in earnings per share.
They have no present intention to exercise this authority.
Reappointment of  LLP as auditors to the Company Following the conversion of the Groups auditors, , to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1st January 2003,  resigned on 25th February 2003 and the directors appointed their successors,  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Charitable and political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Charitable donations of 1,170 were made in 2002 2001: 1,850.
Taxation status The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
29 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
