Board of Directors Antony Beevor David Lyon Stephen Page Non-executive Chairman Group Finance Director Managing Director, Healthcare 62, was appointed non-executive 41, was appointed to the Board in Services Division Chairman in January 2002, having served January 1998 as Group Finance Director.
40, was appointed to the Board in as a non-executive director since October A chartered accountant, he joined the March 2001, having joined the Group 2000.
Previously, he was head of Corporate Company in 1991 as Group Financial in November 2000.
Previously, he was Finance at Hambros and, from 1988-90, Controller, prior to which he held Managing Director at Priory Healthcare Director General at the Panel of Takeovers positions in Ernst & Whinney, Price Group plc between 1998 and 2000. and Mergers.
He is also Chairman of Waterhouse and Whitbread plc.
Between 1993 and 1998 he was Chief Croda International Plc, a Deputy Executive officer of Oxleas NHS Trust, the Chairman of the Takeover Panel and a NHS provider of community and mental Stephen Booty non-executive director of Helical Bar plc.
Managing Director, Healthcare health services to the London Boroughs Personnel Division of Greenwich, Bexley and Bromley.
He has He is a member of the Boards Audit and 48, was appointed to the Board in June an MBA from the London Business School.
2002, having joined the Group in January 2002, as Managing Director, Healthcare Dr William Holmes Personnel Division.
"He has over twenty Group Medical Director Justin Jewitt Chief Executive years experience in the fast moving 48, was appointed to the Board as a 48, was appointed to the Board in July consumer goods sector, working for non-executive director in January 2000 1996 and as Chief Executive in January ""blue chip"" organisations, marketing and as the Groups executive Medical 1998."
He joined the Group in May 1994 branded goods and driving efficiencies Director in October 2001.
His executive as Managing Director of BNA, its largest through innovative business processes.
responsibilities include the developing subsidiary.
Previously, he was Managing Stephens previous roles include Chief and monitoring of clinical standards Director of two BET businesses, prior Operating officer, Europe at Chep and leading a team to provide clinical to which he worked for Mobil Oil and International and senior sales, governance across the Group.
He is an External Professor of management and operational roles Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians the University of Glamorgan and Chairman at Kimberly-Clark and Scott Paper.
of London and a Fellow of the Royal of its Health Industry Advisory Group.
In addition to his corporate responsibilities, he continues to undertake regular clinical sessions in general practice and occupational medicine.
Antony Beevor Non-executive Chairman Justin Jewitt Chief Executive Stephen Booty Executive Director Stephen Page Executive Director Dr William Holmes Executive Director 26 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Ingrid Alexander, CBE Tim Harris, CBE Robert Nicholls, CBE Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director 51, was appointed to the Board in 55 was appointed to the Board in 63, was appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Formerly a senior NHS manager, management consultant, she is currently in 2000, he was Assistant Managing he is now an independent healthcare a member of the Kings Fund Grants Director of P&O where he was management consultant, lay member Committee and was the final Chairperson responsible for creating and developing of the GMC and an associate consultant of the Central Council for Education and its cruise activities, subsequently on health management for the British Training in Social Work Residuary Body.
fide-merged as P&O Princess and oversaw Council.
He sits on the Resolve Advisory She is a former member of the General the merger of its container business to Board and the Clinical Education Board Social Care Council Advisory Group and form the Anglo-Dutch P&O Nedlloyd.
the Strategy Group for the NHS Chief He is also Chairman of James Fisher and Executives leadership programme and Sons, the marine services provider.
He is the senior non-executive director has worked widely with a number of and Chairman of the Remuneration other organisations in the health and He is a member of the Boards Audit Committee.
He is also a member of social care eld.
Previously, she was and Remuneration Committees.
Assistant Director for Resources at Birmingham City Council.
David Howell Emma Thomas Non-executive Director Group Company Secretary She is a member of the Boards Audit 53, was appointed to the Board in 36 joined the Group as Group Company and Remuneration Committees.
He is a chartered Secretary in August 1998.
A qualied accountant and Chief Financial officer solicitor, she is also Secretary to the and Executive Director of lastminute.
com Boards various Committees and is a plc.
From 1997 to 2001 he was Group trustee of two of the Groups pension Finance Director of First Choice Holidays schemes.
Previously, she was Group PLC and was previously Group Finance Company Secretary of Hazlewood Foods Director at Central Transport Rental plc, Assistant Company Secretary of Group PLC and Chief Executive officer Kingsher plc and an assistant solicitor at GN Comtext Ltd, a major subsidiary at Richards Butler.
He is Chairman of the Boards Audit Committee and is a member of its Remuneration Committee.
Ingrid Alexander Non-executive Director Tim Harris Non-executive Director David Howell Non-executive Director Robert Nicholls Non-executive Director Emma Thomas Group Company Secretary 27 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
