NEXT PLC DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their annual report and audited accounts for the year ended 26 January 2002.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are high street retailing, home shopping and customer services management.
Review of operation Group results are summarised in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 18.
The amount of profit transferred to reserves for the year was 100.8m.
Turnover and operating profit of the Group are shown in greater detail in the analysis on page 24.
The Chief Executives Review on pages 3 to 7 gives details of the Groups operations.
Dividends The directors recommend that a final dividend of 18.5p per share be paid on 1 July 2002 to shareholders on the register of members on 31 May 2002.
Employees The Group has continued its policy of providing employees with information about the Group and ensures that the suggestions and views of employees are taken into account.
A Group Sharesave share option scheme is available to all United Kingdom and Eire employees.
Every possible consideration is given to applications for employment for disabled persons having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
The Group has continued the employment wherever possible of any person who becomes disabled during their employment.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to the detriment of disabled employees.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the Company at 26 January 2002 were three days based on the ratio of trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Treasury operations and financial instruments Next operates a centralised treasury function, which is responsible for managing the liquidity, interest and foreign exchange requirements of the Group.
Its activities are governed by policies approved by the Board of Directors.
Liquidity management The Group manages its cash and funding requirements centrally to maximise interest income and minimise interest expense, whilst ensuring that the Group has sufficient liquid resources to meet the operating needs of its businesses.
Investments of cash surpluses are made through banks and companies which must fulfil credit rating and investment criteria approved by the Board of Directors.
At the year end, these cash surpluses amounted to 160.1m 2001: 85.0m of the Groups net cash balances of 194.0m 2001: 94.4m.
Short term funding requirements are supported by committed bank facilities, currently standing at 110m 2001: 110m.
The Group did not issue, repay or have outstanding any long term debt during the year.
Interest rate management The Board of Directors have approved the use of interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and similar instruments to manage interest rate exposures on its cash and funding position.
No such instruments were utilised during the year.
Foreign currency management The Groups principal foreign exchange exposures arise from the purchase of overseas sourced products.
The Group manages these exposures for up to 24 months ahead in order to fix the cost in sterling.
This hedging activity involves the use of spot, forward and option contracts.
No recognition is made of accrued but unrealised gains or losses on currency instruments until the relevant contract is concluded.
All premiums or costs paid in respect of currency instruments are charged to the profit and loss account when incurred and receipts are not recognised until maturity and settlement has occurred.
The Group does not have a material exposure to currency movements in relation to translation of overseas assets or liabilities and, consequently, does not hedge any such exposure.
ten NEXT PLC DIRECTORS REPORT Donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of 526,000 2001: 446,000.
No donations were made for political purposes.
Substantial shareholders As at 18 March 2002 the following notifications had been received from holders of material interests in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital as shown: No.
of 10p ordinary shares % Henderson Global Investors 14,095,829 4.26 Standard Life Investments 10,582,792 3.20 Putnam Investment Management LLC and Putnam Advisory Company LLC 9,919,371 3.00 Directors The current Board of Directors is shown on page 8 of this Report.
John Barton was appointed to the Board on 15 February 2002 and retires in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
David Jones, Alistair Mitchell-Innes and Derek Netherton retire by rotation.
All are eligible and willing to be re-appointed.
Sir Brian Pitman, Chairman, will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2002.
During the year the Company maintained liability insurance for its directors and officers.
The interests of the directors who held office at 26 January 2002 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 17.
Auditors Ernst & Young, who on 28 June 2001 became a limited liability partnership known as Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Group and their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The following resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, notice of which is on page 46.
Purchase of own shares Special resolution 8 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of the Companys ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 33,000,000 or 10% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting, b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than 5% over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase, and c the renewed authority expires on whichever is the earlier of 18 months after the date on which the resolution is passed or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2003.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability at the rate of 50 pence per 100 or part thereof of the consideration paid by the Company.
The liability will be a liability of the Company.
Your directors intend that the authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to be in the interest of shareholders generally.
Shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled.
