NEXT PLC DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS David Jones CBE, Deputy Chairman Sir Brian Pitman, Chairman Aged 59 Aged 70 Joined the Group and was appointed to the Board in 1986.
Became a member of the Board and Chairman in 1998.
He is also Appointed Chief Executive in 1988 and became Deputy a non-executive director of Carlton Communications Plc, Chairman in 2001.
Previous experience includes twenty years in Carphone Warehouse Group PLC and Tomkins PLC: and a senior a large home shopping and consumer services group and five advisor to Morgan Stanley.
He retired in April 2001 from Lloyds years as Chief Executive of a UK listed home shopping plc.
TSB Group where he was Chief Executive for thirteen years then Chairman for four years.
Simon Wolfson, Chief Executive Alistair Mitchell-Innes, Aged 34 Senior independent non-executive director Joined the Group in 1991.
Appointed Retail Sales Director in Aged 68 1993, became responsible for NEXT Directory in 1995 and was Became a member of the Board in 1989.
He is also Chairman of appointed to the Board in 1997 with additional responsibilities Next Pension Trustees Limited and Anglo & Overseas Trust plc.
Appointed Managing Director of the NEXT Brand in Formerly Chief Executive of Nabisco UK, he has held senior 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001. non-executive appointments in other UK plcs and is also a Trustee of the British Heart Foundation.
Christos Angelides, Group Product Director Aged 38 Ann Burdus Joined the Group in 1986, after graduating with a business Aged 68 degree and marketing diploma, and was appointed to the Board Became a member of the Board in 1993.
Experienced in all product divisions at NEXT including a non-executive director of Prudential Corporation plc and a special period in the Companys sourcing office in Hong Kong.
trustee of the St. Bartholomews and The Royal London Charitable Foundation.
Previous experience includes a career in David Keens, Group Finance Director advertising, marketing and market research.
Aged 48 Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in Derek Netherton 1991.
Previous experience includes seven years in the Aged 57 accountancy profession and nine years in the UK and overseas Became a member of the Board in 1996.
He is also a operations of a multi-national manufacturer of consumer goods.
non-executive director of Greggs plc, Hiscox plc, St. Jamess Place Capital plc and Plantation & General Investments plc.
Formerly a Andrew Varley, Group Property Director director of J. Henry Schroder Co. Limited and currently a member Aged 51 of the Schroder Exempt Property Unit Trust Supervisory Board.
Joined the Group in 1985 and was appointed to the Board in 1990.
Previous experience includes twelve years in retail and John Barton commercial property.
Aged 56 Became a member of the Board in 2002.
He is also a nonBOARD COMMITTEES executive director of Hammerson plc, Sherwood International Audit Committee plc, Wellington Underwriting plc and WH Smith plc.
Formerly D N D Netherton Committee Chairman Chief Executive of JIB Group plc for thirteen years and Chairman R J O Barton of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for five years.
J A Burdus A C Mitchell-Innes Company Secretary This committee reviews the Groups internal control, accounting W R Barnes policies and its financial reporting.
Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby, Remuneration Committee Leicester, LE19 4AT A C Mitchell-Innes Committee Chairman Registered in England, no.
35161 R J O Barton J A Burdus Registrars D N D Netherton Lloyds TSB Registrars, This committee sets the remuneration of the Groups executive The Causeway, directors.
Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Auditors Nomination Committee Ernst & Young LLP Sir Brian Pitman Committee Chairman R J O Barton Merchant Bankers J A Burdus Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited A C Mitchell-Innes D N D Netherton Stockbrokers This committee considers the appointment of the Groups directors.
