18 Novar annual report 2002 The Board Sir Graham Hearne CBE 65 Jurgen Hintz 60 Non-executive Chairman.
Appointed Group Chief Executive and to the Board in July 1999.
Chairman executive Director since of Catlin Westgen Group Ltd and November 1997.
He was formerly Deputy Chairman of the Gallaher President and Chief Executive Group plc.
He is also a nonof CarnaudMetalbox S. A. before executive Director of NM Rothschild which he was Executive Vice- & Sons Ltd and Braemar Seascope President and a main Board Director Group plc.
His previous appointments of the Procter & Gamble Company.
include Group Managing Director of Carless, Capel and Leonard plc, Finance Director of Courtaulds plc and Chief Executive and then Chairman of Enterprise Oil Plc.
Mike McKeon 46 Charles Korbell 53 Appointed to the Board in April Executive Director since March 1997.
2000 as Group Finance Director and He is the Chief Executive of the executive Director.
He was previously Security Printing Services sector and Finance Director of the aerospace has been with the Group since 1971. activities of Rolls-Royce Plc and of the beverage packing sector of CarnaudMetalbox S. A.
Before that he spent some years at .
Dr. Gerry Murphy 47 Stephen Howard 49 Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director.
He is the Chief to the Board in June 2000.
He is the Executive Officer of Kingfisher plc Group Chief Executive of Cookson and was previously Chief Executive Group plc and is a non-executive Officer of Carlton Communications Director of Slough Estates plc.
Oliver Stocken 61 Sir Geoffrey Whalen CBE 67 Non-executive Director.
Appointed Non-executive Director since to the Board in June 2000.
He is Chairman of Deputy Chairman of 3i Group plc Coventry Building Society and a Group Company Secretary and a non-executive Director of non-executive Director of Peugeot Karen Richardson Pilkington plc, The Rank Group plc, Motor Company plc and Federal Rutland Trust PLC, Stanhope plc and Mogul Corporation.
Members of the Nomination GUS PLC.
He was previously Finance Committee, Remuneration Director of Barclays PLC.
