10 Novar annual report 2002 Security Printing Services fast track cheques TM Clarke Americans new Internet solution, ConnectionPoint, offers their financial institution partners a dynamic, simplified cheque ordering application that enables convenient online ordering for cheques and cheque-related products within the financial institution branches.
Security Printing Services Headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, USA, Clarke American provides cheques and cheque-related products, contact centre services and direct response marketing solutions to more than 4,000 U. S. financial institutions.
The company operates a national network of 12 electronically linked production facilities and 5 customer service centres throughout the United States enabling partners and customers to place orders any time using various channels such as Internet, telephone, and fax.
Direct Response Marketing capabilities add value to the chequing programme by offering unique ways for financial institutions to market directly to the customer based on their specific product needs.
Clarke Americans investment in technology has led to significant reductions in cycle time, error and waste reduction, quality enhancements, and increased customer satisfaction.
Clarke Americans performance is based on its investment in technology, customer-focused business strategy, and commitment to continuous process improvement.
Clarke American is a recipient of the 2001 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award given by the U. S. Department of Commerce.
11 Novar annual report 2002 ConnectionPoint, one of Clarke Americans newest advancements in technology, enables branch associates to enter product orders while using an interactive catalogue and viewing the account holders cheque image as it is being created.
The innovative branch ordering solution uses online technology to offer pointand-click navigation, drop-down menus, user help features, price display, and more.
Clarke American partners also have the opportunity to co-brand the online ordering site with their own company logo and colours.
Charles Korbell, President and CEO, Security Printing Services says, This is a great example of Clarke Americans commitment to our partners by providing innovative products and services.
Our goal is continually to delight our partners and their account holders by simplifying the ordering experience with enhanced online solutions.
