19 Novar annual report 2002 Report of the Directors The Directors present their annual report to shareholders, together As at 26 February 2003, the Companys register of substantial with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002. interests in shares showed that the Company had been notified of the following interests, being 3% or more of its issued Ordinary Activities share capital.
The Companys businesses are divided into three business sectors Percentage Intelligent Building Systems, Indalex Aluminum Solutions and Number of holding Security Printing Services.
Ordinary at date of Name shares notification In the Intelligent Building Systems sector, the Companys activities Active Value Fund 72,028,859 16.73 include the manufacture and supply of a wide range of electrical, Fidelity Investments 44,185,694 10.26 electronic and control products for industrial, commercial and Mourant & Co Trustees 22,085,786 5.13 residential requirements, mainly in the UK, continental Europe and Clerical Medical 14,031,626 3.26 North America.
Standard Life 12,991,780 3.02 The main business of the Indalex Aluminum Solutions companies Company Nominee Service is the extrusion and supply of engineered aluminium components A Company Nominee Service is available to private shareholders in North America for diverse markets including information which allows them to hold their shares in uncertificated form in technology, customer durables, electrical, building and construction CREST, the London Stock Exchange share settlement system.
Shareholders wishing to join this service should contact the Registrars.
In North America the Security Printing Services sectors activities Dividend Reinvestment Plan include the production of cheques and other financial business forms The Plan offers Ordinary shareholders the opportunity to invest their and the provision of specialised services to the financial institutions.
cash dividends into Novar shares, which are bought in the market at the prevailing market price.
Once shareholders have decided to Accounts participate in the Plan, their future dividends will continue to be Group Results invested on a regular basis in Novar shares until they decide to Group profit for the year after taxation and minority interests withdraw from the Plan, or the Plan is terminated.
At present some amounted to 37.2m.
It is recommended that this amount be dealt 20% of shareholders participate in the Plan.
For further details with as follows: shareholders should contact the Registrars.
m Annual General Meeting Ordinary Dividends Authority to allot shares and waiver of pre-emption rights interim paid 11.9 The Companies Act 1985 contains provisions making it necessary final proposed 27.0 for Directors to obtain authority from the shareholders for, first, the Preference and B Dividends allotment of unissued shares or convertible securities except under paid and accrued 10.6 employee share schemes and, secondly, the issue of Ordinary shares Retained loss 12.3 or convertible securities for cash other than by way of rights to Total 37.2 existing shareholders or under employee share schemes.
Although the Directors have no plans at present to issue new shares apart from Further details of Group trading and the financial position at the end those required for the employee share schemes, allotment to those of the year can be found within the operating review and financial converting convertible securities, or any other obligations or review on pages 12 to 17. potential obligations to allot, they believe that it is in the interests of the Company for these authorities to be given to the Board.
Dividends Ordinary Shares Resolution No.
6 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution to An interim dividend of 2.9p net 2001: 2.9p net per Ordinary share 7 renew the authority granted to the Board at last years Annual of 27 9p was paid on 26 October 2002.
The Directors recommend General Meeting for a further five year period to allot unissued the payment of a final dividend of 6.6p net 2001: 6.6p net to bring share capital up to a maximum of 39,862,000 in nominal value, the total dividend for 2002 to 9.5p 2001: 9.5p.
The 2002 final representing approximately 33% of the number of Ordinary shares dividend will be payable on 6 June 2003 to Ordinary shareholders in issue.
It is the intention of your Board to continue the practice registered on 2 May 2003. of renewing this authority annually.
Preference Shares At last years Annual General Meeting the Directors were The next dividend on the 7.25p Preference shares will be paid on empowered until the conclusion of the 2003 Annual General 1 June 2003 to Preference shareholders registered on 2 May 2003.
Meeting to make issues of Ordinary shares or convertible securities for cash, other than to existing shareholders pro rata to their B Shares holdings.
The Directors believe that, in the interest of flexibility, The next dividend will be paid on 20 May 2003 to holders of B the power should be continued.
Accordingly, Special Resolution shares registered on 11 April 2003.
7 will be proposed to give the Directors authority to waive pre-emption rights over up to 5,979,000 representing approximately Share Capital 5% in nominal value of Ordinary shares for a further period until the Particulars of the share capital issued by the Company during the end of the Annual General Meeting in the year 2004.
The proposal year and options held under the Companys share option schemes conforms with the pre-emption guidelines issued by the investment are reported in note 19 to the accounts on pages 39 to 40. protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders interests are safeguarded.
20 Novar annual report 2002 Report of the Directors continued Purchase of own shares The Audit Committee is conscious of the need to ensure that the Last year, shareholders approved the purchase by the Company of objectivity and independence of the external auditors is maintained, its own Ordinary and Preference shares.
In the event the Company and keeps under review the nature, extent and fees paid in respect did not buy back any shares during the year.
of the non-audit services provided by them.
The Directors consider it desirable that the Company should again The Group Operating Committee includes the executive Directors seek authority from shareholders to have the flexibility to make and heads of business sectors as well as several functional heads, market purchases of its own Ordinary and or Preference shares up with Mr Hintz as the chairman.
It acts as a general management to specified limits.
8 and 9 to this effect will committee for running all the major business affairs of the Company.
therefore be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors would plan to use this authority if and when they considered it to be Sir Geoffrey Whalen has been appointed the senior non-executive in the best interests of the Company and the intention is to continue Director.
to seek to renew it each year.
Internal Control Statement The consent of holders of the 7.25p Preference shares to the passing The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal of these resolutions will be sought at a separate Class Meeting control, including financial, operational and compliance controls following the Annual General Meeting.
and risk management, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can provide Policy on payment of creditors only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and misstatement or loss.
conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with The Board has adopted a Risk Management Policy and Group Risk these terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all the Framework which establish a process for identifying, evaluating and relevant terms and conditions.
At 31 December 2002, the Companys managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has trade creditors represented 62 days 2001: 46 days of annual purchases.
been in place for the year under review and up to and including the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The process is Corporate Governance reviewed annually by the Board and accords with the guidance set out The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require the in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Company to include in its annual report and accounts a statement of how the Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance The Board has charged the Group Chief Executive, through the and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code and whether the Group Operating Committee, with responsibility for implementing Company has complied throughout the accounting period.
This policies on internal control.
report describes how the principles of governance set out in the Code are applied in relation to Directors, Directors Remuneration Sector Chief Executives are responsible for risk management within separately on pages 23 to 26, Financial Reporting and Internal their sectors, including embedding the risk process in newly acquired Controls, and the Audit Committee.
businesses, and for notifying the Board, via the Group Operating Committee, where exposure to risks is of a material nature.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the Information on these significant risks, together with the relevant Combined Code provisions throughout the year under review.
control and monitoring procedures, is reviewed for completeness and accuracy by the Group Operating Committee.
This information The Board consists of three executive Directors and five independent is presented to the Board for the Directors to assess the effectiveness non-executive Directors as described on page 18.
The Board meets of the system of internal control.
In addition, the Group Operating at least eight times during the year to deal with matters which are Committee monitors the Groups significant risks on an ongoing material to the Group which it has reserved for its own decision.
The Board receives and reviews minutes of the meetings of the Group Operating Committee, in addition to oral reports from the The Board operates through four main committees.
respective heads of business sectors and functional heads as required.
The Nomination Committee consists of all the non-executive Internal and external audit, and other related providers of assurance, Directors with Sir Graham Hearne as the chairman.
It deals with perform reviews of control activities and provide regular written and Board appointments and departures.
oral reports to the Board via the Audit Committee.
The Remuneration Committee consists of all the non-executive The Board has assessed the significant risks and opportunities to the Directors with Sir Geoffrey Whalen as the chairman.
commercial success of the business from social, environmental and ethical issues as part of its regular risk management reporting and The Audit Committee comprises all the non-executive Directors with review process.
Dr Murphy as the chairman.
The responsibility of this committee is to satisfy itself that the Companys annual and interim accounts and Corporate Social Responsibility other major financial statements issued by the Board follow generally The Group is committed to developing policies and achieving high accepted accounting principles and give a fair and meaningful standards in all facets of Corporate Social Responsibility.
A separate account of the Groups affairs.
The committee also considers and report on Corporate Social Responsibility appears on page 22, which resolves any matters raised by the external auditors and brought to among other things includes statements on employment policies, the attention of the Board on any aspect of the accounts or the health and safety, the environment and charitable donations.
Groups control and audit procedures.
21 Novar annual report 2002 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Directors Interests The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial a Directors Interests in shares statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of The beneficial interests of the Directors in office at the end of the the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2002 financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In and at 1 January 2002, including the beneficial interests of their preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: families, are set out in the table below.
1 January 2002 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them or date of consistently: 31 December 2002 appointment Ordinary shares Ordinary shares make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and 7 7 Directors of 27 9p of 27 9p prudent: Sir Graham Hearne 12,253 11,435 state whether applicable accounting standards have been B J Hintz 1,822,600 1,517,860 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and S L Howard 13,158 13,158 explained in the financial statements.
C L Korbell 70,318 67,318 M J E McKeon 21,868 21,868 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Dr G M Murphy 20,378 20,378 which disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time the financial O H J Stocken 58,445 26,547 position of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that Sir Geoffrey Whalen 20,000 20,000 the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Notes: Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and i During the year holdings of Ordinary shares of Sir Graham Hearne, Mr B J Hintz, detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Mr C L Korbell and Mr O H J Stocken increased by 818: 304,740: 3,000 and 31,898 respectively within a price range of 102.0p to 154.0p per share.
ii Mr I G Ashby who was a Director during the year bought 3,000 Ordinary shares Research and development at a price of 148.0p per share The Groups businesses commit resources to research and iii The executive Directors of the Company are deemed to have an interest in the development to assist them in securing their competitive positions 20,552,316 and 1,533,470 Ordinary shares held by the Novar Employee Trust and Novar Performance Partnership Plan Share Trust respectively.
iv None of the Directors held any interest in the 7.25p Convertible Preference shares or B shares of the Company.
Auditors v None of the Directors held any non-beneficial interest in any of the shares of the Deloitte & Touche have indicated their willingness to continue as Company.
vi None of the Directors held interests in the shares or loans of the Companys auditors.
5 to reappoint them under the provisions subsidiaries at any time during the year.
of Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985 will be proposed at the vii No other changes occurred in any of these interests between 31 December 2002 Annual General Meeting.
and 26 February 2003. b Directors share options Directors Details of Directors share options are disclosed in the Report to The names of the present Directors of the Company are shown on shareholders on Directors remuneration on pages 23 to 26. page 18, and all were Directors of the Company throughout the year.
Mr I G Ashby resigned as a Director on 15 October 2002.
By order of the Board Sir Graham Hearne and Mr M J E McKeon retire by rotation K Richardson under Article 95.
Each of them, being eligible, offers himself for Group Company Secretary reappointment as a Director.
Details of the notice period contained 26 February 2003 in the contract of service of Mr McKeon are included in the Report to shareholders on Directors remuneration on pages 23 to 26.
Sir Graham Hearne, being a non-executive Director, does not have a service contract with the Company.
A brief biography of each of the Directors is included on page 18.
During 2002, no Director had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company as defined in The Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
