08 Novar annual report 2002 Indalex Aluminum Solutions visualising virtually John Daly had an idea for a redesigned gravity rung lock.
A matter of hours later Indalex's design engineering team at their Toronto, Ontario plant had his new part designed right before his eyes... and with his active participation... Indalex Aluminum Solutions Indalex Aluminum Solutions is North Americas second Indalex International focuses on developing import and largest supplier of extruded aluminum components and export opportunities and coordinates international supply services.
The company serves the building and construction, arrangements with Asia Aluminum Group, Indalexs information technology, machinery and equipment, associate in The Peoples Republic of China.
Indalex Metals consumer durables, transportation, electrical, automotive operates Indalloy aluminum casting plants in the United and other industry sectors.
The company has almost four million square feet of manufacturing space at 16 extrusion plants in the United States of America and Canada.
It offers customers more than 40 extrusion presses in a wide range of sizes, a variety of fabrication capabilities, 11 electrostatic paint lines and five anodizing lines including some of the largest capabilities in North America.
09 Novar annual report 2002 John Daly one of Indalexs customers had an idea for a redesigned gravity rung lock.
A matter of hours later Indalexs design engineering team at their Toronto, Ontario plant had his new part designed right before his eyes... and with his active participation John Daly had never met the Indalex design engineer.
He didnt have to travel the 510 miles that separate his New Haven plant and the Indalex facility.
He didnt have to deal with timeconsuming back and forth design changes.
He simply turned on his computer, accessed his Internet connection, dialled the Indalex telephone number and watched as the idea in his head was transformed into a precisely designed rung lock that would become a common part for his companys aluminum and fibreglass extension ladders.
