P&O Annual Report 2002 34 Report of the directors Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal group activities, review of operations and results The operating and financial review on pages 6 to 25 describes the principal activities, operations, performance and financial position of the Group.
The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 51 to 54 and in the accompanying notes.
Further information is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5.
The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are listed on pages 89 and 90.
Principal changes in the Group On 13 August 2002, the Group purchased the remaining 40 per cent of P&O Stena Line from Stena Line for approximately 152 million in cash.
On 23 October 2002, the Group acquired certain refrigerated logistics assets of ProLogis in the USA for approximately US$70 million in cash.
On 31 December 2002, the Group completed the sale of its Contract Logistics business to Wincanton plc for 152.5 million in cash.
Directors A list of the directors of the Company is given on pages 26 and 27, including the dates of their appointment.
Douglas Anderson resigned as a director on 31 July 2002.
Richard Hein and Graeme Dunlop retired as directors on 17 May and 31 December 2002 respectively.
Sir David Brown was appointed a director on 16 January 2002.
Joanne Curin resigned as Finance Director and from the Board on 5 March 2003.
Sir Bruce MacPhail will stand down from the Board and cease to be Managing Director on 31 December 2003 and Robert Woods will become Chief Executive from 1 January 2004.
It is intended to appoint Nick Luff as the Chief Financial officer of the Company after completion of the proposed transaction between P&O Princess Cruises plc and the Carnival Corporation.
Assuming that Nick Luff has been appointed to the Board prior to the forthcoming annual general meeting, in accordance with the Regulations of the Company he will retire at the meeting as a new appointee to the Board and being eligible will offer himself for re-election.
In accordance with the regulations of the Company, Lord Sterling, Michael Gradon and Michael Everard will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting and being eligible will also offer themselves for re-election.
The unexpired term of the letters of appointment of Sir David Brown, Michael Everard, Sir John Collins and Rodney Galpin are given within the directors remuneration report on page 41.
Details of the directors remuneration and their interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 39 to 48.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend of 9.0p per 1 nominal of deferred stock.
This would bring the total cash dividend for the year to 13.5p per 1 nominal of deferred stock.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 4 June 2003 to deferred stockholders on the register at the close of business on 21 March 2003.
Employees The Company is committed to keeping employees throughout the Group informed of performance, development and progress through its established system of briengs by management, the Groups bi-monthly newspaper, Wavelength, and widely distributed news and information bulletins.
There is a European Works Council, known as the P&O European Forum, the purpose of which is to inform and consult with employee representatives on transnational issues.
Members are elected in the UK and Ireland and either elected or appointed, in accordance with national laws, in other countries.
The P&O European Forum meets twice a year.
The Companys aim is to meet the objectives of the code of good practice on the employment of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and abilities.
It remains Company policy to retain employees who become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialised training where appropriate.
Employees are able to share in the Groups results through performance related bonus schemes which are widely applied in the Group.
The P&O 1994 Save As You Earn Stock Option Scheme the P&O SAYE scheme was approved by stockholders in 1994.
Under the P&O SAYE scheme, eligible employees may be invited to apply for options during the six weeks after the release of the interim or final results.
The option granted to each individual is related to the amount of the individuals contract to save a xed sum not exceeding 250 per month over a period of three, five or seven years with a financial institution nominated by the directors.
In view of the global nature of the P&O Group and the benets of encouraging wide employee share ownership, the Company believes it is in the best interests of stockholders for the P&O SAYE scheme to be extended to overseas employees of the Group subject, where necessary, to adjustments to reect local securities or other laws or scal requirements.
Accordingly, stockholder approval to adopt plans based on the P&O P&O Annual Report 2002 Report of the directors 35 SAYE scheme for the benefit of overseas employees was granted in 2002.
The first grant under the P&O Global Sharesave Plan will be made in April 2003.
The P&O 2000 Executive Stock Option Plan P&O Option Plan was approved by stockholders on 20 October 2000.
Under the P&O Option Plan options may be granted twice a year, during the six weeks after the release of the interim or final results.
The life of options is ten years and the price at which options can be granted is governed by the market price of deferred stock at the time of grant.
There are restrictions on the total number of options that can be granted in normal circumstances to any one executive and the scheme also contains limits on the total amount of stock over which options may be granted.
The rules of the P&O Option Plan reect current institutional investor guidelines by requiring that options granted under the Plan can normally be exercised only if a performance target has been met.
Options granted under this scheme will not normally be exercisable unless the growth in P&Os headline earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock as dened in the rules over a period of at least three years from grant exceeds the percentage increase in the UK Index of Retail Prices by an average of at least three per cent per annum.
The rules permit the adoption of a different basis if at the time of a grant of options it is thought appropriate to do so, provided that the replacement conditions are no less demanding.
Corporate responsibility, safety and the environment There are Group policies for health, safety, welfare, the environment and social responsibility.
They are communicated to all staff.
Each operating company is required to produce their own policies and management systems to reect Group policies and best industry practice in its sector of business.
The Company also encourages the adoption of similar policies by its significant joint ventures.
Monitoring of compliance with Group policies is maintained by periodic assessment under the direction of the Head of Group Safety and Environment.
Reports are reviewed by Peter Smith, the Board director responsible for safety, environmental and social responsibility issues.
In addition a monthly report on these matters is submitted to the Board.
A separate report details the measures taken to minimise the environmental impact of Group businesses.
It is available on the internet at www.
com or by request to the Head of Group Safety and Environment.
Share capital There may be occasions when it would be advantageous for the Company to issue stock for cash without a pre-emptive offer to existing stockholders, and since 1989 stockholders in general meeting have extended the authority for such issues originally given at the annual general meeting held on 6 May 1988, which authority also permits new limits to be prescribed.
Stockholders consent is therefore sought to resolution 10 set out in the notice of meeting authorising the directors to issue a specified amount of stock for cash, not exceeding 34 million nominal in aggregate the same limit as last year, without first being required to offer such stock to existing stockholders.
34 million is approximately 5 per cent of the deferred stock currently in issue.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2004 or on 16 August 2004, whichever is the earlier.
Stockholders approval of resolution 10 set out in the notice of meeting, which will be proposed as special business, will also enable the directors, pursuant to resolution 8 passed at the annual general meeting held on 6 May 1988, to issue redeemable securities and convertible securities and to make technical provision for the manner of conversion.
There may be circumstances when, having regard to gearing levels, other investment opportunities and the effect on earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock, it would be advantageous for the Company to purchase its own stock.
Any stock purchased by the Company would be cancelled and the amount of stock in issue reduced accordingly.
The existing authority for the Company to purchase its own stock, given at the annual general meeting held on 17 May 2002, expires at the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held on 16 May 2003.
Stockholders consent is therefore sought to resolution 11 set out in the notice of meeting to enable the directors to purchase up to 34 million nominal of deferred stock approximately 5 per cent of the deferred stock currently in issue, subject to the limits expressed in the resolution.
The authority will expireat the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2004, and it will be exercised only if there is a resultant increase in earnings per 1 nominal of deferred stock and if implementation of the proposal is for the benefit of stockholders generally.
Holders of the 5.5 per cent concessionary stock concessionary stock should note that a purchase by the Company of deferred stock gives them the right to repayment of their stock at par together with accrued interest and dividends whether earned or declared or not calculated at the date of such purchase.
This should not, however, be construed as a recommendation to such holders to exercise their right to repayment.
Holders of concessionary stock should note that it may not be in their best interests to exercise the right of repayment and should seek their own personal financial advice in deciding whether or not to do so.
If any concessionary stockholder wishes to exercise the right of repayment in the event of a buy-back of deferred stock by the Company pursuant to the authority being sought at the 2003 annual general meeting, then they should write to the Company Secretary at the head ofce of the Company.
P&O Annual Report 2002 36 Report of the directors Substantial stockholdings As at the date of this report, the Company has been notied that the following have an interest in the Companys stock amounting to 3 per cent or more of the relevant class of the called up capital: Percentage Class Holding of class Franklin Resources, Inc deferred 27,364,645 4.01 Legal & General Investment Management deferred 20,501,366 3.00 Prudential Corporation plc deferred 22,407,716 3.28 Schroder Investment Management Ltd deferred 68,255,066 10.00 UBS Asset Management Ltd deferred 34,648,042 5.09 Cleaning Tokens Ltd preferred 102,731 3.07 Ecclesiastical Insurance Group preferred 800,000 24.00 Scottish Provident Limited preferred 681,000 20.36 The Investment Company plc preferred 514,151 15.37 Going concern The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with terms and conditions agreed when the orders are placed.
Although the Company does not follow any code or standard on payment policy, where payment terms have not been specifically agreed invoices dated in one calendar month are paid close to the end of the following month.
These policies are understood by the purchasing and finance departments.
The Company has procedures for dealing promptly with complaints and disputes.
The Company had 35 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2002.
Implications of the euro The Group has successfully integrated the introduction of the euro into its operating systems.
The Group has not incurred any significant costs to date.
Donations During the year ended 31 December 2002 the Group contributed 715,000 2001 722,000 for charitable purposes.
The Group made no contributions to European Union political parties during the year 2001 nil.
Auditors Stockholders consent is sought to resolutions 8 and 9 set out in the notice of meeting proposing to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as independent auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
By order of the Board RM Gradon Director and Secretary 6 March 2003
