P&O Annual Report 2002 02 International strength, local focus International strength, local focus The Companies operating under the P&O flag are world leaders in their markets, delivering first-class service to customers The Group P&O Ports P&O is a worldwide transport and One of the worlds pre-eminent container terminal operators and stevedores, with logistics company.
Operating under the 24 container terminals and logistics operations in over 90 ports, P&O Ports has widely recognised house flag and brand a presence in 17 countries across the world.
Its main service is containerised name, P&Os businesses are focused on cargo handling based on long term concessions to operate terminals in ports achieving world class operational and which offer strong growth opportunities.
Other services include: general cargo, financial performance and on delivering bulk cargo, roll on roll off facilities and cruise passenger terminal management.
first class service to customers.
P&O also provides a range of maritime services, including for the offshore oil and gas industry.
Strategy P&O is committed to focusing its Strategy Ports is committed to achieving strong profit growth by increasing scale organically capital on those businesses which are market through local trade growth and market share gain at existing locations, by expanding current leaders in sectors which offer strong growth capacity or developing acquiring new terminal facilities and by improving the efficiency of its and value creation opportunities.
Consequently, container terminal operations through spreading best practice and effective portfolio management.
capital is being re-allocated within the Group.
The significant restructuring of the Group continues to be supported by the considerable value that is being realised from the Property portfolio.
Geographical presence P&O equity share teu twenty foot equivalent unit.
This is the standard size of a container 8.9m and is a common measure of capacity in the container business.
Volume of teu handled in 2002 P&O Annual Report 2002 International strength, local focus 03 P&O Ferries P&O Cold Logistics Other operations P&O is a household name in the UK for Cold Logistics provides a full range P&O Nedlloyd Container Line is a ferry travel.
The majority of the business of logistics services, ranging from 50:50 joint venture between P&O and Royal was re-branded under one name, P&O refrigerated warehousing to complex Nedlloyd NV.
It is one of the worlds largest Ferries, in 2002 following the Doverretail supply chain management, for container shipping companies operating 157 Calais operation becoming wholly owned temperature controlled products.
P&O Nedlloyds global liner network offers 84 routes and 235 by P&O.
P&O Ferries carries freight and It is one of the worlds few international direct call ports.
It has an extensive inland tourist traffic between the UK and temperature controlled logistics transport capability and offers a wide range France, Spain, Belgium and Holland.
companies and has strong competitive of value added services.
P&O Irish Sea operates routes for freight positions in the USA, Australasia and and tourist passenger traffic between the South America.
P&O Properties has 40% of its assets UK, France and Ireland.
P&O has a fleet in the US, including business parks in of 32 ships.
P&O Ferrymasters, the Atlanta and Denver and a commercial office European unit load transporter development in Boston.
It also has major business, is now part of Ferries.
development sites in the UK and Germany, some resort interests in Spain and Australia and a small investment property portfolio Strategy Ferries is focusing on routes with Strategy Cold Logistics is aiming to achieve in the UK and USA.
strong tourist demand but also with a significant strong growth by leveraging its competitive freight component.
It aims to: deliver a advantages in the USA, Australia, New consistently high quality service to customers Zealand and Argentina via: extending existing To be the best at everything we do: and exploit contractual relationships with major retail the opportunities of a consolidated ferry brand customers in Australia and the USA: gaining an and the associated economies of scale and increased share of food manufacturers business purchasing power.
in current markets: and maximising yields from current infrastructure.
Geographical presence Geographical presence 15.1m 6.7m Passengers carried in 2002 Pallets handled in 2002
