Review of operations continued pioneering technologies At ARM, we always remember that users of ARM We made the first deliveries of the ARM11 Powered devices will continue to expect new products microprocessor cores family in the fourth quarter of the to have an increasing level of functionality: we see our year.
The ARM11 cores were developed together with job as delivering the best combination of processing our PrimeXsys Platform to create a fully compatible and performance and low-power usage from ARM cores to extendable system.
The cores feature our innovative facilitate that.
We have steadily expanded and improved high-performance, low-power instruction set architecture our architecture over the years and, during 2002, which facilitates the building of the next generation of introduced a number of new products which significantly high-volume products, ranging from mobile phones, extend our architectures performance.
PDAs and games consoles to wireless networking solutions and automotive powertrain control systems.
In April, we announced the ARM11 microarchitecture and, in October, announced the first implementations Our objective is to provide the best and most of our ARM1136J-S and our ARM1136JF-S cores.
We offer the widest range of These are highly flexible and deliver new levels of cores and peripheral IP in the market because our focus performance, functionality and flexibility.
They provide is on meeting all our Partners needs.
Our integrated the technology for innovative SoC design for a wide products give our Partners flexibility and choice range of applications which touch our everyday lives, and have led to us becoming the industry leaders from hand-held portable communicators, such as PDAs, in enabling solutions.
There is a real benefit to our and internet appliances, to digital TVs, laser printers, Partners if they standardise on the ARM architecture: and automotive and industrial control systems.
they can streamline their processes by training their engineers to use one architecture and to work with The ARM1136JF-S core was recently selected as the one set of tools.
winner of the 2002 Microprocessor Report Analysts Choice Award in the Embedded IP category.
We have licensed our technology to many of the worlds leading semiconductor companies.
Their confidence We announced our ARM11 PrimeXsys Platform at in it is evidenced by the increasing number of the same time as the ARM11 family of cores.
This ARM Powered products in production today.
platform provides system developers with all the hardware, software and verification IP they need to design SoC solutions.
It includes out-of-the-box support for Real Time Operating Systems RTOS and open operating systems, such as SymbianOS and WindowsCE.
The platform increases design productivity and saves time and cost for developers.
We extended the PrimeXsys family when we introduced our Dual Core Platform for networking applications.
This enables the performance of devices, such as modems, routers and switches, to be improved without a concomitant increase in heat and power, and also enables developers to integrate their own IP while retaining the flexibility to meet rapidly-changing market demands.
Above right: Sahara Desert, Ouargia, Algeria.
Innovative means are needed to make deserts bloom.
ARMs innovations create new ways of solving problems.
12 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 ARM has always focused on technical innovation and, within that, on delivering high performance at low power and low cost.
We continue to increase performance and reduce power.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 13
