9 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors have pleasure in presenting As Trustees of the PizzaExpress PLC UK Messrs Metcalf and Page, and Ms Walker their annual report on the affairs of the Employee Benefit Trust, Messrs Campbell, retire in accordance with Article 95 of the Group together with the audited Metcalf and Colne had a non-beneficial Articles of Association and, being eligible, financial statements for the year ended interest in 75,000 ordinary shares held by offer themselves for re-election at the 30 June 2002. the Trust for the purposes of future Annual General Meeting.
Having been matching under the Companys All appointed since the last General Meeting, Employee Share Incentive Plan.
These shares Messrs Campbell and Thomson also retire Results and dividends were purchased pursuant to authorities and, being eligible, offer themselves for The results for the year ended 30 June 2002 granted at the 2001 Annual General election.
None of the executive directors are set out in the Group profit and Meeting at a price of 638 pence per share, has a right to more than one years notice loss account on page 16.
The directors and represent 0.1% of the Companys of termination.
recommend the payment of a final dividend issued share capital.
of 8.0p per ordinary share 2001: 6.4p Details in respect of the experience of all payable on 1 November 2002, leaving On 23 July 2002, Matthew Allen resigned directors are given on page 7. retained profits of 18.1m to be transferred from the Board.
Other than this, since the to reserves.
year end and up to the date of this report there have been no changes in the directors or their interests.
Share capital Principal activities and review of Details of changes in the Companys issued the business Details of directors interests in share options share capital during the year are set out The principal activities of the Group during the year are disclosed in note in note 16 to the financial statements.
The are operating restaurants, franchising 3 to the financial statements.
Details of the Companies Act 1985 requires that any restaurants and the wholesale and retail sale conditions of conversion for the deferred shares issued wholly for cash must be of food and beverages.
Details of the convertible shares are given in note 16. offered to existing shareholders in performance for the year and prospects are proportion to their existing holding, unless given on pages 2 to 5.
There were no contracts of significance, authorised to the contrary by a resolution other than service contracts, in which a of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving director is or was materially interested such authority were passed at the Annual Directors and their interests either during or at the end of the year.
New shares were The directors at 30 June 2002 and their Details of directors service contracts are issued for cash during the year as interests in the share capital of the Company disclosed in the Report on Remuneration described in note 16.
Authorities to renew, were as follows: on page 8. until the next Annual General Meeting, the power of directors to allot shares pursuant Ordinary shares Deferred convertible shares to sections 89 and 95 of the Companies Act 30 June 2002 1 July 2001 30 June 2002 1 July 2001 1985 will be sought at the 2002 Annual or date of or date of General Meeting.
appointment appointment Executive: Paul Campbell 4,200 John Metcalf 61,919 56,668 200,000 300,000 David Page 432,089 425,869 200,000 200,000 Substantial shareholders James Parsons 1,500 As at 10 September 2002 the Company has David Sykes 1,057 40,000 40,000 been advised of the following shareholdings Nick Taylor 1,503 in excess of 3%: Non-executive: Fidelity Investments 9.90% Matthew Allen 23,559 22,845 Henderson Global Investors 9.87% Nigel Colne 28,000 Zurich Financial Services 3.02% Janet Walker Legal & General 3.01% Ian Thomson 1,000 10 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued health & safety policy manual throughout the environment through a programme of Employees the restaurant businesses.
This year has also continuous improvement.
The review also Employees of Group companies are seen the introduction of a revised accident assisted in identifying three key priorities encouraged to participate in the success of reporting system, whereby accident statistics along with three other goals on which to the business through incentive and share are purposefully recorded and then collated focus, based on those impacts that are option schemes.
Progress is regularly centrally to indicate safety performance considered the most significant.
communicated to the management of across the Group.
This allows the recording subsidiary companies and all management of accidents to be used as a management The three key priorities are as follows: and staff are expected to communicate fully tool to instigate new safety initiatives.
within their own area of responsibility.
reduce waste reduce the waste we Where reasonable and practicable within produce from our operations and re-use Specialist advice is available to all levels of existing legislation, all persons, including and or recycle as much as is practical, management via the Group Health & Safety disabled persons and employees that have ensuring the remainder is responsibly Department, who assist management in become disabled, have been treated in the disposed of.
implementing policies, procedures and same way in matters relating to reduce energy use reduce energy standards.
Regular Company and third employment, training, career development use for building services through party inspections and audits are conducted and promotion.
responsible energy sourcing, minimising throughout the business to maintain demand and efficient consumption.
standards and identify any health and Charitable and political donations safety issues.
reduce water use reduce water use During the year the Group donated 4,353 for building services through minimising to a variety of charities 2001: 2,288.
No The Environment demand and efficient consumption.
political donations were made 2001: nil.
The Group seeks to reduce its impact on the environment by incorporating the principles Early progress has been made in respect of sustainable development into a structured of these priorities with the Company Corporate and Social Responsibility environmental management programme.
One such The Group is aware of its continuing project recently undertaken was that of a responsibilities in this area, and seeks to Continuous efforts by the Group include glass recycling programme for the Group.
discharge those responsibilities as fully as focusing on creating or enhancing the built possible within all aspects of its activities, environment where our restaurants operate, The issue of recycling has been high on the to the range of its stakeholders, from using recycled materials in such national agenda of our employee forum, shareholders to customers, employees to developments, the use of heat recovery units where our staff made it clear they would suppliers.
in restaurants and using organic and freesupport any such project introduced by the range produce where possible.
Previously, glass waste from the Health and Safety restaurant business was usually disposed of The health, safety and welfare of our The Company reinforced its commitment to as landfill, but is now being reused as a employees and customers is not only its environmental obligations this year, by building aggregate in the construction and considered a fundamental duty but also appointing an Environmental Manager and maintenance of roadways.
The first phase of critical to our business philosophy.
The commissioning an environmental review of the programme is underway, and it is Groups health and safety programme is all its business activities, which has led to expected that 70% of our restaurants will be based on the process of risk management.
the Group adopting an Environmental recycling glass by the end of 2002.
Our strategy is to provide adequate Management System based broadly on ISO information, instruction, training, supervision 14001 Environmental Management The Community and support to all levels of management to Standard to address environmental School visits to a local PizzaExpress have ensure they are competent proactively to responsibilities across its operations.
The become part of the curriculum for many pursue continuous improvements in safety.
review helped the Group to recognise that primary and secondary schoolchildren.
Their A major review of our health and safety virtually all our activities have some experience is both educational and procedures, taken last year, provided the environmental aspect attached.
Our aim is to entertaining, with the mechanics and impetus to produce and implement a revised reduce the impact of our organisation on economics of a restaurant operation being 11 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued used as an aid to a variety of subjects at all tools to develop themselves.
Our training Auditors levels: firm relationships are formed programmes are also closely linked to our  have expressed between restaurants and teachers bringing quality control and food standards policies, their willingness to continue in office as th benefits to all involved.
Now in its 4 year, which remain at the highest levels.
auditors and a resolution proposing their our schools programme is an outstanding reappointment will be submitted to the success, involving each restaurant in its local During this year, staff were invited to join a forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
community, as well as developing the tastes new All Employee Share Incentive Plan, a of the diners of tomorrow.
With continuing first for the restaurant industry.
Take-up growth each year, we helped to educate was encouraging for the first year, and By order of the Board over 40,000 children in the last year.
the Company sees this mechanism for encouraging staff share ownership as an This year saw the launch of our charitable important tool in retention and motivation.
Patrick Hartrey events initiative, whereby restaurants that Secretary have private rooms or separate areas offer Perhaps the most public face of our their facilities including food, drink and staff, employment practice is the employee 10 September 2002 at no cost, to local charities to help them forum, meetings for which are held at promote their activity, give well-earned branch, area, regional and national levels.
thanks to supporters or raise funds.
Since The forum exists to facilitate communication September we have hosted over 250 events, throughout the Group, share understanding giving benefit to hundreds of worthwhile of the decision-making process and increase organisations nationwide.
knowledge and awareness of the aims and performance of the business.
The forum is We take pride in our support of the arts.
regarded as a crucial tool in the empowering Over 90 of our restaurants nationwide, of our staff and the creation of a more including the Dean Street Jazz Club and the inclusive workforce.
Music Room in Maidstone, regularly feature live music, the only major restaurant chain to do so.
We are also active in our support of Supplier payment policy up and coming artists, through the Prospects and practice art prize, which this year focussed on The Groups policy is to agree terms drawing, with a prize of 10,000 to the with individual suppliers and procedures winner, as well as a particular prize to exist to ensure that, wherever possible, encourage student artists.
Group trade creditors at the year-end amounted to Employee Relations 23 days of average supplies for the year The Group continually strives to be a model 2001: 29 days.
employer, an aim whose success appears to be mirrored in our particularly low turnover figures approximately 18% per annum at Annual General Meeting management level, 50% at staff level.
Our Resolutions to be considered at the Annual overall benefits package remains General Meeting are set out in the notice of competitive and through our comprehensive meeting on pages 37 and 38.
All resolutions training programmes, staff at all levels are are the regular business of an AGM, with encouraged to pursue an active career path the exception of the seeking of approval for within the Group.
Training is regarded as an a Long Term Incentive Plan and Executive essential element in both enabling staff to Share Option Plan, outlined in the achieve the commercial objectives of the shareholders circular accompanying this Group and providing all employees with the report.
