14 14 Board of directors Sir David John 64, became non-executive Chairman on 1 March Scott Dobbie 63, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director 1998.
He was non-executive Chairman of the BOC Group plc until in December 2000.
He has a career background in stockbroking, as 18 January 2002 and is currently Chairman of the British Standards Managing Director of Wood Mackenzie and subsequently Chairman of Institution and Chairman Designate of Balfour Beatty plc until his NatWest Securities.
He is currently Chairman of the Securities Institute appointment as Chairman at Balfour Beattys AGM on 15 May 2003. and of Standard Life European Private Equity Trust.
He is also a He is a non-executive director of the St Paul Companies Inc in Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Services Commission and a Minnesota USA.
Sir David is a Member of the CBI Presidents director of the Edinburgh Investment Trust plc.
Mr Dobbie is a member Committee and of the CBIs International Advisory Board.
Sir David of both Premiers Audit and Remuneration Committees.
is the Chairman of Premiers Nomination Committee and a member of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Ronald Emerson 56, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in March 2001.
He has held a number of senior positions in the Charles Jamieson 58, Chief Executive, is a Chartered Accountant banking sector, including senior roles at Bank of America, Nomura and MBA.
He became Premiers Finance Director in January 1981, after Bank and most recently with Standard Chartered Bank where he was a career with Ernst & Young and Gulf Oil Corporation, and became Chief Executive of their Malaysia operations before becoming a Group Chief Executive in 1992.
Mr Jamieson is a member of Premiers Head of Corporate Banking.
Between 1997 and 1998 he was a Senior Nomination Committee.
Advisor to the Bank of England, and between 1998 and 2000 he was Senior Advisor to the Financial Services Authority.
Mr Emerson is a John van der Welle 47, Finance Director, qualied as a Chartered member of both Premiers Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He joined Premier in March 1999, having previously been Finance Director at Hardy Oil & Gas plc and Ian Gray 64, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in before that spent nearly 12 years at Enterprise Oil plc.
He held a number of international management 2003, he broadened his role to incorporate general management positions during his 25 years with Conoco, culminating in the position of Premiers Indonesian and North West Europe Business Units and of President of Dubai Petroleum.
He joined Amerada Hess in 1995 Premiers investment in Pakistan.
where he was Vice President of International Exploration and Production until May 2000.
Mr Gray is a member of both Premiers Mohammad Medan Abdullah 45, joined Premiers Board as a nonAudit and Remuneration Committees.
He is General Manager and Executive Assistant to the President and Chief Executive officer of Petroliam Dato Mohamad Idris Mansor 58, joined Premiers Board as a nonNasional Berhad Petronas in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
He is Senior Vice President, Advisor, Exploration & Production Business of Petroliam Nasional Azam Alizai 71, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director in Berhad Petronas in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
He joined Petronas in March 1997.
His career has included appointments as Director of the February 1976.
Mr Mansor is a member of Premiers Audit Committee.
Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the International Finance Corporation and Chairman of West Pakistan Industrial Development Richard Mew 46, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive director Corporation and Sui Northern Gas Pipeline in Pakistan.
He has held a number of positions in companies in the member of Premiers Audit Committee.
oil and gas industry, commencing with Shell International Oman and Netherlands, Conoco UK and USA and is currently with Amerada J. Barclay Collins II 58, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive Hess based in the UK.
His responsibilities include the development of director in October 2001.
He is currently Executive Vice President, new business opportunities with Amerada Hess Europe, North Africa General Counsel and a member of the Board of Directors of Amerada and Asia region.
Hess Corporation in the US.
He is also a Board member of Nuvera Fuel Cells, Inc. a US based company.
Mr Collins is a member of John Orange 60, joined Premiers Board as a non-executive Premiers Audit Committee.
He held a variety of senior international management and legal posts during his 30 years with the BP Group.
He is Premiers senior independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Chairman of the Audit Committee and is also a member of the Nomination Committee.
