Directors report The directors of RAC plc submit their report and the A resolution will also be proposed seeking shareholders audited financial statements for the financial year ended approval for renewal of the authority given at last years 31 December 2002.
Annual General Meeting to enable the directors, to a limited extent, to issue ordinary shares for cash without first offering Principal activities such shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their The principal activity of the Company is to provide a range holdings.
The authority being sought is for a maximum of motoring and vehicle solutions to individual and business nominal value of 1,462,000 being approximately 5% of customers.
the issued share capital of the Company.
If approved, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Business review and future developments Meeting to be held in 2004 or, if earlier, 30 July 2004.
It is not The directors report should be read in conjunction with the currently the intention of the directors to issue for cash any operating and financial reviews on pages 16 to 23 and the part of the unissued share capital for purposes other than Chairman and Chief Executives joint statement on pages upon the exercise of options granted under the Companys 12 to 14 which together include information about the employee share schemes.
Company, its subsidiaries and associated companies including the financial performance during the year and Substantial shareholders likely future developments.
Details of shareholders who have notified the Company that they have an interest in 3% or more or the Companys issued Name change share capital are set out on page 72.
The name of the Company was changed from Lex Service PLC to RAC plc with effect from 2 September 2002.
Fixed assets The Groups tangible fixed assets are included in the financial Acquisitions Disposals statements at cost.
The properties are employed in the On 15 April 2002 the Company disposed of Lex Autocentres, business and many of them were acquired when market a network of 96 vehicle servicing centres, to Nationwide values were significantly lower than at present.
The directors Autocentres for a consideration of 4.8 million.
Details of the consider that a surplus over book value exists but have not disposal are contained in the financial review on page 21 and quantified the excess.
Directors Dividends The names and biographical details of the current directors The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.8p per share are given on pages 24 and 25.
Dianne Thompson was 2001 13.2p which, with the interim dividend already paid, appointed as a non-executive director on 1 February 2002 will provide total dividends for the year of 23.0p per share, and John Poulter was appointed as a non-executive director an increase of 5% on the 22.0p paid in respect of last year.
All other directors held office for the whole Payment of the recommended final dividend, if approved at year, save for Peter Smith who was appointed as nonthe Annual General Meeting, will be made on 2 May 2003 to executive Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2003.
As previously shareholders registered at the close of business on 4 April 2003. announced, Group Finance Director, Paul Hewitt will be leaving the Company and the Board on 31 March 2003.
Share capital Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital Michael Ost retired as a non-executive director on at 31 December 2002, of shares issued during the year and 31 December 2002 and became chairman of the Companys of options granted under the Companys employee share Pension Fund.
Graeme Potts resigned from the Board on schemes, are detailed in notes 8 and 26 to the financial 31 January 2002 as did Bill Cockburn on 24 April 2002, statements on pages 48, 49 and 60.
Peter Hickson on 29 November 2002, and Alan Bowkett who was appointed to the Board on 2 September 2002 Purchase by the Company of its own shares on 19 November 2002.
The authority given at last years Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase in the market up to 11 million of its Sir Trevor Chinn will retire as Chairman, and leaves the own shares, representing approximately 10% of the share Board, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting capital in issue on 31 December 2001, expires at the close on 30 April 2003.
Following his retirement Sir Trevor will of the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
No shares have been become life President of the Company in recognition of his purchased pursuant to this authority.
The directors are exceptional contribution to the Company and his position seeking to renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual within the motor industry.
The Board has no present intention to make such purchases but would like to retain the flexibility to do so.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Peter Harris and Jon Walden will retire by rotation at the Purchases will be made only if the directors deem them to be Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves in the best interests of shareholders generally.
John Poulter and Peter Smith, who were sought by this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the appointed as non-executive directors on 24 April 2002 and Annual General Meeting to be held in 2004 or, if earlier, 1 January 2003 respectively, will also retire in accordance 30 July 2004.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this with the Companys articles of association and, being authority at each Annual General Meeting.
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Authority to allot shares Peter Harris and Jon Walden are executive directors and their A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual service contracts are terminable upon one years notice from General Meeting to give the Board authority to allot unissued the Company.
John Poulter does not have a service contract.
shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 9,748,000 which Peter Smiths service agreement is terminable upon three represents approximately one third of the issued share capital months notice from the Company.
If approved, the authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2004 Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares or, if earlier, 30 July 2004. are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 36.
26 RAC plc Annual Report 2002 Employee relations for the Company.
Health and safety issues are regularly Employee involvement discussed by the Board.
A copy of the health and safety The Company believes that, to achieve excellent customer policy statement is available on the website.
service, its employees should be well informed about the In support of guidance provided by the Health and Safety Companys plans and performance and have the opportunity to discuss their performance regularly with their managers.
Commission, the Board formally recognises its collective role, and individual directors each accept their individual roles in The Company is therefore committed to providing all its employees with information on a regular basis and to providing leadership across the organisation.
encouraging their participation in schemes where they will As part of the Companys commitment to reducing accidents benefit from the Companys progress and profitability.
at work, accident statistics across the Group are analysed.
This enhances the visibility of areas where improvements can Employees receive information about the Company in several different forms.
There are publications such as the annual be targeted and are supported by a regular status report on health and safety incidents to the Board.
report and accounts, the interim report and Juice, a magazine which is sent to all employees at least twice a year.
Charitable donations and contributions for political purposes Individual businesses also produce their own in-house During the year the Company made charitable donations newspapers.
The Companys intranet provides details on all amounting to 121,000 2001 201,000.
This was businesses in the Group, copies of the latest press releases, distributed to a range of charities, the largest donation being internal job vacancies, and access to a bespoke online a long-term commitment to the Motor and Allied Trades learning resource.
There were no contributions for Employees are encouraged to become involved in the political purposes either in the current or prior year and the Company has no intention of changing its policy.
However, performance of the Company through a variety of share schemes.
The principal schemes are the Long Service Award at the Annual General Meeting shareholders will be asked to grant the Company a limited authority to make certain Scheme under which employees receive ordinary shares according to their length of service, the Sharesave Scheme payments which might inadvertently breach the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The Board will not use that authority to make any Employment of disabled persons political donations as that expression would have been It is the Companys policy to ensure that disabled persons are understood before the Act became law.
treated fairly and consistently in terms of recruitment, training, Policy on the payment of suppliers career development and promotion and that their employment opportunities should be based on a realistic assessment of Due to the diverse range of the services offered by the Companys operating businesses, the Company does not their aptitudes and abilities.
Wherever possible the Company will continue the employment of employees who become follow any uniform code or standard on payment practice.
The operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the disabled during the course of their employment with the Company through retraining, acquisition of special aids and terms and conditions under which business transactions are conducted with their suppliers.
It is Company policy that equipment or the provision of suitable alternative employment.
payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these Pensions information terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all The pensions department provides the Companys UK relevant terms and conditions.
employees with guidance on pension matters during their The amount due to trade creditors at the end of the financial employment.
The department also counsels and assists employees in preparation for retirement.
year for the Company represents 45 days 2001 38 days purchases received from those creditors.
Community relations Environment Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12:00 noon on The directors regard the protection of the environment as an essential part of the Companys corporate responsibilities.
Wednesday, 30 April 2003 at the Montcalm Hotel, Great Cumberland Place, London W1.
For shareholders, a separate Within the context of the Group Environmental Policy notice of meeting which includes an explanation of the individual companies have undertaken their own initiatives to proposed resolutions is enclosed with this Annual Report.
address their business specific impacts.
In addition to this, a Group-wide assessment of environmental impacts has been Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to undertaken.
During 2002 a set of minimum standards for environmental management within operating companies was authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
To assist in implementation of these standards detailed site procedures were also prepared and Going concern relevant training provided to appropriate staff.
The directors consider that the Company, and therefore the On an ongoing basis, known environmental risks are closely Group as a whole, has adequate resources to continue its operational activities for the foreseeable future.
The directors monitored by the operating companies, and significant issues are regularly discussed by the Board.
therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
A copy of the environmental policy statement is available on the website www.
The report of the directors has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Health and safety The appointment of Andrew Harrison, Chief Executive, as Pamela Coles Secretary the director responsible for health and safety, reinforces the message that health and safety issues are a high priority 26 February 2003 RAC plc Annual Report 2002 27
