Directors and management 3 John Poulter MA Directors Aged 60, non-executive director 1 Sir Trevor Chinn CVO Appointed to the Board on 24 April 2002.
He is Chairman of Aged 67, Chairman Spectris plc, an international instrumentation and controls Appointed as an executive director in 1959, he became business, which he joined in 1988 after an earlier career with Managing Director in 1968 and was Chairman and Chief Cambridge Instruments and BTR plc.
He was Chief Executive Executive from 1973 to 1996.
In 1999 he was appointed as for ten years prior to becoming non-executive Chairman in Vice Chair of the Commission for Integrated Transport and 2001.
He is a non-executive director of Kidde plc, Smaller as Chairman of the Motorists Forum.
In November 2002 he Companies Value Trust plc and The London Metal Exchange.
became Chairman of Kwik-Fit and is also Chairman of ITIS Aud, Nom and Rem Holdings plc, a leading provider of trafc information.
Sir Trevor will retire as Chairman of RAC plc on 30 April 2003.
4 Peter Smith BSc, FCA Following his retirement, he will become life President of the Aged 56, non-executive Deputy Chairman Company in recognition of both his contribution to the Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2003, he was UK Senior Company and his position within the industry.
Partner of  until July 2000 and a Nom member of its Global Management Board.
He is currently a non-executive director of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited and 2 Peter Long CIMA of The Equitable Life Assurance Society and is Chairman of Age 50, non-executive director the Audit Committee of both entities.
He is also a nonAppointed as a non-executive director in February 2001.
He is executive director of Safeway plc.
Additionally, he is a member Chief Executive of First Choice Holidays plc and was formerly of the Finance and General Purposes Committee of the CBI Chief Executive of Sunworld Limited having previously been and sits on the Harvard Business Schools Global Corporate Finance Director then Chief Executive of the tour operating Governance Advisory Council.
division of International Leisure Group.
In October 2002 he Aud, Nom and Rem was appointed a non-executive director of Rentokil Initial plc.
Aud, Nom and Rem 5 Dianne Thompson DL, FRSA, FCIM Aged 52, non-executive director Appointed as a non-executive director on 1 February 2002.
She is also currently Chief Executive of Camelot Group plc.
Her previous appointments include Marketing Director for the Signet Group, Director of Marketing for Woolworths and Managing Director of Sandvik Saws and Tools.
Aud, Nom and Rem 12 3 4 5 24 RAC plc Annual Report 2002 6 Andrew Harrison BA, MBA 9 Debbie Howard MBA, FIPD Aged 45, Chief Executive Aged 39, Group Human Resources Director Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive in 1996.
He was Joined the Company in 1987 and held various personnel and previously a director of Courtaulds Textiles plc, responsible for operational positions in Lex Retail prior to her appointment as its International Fabrics and Home Furnishings businesses, Human Resources Director in December 1997.
She was having worked for the Courtaulds group since 1986.
He is appointed to the Board in January 2000.
She is a noncurrently a non-executive director of Emap plc, where he is executive director of fide Vere Group plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Nom 10 Jon Walden FCA Aged 49, Managing Director, Lex Vehicle Leasing 7 Peter Harris FCA Having previously held a number of senior management Aged 51, Group Managing Director, Manufacturer positions within the Company he rejoined in May 1999 and Support Services was appointed to the Board in his present role in January Appointed to the Board on joining Lex Service PLC as Finance 2000.
His previous appointments within the Company included Director in 1994 he currently leads the businesses which Deputy Chief Executive of Volvo Concessionaires, overseeing provide outsourced marketing and inventory management the Companys acquisition of Hyundai Car in the UK, and services to vehicle manufacturers.
These businesses include Managing Director of both Lex Vehicle Leasing and Lex Retail.
Lex Multipart, Lex Commercials, Hyundai Car UK and Isuzu He is a non-executive director of Morgan Sindall PLC.
He is a non-executive director of Wembley plc and Chairman of Coworth Park School Ltd. Executive Board Andrew Harrison Andrew Hobart 8 Paul Hewitt ACA Findlay Caldwell Debbie Howard Aged 46, Group Finance Director Peter Harris Barrie Thrussell Appointed to the Board in March 1999 as Group Finance Paul Hewitt Jon Walden Director.
His previous appointments include Finance Director of Redland Plc and Euromoney Publications PLC.
He is a non-executive director of The Listening Company Ltd.
He will Secretary leave the Board on 31 March 2003 to take up a role as Chief Pamela Coles Financial officer of the Co-operative Group.
Notes Committee membership Aud Member of the Audit Committee Nom Member of the Nominations Committee Rem Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman 678 910 RAC plc Annual Report 2002 25
