THE ACES IN OUR PACK content and are attracting new customers to enjoy a different casino Financing experience.
The rate of growth in club membership and attendance The Groups operating prole remains cash positive.
However, during at these two exciting new concepts is one of the fastest ever achieved 2002 we chose to extend a number of our existing Deluxe contracts, in the UK for new coldlicence openings over 15,000 members each so securing valuable cashows and increasing the earnings visibility for and combined attendance of over 6,000 per week.
Approximately 63% of our lm contracts based on 2002 volume are now extended until 2006 or beyond.
In line with industry The recent acquisition of Blue Square brings both sports betting practice, the contract extensions or renewals did involve considerable expertise and a substantial customer base to the Group.
The upfront payments which are recoverable over the life of the contracts.
integration of Blue Square with Ranks existing online gaming These payments were the main reason why the Groups net debt rose operations will generate immediate synergy benets and provide by 151m in the year.
However, with xed charge cover at five times and considerable opportunities for cross-marketing in both the short gearing of 53%, the Groups nances remain in excellent health.
recommending an increased dividend payment to our shareholders with the final dividend up 5% to 8.8p 2001 8.4p making a total for Within Hard Rock, there were a number of developments which will the year of 13.2p 2001 12.6p.
add to future prospects and continue to move the brand beyond pure restaurant operations.
During 2002, six new company-owned Outlook cafes were opened taking the total to 61 and two were relocated, The Rank Group is in a strong position in all of its major markets and is most being designed for local markets with lower dependence well-invested for future growth.
Our nances are robust and we are in on tourism.
A new franchise was added in Tokyo, taking the total an enviable financial position with the exibility to seize development number of franchised cafes around the world to 48.
The Hard Rock opportunities as and when they might arise.
hotel in Orlando traded strongly and the Chicago hotel is expected to open at the end of the year.
A Hard Rock beach club adjacent The UK regulatory regime in gaming has become increasingly to a newly built water park on Choctaw Indian Reservation land positive.
Later opening of casinos plus additional games, more will open during this year.
The gaming and hotel developments automated product, and alcohol on the gaming oor, have all added on Seminole Indian Nation Reservation land in Florida are in-build to a more customer friendly environment.
There remains a strong and are expected to open, at least partially, by the year-end.
likelihood that much more is to come in the next two years as we still expect the Budd recommendations to be enacted on schedule.
In Deluxe Film, we finalised the commissioning of the new There is also the prospect of positive duty changes during this period.
laboratory in Toronto, entered into a joint venture with Atlab in Australia and more recently purchased Image, a laboratory based Despite uncertain political and economic conditions, current trading in Barcelona, Spain.
All of these developments strengthen our is satisfactory and we are confident that the Group can make further position in lm processing.
The acquisition of Capital FX towards progress in 2003. the end of 2002 has extended further the range of services now offered to studio customers.
We also bought the outstanding 50% which we did not own of ETS, a physical film distribution business, and subsequently added a major new customer on a long term contract.
In Deluxe Media, the major change was the creation of the new venture with Ritek which propelled Deluxe into a strong position in DVD to match that already achieved in VHS and distribution.
We also established new ventures in the digital storage and manipulation of lm-related product.
