BOARD OF DIRECTORS The board Executive committee Alun Cathcart Non-executive Chairman Mike Smith Joined Rank as Chairman on 1 May 2001.
Chairman of Ian Dyson Selfridges Plc, Deputy Chairman of Avis Europe Plc and Deputy Chairman of Belron International Limited.
David Boden Appointed Managing Director of Gaming in January 1998 and to the Mike Smith Chief Executive Executive committee in January 1999.
Formerly Managing Director Appointed Chief Executive in April 1999.
Director of The National director of Hilton Group PLC.
Ian Dyson Finance Director Charles Cormick Appointed Finance Director in September 1999.
Formerly Joined Rank as Company Secretary in 1995.
A solicitor, and formerly Group Financial Controller of Hilton Group PLC and previously a Company Secretary of Lex Service PLC.
Aged 51. partner of Arthur Andersen.
Cyril Drabinsky Peter Jarvis, CBE Non-executive director Appointed to the Executive committee in September 2001 An independent non-executive director since 1995.
Aged 61. as President, Deluxe Film Worldwide.
Formerly President, Chairman of Debenhams PLC.
Formerly Chief Executive of Deluxe Laboratories Inc.
Oliver Stocken Non-executive director Peter Pacitti An independent non-executive director since 1998.
Appointed to the Executive committee in September 2001 as Deputy Chairman of 3i Group plc, non-executive Chairman of President, Deluxe Media Services Worldwide.
Formerly Managing Rutland Trust PLC and Stanhope plc and a non-executive director Director, Deluxe Video Services Europe.
Joined Rank in 1981. of GUS PLC, Novar plc and Pilkington plc.
Director of Barclays Bank PLC.
Christine Ray John Sunderland Non-executive director Appointed to the Executive committee as Group Human An independent non-executive director since 1998.
Formerly Human Resources Chief Executive Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Director of Ranks Holidays Division, having joined Rank following the acquisition of Mecca Leisure in 1990.
Charles Cormick Company Secretary Audit committee Oliver Stocken Chairman Alun Cathcart Peter Jarvis John Sunderland Finance committee Alun Cathcart Chairman Ian Dyson Mike Smith Nomination committee The composition of this committee is determined according to the particular appointment under consideration.
Remuneration committee Peter Jarvis Chairman Oliver Stocken John Sunderland 22 The Rank Group Plc
