DIRECTORS REPORT The directors submit their report and statement of accounts for the The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company, together year ended 31 December 2002. with their remuneration and, where applicable, their service agreements, are detailed in the remuneration report.
Biographical Principal activities and business review details of the directors are given on page 22.
Rank is one of the UKs leading leisure and entertainment companies and an international provider of services to the film Human resources industry.
In 2002, leisure and entertainment activities included The Company recognises that the contribution made by its casinos and bingo clubs, and Hard Rock Cafes and global rights employees is crucial to the success of each of its businesses.
Rank also owns film processing and video Substantial investment is therefore made in the training, and digital versatile disc DVD duplication and distribution development and motivation of staff with particular attention to facilities, branded Deluxe.
Rank operates primarily in the UK and ensuring customer satisfaction through the consistent achievement North America, although it also has activities in continental Europe of high standards of service and delivery of quality products.
and other parts of the world.
Employee involvement in the direction and objectives of the During the year, the Company significantly strengthened Deluxes business is encouraged through the use of incentive schemes position in the fast growing DVD market through the formation to focus employees on the key performance indicators of each of Deluxe Global Media Services DGMS, a venture with Ritek business.
In addition, communication and consultation programmes Corporation Ritek, the worlds largest manufacturer of optical exist at site, company and Group level.
DGMS combines the DVD assets of Deluxe and Ritek in North America and Europe and is 80% owned by Deluxe.
The The Company endorses the active application of equal opportunities major studio and other contracts held by Ritek were transferred policies and programmes to provide fair and equitable conditions for to DGMS.
all employees regardless of sex, family status, religion, creed, colour, ethnic origin, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Deluxe paid Ritek $15m on completion of the transaction and $14.75m on 3 January 2003 and will make a further payment of Health and safety $14.75m on 1 January 2004.
Deluxe also assumed a $5.5m loan The board receives regular reports on health and safety matters.
The Chief Executive has been nominated by the board as the main board director responsible for health and safety across the Group.
An analysis of turnover, profit, operating assets and net cash ow by The Group requires each division to develop and implement its business activity is given on pages 50 to 51.
The Groups continuing own safety policy, organisation and arrangements, to respond to activities and businesses are reported on in the operating and the particular health and safety risks in the division.
The Group also financial review.
requires an annual report from each division on health and safety performance for the year.
Result and equity dividends profit before tax for the year was 198.0m 2001 160.5m profit.
Environment Profit for the year after tax and minority interests was 136.7m The Groups policy is to encourage respect for the environment 2001 as restated 91.1m profit.
and Rank adopts an environmentally responsible attitude in the fulfilment of its business objectives.
Close attention is paid to The directors recommend a final dividend of 8.8p per ordinary energy and water conservation and recycling of waste material share which, together with the interim dividend of 4.4p already where economically practical.
declared, makes a total for the year of 13.2p per ordinary share 2001 12.6p.
Subject to approval at the annual general meeting, Corporate social responsibility the final dividend will be paid on 9 May 2003 to those shareholders The Company has taken account of the disclosure guidelines whose names are on the register on 11 April 2003.
Retained profit on socially responsible investment published by the Association for the year of 37.5m 2001 loss 4.4m has been transferred of British Insurers in its internal control practices, and will provide to reserves.
further information on these issues in future reports.
Directors Share capital The current directors of the Company are listed on page 22 Details of the new ordinary shares issued pursuant to the exercise and all of them were directors of the Company throughout the of options under Ranks share option schemes are set out in note year.
The Company is satisfied that each non-executive director 23.
Note 23 also contains details of the ordinary shares issued pursuant is able to devote the amount of time required to attend to the to the conversion of the Companys convertible preference shares.
A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting John Sunderland a member of both the Audit and Remuneration to authorise the directors to allot and grant rights over the committees and Ian Dyson will retire by rotation at the annual general unissued share capital and to authorise the directors to allot meeting, and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
and grant rights over ordinary shares for cash up to a maximum John Sunderland does not have a service agreement with the Company: nominal amount representing 5% of the issued ordinary share Ian Dyson has a service agreement with the Company, terminable on capital, without first making a pro rata offer to all existing 12 months notice.
32 The Rank Group Plc Resolutions will also be proposed at the annual general meeting to 23 January 2003 and the directors appointed their successor, authorise the Company to purchase up to 15% of its ordinary shares  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution to and convertible preference shares at or between the minimum and re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the maximum prices specified in the relevant resolution set out in the Company will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
The authorities would only be exercised by the directors if they considered it to be in the best interests of Post balance sheet event shareholders generally and if the purchases could be expected On 27 January 2003 the Company completed the acquisition to result in an increase in earnings per share.
of Blue Square Limited, one of the UKs leading internet and telephone betting businesses for a consideration of 65m in Articles of association unlisted unsecured convertible loan stock.
Further details are A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting that set out in note 34 to the accounts.
Article 102 A of the Companys articles of association be amended.
By order of the board Article 102 A of the Companys articles of association refers to borrowing restrictions on the board, relating to the Company and Charles Cormick its subsidiary undertakings.
The board considers that it is in the Secretary, The Rank Group Plc, Registered No.
3140769 Companys and its shareholders best interests to have increased Registered Office: flexibility by increasing the limit on the amount the Group may 6 Connaught Place, London W2 2EZ borrow from one and a half times to two and a half times the Groups adjusted capital and reserves as defined in Article 102.
The increase to two and a half times brings this limit into line with 28 February 2003 those of groups similar to the Rank Group.
Fixed assets The directors have considered the total net book value of land and buildings and are of the opinion that it is not significantly different from market value at 31 December 2002.
Payment of suppliers The Company and its subsidiaries agree terms and conditions for their business transactions with their suppliers.
Payment is then made on these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
Given the diversity of the Groups businesses and the widely differing credit terms which apply in the various industries and territories in which they operate, the directors consider that it is not meaningful to disclose an average period of credit taken.
The Company has no trade creditors.
significant shareholdings At the date of this report the Company has been notified of the following interests over its ordinary shares in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985: CGNU Plc 28,854,661 4.87%, AXA-UAP S. A.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made in the UK during the year amounted to 151,000 2001 68,000.
The largest single donation was 80,000 in favour of the BCA Gaming Industry Charitable Trust.
Overseas companies supported a variety of local and national charities and, in particular, Hard Rock Cafe International USA Inc. donated approximately US$762,000 2001 US$412,000, continuing its focus on humanitarian and environmental causes.
The Company made no political donations in the year.
Auditors Following the conversion of the Companys auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on The Rank Group Plc 33
