Living the business - Expanding margins 18 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 Arno Melchior, Director, Global Squeeze Were always questioning our costs.
Our favourite question is Do these costs add value?
If they dont, we take them out.
In the case of our plug-in air freshener, we took out the wires.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 19 Living the business - Expanding margins that its important to get innovative new if not first.
Sometimes this means that their manufacturing costs are higher than necessary.
Arno Melchior, Director, Global Squeeze Our Air Wick plug-in was a hit with consumers.
People liked its fragrant freshness.
To our Squeeze hit-squad, however, it was a different story.
After one look at the product, they were on the scent of savings.
Like many new products, it had been slightly over-engineered.
The team took it apart to see which bits added value to the consumer and which bits were a waste of space.
Naturally they worked closely with our manufacturing partners.
The aim was to cut production costs of the electrical assembly by half.
We enjoy giving our suppliers a challenge.
Meeting this objective required some bold decisions and some basic reworking of the products innards.
By simplifying the plug-ins construction, the team also found a way to simplify its cost structure.
Take out parts and you take out the cost.
Putting the heating mechanism direct to the plug reduced raw material costs and manufacturing costs.
It also reduced the size of the product so it became less obtrusive in the home.
Funnily enough, changes we make to squeeze costs often squeeze better performance, and better consumer satisfaction, out of the product.
With a smaller product we could simplify the pack.
We removed the inner sleeve, saving costs and trees, and ended up with a neat, compact package.
A simple divider separated the plug-in from the refill.
Removing the non-essentials has produced a Cutting costs doesnt mean cutting product thats preferred by our retailers less bulk, same price corners.
The revamped version still has an and our consumers.
It proves that our focus on gross margin adjustment mechanism to vary the flow of improvement is not just about cost-cutting, its about valuefragrance.
It still delivers optimum enhancement.
Our Squeeze programme has now beaten its performance.
Its also more aesthetically stringent targets for three consecutive years.
Just when everyone pleasing, although our Squeeze team were more excited by the look of the new thinks there are no more savings to be found, we find more.
20 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 Cut your costs and win a prize.
Were so fervent about cost-cutting that were inviting our suppliers to join in.
We want them to join our crusade by taking part in an easy-to-enter competition.
A group of suppliers put forward their ideas for cost-cutting passing on their savings to us were not daft and the best idea wins a star prize.
The prize is a share of the total saving we make with the whole group of suppliers.
X-Trim is a programme to optimise costs in our supply chain through better purchasing, scheduling and logistics.
Most suppliers actively support our cost-cutting efforts.
After all, they want to remain suppliers.
Alain Le Goff, Executive Vice President, Supply 2, old new old new old new Squeezing 2 million from fresh air Squeeze is our programme to drive out costs that dont add value.
We change and standardise designs and specifications without any consumer-perceived reduction in quality.
Looking closely at CrystalAir, we found Goinggoingonline 2 million of annual savings by streamlining For a forward-looking company, our method of purchasing raw the production process through automation materials can be a bit backward.
This created a simpler e-auctions start when we post our requirements on the internet.
product with better shelf impact and better Online, various suppliers then bid to meet this order, suggesting performance.
Consumers preferred the newa price.
We tell all the bidders the lowest price and give them look product and we preferred the new-look one hour to beat it.
Normally, the price drops during that gross margin.
Often theres a flurry of activity during the last five minutes, as suppliers cut their prices to get our business.
Typical cost comparison chart Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 21
