Living the business - Leveraging innovation Bruce McCarthy, Category Marketing Manager, Automatic Dishwashing Hard water in dishwashers can cause limescale build-up on glasses.
This can be removed with salt and rinse-aid.
Soft water can cause glass corrosion.
This cant be removed but at least it can now be prevented.
10 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 11 Living the business - Leveraging innovation Apart from water softness, depends on the glass, the temperature and of the water, the length of the cycle and the type of dirt.
Preventing further corrosion Bruce McCarthy, Category Marketing Manager, Automatic Dishwashing We worked with many of the worlds leading glass Our R&D people fight glass corrosion with glass.
Theyve manufacturers on the developed a special glass with a higher component of zinc development of Calgonit Protector.
This zinc-laden glass dissolves in the wash cycle and endorse our product.
We cant explain how it works Austria, weve been because its top secret.
Anyway, running a TV commercial this soluble glass slowly dissolves over about 50 washes, featuring a glass manufacturers testimonial.
Reflecting its function, we call this new product Calgonit Protector.
Its crystal-shaped pack hangs in the dishwasher tray, allowing water to flow through holes in the back.
As the glass dissolves, it deposits itself on the glasses in the dishwasher, stopping them becoming scratched or corroded.
It works by taking the negative, damaging elements out of the water so they cant cause corrosion.
In fact, its so clever weve patented the use of the raw material for this purpose.
Our trials showed that the product has no negative effects on glass, china or people.
To confirm its safety we sent it away to a third party institute who gave it the all-clear.
The glass is contained in a cage so that even if it got bumped or cracked no large pieces could fall out.
Any glass that came away from the cage would dissolve instantly.
The new product also received a thumbs-up from retailers.
As a genuine innovation, its created an entirely new market without taking up much shelf space.
So far, weve launched Calgonit Protector in Central Europe, using a TV commercial that explains the problems of glass corrosion and the solution we provide.
Initial sales have been good, proving that every cloudy glass has a silver lining.
12 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 A new scale of protection Most people know that Calgon protects washing machines from limescale deposits.
Fine, but what protects the laundry?
Limescale makes laundry stiff and rough, so over time fabrics lose their original suppleness.
The answer is Calgon AquaPro.
Before we found this solution, however, we faced many questions.
We developed and tested over 100 formulations before we achieved the right dualaction balance.
Many extra raw materials were needed and it was a challenge to make the new tablet dissolve quickly.
After many trials, however, we developed a product that protects the washing machine and the laundry.
It also protects the Calgon brand franchise.
Limescale deposits during the wash cycle can damage Why have the same idea twice?
Better to the laundry as well as the have it once and use it twice.
Calgon AquaPros dual John Honey, Category Group Director, Surface Care action benefit protects both.
It can be used in any type of wash cycle, in temperatures ranging from a cool 30 to a very hot 95.
When air freshening met surface cleaning There are no walls between our core categories, just open doors.
With no barriers, ideas flow freely.
Using Hyperscent technology, it freshens air in bathrooms and loos.
At the same time, exploiting Harpics legendary cleaning power, it keeps toilet bowls clean and healthy.
In two ways, it shows that we dont care where ideas come from, only where they go.
A story of concentration and innovation Trawling the world for innovations, our new technology group found something special in Japan: a plastic capsule-container that dissolves in water.
Immediately we saw its potential in Automatic Dishwashing.
We developed a concentrated dishwash gel that delivered top performance in a capsule small enough to fit Actual size in a dishwasher tray.
Consumer response, once wed convinced them that it really would melt, was good.
We decided to mount our first-ever global launch in dishwashing.
America and Europe are welcoming the innovation with open trays.
