Living the business - Communicating benefits Elio Leoni Sceti, Executive Vice President, Category Development 14 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 Dettol protects cuts and wounds from infection.
By preventing infection it helps to prevent disease.
And by cutting down on disease it cuts down on days off school or work through sickness.
In India, winning prizes for achievements at work or school is the source of great pride.
We tapped into this sense of pride by advertising Dettols role in winning school prizes.
Increased empathy with mums and dads.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 15 Living the business - Communicating benefits the needs and of your market is a key duty of the marketer.
We take this duty by getting under the skin hopefully protected by Dettol of our Elio Leoni Sceti, Executive Vice President, Category Development Our understanding of the Indian consumer has driven Dettol sales up 30% since mid-year.
Dettols TV commercial shows a family celebrating the dads pay rise and the childs school prize.
Both came about through good attendance, with no time off for illness.
Clearly, the family used Dettol to protect themselves from infection.
In America, meanwhile, we used a similar insight to promote Lysol, another germ prevention product.
Here, our intuition was backed up by quantifiable data.
An authoritative study proved that an effective disinfecting regime in schools reduced illness among pupils.
These published results allowed us to claim that using Lysol cuts down the number of school days lost.
And differences Similar advertising routes for two different brands.
In an era of global marketing, why havent we harmonised these brands?
The fact is that although the end benefit of Dettol and Lysol is the same protecting the family against germs the way they deliver this benefit is different.
Lysol is focused on surface applications.
The original disinfectant spray has spawned a range of household cleaning products including kitchen cleaners, toilet cleaners and wipes.
Dettol, on the other hand or foot, face, etc is generally applied to the skin.
Its used to treat cuts and wounds.
About half Dettols sales come from personal hygiene products such as soap, shower foam and hand wash. Interestingly, Dettols brand franchise can be stretched to cover Surface Care but Lysol wouldnt be accepted as a skin treatment.
In the UK and the Middle East, for instance, Dettols skincare heritage has been the launching pad for a successful move into Surface Care.
As we look to expand our germ protection franchise, were well aware that a brands credibility is a fragile property.
Well never jeopardise that hard-won credibility for the sake of extra sales.
As well as the original antiseptic liquid, the Dettol range of personal care products includes soap, shower gel, talc and personal wipes.
16 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 FACT.
Lysol, Dettol and Pine-O-Cleen kill 99.9% of bacteria in 30 seconds.
Three brands Facts of Life is an advertising vehicle that communicates our germ-killing story.
Depending on the region, we use versions of the concept for Lysol, Dettol and Pine-O-Cleen.
Obviously, each brand has its own nuances, but our consumer research shows that the idea works well for all three.
And with TV production costs an unwelcome fact of life, we seek savings wherever we can.
Proof that Electrasol is ahead of its time Veet removes growth.
Media drives growth The message for North America is simple.
We need to show Veet is a convenient and effective depilatory.
Its just one of viewers how the gel cap variant takes dishwashing into the 21st our Power Brands benefiting from increased media support.
Looking at possible spokespeople for the brand, one We believe in weighty consumer communication through name kept cropping up: THE JETSONS, popular stars of their media and other marketing channels for products with own animated series.
They have the right credentials as they good growth opportunities and good margins.
It drives already live in the future.
All our research suggests that this growth and strengthens our brands.
Thats why we fictional family will generate real sales.
increased our media to sales ratio by 100 basis points to around 11% a double digit increase during 2002.
THE JETSONS and all related characters and elements are trademarks of and Hanna-Barbera.
Old name becomes a hazy memory The greater number of brand names, the more fragmented the marketing effort.
After a long programme of international research, were dropping Haze and putting all our resources behind the Air Wick brand.
Our consumer research confirmed that the name had positive associations, linking back to our old-established, respected brand.
Air Care is our fastest growing category and focusing on Air Wick will allow us to drive the growth in this dynamic market.
