Shareholder information Annual General Meeting Company Secretary Solicitors To be held on Wednesday, 7 May 2003 at the Elizabeth Richardson Slaughter and May Renaissance London Heathrow Hotel, Bath Road, Heathrow, Hounslow, Middlesex, TW6 2AQ.
Registered Office Registrar and transfer office Every shareholder is entitled to attend and vote 103-105 Bath Road If you have any queries about your at the meeting.
The notice convening the Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH shareholding, please write to or telephone the meeting is contained in a separate document Telephone: 01753 217800 Companys Registrar at the following address: for shareholders.
Facsimile: 01753 217899 Computershare Investor Services PLC, Registered in England PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Final dividend for the year ended No.
527217 Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH 31 December 2002 Telephone 0870 7020000 To be paid if approved on 21 May 2003 to Auditors Website: www.
com shareholders on the register on 28 February 2003.
 LLP Key dates Payment of half-yearly interest on capital bonds 31 March 2003 Annual General Meeting 7 May 2003 Announcement of quarter 1 results 7 May 2003 Payment of final ordinary dividend 21 May 2003 Payment of half-yearly preference dividend 1 July 2003 Announcement of interim results 26 August 2003 Payment of interim ordinary dividend September 2003 Payment of half-yearly interest on capital bonds 30 September 2003 Announcement of quarter 3 results 11 November 2003 Payment of half-yearly preference dividend 1 January 2004 Preliminary announcement of 2003 results 11 February 2004 Publication of 2003 Annual Report & Accounts April 2004 Annual General Meeting 5 May 2004 Designed and produced by Merchant with The Workroom.
Photography by Michael Heffernan, Noorie Parvez and Duncan Smith.
Printed by Wace Corporate Print who hold the ISO 14001 international standard for effective management of environmental impact including waste minimalisation and recycling.
Printed on paper produced using elemental chlorine free virgin pulp ECF, supplied only by manufacturers who have adopted a suitable reforestation policy.
By not plastic laminating the cover we have saved 44kg of polythene film and 175kg of polypropylene adhesive.
Report of the Directors The Directors submit their ftieth Annual Report to the members A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the of the Company, with the audited financial statements for the year Company is included in the Report on Directors remuneration ended 31 December 2002. on page 38. Review of the activities and development of the Groups business Details of the Directors service agreements are given on page 38.
The principal activities continue to be the manufacture and sale Corporate governance of household and healthcare products.
The Company recognises the importance of high standards of A review of the results for the year ended 31 December 2002 and corporate governance.
It understands, supports and has applied of the years activities appears under the Operating and Financial throughout 2002 the principles set out in the Combined Code and Review on pages 22 to 26, and in the profit and loss account on has complied with the great majority of the detailed provisions page 42.
The Directors endorse the content of that review.
The ways in which the Company applies these principles, and the few provisions with which the Company In August 2002, the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend does not consider that it is appropriate to comply, are set out in of 12.7p per ordinary share 2001 12.7p.
The dividend was paid on the appropriate sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 12.8p per share 2001 12.8p, which, together with The Board comprises eight Non-Executive Directors including the interim dividend, makes a total for the year of 25.5p per share Dr Hkan Mogren, the Chairman, who has the responsibility for 2001 25.5p.
The final dividend, if approved by the shareholders, managing the Board, and two Executive Directors, Bart Becht, the will be paid on 21 May 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register Chief Executive officer and Colin Day, the Chief Financial officer.
at the close of business on 28 February 2003.
The Company has adopted a Board structure which is similar to that of its key international competitor companies, the majority of In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely future development which are based in the USA.
The Board carries out a strategy-setting, will continue to centre on the main product categories in which it advisory and supervisory role and accepts ultimate responsibility for now operates.
the conduct of the Companys business.
The Chief Executive officer, Research and development together with the other members of his Executive Committee, provides The Group continues to carry out research and development in the the day-to-day management of the Company.
search for new and improved products in all its categories and for The Board has identied Adrian Bellamy, as the senior independent increased manufacturing efficiencies.
Direct expenditure on research Non-Executive Director in accordance with provision A.
2.1 of the and development in 2002 amounted to 54m 2001 50m.
The majority of Non-Executive Directors are Acquisitions and disposals independent as recommended by the Combined Code.
In this Acquisitions and disposals are detailed in notes 24 and 25 to context two of the Non-Executive Directors, Peter Harf and Dieter the accounts.
Meuderscheid are not considered to be independent for all purposes because of the shareholdings they represent.
Employees During 2002, the Group employed an average of 22,300 2001 The Articles of Association require that every Director will seek 22,400 people worldwide, of whom 1,300 2001 1,300 were re-election to the Board at least every three years, in line with employed in the UK.
The Group is committed to the principle of provision A.
equal opportunity in employment: no applicant or employee receives The Board meets a minimum of five times a year and will meet less favourable treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, gender, further as necessary to consider specic matters which it has reserved religion or disability.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to to itself for decision, such as significant acquisition or disposal disabled persons and endeavours to assist them to make their full proposals or major nancing propositions.
In 2002, in addition to the contribution at work.
Where employees become disabled, every five regular meetings, there were two held by telephone conference.
practical effort is made to allow them to continue in their jobs or to The performance of the Chief Executive officer and of other provide retraining in suitable alternative work.
members of the Executive Committee is regularly reviewed by the It is essential to the continued improvement in efficiency and Remuneration Committee of the Board.
productivity throughout the Group that each employee understands The Executive Committee presents an annual strategic review and the Companys strategies, policies and procedures.
Open and the Annual Plan to the Board for its approval.
Actual performance regular communication with employees at all levels is an essential against the Plan is presented to the Board at each of its regular part of the management process.
A continuing programme of meetings and any changes to forecasts as a result of current training and development reinforces the Groups commitment performance are reviewed.
All members of the Board receive timely to employee involvement.
reports on items arising at meetings of the Board to enable them The Board encourages employees to become shareholders and to to give due consideration to such items in advance of the meetings.
participate in the Groups employee share ownership schemes should Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate briengs on the Company they so wish.
Sharesave schemes across the world now give more and its operations around the world when they are appointed to the employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company by Board.
They are encouraged to visit the Companys ofces and factories, means of regular savings.
whenever the opportunity presents itself, where they can be briefed Share capital on the local business operations.
The Board endeavours to hold one Details of changes to the ordinary shares issued and of options and meeting each year at one of the operating units.
All the Directors awards granted during the year are set out in note 21 to the accounts.
have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company complies Directors with all applicable rules, regulations and obligations governing the Information regarding the Directors of the Company who were serving Companys operations.
A procedure exists for the Directors to take on 31 December 2002 is set out on page 28. independent professional advice, if necessary, in furtherance of their Peter Harf, Bart Becht and Dieter Meuderscheid retire by rotation duties at the Companys expense.
and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming The members of the Executive Committee are appointed to the Annual General Meeting.
Committee by the Chief Executive officer who leads the Committee.
30 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 The Executive Committee manages the day-to-day operations Management reporting there is a comprehensive system of of the Company.
Individual Executive Committee members hold management reporting.
The financial performance of operating units global responsibility for specic operating functions including and the Group as a whole is monitored against budget on a monthly category development, supply, finance, human resources and basis and is updated by periodic forecasts.
Area and functional information services.
The three Area Executive Vice Presidents executives also perform regular business reviews with their management covering Western Europe, Americas and Rest of World are also teams, which incorporate an assessment of key risks and opportunities.
Risk management as part of the ongoing risk and control process Committees of the Board operating units review and evaluate risks to the achievement of business Audit Committee objectives and the Board reviews those significant risks which might The Audit Committee, chaired by Peter White, comprises four impact on the achievement of corporate objectives.
The Committee monitors the adequacy together with any necessary actions are identied and implemented.
and effectiveness of the internal controls and compliance procedures, To this end, key corporate risks include the ongoing development of reviews the interim and full year financial statements before submission the new product pipeline, protection of intellectual property, financial to the full Board and makes recommendations to the Board regarding and business controls in emerging markets and continuing recruitment the auditors and their terms of appointment.
The Chief Financial and retention of high quality management.
officer and other senior management attend by invitation.
The Operating unit controls each operating unit maintains internal Groups external auditors and the Groups Vice President Internal controls, which are appropriate to its own business environment.
Audit attend meetings and have direct access to the Committee.
Such controls must be in accordance with group policies and include Remuneration Committee management authorisation processes, to ensure that all commitments The Remuneration Committee meets regularly to review remuneration on behalf of the Group are entered into after appropriate approval.
policy for Directors and senior executives.
The Committee comprises In particular, there is a structured process for the appraisal and four Non-Executive Directors, under the Chairmanship of Peter Harf.
authorisation of all material capital projects.
As described above, Peter Harf is not independent as recommended Monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls is monitored by provision B.
regularly through a combination of management review, Nomination Committee self-assessment and internal and external audit.
The results of The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating candidates external and internal audit reviews are reported to and considered for the approval of the Board to ll vacancies on the Board of by the Audit Committee, and actions are taken to address significant Directors.
The Committee comprises the Chairman, who also control matters identied.
The Audit Committee also approves annual chairs the Committee, the Chief Executive officer and two internal audit plans and is responsible for performing the ongoing Non-Executive Directors.
review of internal control on behalf of the Board.
Internal control The Board confirms that reviews of the appropriateness and The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Groups effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has financial year have been satisfactorily completed in compliance with established a control structure designed to manage the achievement provision D. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
In particular major risks have of business objectives.
The system complies with the Turnbull been identied and ongoing monitoring procedures are in place.
Committee guidance on internal control and provides reasonable, Group policy in respect of non-audit services provided by but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
external auditors Throughout the year the Group has had in place an ongoing process The Audit Committee and the CFO keep under review the for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks and independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee opportunities faced by the Group and the Board has performed a reviews the nature and level of non-audit services undertaken by the specic assessment of internal control for the purpose of this annual external auditors each year to satisfy itself that there is no effect on report.
The Groups control environment is supported by a Code of their independence.
The Board recognises that in certain Business Conduct and a range of policies on Corporate Responsibility.
circumstances the nature of the advice required may make it more Other key elements within the internal control structure are timely and cost effective to appoint the external auditors who already summarised as follows: have a good understanding of the Group.
Any significant IT consultancy projects are put out to tender and the external auditors The Board and management as set out above the Board performs are excluded from this tender process.
a strategy-setting, advisory and supervisory role with the day-to-day management of the Company being undertaken by The Executive The external auditors report to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Chief Executive officer and other Executive Committee on the actions they take to comply with professional and Committee members have clearly communicated the Group vision, regulatory requirements and with best practice designed to ensure strategy, operating constitutions, values and business objectives their independence from the Group including periodic rotation of the across the Group.
Details of non-audit services are set out in note 3 to the accounts.
Organisational structure the Group operates three area management organisations, Western Europe, Americas, Rest of World and centralised Corporate responsibility functions covering category management, supply, sales, finance For the Companys range of policies covering the areas of corporate and legal, information services and human resources.
Throughout responsibility, please refer to the separate report on page 27. the organisation, the achievement of business objectives and the Relations with shareholders establishment of appropriate risk management and internal control are The Board is committed to effective communication between the embedded in the responsibilities of line executives.
The Directors and the Senior Vice Budgeting there is an annual planning process whereby detailed President Investor Relations meet regularly with institutional shareholders operating budgets for the following financial year are prepared and and financial analysts, in Europe and the USA, to discuss matters are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term business plans are also relating to the Companys business strategy and current performance prepared and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The Company believes that it is important that it makes its key Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 31
