THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS We have a truly multi-national team, where no single culture dominates.
We believe that combining talented people with different professional and cultural backgrounds in action-oriented teams gives us a real competitive edge.
The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Company on behalf of shareholders.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company and reflects the overall management structure.
Dr Hkan Mogren 58 # Dieter Meuderscheid 67 Colin Day 47 Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000 and Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 from became Non-Executive Chairman in May 2001.
He is a member of the Advisory Aegis Group plc where he was Group Finance Deputy Chairman of AstraZeneca PLC.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Vice-Chairman of Gambro AB, NoneasyJet plc as well as the Bell Group Plc.
Hans van der Wielen 59 Executive Director of Investor AB, a Director of Norsk Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Peter White 61 # Hydro ASA and Chairman of Affibody AB.
He was President and Chief Chairman of the Audit Committee, was appointed a Bart Becht 46 # Executive Officer of Koninklijke Numico N. V. until Non-Executive Director in December 1997.
He was Joined the Board in 1999 on his appointment as May 2002.
He is also Chairman of Pink Roccade and previously Group Chief Executive of Alliance & Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He was a Director of Gouda Vuurvast.
Chief Executive of Benckiser Detergents, subsequently Dr Peter Harf 56 # Dr Ana Maria Llopis 52 Benckiser NV since 1995 and Chairman of Benckiser's Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, joined Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in November Management Board from May 1999.
He is a Nonthe Board as a Non-Executive Director in 1999 and is 1998.
She is Executive Vice-President of the Financial Executive Director of Prudential plc.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. and Insurance Markets at Indra, the leading Spanish Adrian Bellamy 61 and a Director of Interbrew and the Brunswick IT consulting firm, which acquired Razona in February Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Corporation.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Joh.
2002, where she was Chairman and CEO until its full Company in 1999 and the Senior Non-Executive Benckiser GmbH.
She has recently been Director in 2001.
He is Executive Chairman of The appointed a Non-Executive Director of British Dr George Greener 57 Body Shop International Plc, Chairman of Gucci American Tobacco PLC.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1996.
He Group NV and a Director of The Gap, Inc, The Robert is Chairman of British Waterways and The Big Food Member of the Audit Committee Mondavi Corporation and Williams-Sonoma, Inc. Group Plc.
He is also a Non-executive Director of Member of the Remuneration Committee Fleming Investment Trust plc.
# Member of the Nomination Committee 28 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Elio Leoni Sceti 37, Italian Alain Le Goff 50, French Frank Ruether 50, German Executive Vice President, Category Development.
Was appointed EVP Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Joined Joined Benckiser in 1992 serving in various marketing for Operations at Benckiser in October 1996.
He Benckiser in July 1996 as Personnel Director and was roles and as General Manager of Germany and Italy.
joined the company in 1986, serving as Industrial appointed SVP Human Resources in March 1997.
He Following the merger in 1999, Elio was promoted to Director in France, Monaco, Germany and as Logistics was previously with Mars, 1986-1996, as Director of SVP, North American Household and was appointed Director for the group.
He was previously with Lesieur.
EVP, Category Development in July 2001.
Elio was Alain is responsible for the global supply chain Frank is responsible for human resources previously with Procter & Gamble in Italy and France.
including procurement, manufacturing, management, remuneration and benefits, and Elio is responsible for global category management, warehousing and logistics.
Also responsible for organisational development.
research & development, media and market research.
management of Squeeze and X-Trim gross margin Colin Day 47, British enhancement programmes.
Ken Stokes 47, American Chief Financial Officer.
Joined Reckitt Benckiser in Executive Vice President, Americas.
Joined Benckiser Erhard Schoewel 54, German September 2000 from Aegis Group plc where he was in 1989 as Marketing Director in the USA, and then Executive Vice President, Western Europe.
Joined Group Finance Director from 1995.
Prior to that he served as General Manager of UK and Spain, before Benckiser in January 1979 and served as General was at Kodak, British Gas, fide La Rue Group plc and being appointed EVP for Western Europe in 1997.
Manager of Germany and of Propack Europe private ABB Group.
He was previously with the Clorox Company, Wilson label.
He was General Manager of Italy 1995-1996.
Colin is responsible for financial controls and Sporting Goods and McKinsey & Company.
From 1996 to 1999, he was EVP, Central Europe.
reporting, treasury, tax, corporate development, He was previously with PWA Waldhof.
Ken is responsible for North America Household and legal affairs and internal audit.
Executive Director of Food, Latin America and Australia New Zealand.
Erhard is responsible for Western European markets.
Freddy Caspers 41, German Bart Becht 46, Dutch Tony Gallagher 47, British Executive Vice President, Rest of World.
Joined Benckiser in 1988 and Senior Vice President, Information Services.
Joined Benckiser in January 1998 as EVP for Eastern Europe.
served as General Manager in Canada, the UK, Benckiser in September 1997.
He was previously CEO He previously served in PepsiCo in a variety of France and Italy before being appointed Chief of InfoSol, a systems integration and consulting international sales and marketing assignments.
Executive of Benckiser Detergents, subsequently company in the Middle East.
Prior to that, he was at Benckiser NV, in 1995.
He was appointed Chief Integraph and Mitel.
Freddy is responsible for Eastern Europe, Africa Executive Officer of Reckitt Benckiser following the Middle East and Asia.
Tony is responsible for global information systems and merger in December 1999.
He was previously with services and telecommunications.
Procter & Gamble both in the USA and Germany.
Bart is an Executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc and Chairman of the Executive Committee.
