DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting to the members Statement of Directors responsibilities Going concern their report and the financial statements for the year ended The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to The Directors have considered the Groups financial position 30 June 2002. prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a and trading prospects and consider they have a reasonable true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the expectation for stating that Redrow plc has adequate resources to Principal activities and business review Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the continue trading for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they The principal activities of the Group are house building and Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements the continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the commercial development.
Directors ensure that suitable accounting policies have been used financial statements.
and applied consistently, that reasonable and prudent judgements Turnover and profit on ordinary activities before taxation are Substantial shareholding and estimates have been made and that applicable accounting stated at 573.3m and 85.1m respectively.
After providing for S P Morgan has a 9.6% beneficial interest in the standards have been followed.
The Directors are required to taxation of 24.3m and paying an interim dividend of 3.2m, the issued ordinary share capital.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.4m and the transfer unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will of the balance of 51.2m to reserves.
P E Morgan has a 4.8% beneficial interest in the continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for issued ordinary share capital.
A detailed review of the Groups activities during the year and maintaining adequate accounting records, and are also of its prospects is contained within the Chairmans statement, responsible for taking such steps and instituting and maintaining Fidelity International Limited, its direct and indirect subsidiaries Chief Executives review and Finance Directors review.
such systems and controls as are reasonably open to them to and Mr Edward C Johnson 3d principal shareholder of Fidelity safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud International Ltd, hold a 7.9% interest in the issued ordinary and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Redrow plc website is the Standard Life Investments hold a 3.9% interest in the issued responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the ordinary share capital.
Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and On 1 July 2002, the Company received notification that Egerton accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any European Dollar Fund Ltd hold a 3.0% interest in the issued changes that may have occurred to the financial statements ordinary share capital.
since they were initially presented on the website.
The Company has not received notification that any other Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and person had, either at 30 June 2002 or 31 August 2002, more dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation than a 3.0% material interest in the issued ordinary share capital.
DIRECTORS REPORT 30 Directors Employees European Monetary Union EMU The Directors are listed together with their biographical details Training and career development is available, equally and The Group has minimal exposure to foreign exchange and on pages 28 and 29. without discrimination, to all levels and categories of staff.
continues to monitor the implications of EMU.
J F Tutte was appointed as a Director on 10 July 2002.
The Group supports the employment of disabled persons Research and Development wherever possible through recruitment and by the retention The Group has a centralised Research and Development team B Duckworth was appointed as a Director on 13 June 2002. and retraining of those who become disabled during their charged with identifying and evaluating new construction employment.
In accordance with Article 79 of the Articles of Association, J F Tutte and B Duckworth will retire at the Annual General The Directors recognise the importance of good communications Environment Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Companies within the Group are encouraged to Redrow recognises its responsibilities to the community as a In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles of Association, make their employees aware of the financial and economic whole and has adopted an environmental strategy which is a P L Pedley, N Fitzsimmons and B K Harvey will retire by factors affecting their respective companies and the Group.
This core part of the Group's objectives.
rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, is assisted through the medium of regular management meetings offer themselves for re-election.
In recognition of the importance of environmental issues, Redrow has an environmental committee under the The Executive Directors have formal service agreements.
Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related Chairmanship of Robert Jones to oversee this aspect of the Termination of their employment may be effected by six months and other employee share schemes.
The Save As You Earn Group's activities.
notice given by either party.
scheme is administered via a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
Redrow has documented its environmental strategy within The Non-Executive Directors have fixed term service Developing a better future which is published on the Groups agreements outlining their duties and responsibilities.
The principal elements of the strategy are as follows: Directors interests The Group values its relationship with suppliers and Details of transactions with Directors which are material are sub-contractors.
It is the policy to agree credit terms prior to The Group is committed to meeting the challenges set by the disclosed in the Notes to the Accounts.
Subject to any items of genuine Government on the use of brownfield land and the regeneration dispute, it is policy to pay creditors within the terms agreed.
Approximately 69% of the land bank at June The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company 2002 was brownfield land.
Redrow works with the appropriate are given in the Remuneration report on pages 35 to 39.
At June 2002 the Group had 38 days purchases outstanding regulatory organisations to ensure all contaminated land is in respect of payments to suppliers and sub-contractors carefully researched and remediation undertaken in accordance Charitable and political donations 2001: 49 days.
The Group made no political donations but made charitable donations of 41,000 during the year.
In addition, the Group and Redrow seeks to preserve and create features to maintain natural its employees are actively involved in fund-raising activities for habitats for wildlife.
This has been recognised by the Group specific charities.
DIRECTORS REPORT 31 winning 30 Daily Mail Green Leaf Awards specifically for Share Capital The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of environmental quality in the last three years.
Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 set out in the Notice of Annual the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or General Meeting on pages 56 and 57 concern the Companys 4 February 2004.
Redrow pursues imaginative waste management schemes.
committed to re-using surplus materials on site, to reduce Resolution 12 purchase of the Companys own shares transportation whilst eliminating the environmental impact of Resolution 10 authority to allot shares This resolution seeks authority from Shareholders for the disposal of these materials.
Under the Companies Act 1985, the Directors of the Company Company to purchase up to 15,837,103 ordinary shares, an may only allot unissued shares if authorised to do so by the aggregate nominal amount of 1,583,710, which is equivalent to Energy efficiency is important in our homes and often industry Shareholders in a General Meeting.
Resolution 10 renews the approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share standards are exceeded.
Where possible, products and materials Directors existing authority by authorising the Directors to allot capital at 30 June 2002.
The authority will expire at the end of are specified which generate the least environmental impact.
shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,582,312 which next years Annual General Meeting and the resolution specifies This includes the use of timber from managed plantations and such authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be the use of non-toxic paints.
Redrow seeks to partner with General Meeting of the Company.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing suppliers and sub-contractors who have their own environmental ordinary shares of 10p each and is equivalent to approximately levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be codes of practice.
35% of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital.
taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
Except in relation to the issue of ordinary shares arising from the Any shares purchased in this way will be cancelled and the Recognising the Group's commitment to sustainability, changing exercise of options under the Companys employee share option number of shares in issue will accordingly be reduced.
The lifestyles and researching environmentally friendly new schemes, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any Directors have no immediate intention of exercising the technologies, Redrow made a significant investment in the of the authorised but unissued ordinary shares of the Company.
proposed authority when it becomes effective, but believe that House for the Future project with the National Museum and the ability of the Company to buy its own shares if, in the Galleries of Wales.
Resolution 11 limited authority to allot shares for cash Directors opinion, market prices do not reflect the Companys The Directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are worth, will be in the best interests of the Company and its Notice of Annual General Meeting not already Shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so Shareholders.
The Directors intend to exercise this power only Auditors by the Shareholders in a General Meeting.
This resolution if they believe the effect of such purchases will increase earnings A resolution to re-appoint the auditors, , renews authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash without per ordinary share.
The authority will expire on whichever is the will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
first offering them to existing members up to an aggregate earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or nominal amount of 791,855.
Remuneration Committee Report ordinary shares of 10p each, being equivalent to approximately In line with best practice, a resolution to receive and adopt the 5% of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital.
By order of the Board Remuneration Committee report will be proposed at the Annual The resolution also enables the Directors to modify the strict R E Walker Secretary General Meeting.
requirements for a rights issue in circumstances where they consider it necessary or expedient.
