6005 Text 17 49 5 4 03 9:03 am Page 21 Directors Information on the directors is given on page 20.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Mr P J Long was appointed to the board on 23rd October 2002 to fill a casual vacancy and, under the companys Articles of Association, offers himself for election at the annual general meeting to be held on 29th May 2003.
Following the unanimous recommendation of the nomination committee and with the full support of the board Mr P Mason, the former chief executive of Matalan plc, who is aged 43, offers himself for election at the annual general meeting to be held on 29th May 2003.
He previously held a number of executive positions at Asda Group plc, both before and after its acquisition by Wal-Mart, finishing as president and managing director of Asda Wal-Mart UK, prior to that he held executive positions at Mars and B&Q.
The directors retiring by rotation will be Sir Clive Thompson and Mr R C Payne, who are eligible and offer themselves for re-election at the 2003 annual general meeting.
They both have service contracts which are referred to in the Remuneration Report.
The directors have established the following principal board committees: Remuneration committee This committee makes recommendations to the board on the companys framework of executives remuneration and its cost and determines on behalf of the board the pay and benefits of the executive directors and the sector managing directors formerly regional managing directors.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 29 to 40.
The members of the remuneration committee are Mr B D McGowan chairman, Mr R R Spinney and Mr P J Long, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors fees committee This committee is responsible for reviewing and determining the fees of non-executive directors other than the chairman.
Its members are Sir Clive Thompson chairman, Mr R C Payne and Mr J C F Wilde.
Chairmans fees committee This committee is responsible for reviewing and determining the fees of the chairman.
Its members are Mr B D McGowan chairman, Mr I Harley, Mr R R Spinney and Mr J C F Wilde.
Nomination committee This committee is responsible for recommending board appointments.
Its members are Sir Clive Thompson chairman, Mr I Harley, Mr B D McGowan and Mr J C F Wilde.
Audit committee This committee receives reports from the external auditors and reviews the interim and annual reports and internal financial controls, including regular reports from internal audit.
Its members are Mr I Harley chairman, Mr P J Long and Mr R R Spinney, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Directors interests The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the company, other than in relation to share options, on 1st January 2002 or their date of appointment if later, and 31st December 2002, are set out on page 37.
The only directors who have been granted share options by the company are the executive directors, details of whose option holdings are shown on pages 34 and 35.
No director had any beneficial interest in the shares of any of the companys, subsidiaries on those dates.
RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 21 6005 Text 17 49 5 4 03 9:03 am Page 22 The interests of the directors and their families in the company and its subsidiary companies during the period from REPOR REPORT OF THE T OF THE the end of the financial year to 26th March 2003 have changed only to the extent of awards of shares to executive DIRECTORS DIRECTORS directors under the Deferred Share Award Plan, details of which are set out on pages 31 to 34.
The company has purchased cover for the directors against liabilities arising in relation to the company, as permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
During 2002, no director had any material interest in any significant contract to which the company or any subsidiary was a party.
Interests in share capital On 26th March 2003, the following were registered as being interested in the companys issued share capital: Barclays Bank plc 4.03% Legal and General Group Plc 3.58% Employees The company attaches considerable importance to keeping its employees informed of matters affecting their jobs and the progress of the business.
The companys management magazine contributes towards this purpose and is distributed internationally throughout the company.
There are, in addition, a number of other in-house publications in the UK and other countries covering local and divisional matters.
Employees have frequent opportunities to meet and have discussions with their managers.
Senior executives from the United Kingdom make regular visits overseas for meetings with managers and staff.
A European Forum has been established under the European Works Council Directive as a means of informing, communicating and consulting with employees across Europe and currently covers employees in all countries of the European Union, Norway and Switzerland.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of Rentokil Initial that the training, career developments and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
Post balance sheet events Shareholders attention is drawn to the following events which have occurred since 31st December 2002 up to 26th March 2003: 1.
The company has purchased 10.5 million of its own shares.
The company has sold its cash-in-transit business in Belgium.
Policy in relation to Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers in various countries.
These are either negotiated along payment of suppliers with other contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by the relevant group company or by the supplier.
It is the companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated or standard terms, provided that the relevant invoice is properly presented and is not the subject of dispute.
At 31st December 2002 the trade creditors of the group represented 56 days of annual purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented 57 days of purchases: UK trade debtors represented 47 days of turnover.
During the year the parent company did not have any trade creditors.
Corporate social The company takes account of social, environmental and ethical considerations when managing the business and when responsibilities contemplating new activities.
At the beginning of 2002 the board adopted a range of corporate social responsibility CSR policies which, in addition to the existing policies and procedures in respect of the environment and health and safety, comprise a code of ethics and policies in relation to the fundamental rights of employees, equal 22 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 6005 Text 17 49 5 4 03 9:03 am Page 23 opportunities and diversity, employee remuneration, training and employee development, job security and wealth REPORT OF THE creation, relationships with customers and suppliers and community involvement.
The companys CSR statements may DIRECTORS be found on the companys website www.
com or, if a hard copy is required, by application to the company secretarys department at the companys head office, details of which are set out on the inside back cover of this annual report.
Mr E F Brown is the director responsible for CSR issues.
Earlier in the year, the board reviewed the potential risks to the short and long-term value of the company arising from any failure to take proper account of social, environmental and ethical considerations.
The board decided that as an employer of substantial numbers of people, measuring compliance with CSR policies relating to its people was a priority.
In order to measure employment practices in the companys businesses against the policies, the company has developed good practice guides on all aspects of employment.
Businesses have been required to report on the extent of their compliance with these good practice guides in order to identify any procedures or practices that might conflict with the policy.
When this evaluation is completed, during 2003, the conclusions and actions to be taken will be communicated on the companys website.
The board believes that the identification and elimination of any work practice that was found to be in conflict with the CSR policies would have a beneficial impact not only for employees but also on the business.
Good practice guides and systems on health & safety and environmental management have been in place for some time and progress on their adoption throughout the company is reported on the companys website, which is periodically revised to show the latest information.
Good practice guides on relations with customers and suppliers are being developed and the performance of the companys operations against them will be measured during the course of 2003.
The company views the processes in place to manage risk and to motivate and incentivise managers described in this report as equally relevant to an analysis of social, environmental and ethical matters.
The on-going evaluation of systems and procedures is intended to ensure that the management system including the internal control framework is effective in ensuring that issues of a social, environmental or ethical nature are identified and acted upon.
The company has extended its internal control verification systems to ensure that businesses report periodically on their progress towards compliance with the companys CSR policies.
Principal activities A description of the companys activities is given on page 3. Review of the year The review of the companys affairs is given on pages 4 to 19.
Future developments Future developments are commented on by the chief executive in his review on pages 10 to 13.
Dividends An interim dividend of 1.58p per share amounting to 28.4 million was paid on 1st November 2002.
The board recommends the declaration of a final dividend of 3.95p amounting to 73.2 million adjusted for the waiver of dividend in respect of the shares held by the trustees of the Rentokil Initial Employee Share Trust payable on 6th June 2003.
The total distribution for 2002 would then be 5.53p per share 2001: 5.00p amounting to 101.6 million.
Acquisitions During the year 12 companies and businesses were acquired for a total consideration of 34.3 million, which, together with adjustments for deferred consideration, took the total spend up to 34.5 million.
These acquisitions contributed 19.5 million to turnover and 3.1 million to profit before interest and 1.3 million to profit after interest.
Goodwill amounting to 34.6 million has been capitalised as an intangible asset on these acquisitions.
RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 23 6005 Text 17 49 5 4 03 9:03 am Page 24 Consolidated accounts The consolidated profit before taxation for 2002 was 390.3 million the tax on this was 104.6 million.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The book value of the consolidated tangible fixed assets at 31st December 2002 amounted to 624.3 million 2001: 591.3 million.
Dividends declared and recommended out of 2002 profits amount to 101.6 million.
Retained profits of 183.0 million have been transferred to reserves.
Net consolidated capital employed is now negative 701.6 million compared to negative 641.1 million last year, mainly as a result of further share buy-backs.
During 2002 employees exercised options to buy 3.3 million shares of 1p each in the capital of the company under the terms of the share option schemes approved by shareholders in general meeting.
As a result, the companys issued share capital and share premium account increased by 5.2 million.
Corporate governance The company complies with The Combined Code, appended to the Listing Rules, as issued by the Financial Services Authority Combined Code as set out below.
Principles of good governance The company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code as set out below: a The board Sir Clive Thompson was appointed chairman on 30th May 2002 and combined that role with that of chief executive for the remainder of the year.
On 1st January 2003, Mr J C F Wilde took over as chief executive.
The senior independent non-executive director, Mr B D McGowan, was appointed deputy chairman on 30th May 2002.
The board believes that it has structured its affairs to ensure that it leads and controls the company.
It is satisfied that directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues facing the company.
The board meets nine times a year and additionally when necessary and follows a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
As appropriate, the board delegates certain responsibilities to both standing and ad hoc committees under its standing procedures and practices on a clearly mandated basis.
At each scheduled meeting of the board, the chief executive reports on the companys operations worldwide and the finance director reports on the financial position of the company.
In addition, under its standing procedures and practices, significant issues affecting the company are reviewed on a regular basis.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to visit businesses regularly and to have exposure to all levels of management.
b Chairman and chief executive The practice of the company has been for the chairman of the company to be non-executive and be responsible for the running of the board.
With the untimely death of the chairman, Mr H E St L King, in March 2002, the board decided that it was appropriate that Sir Clive Thompson should combine the roles of chief executive and chairman until Mr J C F Wilde took over as chief executive on 1st January 2003.
It was planned that Sir Clive Thompson would remain executive chairman until his retirement in April 2003 when his status would change to that of non-executive chairman.
The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall direction and control of the company, and the chief executive is responsible to the board for the management of the company within parameters set by the board.
c Board balance The company ended the year with four executive directors including the chairman, Sir Clive Thompson and four independent non-executive directors.
24 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 6005 Text 17 49 5 4 03 9:03 am Page 25 In appropriate circumstances, directors are entitled to take independent advice at the expense of the company REPORT OF THE in accordance with standing board procedures and practices.
DIRECTORS d Supply of information The board is satisfied that it is provided with information in an appropriate form and quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
e Appointments to the board Recommendations on new appointments to the board are made by the nomination committee.
Non-executive directors are appointed for terms of three years subject to re-election.
Mr P J Long was appointed after a process which involved the appointment of external consultants to identify possible candidates and, following interviews, his appointment was unanimously recommended to the board by the nomination committee.
Likewise, Mr P Mason is offering himself for election at the annual general meeting with the full support of the board, following a unanimous recommendation of the nomination committee.
f Re-election All directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
g Directors remuneration The statement of the companys policy on executive directors remuneration and details of directors emoluments are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 40.
The boards policy is that all new executive directors should have service contracts which are terminable on 12 months notice by the company see the Remuneration Report on page 37.
It is also the boards policy to ensure that the company maintains contact, as and when necessary, with its principal shareholders both directly and through the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
h Relations with shareholders The board attaches considerable importance to efficient communication with all shareholders.
In addition to the annual and interim reports, trading statements are published at the time of the annual general meeting in May and in November or December each year.
Published information on the company is available on its website.
The annual general meeting also provides an opportunity for shareholders to raise questions and discuss the company with the board.
It is standing practice for the chairman to advise the meeting of the proxy voting after each resolution has been voted on at the annual general meeting.
The chief executive and finance director hold regular meetings with institutional shareholders to discuss the companys strategy and financial performance.
i Annual general meeting All directors attend the annual general meeting and are available to answer questions put to them by shareholders.
The chief executive makes a presentation at the meeting to shareholders on the companys operations and its performance.
j Accountability and audit The annual report provides information on and an assessment of the companys business, operations, financial position and prospects.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and reviews the effectiveness of the system at least annually in order to safeguard shareholders investment and the companys assets.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 25 6005 Text 17 49 5 4 03 9:03 am Page 26 The board has established procedures necessary to implement the requirements of the Combined Code relating REPORT OF THE to internal controls as reflected in the guidance on the review of companies systems of internal control, in DIRECTORS accordance with the Combined Code, which has been prepared by a working party established by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The risk identification and management process has been in place during the whole of 2002 and up to the 26th March 2003, the date of the approval of the audited 2002 accounts and during that time the board has regularly reviewed the process.
The board has also carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The process used by the board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls includes the review of reports on a six monthly basis, on legal compliance and claims issues.
Insurance and risk management and treasury issues are reviewed annually or more frequently if necessary.
In addition the audit committee reviews the scope of audits, the half yearly and annual financial statements including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and reports to the board on financial issues raised by both internal and external audit reports.
In addition, the board has adopted a range of CSR policies see page 22 which are being implemented by the company and its subsidiaries on a planned basis implementation is referred to on the companys website www.
The board is implementing a risk identification and management process in relation to social, environmental and ethical issues similar to the process used by it in relation to internal controls.
k Going concern After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowings and projected cash flows, the directors believe that the group and company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
l Auditors independence The company has reviewed its relationship with its auditors,  and concluded that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
Consequently there are no plans to replace  or their successors,  LLP, whose re-appointment is proposed as set out in the notice of annual general meeting on page 73 of this annual report.
Code of best practice During the year ended 31st December 2002, the company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Charitable and Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2002 amounted to 123,000 and a further 47,000 was donated in other political donations countries.
There were no payments to political organisations.
Auditors Following the conversion of  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1st January 2003,  resigned as auditors, and the directors appointed  LLP to fill the casual vacancy created by the resignation.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the company will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on 29th May 2003.
Authority to make further Shareholders approved an authority for the company to make market purchases of its own shares under the buy-back purchases of own shares programme announced in March 2000 at the annual general meeting held on 30th May 2002, when authority was given to purchase up to 284 million shares in addition to the shares already purchased under earlier authorities.
This represented 15% of the companys issued share capital at the time, being the maximum which the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority permit to be bought by way of market purchases under a single authority.
Since 30th May 2002 the company has purchased a further 34 million shares at a total cost of 77.5 million.
Together with the shares purchased under the earlier authorities, this represents aggregate purchases of 1,006 million shares representing 35% of the companys share capital before the commencement of the share buy-back programme at a total cost of 1.8 billion.
26 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 6005 Text 17 49 5 4 03 9:03 am Page 27 The current buy-back authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
However, the REPORT OF THE board considers it would be in the interests of shareholders that the board has the flexibility to continue the buy-back DIRECTORS programme beyond the annual general meeting.
The board is therefore seeking the authority of shareholders to buy back up to a further 277 million shares by way of market purchases, which represents 15% of the companys issued share capital at the date of this report.
The proposed authority is dealt with in Resolution 8 contained in the notice of annual general meeting on page 73.
If given, it will replace the current authority granted on 30th May 2002.
Until the new authority is given by shareholders, the current authority allows the company to buy back approximately a further 240 million shares.
If the company were to use this authority in full, it would have approximately 1.6 billion shares in issue at the time of the new authority and, under the 15% limit in the Listing Rules referred to above, the number of shares for which shareholders could give authority would be limited to just over 241 million.
Therefore, in order to comply with the Listing Rules, the authority being proposed in Resolution 8 provides that the company may not make market purchases under this authority of such number of shares as in aggregate amounts to 15% or more of the number of shares in issue immediately following the annual general meeting.
The minimum price payable per share under the proposed authority in Resolution 8 is 1p the nominal amount of each share and the maximum price exclusive of expenses is 5% above the average market price per share for the five business days immediately preceding any purchase.
The board intends to use this authority to purchase shares with discretion.
Purchases will be made only from funds not required for other purposes and in the light of prevailing market conditions.
No purchase will be made unless the board is of the opinion that it will result in an increase in earnings per share.
The board will also take into account the companys cash resources and bank facilities, the effect on gearing and other possible investment opportunities before deciding whether to exercise this authority.
Any purchase of shares pursuant to this authority will be made on market.
Shares purchased will be cancelled and will not be available for reissue.
Remuneration Report and The Remuneration Report, which has been adopted by the board, is set out on pages 29 to 40 and the Statement of Statement of Director Directors Responsibilities is set out on page 40.
Responsibilities Recommendation The board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the annual general meeting to be held on 29th May 2003 are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the company.
By order of the board R Ward-Jones Secretary 26th March 2003 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 27 6005 Text 17 49 5 4 03 9:03 am Page 28 Documents available A copy, or a memorandum of the terms, of every service contract between the company or any of its subsidiaries and REPORT OF THE for inspection any director of the company is available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the offices of Denton DIRECTORS Wilde Sapte, One Fleet Place, London EC4M 7WS during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted until 29th May 2003 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting for at least fifteen minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Note regarding As at the close of business on 28th March 2003 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this purchases of own shares document, there were options remaining to be satisfied by subscription for shares in the company in respect of 40.9 million shares, which represents 2.2% of the current issued share capital of the company.
This would represent 3.0% of the issued share capital of the company after the purchase and subsequent cancellation of both the remaining 239 million shares which as at 28th March 2003 the company had authority to purchase under the authority referred to above granted on 30th May 2002 and the maximum 241 million shares which the company would then have authority to purchase under the authority being proposed in Resolution 8.
