6005 Text 01 16 5 4 03 8:36 am Page 3 Group overview Rentokil Initial is one of the largest business services companies in the world, with some 92,000 employees, providing a range of support services.
Our business is structured into two service areas, Specialised Services and Facilities Management.
Specialised Services consists of: Hygiene, Security, Pest Control, Tropical Plants, Conferencing and Parcels Delivery.
Facilities Management covers our multi-service proposition to large companies.
Across more than 40 countries, including the major economies in Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and Africa, the brands of Rentokil and Initial represent consistent quality of service.
SPECIALISED SERVICES Hygiene An extensive range of hygiene services including specialist washroom Conferencing As the UKs premier provider of specialised education and training services providing soap dispensers, tampon dispensers and disposal, warm air centres, our corporate and public sector clients are able to concentrate on their core dryers and roller towels and towel dispensers.
Textile services includes the design, activities whilst gaining maximum benefit from their training investments provided manufacture, supply and rental of work garments and the supply of special floor through our specialised conference facilities.
In addition, linen is provided and laundered for restaurants, hotels, hospitals and industry.
Parcels Delivery Whether it is a time sensitive package or an important letter to a client, an urgent overnight deadline can be met together with access by our Security Effective security solutions are provided to meet clients needs for personal customers to proof of delivery via the Internet.
safety and protection of property and contents.
These are met through the application of advanced technologies and highly trained, skilled and motivated FACILITIES MANAGEMENT personnel.
We are seeking progressively to provide a total security offering to our Facilities Management businesses create the platform from which multi-service clients with a mix of electronic security and manned guarding, which is tailored to contracts are provided offering one point of client contact.
Contracts may meet their individual needs.
include not only our services, but also sub-contracted services where required.
Pest Control Special emphasis is placed on health, safety and protection of the environment.
Targeted research of pests provides effective and innovative solutions to pest control, which together with improved working practices, set higher standards of operational effectiveness and environmental care for the customer.
Tropical Plants Indoor tropical plants enhance the working environment.
Offered to clients on a rental and maintenance or purchase and maintenance basis, they range from a single plant or tree to displays for the largest atrium.
