Securities and Investment Commission order that seeks to confirm that adequate internal The Audit committee comprises the five dated 9 April 2001, and have a general controls are in place and operating effectively.
The members, with responsibility for taking such steps as are The results of this process are reviewed by the exception of Mr Mayhew, are independent reasonably open to them to safeguard the the chief executive of each product group and are free of any relationship that would assets of the Companies, and to prevent and and are then presented to the boards as a interfere with impartial judgement in carrying detect fraud and other irregularities.
further part of their review of the Groups out their responsibilities.
Mr Mayhew is not internal controls.
This process is continually deemed to be technically independent by Going concern reviewed and strengthened as appropriate.
virtue of his professional association with the The Financial statements have been prepared In 2002, the Group also established a Company in his capacity as chairman of on the going concern basis.
As required by Disclosure and Procedures committee which Cazenove Group PLC, a stockbroker and the Combined Code, the directors report that was tasked with reviewing the adequacy and financial adviser to Rio Tinto plc.
However, the they have satisfied themselves that the Group effectiveness of Group controls and boards have determined that, in their business is a going concern since it has adequate procedures over the public disclosure of judgement, the relationship does not interfere financial resources to continue in operational financial and related information.
The with Mr Mayhews exercise of independent existence for the foreseeable future.
committee has been presenting the results of judgement and believe that his appointment is this process to executive management and in the best interests of the Group because of Boards statement on internal control directors and will continue to do so.
the substantial financial knowledge and Rio Tintos overriding corporate objective is to The Group has material investments in a expertise he brings to the committee.
maximise long term shareholder value number of joint ventures and associated through responsibly and sustainably investing Report of the Audit committee companies.
Where Rio Tinto does not in mining and related assets.
The directors The Audit committee met six times in 2002. manage these investments, the Group can recognise that creating shareholder value is We monitor developments in corporate influence, but not control, management the reward for taking and accepting risk.
governance in the US, the UK and Australia.
Accordingly, the review of their The directors are responsible for the We do so to ensure the Group continues to internal controls is less comprehensive than Groups system of internal control and for apply high and appropriate standards relevant that for the Groups managed operations.
reviewing its effectiveness in providing to the jurisdictions in which we operate.
shareholders with a return on their investments Communications Many of the new US requirements have that is consistent with a responsible Communications with shareholders are given long been best practice and are incorporated assessment and mitigation of risks.
In addition to statutory into the committees Charter, reproduced on includes reviewing financial, operational and documents, eg the Annual report and financial page 62.
The Charter is subject to regular compliance controls, and risk management statements, Annual review and Half year discussion and will be reviewed in the light of procedures.
Because of the limitations inherent report, Rio Tinto produces documents on a emerging legislation, regulation and best in any such system this is designed to manage wide range of subjects, including corporate practice.
Accordingly, it social responsibility, which are available on We have also produced a set of provides reasonable but not absolute assurance request.
Further details are set out in the procedures, including budgetary guidelines against material misstatement or loss.
Shareholder information on page 65. and for the appointment of the external The directors have established a process Rio Tinto maintains a comprehensive auditor to undertake non audit work.
This will for identifying, evaluating and managing the website, www.
com, from which its be operated in conjunction with the Groups significant risks faced by the Group.
This reports and other publications can be freely global procurement initiative, which aims to process was in place during 2002 and up to downloaded and through which shareholders provide the best possible goods and services and including the date of approval of the can gain secure online access to their at the most advantageous price.
2002 Annual report and financial statements.
It is also linked to The process is reviewed annually by the 2002 Financial statements websites maintained by Group operations, directors and accords with the guidance set We have reviewed and discussed with thus offering easy access to a wealth of out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors management the audited financial statements detailed information about the Group.
Results on the Combined Code.
for the year ended 31 December 2002. presentations and other significant events are The Groups management committees We have discussed with the external also available as they happen and as an review information on the Groups significant auditors matters described in the American archive on the website.
risks, with relevant control and monitoring Institute of Certified Public Accountant Full use is made of the annual general procedures, for completeness and accuracy.
90, Audit Committee meetings to inform shareholders of current This information is presented to the directors Communications, and in the UK Statement of developments through appropriate presentations to enable them to assess the effectiveness of Auditing Standard No 610, Communication of and to provide opportunities for questions.
In addition, the boards audit matters to those charged with Significant matters affecting both and their committees monitor the Groups Governance SAS 610, including their Companies are dealt with under the joint significant risks on an ongoing basis.
judgements regarding the quality of the voting procedure, detailed on page 68.
Votes, Assurance functions, including internal Groups accounting principles and underlying which are cast on a poll, are announced after auditors and health, safety and environmental estimates.
the close of the later of the two annual auditors, perform reviews of control activities We have discussed with the external general meetings.
and provide regular written and oral reports auditors their independence, and received and The Companies also respond to to directors and management committees.
reviewed their written disclosures, as required individual queries on many issues.
The directors receive and review minutes of by the US Independence Standards Boards the meetings of each board committee, in Audit committee: US Blue Ribbon Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions addition to oral reports from the respective Compliance statement with Audit Committees and SAS 610. chairmen, at the first board meeting following The Audit committee meets the membership Based on the above, we have the relevant committee meeting.
requirements of the Combined Code in the recommended to the boards of directors that Certain risks, for example natural UK and the Blue Ribbon Report in the US.
the 2002 Financial statements be included in disasters, cannot be mitigated to an The Group also meets the disclosure this annual report.
acceptable degree using internal controls.
requirements in respect of audit committees Such major risks are transferred to third required by the Australian Stock Exchange.
Sir Richard V Giordano Chairman parties in the international insurance markets, The Audit committee is governed by a written A F J Gould to the extent considered appropriate.
charter approved by the boards, which the D L Mayhew Each year, the leaders of Group Audit committee reviews and re-assesses P D Skinner businesses and administrative offices each year for adequacy.
A copy of this Lord Tugendhat complete an internal control questionnaire charter is reproduced on page 62.
Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit committee charter Scope and authority Charter Other matters The primary function of the Audit committee Review and, if appropriate, update this The committee shall also perform any other is to assist the boards of directors in fulfilling Charter at least annually.
activities consistent with this Charter that the their responsibilities by reviewing: committee or boards deem appropriate.
This the financial information that will be Financial reporting and internal financial will include but not be limited to review of the provided to shareholders and the public: controls corporate governance practices of Group the systems of internal financial controls Review with management and the external sponsored pension funds.
that the boards and management have auditors the Groups financial statements, established: and stock exchange and media releases in the Groups auditing, accounting and respect of each half year and full year.
Review with management and the In carrying out its responsibilities the external auditors the accounting policies and committee has full authority to investigate all practices adopted by the Companies and matters that fall within the terms of reference their compliance with accounting standards, of this Charter.
Accordingly, the committee stock exchange listing rules and relevant may: legislation.
obtain independent professional advice in Discuss with management and the the satisfaction of its duties at the cost of external auditors managements choice of the Group: and accounting principles and material have such direct access to the resources judgments, including whether they are of the Group as it may reasonably require aggressive or conservative and whether they including the external and internal auditors.
are common or minority practices.
Recommend to the boards that the Composition annual financial statements reviewed by the The Audit committee shall comprise three or committee or the chairman representing the more non executive directors, at least three committee for this purpose be included in of whom shall be independent.
The boards the Groups annual report.
will determine each directors independence Review the regular reports prepared by having regard to any past and present the internal auditor including the effectiveness relationships with the Group which, in the of the Groups internal financial controls.
opinion of the boards, could influence the directors judgment.
External auditors All members of the committee shall have Recommend to the boards the external a working knowledge of basic finance and auditors to be proposed to shareholders.
At least one member of Review with the external auditors the the committee will have accounting or related planned scope of their audit and financial management expertise, as subsequently their audit findings including determined by the boards.
A quorum will comprise any two Periodically consult with the external independent directors.
auditors out of the presence of management The committee may invite members of about the quality of the Groups accounting the management team to attend the principles, material judgments and any other meetings and to provide information as matters that the committee deems necessary.
Review the performance of the external Meetings auditors.
The committee shall meet not less than four Review and approve the fees and other times a year or more frequently as compensation to be paid to the external circumstances require.
minutes will be confirmed at the following Ensure that the external auditors submit meeting of the committee and tabled as soon a written statement outlining all of its as practicable at a meeting of the boards.
professional relationships with the Group The Companys senior financial including the provision of services that may management, external auditors and internal affect their objectivity or independence.
auditor shall be available to attend all Review and discuss with the external meetings.
auditors all significant relationships they have As part of its responsibility to foster open with the Companies to determine their communication, the committee should meet independence.
with management, the external auditors and the internal auditor, at least annually, to Internal auditor discuss any matters that are best dealt with Review the qualifications, organisation, privately.
strategic focus and resourcing of internal audit.
Responsibilities Review the internal audit plans.
The boards and the external auditors are Periodically consult privately with the accountable to shareholders.
The Audit internal auditor about any significant committee is accountable to the boards.
The difficulties encountered including restrictions internal auditor is accountable to the Audit on scope of work, access to required committee and the finance director.
information or any other matters that the To fulfil its responsibilities the committee committee deems appropriate.
shall: 62 Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE CHARTER
