Margins Product group earnings earnings before interest, tax and US$m exceptional items to sales revenue Note: 2002, 2001 and 1998 exclude exceptional charges.
This reflects the the impact of our revised assumptions about started to highlight further priorities.
addition of Hail Creek, which is on track for future markets for these businesses has more Performance targets are set for 2003, start up late in the third quarter of 2003 with than offset the benefits from these including energy and water use efficiency, a subsequent ramp up to 5.5 million tonnes improvements.
It has necessitated writing and greenhouse gas emissions.
The reserves will allow at least 25 down the carrying value of these assets by in these areas will also be linked to the years of production.
US$480 million and US$235 million, executive incentive plan.
Elsewhere in the energy portfolio, there respectively after tax and minorities.
I should We made progress in finding ways to remains significant value to be realised from emphasise that these impairment charges, integrate sustainable development practices our coal assets in New South Wales, which are required to conform with UK and approaches into our activities.
Most Australia and at Jacobs Ranch in the US accounting standards, are non cash in businesses have appointed cross functional Powder River Basin.
Moreover, the market value of teams to develop a sustainable development Rio Tinto is about three times its net book framework appropriate to local circumstances value, underlining the world class quality of and efforts are under way to formalise the Copper our assets.
Rio Tinto also took a charge of incorporation of criteria into key business We made significant improvements in US$116 million for environmental remediation decisions.
productivity at the smelter and refinery at work at Kennecott Utah Copper, for costs Kennecott Utah Copper in the US following that will be incurred over a number of years the outsourcing of maintenance in the first Opportunities on treatment of contaminated groundwater.
Negotiation of a new The integration into our businesses of the labour agreement in the second half of the US$4 billion of acquisitions from 2000 will year was linked to the need to improve Safety, health, environment and continue to add significantly to earnings and flexibility of work practices in order to improve communities cash flow over the next few years.
The key to productivity and lower costs.
Following We place the utmost importance on health a healthy future is the constant attention to 41 days of bargaining, KUC reached an and safety in the workplace.
Our policies the creation of options which we can feed impasse with the unions and implemented its show our commitment: our standards set into the project pipeline.
Negotiations continue while new clear expectations: audits assure For most of our commodities we have safety and production records have been set implementation: and, in 2002, we opportunities to increase capacity as markets under the new arrangements.
inaugurated an annual chief executives demand.
We are, therefore, capable of The completion of Escondidas Phase 4 award to reward safety excellence.
Luzenac responding to market circumstances.
development in Chile lifts the capacity of the North Americas Yellowstone talc operation Rio Tinto has a number of high quality mine to 1.2 million tonnes of copper per and Richards Bay Minerals in South Africa greenfield projects under construction that year and will allow us to respond quickly to were the 2002 winners of the award.
represent a significant increase in the Groups any improvement in the copper market.
Despite these strenuous efforts, I am exposure to several commodities.
There remain further options for expansion very sad to have to report the deaths of six However, we do not limit ourselves to at Escondida.
employees at operations we manage during any single path to profitable growth.
Many of these fatalities were related to three years, we have also achieved success Industrial Minerals vehicles and driving.
We are reinforcing the through acquisition and through identifying The performance of the Industrial Minerals need for our businesses to achieve full options for internal development projects.
group is particularly sensitive to the economic implementation of the Rio Tinto safety Our Exploration group continues to develop a environment.
Market conditions in 2002 were standards to prevent any fatality.
portfolio of strong opportunities for the future.
Boraxs profitability has been There were 487 lost time incidents Diavik Diamonds, Hail Creek and the adversely affected, including by product during the year, a 33 per cent decrease from Comalco alumina refinery represent the next substitution in detergents and increased 2001.
For the last few years, we have set an major tranche of developments.
In titanium dioxide feedstocks, annual target of a 50 per cent reduction in high margin projects in businesses we know we are in a period of sustained oversupply.
the lost time injuries frequency rate.
Additionally, we are the leading minerals Both QIT and Richards Bay Minerals cut the frequency rate was 0.85 compared with supplier to China.
While not 50 per cent, this Whatever the economic conditions, we and committed capacity is sufficient to meet result represents significant improvement.
will remain focused on achieving growth in projected demand until at least 2007.
Our goal, nevertheless, remains to eliminate shareholder value through the business cycle.
Exceptional charges By the end of 2002, 72 per cent of our Over the last 18 months, we have taken managed operations had implemented the decisive action to improve the financial ISO 14001 environmental standard or an returns from two of our assets that have equivalent environmental management underperformed: Kennecott Utah Copper and system.
Full compliance is expected in 2003. the Iron Ore Company of Canada.
However, To increase our focus on this area, we have Leigh Clifford Chief executive Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 5 23.8 25.0 29.2 29.7 24.9 1,451 1,439 1,779 1,906 1,788
