above last year as higher grades combined Minas Gerais.
The transition from open pit to OTHERS with higher throughput.
underground mining has now been Bougainville Copper Rio Tinto: completed.
Fortaleza employs approximately 53.6 per cent.
Lihir Rio Tinto: 16.3 per cent 520 people, including 135 contractors.
Bougainville Copper BCL is a Papua New Lihir Gold is a publicly quoted company Guinea company listed on the Australian formed to finance and develop the Lihir mine 2002 operating performance Stock Exchange with a market capitalisation in Papua New Guinea.
Lihir Gold at 31 Nickel production was 38 per cent lower than of A$52 million US$30 million at December 2002, had a market capitalisation in 2001 mainly due to lower than anticipated 31 December 2002. of A$1.64 billion US$932 million.
mine production and excessive stope dilution.
Operations at BCLs Panguna mine on Lihir directly employs approximately Deteriorating ground conditions resulted in Bougainville Island were suspended in 1989 970 people, of whom 91 per cent are Papua the suspension of operations for two months.
following periods of disruption resulting from New Guineans and 39 per cent are Lihirians.
In the last quarter of 2002, production and civil unrest.
At 31 December 1991, a full Some 1,100 are also employed by head grades improved considerably.
provision of US$195 million was made in contractors of whom a large proportion is Rio Tintos financial statements for its Lihirian.
Corumb Rio Tinto: 100 per cent investment in BCL.
Rio Tinto Brasil owns the Groups interest in Peace has been restored on most of 2002 operating performance Mineracao Corumbaense Reunida Bougainville Island.
However, the mine site is Gold production at Lihir was six per cent Corumb.
Corumbs iron ore is barged still under the control of elements that deny lower than 2001 due to lower head grades.
along the Paraguay River to South American access to the area.
An agreement has been and European customers.
signed between the National Government Morro do Ouro Rio Tinto: 51 per cent and Bougainville leaders providing for Rio Tinto Brasil manages the Groups interest 2002 operating performance increased autonomy for Bougainville.
in the Morro do Ouro mine in the state of Production of lump iron ore was 34 per cent Towards the end of 2000, two class Minas Gerais.
higher than in 2001. actions, since consolidated, were filed in the Morro do Ouro employs approximately US District Court in California claiming 570 people directly and 140 contractors, DIAMOND & GOLD GROUP PROJECTS unspecified damages against Rio Tinto most of them from the nearby town of Diavik Diamonds Rio Tinto: 60 per cent arising out of the mining operation at Paracatu.
Diavik Diamond Mines DDMI owns Panguna and the civil unrest leading to and Rio Tintos interest in and manages the following mine closure.
The Court dismissed 2002 operating performance unincorporated Diavik Diamonds joint venture the claims but an appeal is pending.
The Gold production at Morro do Ouro was in the Northwest Territories of Canada.
outcome of the appeal is not expected to be 20 per cent higher than in 2001 due to higher The project was completed well ahead known before the end of 2003.
BCL is not a throughput and improved head grades.
of schedule and under budget.
Initial party to this action.
Rio Tinto believes the production has commenced and the process claims are wholly without merit and the action Rio Tinto Zimbabwe Rio Tinto: plant commissioned.
Production will build up is being contested vigorously.
56 per cent over the next two years with Rio Tintos share Rio Tinto Zimbabwe is a publicly quoted of production, of over 3.6 million carats per company having a significant local year, projected for 2005. shareholding.
DDMI continues to comply with all Its interests include the Renco and permits and licenses.
DDMIs commitment to Patchway gold mines as well as the Empress work with aboriginal communities was nickel refinery.
In total, Rio Tinto Zimbabwe formally concluded in five participation employs approximately 1,800 people.
agreements, providing training, employment and business opportunities.
Procurement 2002 operating performance contracts for the operating phase were Gold production was down at both Renco negotiated with aboriginal businesses.
and Patchway due to lower throughput and An agency relationship between DDMI poor head grades.
and Rio Tinto Diamonds for marketing Operating in Zimbabwe became much DDMIs share of diamond production was more of a challenge during 2002 with multiple concluded in 2002. factors affecting the operations, the most serious of which were acute food and fuel Murowa Rio Tinto: 78 per cent shortages, and the incidence of HIV.
An Rio Tinto and Rio Tinto Zimbabwe are uncertain fiscal exchange policy also created continuing preparations to allow the Murowa a very difficult operating environment.
The feasibility study completed at the end of 2000 OTHER MINERALS confirmed that three kimberlite pipes, near Greens Creek Rio Tinto: 70.3 per cent Zvishavane in southern Zimbabwe, represent In addition to gold, the Kennecott Greens a mining reserve of 16.5 million tonnes of ore Creek mine on Admiralty Island in Alaska, at a grade of 0.9 carats per tonne.
produces silver, zinc and lead.
2002 operating performance Mill throughput at Greens Creek was 11 per cent higher than 2001 resulting in zinc production up by 15 per cent, and lead by ten per cent.
However, silver production was static due to a corresponding drop in head grades.
Fortaleza Rio Tinto: 100 per cent Rio Tinto Brasil manages the Fortaleza nickel mine and smelter which is also in the state of Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 45 OPERATIONAL REVIEW
