Financial review continued Average Effect of 10% other variables remain constant.
This a substantial hedge book on acquisition, market price change in full sensitivity takes into account the effect of which has been retained but is not being for 2002 year average US$ A$ hedges maturing in 2003, as renewed as maturities occur.
US$m disclosed in note 28 to the Financial In the last two years, the Group has also Copper 71 c lb 95 statements.
These exchange rate sensitivities entered into forward currency contracts in Aluminium include the effect on operating costs of respect of certain capital commitments and 3 month forward 61 c lb 75 Gold US$309 oz 55 movements in exchange rates but exclude business acquisitions.
As at 31 December the impact through revaluation of foreign 2002, it held contracts to purchase currency working capital.
They should A$1,151 million and C$46 million in respect The above sensitivities are based on 2002 therefore be used with care.
of future committed capital expenditure.
volumes and give the estimated impact on However, in the case of the Australian net earnings of changes in prices, assuming dollar there is a significant degree of natural Interest rates that all other variables remain constant.
The protection against cyclical fluctuations, in that Rio Tintos interest rate management policy is relationships between currencies and the currency tends to be weak, reducing generally to borrow and invest cash at commodity prices is a complex one and costs in US dollar terms, when commodity floating rates.
Short term US dollar rates are movements in exchange rates can cause prices are low, and vice versa.
normally lower than long term rates, resulting movements in commodity prices and vice Given the dominant role of the US in lower interest costs to the Group.
The sensitivities allow for the effect of currency in the Groups affairs, the US dollar Furthermore, cyclical movements of interest the commodity hedges maturing in 2003, as is the currency in which financial performance rates tend to compensate, to an extent, for disclosed in note 28 to the Financial is measured and in which financial results are those of commodity prices.
presented both internally and externally.
It is circumstances, an element of fixed rate also the natural currency for borrowing and funding may be considered appropriate.
Treasury management and financial holding surplus cash.
Modest amounts of At the end of 2002, only 12 per cent of the instruments cash are held in other currencies for short Groups net debt was fixed rate.
Based on Treasury activities operate as a service to the term operational reasons.
the Groups net debt at 31 December 2002 business of the Rio Tinto Group and not as a The Group finances its operations and with other variables unchanged, the profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type primarily in US dollars, either directly or using approximate effect on the Groups net of transaction permitted are laid down by the currency swaps, and a significant proportion earnings of a one percentage point increase Rio Tinto boards and are subject to rigorous of the Groups US dollar debt is located in in US dollar LIBOR interest rates would be a internal controls.
Corporate funding and subsidiaries having functional currencies reduction of US$40 million.
overall strategic management of Rio Tintos other than the US dollar.
Exchange gains and balance sheet is handled by the London losses relating to US dollar debt, impact on Commodity prices based Group Treasury.
the profit and loss accounts of such The Groups normal policy is to sell its Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue subsidiaries.
However, such exchange gains products at prevailing market prices.
derivative financial instruments for trading or and losses are excluded from the Groups Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict speculative purposes: and does not believe profit and loss account on consolidation with limits laid down by the Rio Tinto boards and that it has exposure to such trading or a corresponding adjustment directly to to rigid internal controls.
Rio Tintos exposure speculative holdings through its investments reserves.
This means that financing in US to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of in joint ventures and associates.
Such dollars impacts in a consistent manner on the its broad commodity spread and the Group instruments are used to separate funding and Groups consolidated accounts irrespective of does not generally believe commodity price cash management decisions from currency the functional currency of the particular hedging would provide long term benefit to exposure and interest rate management.
The subsidiary where the debt is located.
Group has used interest rate swaps in Under US generally accepted accounting Metals such as copper and aluminium conjunction with longer term funds raised in principles GAAP, the above exchange are generally sold under contract, often long the capital markets to achieve a floating rate differences must be charged against the term, at prices determined by reference to obligation which is consistent with the profit for the year except to the extent that prevailing market prices on terminal markets, Groups interest rate policy.
Currency swaps the US dollar debt is effective as a hedge of such as the London Metal Exchange and have been used to convert debt or assets accounted for in US dollars in the COMEX in New York, usually at the time of investments into currencies, primarily the particular companies in which the debt delivery.
Prices fluctuate widely in response to US dollar, which are consistent with the resides.
This gives rise to an adjustment in changing levels of supply and demand but, in Groups policy on currency exposure the US GAAP reconciliation for 2002, the long run, prices are related to the management.
No material exposure is increasing US GAAP earnings by marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in considered to exist by virtue of the possible US$177 million net of tax and outside an active market in which prices respond to non performance of the counterparties to shareholders interests: but no adjustment to daily changes in quantities offered and financial instruments held by the Group.
US GAAP shareholders funds is required.
Newly mined gold is only one source The derivative contracts in which the The Group does not generally believe of supply: investment and disinvestment can Group is involved have been valued for the that active currency hedging would provide be important elements of supply and purposes of the Financial instrument long term benefits to shareholders.
Contract prices for many other disclosures in the Financial statements by protection measures may be deemed natural resource products are generally reference to quoted market prices, quotations appropriate in specific commercial agreed annually or for longer periods with from independent financial institutions or by circumstances and are subject to strict limits customers, although volume commitments discounting expected cash flows.
laid down by the Rio Tinto boards.
As set out vary by product.
in note 28 to the Financial statements, as at Approximately 35 per cent of Rio Tintos Dividends 31 December 2002 there were forward 2002 net earnings from operating businesses Dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto contracts, including synthetic forwards, to came from products whose prices were Limited shares are equalised on a net cash purchase A$1,845 million, C$141 million and terminal market related and the remainder basis: that is without taking into account any NZ$1,005 million in respect of future trading came from products priced by direct associated tax credits.
From the Groups perspective, negotiation.
these forward contracts offset the impact of The approximate effect on the Groups Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy exchange rate variations on a portion of the net earnings of a ten per cent change from aims to increase the US dollar value of local currency costs incurred by various the full year average market price in 2002 for dividends over time, without cutting them in subsidiaries.
Much of the above hedge book the following metals would be: economic downturns.
Rio Tinto plc was acquired with North Limited.
North held shareholders receive dividends in pounds 32 Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements FINANCIAL REVIEW sterling and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders the relevant acquisition and, where the When production stage stripping costs receive dividends in Australian dollars, which goodwill is being amortised over a period are deferred by Rio Tinto operations, the are determined by reference to the exchange exceeding 20 years, annually thereafter.
amount deferred and the subsequent rates applicable to the US dollar two days When a review for impairment is conducted, recognition of such costs in the profit and prior to the announcement of dividends.
the recoverable amount is assessed by loss accounts are based on the life-of-mine Changes in exchange rates could result in a reference to the net present value of stripping ratio.
This ratio is calculated by reduced sterling or Australian dollar dividend expected future cash flows of the relevant dividing the estimated total volume of in a year in which the US dollar value is income generating unit, or disposal value if production stage stripping by the estimated maintained or increased.
The discount rate applied is based future ore production over the life of the 2002 onwards is that the interim dividend for upon the Groups weighted average cost of operation.
The ratio is then used to calculate each year in US dollar terms will be capital with appropriate adjustment for the the current period stripping cost charged equivalent to 50 per cent of the previous risks associated with the relevant unit.
against earnings by multiplying the stripping years total US dollar dividends.
Estimates of future net cash flows are based ratio by the quantity of ore mined during the on mineral reserves and resources for which period.
Critical accounting policies there is a high degree of confidence of During 2002, production stage stripping As explained in detail in the Outline of dual economic extraction, and forecasts of future costs incurred by subsidiaries and equity listed companies structure and basis of commodity prices and exchange rates.
accounted operations exceeded the amounts financial statements, the consolidated Changes in these assumptions could impact charged against pretax profit by financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group on asset carrying values.
The amount of such costs deal with the results and assets and liabilities Provision is made for environmental carried forward in property, plant and of both of the dual listed companies, costs when the related environmental equipment and in investments in joint Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited and their disturbance occurs, based on the net present ventures and associated companies at subsidiaries.
They are prepared under UK value of estimated future costs.
Where the 31 December 2002 was US$565 million.
GAAP and satisfy the obligations of Rio Tinto ultimate cost of environmental disturbance is In 2002, the Group adopted FRS 19, the Limited, as laid down by the Australian uncertain, there may be variances from these new UK accounting standard relating to Securities and Investments Commission.
This cost estimates, which could affect future deferred tax.
This reduced shareholders Annual Report also includes reconciliation financial results.
funds at 1 January 2002 by US$133 million.
statements setting out the effect of the Close down and restoration costs are a The impacts on net earnings for 2002 and adjustments to net earnings and to normal consequence of mining, and the 2001 were not material and, accordingly, shareholders funds for the Group that would majority of close down and restoration prior year earnings were not restated.
Further be required, under Australian and under US expenditure is incurred at the end of the life details of the changes in accounting policy GAAP.
The US dollar is the principal currency of the mine.
Although the ultimate cost to be resulting from the introduction of this used in these financial statements, as it most incurred is uncertain, subsidiary companies standard are included in note 1 to the reliably reflects the Groups global business have estimated their respective costs based Financial statements.
performance, but pound sterling and on feasibility and engineering studies using Disclosure is made of material Australian dollar figures are also given.
current restoration standards and techniques.
contingent liabilities unless the possibility of The treatment of gains and losses on US Post retirement benefits are accounted any loss arising is considered remote and of dollar debt is described above in the section for in accordance with Statement of Standard material contingent assets where the inflow of dealing with Exchange rates, reporting Accounting Practice 24, which requires economic benefits is probable.
Contingencies currencies and currency exposure.
gradual recognition of the surpluses and are disclosed on page 115.
UK Financial Reporting Standard FRS 3 deficits which emerge as a result of variances allows presentation of an adjusted measure from actuarial assumptions.
The Accounting Forward looking statements of earnings.
As presented by Rio Tinto, this Standards Board has extended the Forward looking statements are contained in excludes the effect of exceptional items of transitional period before FRS 17 is required this Financial review and attention is drawn to such magnitude that their exclusion is to be implemented.
Under FRS 17, all deficits the Cautionary statement: about forward necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfil would be recognised in full and surpluses looking statements on page 7. their purpose of reflecting the Groups would be recognised to the extent that they underlying performance.
FRS 17 Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and transitional disclosures are included on pages mineral resources based on information 122 to 124.
If FRS 17 had been applied in compiled by Competent Persons as defined drawing up the 2002 financial statements, in accordance with the Australasian Code for shareholders funds would have been Reporting of Mineral Resources and Ore US$602 million lower, reflecting the level of Reserves of September 1999 the JORC stock markets at 31 December 2002, and code.
There are numerous uncertainties net earnings would have been US$15 million inherent in estimating ore reserves: and lower.
assumptions that are valid at the time of In open pit mining operations, it is estimation may change significantly when necessary to remove overburden and other new information becomes available.
Changes waste materials to access mineral deposits.
in the forecast prices of commodities, The costs of removing waste materials are exchange rates, production costs or recovery referred to as stripping costs.
During the rates may change the economic status of development of a mine, before production reserves and may, ultimately, result in the commences, stripping costs are capitalised reserves being restated.
Such changes in as part of the investment in construction of reserves could impact on depreciation rates, the mine.
Removal of waste materials asset carrying values and provisions for close continues during the production stage of the down, restoration and environmental costs.
Some companies expense these Tangible and intangible fixed assets are production stage stripping costs as incurred, reviewed for impairment if events or changes while others defer such stripping costs.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying Rio Tinto defers stripping costs for those amount may not be recoverable.
In addition, operations where the effect is material as this goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the is considered the most appropriate basis for end of the first complete financial year after matching revenues and costs.
Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 33 FINANCIAL REVIEW
