Risk factors and cautionary statement RISK FACTORS projects economics, the Groups asset impact on earnings and cash flows.
The following describes some of the risks values, costs, earnings and cash flows.
that could affect Rio Tinto.
In addition, some Mining operations risks may be unknown to Rio Tinto and other Reserve estimation Mining operations are vulnerable to a number risks, currently believed to be immaterial, There are numerous uncertainties inherent in of circumstances beyond the Groups control, could turn out to be material.
All of these estimating ore reserves and estimates that including transport disruption, weather and could significantly affect the Groups business are valid at the time of estimation may other natural disasters such as cyclones and and financial results.
They should also be change significantly when new information flooding, unexpected maintenance problems, considered in connection with any forward becomes available.
Fluctuations in the price collapse or damage to pit walls, unexpected looking statements in this document and the of commodities, increased production costs geological variations and industrial actions.
or reduced recovery rates may render lower These can affect costs at particular mines for grade reserves uneconomic and may, varying periods.
Mining, smelting and refining Economic conditions ultimately, result in a restatement.
A processes also rely on key inputs, for Commodity prices, and demand for the significant restatement could have a material example fuel and electricity.
Appropriate Groups products, are influenced strongly by and adverse impact on the Groups asset insurance can provide protection from some, world economic growth, particularly that in values, costs, cash flows and earnings.
but not all, of the costs that may arise from the US and China.
The Groups normal policy unforeseen events.
Disruption to the supply is to sell its products at prevailing market Political and community of key inputs, or changes in their pricing, may prices.
Commodity prices can fluctuate The Group has operations in some countries have a material and adverse impact on the widely and could have a material and adverse where varying degrees of political instability Groups costs, earnings and cash flows.
impact on the Groups asset values, exists.
Political instability can result in civil revenues, earnings and cash flows.
Further unrest, expropriation, nationalisation, Rehabilitation discussion can be found on page 10, renegotiation or nullification of existing Costs associated with rehabilitating land Business environment, and on page 32, contracts, mining leases and permits or other disturbed during the mining process and Commodity prices.
agreements, changes in laws, taxation addressing environmental, health and policies or currency restrictions.
Any of these community issues are estimated based on Exchange rates can have a material adverse impact upon the the most current information available and The Groups assets, earnings and cash flows profitability or, in extreme cases, the viability dealt with before an operation is sold or are influenced by a wide variety of currencies of an operation.
However, there is a risk that due to the geographic diversity of the Groups Some of the Groups current and estimates may be insufficient and or further sales and the countries in which it operates.
potential operations are located in or near issues may be identified.
Any underestimated The US dollar is the currency in which the communities that may now, or in the future, or unidentified rehabilitation costs will reduce majority of the Groups sales are regard such an operation as having a earnings and could materially and adversely denominated.
The Australian and US dollars detrimental effect on their social and affect the Groups financial results and cash are the most important currencies influencing economic circumstances.
Currencies can fluctuate widely and it might have a material adverse impact upon could have a material and adverse impact on the profitability or, in extreme cases, the Non managed operations the Groups revenues, earnings and cash viability of an operation.
In addition, such an Rio Tinto cannot guarantee that local flows.
Further discussion can be found on event may adversely affect the Groups ability management of mining assets where it does page 31, Exchange rates, reporting to enter into new operations.
not have managerial control will comply with currencies and currency exposure.
the Groups standards or objectives.
Technology Acquisitions The Group has invested in and is involved CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT The Group has grown partly through the with information system and operational FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS acquisition of other businesses.
Several technical aspects of these This document contains certain forward numerous risks commonly encountered in initiatives are still unproven and the eventual looking statements with respect to the business combinations and Rio Tinto cannot commercial outcomes cannot be assessed financial condition, results of operations and ensure that management will be able with any certainty.
Accordingly, the costs and business of the Rio Tinto Group.
These effectively to integrate businesses acquired, benefits from participating and investing in statements may generally, but not always, be or generate the cost savings and synergies new technologies and the consequent effects identified by the use of words such as anticipated.
Failure to do so could have a on the Groups future earnings and financial believes, expects, may, should, will, material and adverse impact on the Groups results may vary widely from present or similar expressions, used in connection costs, earnings and cash flows.
with estimated reserves, anticipated production or construction commencement Exploration and new projects Land and resource tenure dates, costs, outputs and productive lives of The Group seeks to identify new mining The Group operates in several countries assets or similar factors.
Such forward properties through an active exploration where title to land and rights in respect of looking statements involve known and programme.
However, there is no guarantee land and resources including indigenous title unknown risks, uncertainties and other that such expenditure will be recouped or are sometimes unclear and disputes may factors beyond the Groups control.
For that the existing mineral reserves will be arise over resource development.
Such example, future reserves will be based in part replaced.
Failure to do so could have a disputes could disrupt some mining projects on market prices that may vary significantly material and adverse impact on the Groups and or impede the Groups ability to develop from current levels.
These may materially financial results and prospects.
affect the timing and feasibility of particular The Group develops new mining developments.
Other factors include the properties and expands its existing Health, safety and environment ability to produce and transport products operations as a means of generating Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is profitably, the impact of foreign currency shareholder value.
However, there are subject to numerous health, safety and exchange rates on market prices and increasing regulatory, environmental and environmental laws and regulations and operating costs, and activities by social approvals required that can potentially community expectations.
Evolving regulatory governmental authorities, such as changes in result in significant increases in construction standards and expectations can result in taxation or regulation, and political uncertainty.
costs and or significant delays in increased litigation and or increased capital, The Group cannot guarantee that its construction.
These increases could operating, compliance and remediation costs, forward looking statements will not differ materially and adversely impact upon a all of which can have a material and adverse materially from actual results.
Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 7 RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
