Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2002 Dual listed companies Limited issued their respective DLC Dividend Retirement payments and benefits to Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited were Share on 27 August 2002 and 2 September dependants are provided by Rio Tinto and its unified under a dual listed companies 2002.
Details of the changes in the issued major subsidiaries in accordance with local structure in 1995, and the directors report share capital of both Companies, the number conditions and good practice in the countries has been prepared as a joint report of both of shares reserved for issue and options concerned.
For a full description of the outstanding at the year end, are given in note structure, please see page 68.
Policy regarding payment of trade creditors At the annual general meeting of It is the policy of both Companies to abide by Activities and review of operations Rio Tinto plc held in April 2002, the terms of payment agreed with suppliers.
In A detailed review of the Groups activities authorities for Rio Tinto plc to buy its own many cases, the terms of payment are as during 2002, post balance sheet events and shares and for Rio Tinto Limited to buy stated in the suppliers own literature.
In other likely future developments are given in the shares in Rio Tinto plc were renewed and cases, the terms of payment are determined chairmans letter on pages 2 and 3, the chief extended until October 2003.
These by specific written or oral agreement.
Neither executives report on pages 4 and 5 and the authorities enable Rio Tinto plc to buy back Company follows any published code or Operational review on pages 34 to 49. up to ten per cent of its publicly held shares standard on payment practice.
Under the Australian At 31 December 2002, there were Corporate governance Corporations Act 2001, Rio Tinto Limited is 31 days purchases outstanding in respect A report on Corporate governance and currently permitted to buy back up to ten per of Rio Tinto Limited costs and eight days compliance with The Combined Code cent of its shares on-market in any 12 month purchases outstanding in respect of Rio Tinto appended to The Listing Rules of the UK period without seeking shareholder approval.
plc costs, based on the total invoiced by Listing Authority, as well as the guidelines of In addition, Rio Tinto Limited is authorised by suppliers during the year ended the Australian Stock Exchange, is set out on shareholder approvals obtained in 1999 to 31 December 2002. pages 60 and 61. buy back up to all the Rio Tinto Limited shares held by Tinto Holdings Australia Pty Donations Directors Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Worldwide expenditure on community Details of the directors are set out on pages Rio Tinto plc plus, on-market, up to ten per programmes by Rio Tinto managed 50 and 51. cent of the publicly held capital in any businesses amounted to US$48 million Mr C R H Bull retired with effect from the 12 month period.
conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited annual During 2002, neither Company Donations in the UK during 2002 general meeting on 18 April 2002, when purchased shares under the relevant amounted to 2.3 million of which Mr G R Elliott succeeded him as finance authorities given to them.
0.6 million was for charitable purposes as director.
Details of disclosable interests in the defined by the Companies Act 1985 and Mr A F J Gould and Mr D C Clementi share capital of both Companies are given on 1.7 million for other community purposes.
were appointed non executive directors on page 71.
As in previous years, no donations were 4 December 2002 and 28 January 2003, made in the EU during 2002 for political respectively.
Mr Gould and Mr Clementi, Employment policies purposes as defined by the UK Companies neither of whom have service contracts, will Group companies, together with the Groups Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, retire and offer themselves for election at the share of joint ventures and associates Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
employed approximately 36,000 2001: Total community spending in Australia Under the articles of association of 37,000 people worldwide, with around amounted to A$44.4 million.
Again, no Rio Tinto plc and the Rio Tinto Limited 10,000 in Australia and New Zealand and donations were made for political purposes.
constitution, directors are required to retire 1,000 in the United Kingdom.
Rio Tintos from the boards and offer themselves for employment policy, which reflects its overall Value of land re-election at least every three years.
philosophy of decentralisation, is set out in Group companies interests in land consist The following directors retire by rotation the statement of business practice, The way mainly of leases and other rights which and being eligible, offer themselves for we work.
Rio Tinto is committed to equality permit the working of such land and the re-election: Mr R Adams, who has a service of opportunity and encourages each erection of buildings and equipment thereon contract with a subsidiary of Rio Tinto plc operating company to develop its own for the purpose of extracting and treating which is terminable on one years notice by policies and practices to suit individual minerals.
Such land is mainly carried in the either party: and Mr L A Davis and circumstances.
Management development financial statements at cost.
It is not Mr D L Mayhew, neither of whom have and succession planning are regularly practicable to estimate the market value service contracts.
The Hon R G H Seitz, who reviewed.
since this depends on product prices over has served two, three year terms, also retires Group companies employ disabled the next 20 years or longer, which will vary by rotation and will not be offering himself for people and accept the need to maintain and with market conditions.
If an employee The interests of the directors and their becomes disabled whilst in employment and, Exploration, research and development families in shares and other securities of as a result, is unable to perform his or her Companies within the Group carry out Group companies are shown on pages 57 duties, every effort is made to offer suitable exploration, research and development to 59. alternative employment and to assist with necessary to support their activities.
are also made to universities and other Dividends Rio Tinto respects the right of employees institutions which undertake research on Details of dividends are set out on page 65. worldwide to choose for themselves whether subjects relevant to the activities of Group or not they wish to be represented companies.
A description of some aspects of Share capital collectively.
the work currently being undertaken and At the annual general meetings of Rio Tinto Group companies recognise their expenditure involved is provided in the plc and Rio Tinto Limited held in April 2002, obligations to comply with health and safety Operational review.
Expenditure during the shareholders approved the creation of a new legislation and, through training and year, excluding that of joint ventures and special purpose share, the DLC Dividend communication, encourage employee associated companies, was US$124 million Share, in each Company, by increasing the awareness of the need to create and secure for exploration and evaluation and US$25 authorised share capital of Rio Tinto plc by a safe and healthy working environment.
For million for research and development.
the nominal value of the DLC Dividend Share further information about Group staff and and by creating a new class of share in health and safety initiatives, please see pages Auditors Rio Tinto Limited.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto 48 and 49.
Following the conversion of the UK firm of Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 63 DIRECTORS REPORT
