Chief Executives review continued United States of America areas, mitigating the general slowdown In the southwest area, which includes Arizona, United States of America in construction activity.
The decline in Nevada, southern New Mexico and El Paso, demand for heavy building products Texas, profits declined due to competitive Total turnover m put downward pressure on selling prices.
conditions in Phoenix and a lower level of spending on the state highway programme 1,255.4 Profits in the eastern USA fell by in west Texas.
In the important northern California market, EBITA excluding exceptional items m The Carolinas and Georgia were the most profits held up well, being only slightly lower 57.2 severely affected by the economic decline than in 2001.
A decline in commercial activity and resulting pricing pressures.
This was in the San Francisco Bay area was offset by an 2001: 88.3 compounded by extremely wet weather in increase in housing activity in the Central Valley.
the last quarter, which caused major Turnover and profits were down throughout disruption to construction work.
These Outlook the USA, most notably in the Carolinas and factors also affected the prestressed concrete Looking forward, market conditions in the Georgia.
Turnover fell by 107.2 million to business which operates predominantly in USA differ from region to region.
EBITA fell by 31.1 million these states and is heavily dependent upon while the residential construction market to 57.2 million.
This partly reflected higher office and commercial development.
was strong in 2002, there is a risk that it healthcare and insurance costs, which could weaken.
There would also appear increased by 5 million.
Profits held up well in Florida.
The housing to be no immediate prospect that the market remained strong in the southwest, but commercial and industrial sectors will Overall, difficult trading conditions were there was a decline in commercial activity in improve.
With respect to specific regions, experienced throughout the year.
Nonthe Tampa to Orlando corridor.
there is evidence that conditions in our key residential construction fell significantly due Californian market are improving.
The to the weakening economy, particularly the The western USA held up better than the east, Carolinas and Georgia are expected to be commercial and office sectors.
Housing but profits fell 10.1 million to 39.3 million.
demand continued to be strong in most Hearst Tower, Charlotte, North Carolina Nearly 3,500 separate precast concrete architectural panels were manufactured by Metromont Prestress to clad the exterior of this 47-storey office tower.
The elements ranged from column covers and architectural panels and spandrels to window units.
Unique colours were used in the mix designs to create dramatic colour variations, and intricate detailing was cast into panels.
Gillette Stadium, Foxborough, Massachusetts Award-winning sports stadium specialist Metromont Prestress has been a major player in the construction of a new, 68,000- seat state-of-the-art arena for American football champions New England Patriots.
More than 1,700 separate precast prestressed structural and architectural elements were made at, and trucked a distance of 900 miles from, the Companys two plants in the Carolinas for the Groups $14.8 million Gillette stadium contract.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 16 Carquinez Bridge, San Francisco, California Located in the northernmost section of San Francisco Bay, this seismically safe, three-span, 1,056-metre long structure spanning the Carquinez Strait is the first new major suspension bridge to be built in the USA in 37 years.
By the time the bridge opens in 2003, RMC Pacific Materials will have supplied more than 8,000 cubic metres of high-density and high-strength concrete to each of the two main towers, from a specially erected batching plant adjacent to the site.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 17 Ready mixed concrete and mortar Aggregates Cement and cementitious products Building and concrete products
