Rest of Europe Performance in the Rest of Europe was export markets were strong, while Poland Rest of Europe pleasing.
Excluding the discontinued activities benefited from greater cement plant utilisation of YTONG and the Netherlands, turnover rose as a result of additional exports to other Group Total turnover m by 24.8 million to 1,255.0 million and EBITA companies.
Hungary continued to perform was 4.6 million higher at 91.9 million.
In the Czech Republic, 1,255.0 increased profits reflected high economic 2001: 1,230.2 France reported record profits reflecting growth and the gains from a number of large continued high demand in the early part of contracts.
These results were achieved despite EBITA excluding exceptional items m the year and the benefits of cost control.
extensive flooding in the autumn.
91.9 In Spain, profits benefited from continuing strong demand across the construction Outlook 2001: 87.3 industry, also to reach a record level.
In Ireland, In western Europe in 2003, there is some where economic conditions have deteriorated, evidence that demand is softening from past results were below last year.
Trading remained high levels in France and that the economy difficult in Austria.
in the Republic of Ireland is continuing to weaken.
However, demand in Spain is Performance in our eastern European anticipated to remain strong.
Our operations operations was also good, with profits in eastern Europe are expected to continue significantly ahead of 2001.
In Croatia, plant to prosper, especially in those countries that utilisation was high and the domestic and will be joining the EU in 2004.
The Robert Desnos Nursery School, Kremlin-Bictre, France This new school in the Ile-fide-France region was completed in the Spring of 2002.
Specially designed for 3 to 5 year-old children, it comprises not only classrooms, but also a multimedia hall and leisure centre.
Bton fide France supplied concrete for the foundations and floors, and selfcompacting concrete for the wall structure that gives a beautifully smooth, natural stone finish to the building.
Barajas Airport, Madrid, Spain Readymix Asland is supplying 300,000 cubic metres of concrete for the new terminal building being constructed at Madrids Barajas Airport.
Concrete, supplied from three separate mobile plants operating on the site, is being used to create the modular structure of the 57-gate terminal just part of the 2.9 billion airport expansion programme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 15 Ready mixed concrete and mortar Aggregates Cement and cementitious products Building and concrete products Waste control
