Chief Executives review continued Germany The German businesses continued to suffer Outlook Germany from the weak condition of the economy and The outlook for Germany remains challenging.
further decline in construction investment, as Construction demand is expected to decline Total turnover m well as from very wet weather in the autumn.
However, our In addition, the cement market experienced continuing cost reduction and rationalisation 766.0 a sharp reduction in prices from early in the programmes should protect us from the full 2001: 816.3 year.
However, increased sourcing of cement impact of any decline.
Furthermore, at some from our own plants to the concrete division stage, there should be some rationalisation EBITA excluding exceptional items m raised in-house consumption from around of cement production capacity and we expect 0.3 20% to nearly 40%, and led to higher cement cement prices to stabilise at more realistic plant utilisation and increased market share.
levels in the medium term, if not in 2003.
2001: 15.4 Excluding YTONG, turnover of 766.0 million was 50.3 million lower and EBITA fell by 15.7 million to roughly break even.
The fall in EBITA arose primarily from the fall in the average selling price for cement, partially offset by an increase in cement volumes.
This increase in cement volumes reflected higher internal sales and market share gains.
The performance of the concrete division improved, reflecting lower raw material prices.
The profit from aggregates fell slightly.
St. Canisius Church, Berlin A very light, smooth, consistent appearance was specified for the concrete used in the construction of this modern church in Berlin.
The special mix uses limestone dust and blast furnace cement from Readymix Zements plant at Eisenhttenstadt.
Water sculpture, Berlin Concrete and know-how provided by Readymix Baustoffgruppe made it possible to create this stunning water sculpture inside Berlins Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology.
The sculpture was designed by German artist Annette Sauermannn.
Two currents of water flow in opposite directions inside the double spiral.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 14 Ready mixed concrete and mortar Aggregates Cement and cementitious products Building and concrete products
