Chief Executives review continued Great Britain Persistence Works, Sheffield Marble-smooth, exposed concrete enhances the striking design of Persistence Works, a purpose-built structure housing 68 studio spaces for craftspeople and artists.
Dry silo mortar RMC Readymix launched a multi-million pound drive into the rapidly expanding dry silo mortar market.
Silos capable of holding 33 tonnes of mortar enough to lay about 40,000 bricks are delivered directly to construction sites.
Turnover rose by 66.8 million to The cement divisions profitability fell by Great Britain 1,154.8 million, largely as a result of the 23 million.
This reflected continuing Aggregates Levy.
EBITA fell by 32.0 million difficulties at the Rugby plant, which resulted Total turnover m to 78.0 million.
Within this, the property in higher transportation and maintenance division profits were 3.5 million lower at costs, and higher insurance costs.
The profitability of all divisions performance of the Rugby plant was inconsistent 2001: 1,088.0 was affected by a 7 million increase in throughout the year, especially in the first half.
central costs, primarily relating to the set-up This led to a number of shutdowns to EBITA excluding exceptional items m costs of a Shared Service Centre, and the undertake modifications.
Some improvement 78.0 introduction of new integrated IT systems.
was seen during the second half, enabling the workforce to be reduced by over 100.
2001: 110.0 The aggregates division benefited from the full year contribution of the Russell aggregates Outlook business and the strong market for asphalt.
For 2003 overall, the market is expected to The readymix division delivered lower volumes, be at a similar level to 2002, with demand but this was mainly offset by improved picking up in the latter part of the year.
Taken together, profitability of the Key to this will be the level of expenditure aggregates and readymix divisions rose by arising from investment in public services 4 million.
Profitability of the waste control and infrastructure projects.
Subject to more division fell by 2 million, partially due to consistent operational performance, results one-off costs associated with work on from the cement division should improve as developing new products, and increasing costs associated with the inconsistent output the geographic reach of the business.
of the Rugby plant do not recur.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 12 2002 Commonwealth Games RMC Readymix North West supplied 45,000 cubic metres of concrete for the piling, groundwork and superstructure of the 2002 Commonwealth Games stadium in Manchester.
The stadium has since been altered to become the new home ground of Manchester City Football Club.
Sleepers RMC Precast Products is the preferred supplier to Network Rail for concrete railway sleepers and also a major force in the production and supply of crossing bearers.
The company also produces cable troughs used within both the rail and the telecommunications industries.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 13 Ready mixed concrete and mortar Aggregates Cement and cementitious products Building and concrete products Waste control
