Dir Directors r ectors report eport The Directors present their annual report Authority to allot shares Authority for certain donations and together with the audited accounts of the The shareholders approval is again sought expenditure Company and of the Group for the year for the renewal of the authority of the The shareholders approval is sought for a ended 31 December 2002.
You will find Directors to allot Ordinary shares in the Resolution in connection with the Political appended to the Circular, enclosed with this Company for cash and also to allot shares Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 Report and Accounts, the Notice of the without first offering shares pro rata to the Act.
The Act, which came into effect Annual General Meeting of RMC Group p. l. c. existing shareholders.
The number of shares during 2001, requires all UK companies to for 2003 which will be held at the Four which may be allotted in these circumstances seek shareholder approval before incurring Seasons Hotel, Hamilton Place, Park Lane, accords with the limitations currently expenditure of above 5,000 which might London W1 at 11.30am on Friday, 2 May 2003. acceptable to institutional shareholders.
under the legislation be interpreted as EU political expenditure or as a donation to an EU Results and dividends The Directors would be able to allot shares political organisation.
Whilst we will not make The profit for the year attributable to up to an aggregate nominal amount of any donations to political parties, the Act is shareholders was 70.3 million 2001: 22,095,594 representing one-third of the very broadly drafted and may capture activities 70.6 million.
After dividends costing issued Ordinary share capital of the Company such as funding seminars and other functions 82.6 million 2001: 82.5 million the at 6 March 2003 and disapply pre-emption to which politicians are invited.
The penalties retained loss for the year was 12.3 million rights in respect of the allotment of shares for breaching the legislation are severe and, 2001: 11.9 million.
up to an aggregate nominal amount of therefore, the Directors have decided that it 3,314,339 representing 5% of the issued would be prudent to seek shareholders Restated for FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Ordinary share capital of the Company at authority for political donations and 6 March 2003. expenditure, in case any of our normal The Directors have recommended a final activities are caught by the legislation.
Details dividend for the year of 21.8 pence per share The authority to allot shares will expire at the of the amount of donations made by the 2001: 21.8 pence per share payable on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in Group for charitable and educational purposes 30 May 2003 to shareholders on the register 2004.
The Directors have no intention of during the year to 31 December 2002 are at the close of business on 11 April 2003. exercising this authority at present.
contained in the corporate responsibility The total dividend for the year, including the review on pages 20 to 25. interim dividend of 9.4 pence per share An Ordinary Resolution to authorise the 2001: 9.4 pence per share, will be 31.2 Directors to allot shares in pursuance of Research and development pence per share 2001: 31.2 pence per share.
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 and a The Group continues to pursue an active Special Resolution for the general disapplication programme of technical innovation, Group activities and review of operations of pre-emption rights are set out in the Notice particularly in the field of cement, concrete The Group is engaged principally in the of Annual General Meeting in the Circular and road surfacing technology, and operates production and supply of materials for use enclosed with this Report and Accounts.
central laboratories primarily for the benefit in the construction industry.
The principal of Group companies.
Costs incurred are subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and Authority to purchase shares integral to quality control and product associated undertakings together with a The shareholders approval is again sought for support and are therefore not in the nature description of their activities, are set out the Company to make market purchases of its of pure research and development.
on pages 76 and 77. own shares for cancellation, up to a maximum of 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital Board of Directors A review of the current state of the Groups and within certain prescribed price limits.
Short biographical details of the present affairs and its future prospects is given in the Your Board intends to make purchases of the Directors of the Company are given on pages Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 4, in the Companys shares only if it considers such 28 and 29.
They were all members of the Chief Executives review on pages 8 to 19 and purchases will result in an increase in earnings Board throughout the financial year with the in the Finance Directors review on pages 26 per share and are considered to be in the best exception of Messrs P Hampton, H Mamsch and 27. interests of shareholders generally.
Although and J Pike who were all appointed as nonat present the Directors have no plans to buy executive Directors on 1 June 2002.
Mr A Auer Fixed assets back shares, they consider it prudent to be was appointed as an executive Director on The Directors are of the opinion that the value able to act if circumstances warrant.
In addition Sir Neil of land and buildings is significantly greater Resolution authorising the Company to Macfarlane, Professor Dr K Rsener, Mr C than the amounts included in the Group purchase its own shares is set out in the Hampson and Mr A Durant were Directors balance sheet at 31 December 2002, however Notice of the Annual General Meeting in until they retired on 31 January 2002, 3 May it is not practicable to value freehold land on the Circular enclosed with this Report and 2002 Professor Dr K Rsener and C Hampson, an annual basis.
At 6 March 2003, the Company and 31 October 2002 respectively.
has an unexpired authority to repurchase Mr R Lambourne resigned as a Director Acquisitions and disposals shares up to a maximum of 26,497,038 on 9 January 2003.
Details of the principal acquisitions and Ordinary shares.
disposals made during 2002 are shown in Note 30 to the Accounts on pages 73 and 74.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 30 Messrs A Auer, P Hampton, J Pike and The Company maintains share option schemes According to the Register of Substantial H Mamsch, who were appointed as Directors for the benefit of eligible employees based in Interests maintained in compliance with since the last Annual General Meeting, retire the UK and overseas.
Under these schemes, Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985, from the Board at the 2003 Annual General employees with requisite service are the Company has received notifications in Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves periodically given an opportunity to acquire respect of the following interests at the for election.
The Directors retiring by rotation shares in the Company on favourable terms.
at the 2003 Annual General Meeting are This benefit is made available to UK-based Messrs S Walker, M Foster, G Letourneau employees under the Savings Related Share Zurich Financial Services and Sir Keith Stuart and, all being eligible, Option Scheme and Share Ownership Plan Number of Ordinary shares: 8,461,866 offer themselves for re-election.
and to certain overseas employees under the Percentage of issued capital: 3.191% International Saving-for-Shares Plan and the Messrs A Auer, S Walker, M Foster and US Saving-for-Shares Plan.
Legal & General Investment G Letourneau have service contracts with the Management Ltd Company, details of which are set out in the The Groups policy is to provide equal Number of Ordinary shares: 7,979,787 Remuneration report on pages 34 to 39. opportunities to all the existing employees Percentage of issued capital: 3.01% Messrs P Hampton, J Pike, H Mamsch and and anyone seeking to join.
Employment Sir Keith Stuart are non-executive Directors opportunities are available to disabled persons Except for the above, no person has reported and therefore do not have service contracts.
in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes any material interest of 3% or more or any on equal terms with other employees and non-material interest exceeding 10% of the Directors interests every effort is made to enable them to issued Ordinary share capital of the Company.
There were no contracts subsisting during continue employment, with re-training for or at the end of the year either with the alternative work where necessary.
Special Auditors Company or with any of its subsidiaries in attention is given to the deployment of Following the conversion of our Auditors which any Director was or is materially employees who become disabled in service.
Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, Payments to suppliers  resigned on The executive Directors are entitled to The Group has its own policy to settle the 27 February 2003 and the Directors appointed participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan the terms of payment with its suppliers when its successor,  LLP, as LTIP.
The shares which the participants could agreeing the terms of each transaction, Auditors to fill the casual vacancy created by be entitled to receive under the LTIP are ensuring that those suppliers are made aware the resignation.
An Ordinary resolution, special provided by the RMC Employee Share of the terms of payment and abides by the notice having been received to reappoint the Ownership Trust the Trust.
Each of the terms of payment.
The average days credit auditors,  LLP, will be executive Directors therefore has a technical taken by the Group was 43 2001: 41. proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
interest in the 445,523 Ordinary shares held by the Trust.
The details regarding the operation The Parent company does not have any trade Michael Hampson of the LTIP and the Directors other interests in creditors.
Secretary shares of the Company are set out in the 6 March 2003 Remuneration report on pages 34 to 39.
Health and safety Information on health and safety is contained Employment policies in the corporate responsibility review on The Group continues to recognise the pages 20 to 25. importance of its employees and places considerable emphasis on involving them Share capital in the business by regular and effective Details of changes in the share capital of the communication with them.
Group companies Company and the number of Ordinary shares have established local systems of information reserved for issue at the year end are set out and consultation, including consultation in Note 22 to the Accounts on page 67. committees, helplines and newsletters.
The Group has in place a voluntary European Consultative Committee through which central management informs and consults employee representatives from subsidiary companies in the European Union.
Employees regularly receive information about the financial progress and position of the RMC Group by means of employee journals, internet sites and reports on the Groups financial results and its pension funds.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 31
