Report of the Directors Report of the Directors Shares issued or repurchased The directors submit their report and the audited accounts for the Details of the ordinary shares issued and the preference shares year ended 31 December 2002 as set out on pages 28 to 56. purchased during 2002 are given in note 19 on page 47.
Activities Research and development Rotork p. l. c. is a holding company.
The principal activities of the Total Group expenditure on research and development in the year Rotork Group are the design, manufacture and support of was 2,367,000 2001: 2,057,000 further details of which are actuators, systems and related products worldwide.
contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 15.
Rotork Actuation provides a range of products, systems and services Charitable donations for the motorisation and manual operation of and adaption to During the year the Group made charitable donations of 28,000 industrial valves and dampers for isolation duty and process control 2001: 32,026. applications.
It does this through its Electric Actuator, Gears and Fluid System operations.
Actuated valves are major control elements Directors in refineries, pipelines, power stations, water distribution systems The names of the directors in office at the date of this report and and effluent treatment plants and in all industries in which liquids their biographical details are as shown on page 16.
The interests of or gases are transported through pipes.
the directors in office at the end of the financial year in the shares of the Company are as shown in note 9 to the financial statements Reviews of the Groups activities and operations including the on page 39. disposal in November 2002 of the Rotork Control & Safety business and the acquisition in January 2002 of Jordan Controls Inc. WH Whiteley, GE Malcolm, RE Slater and RH Arnold have service reported on as a post year-end event in the 2001 Directors Report agreements and details of these are contained in the Remuneration are set out on pages 2 to 15.
Dividends At the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Articles of The directors recommend a final dividend of 7,664,000 for the Association, GE Malcolm and JW Matthews will retire by rotation year, payable on 28 May 2003 to shareholders on the register on and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
This represents 8.90p per share 2001: 8.30p which, with the interim dividend of 5.00p per share 2001: 4.65p will produce a total dividend per ordinary share of 13.90p 2001: 12.95p.
Substantial shareholdings As at 1 March 2003 the Company had been formally notified that the following have material interests in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: No.
% Aviva plc 3,966,344 4.61 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 3,386,725 3.93 Prudential plc 3,033,373 3.52 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 17 Report of the Directors Corporate governance During the year the Audit Committee The board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate Reviews the external and internal financial audit work plans: governance the Code throughout the year ended 31 December Considers reports from management, internal and external 2002 apart from those relating to the length of directors service audit on the system of internal financial control and any contracts Code provision B.
1.7, which are commented on in the material control weaknesses: Remuneration Report.
"Considers reports on health and safety, social and environmental issues with reference to FTSE4Good criteria and The Company now complies with the Code provisions on internal relevant Association of British Insurers Guidelines: control having during the year continued to embed procedures Discusses with management the range of actions taken on necessary to implement the guidance issued in the ""Turnbull problem areas for the business identified by board members or Report"", and by reporting in accordance with that guidance."
in the internal and external audit reports.
The board has ultimate responsibility for the Companys system of Additionally, internal control and is required to set appropriate policies and to review its effectiveness.
The role of management is to implement The board receives copies of the minutes of all board policies.
Audit Committee meetings: The board reviews the role of insurances in managing risk The system of internal control is designed to reduce but cannot across the Group: eliminate the risks of failure to meet business objectives.
Internal The board regularly receives written and oral reports from control therefore can only provide reasonable but not absolute management on all aspects of production, operations, assurance in meeting such business objectives or against material financial and risk management matters.
Prior to the year end the full board following discussion at the Audit A continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Committee formally reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system significant risks faced by the Company continued to be applied and of internal control.
developed during the year under review and operated up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Senior The board currently has seven members comprising three managers with responsibility across all functions participate in the non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and four executive risk management process that identifies and evaluates the key risks directors.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the including social and environmental facing the Companys Chairman and the Chief Executive that ensures that there is a businesses.
Their deliberations are reported to the Audit Committee balance of power and authority.
JW Matthews is the senior and board.
This process is based on senior managers detailed independent non-executive director.
knowledge and understanding of key risks within and external to the business based on formal management information and reports The board is expected to meet eight times during the course of the and their interaction and daily dealings with those reporting directly year and additional meetings will be convened as necessary: there is to them, their colleagues and external parties.
Internal financial a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the board: audits are undertaken on a regular basis by the head office the terms of reference of the board and its committees are regularly accounting function.
Work will continue to further embed internal reviewed.
To enable the board to perform its duties all directors control and risk management into the operations of the business have full and timely access to all relevant information.
and to further enhance and add to the relevant processes including consideration of social and environmental risks.
The board has three standing committees: The processes that are used by the board to review the effectiveness The Audit Committee is comprised of the non-executive directors, of this system of internal control include the following: RC Lockwood Chairman, JW Matthews and A Walker.
It usually 18 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 meets three times a year to review published financial information, over-arching Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee the effectiveness of both external and internal audit and internal chaired by the Chief Executive.
The Finance Director and the external auditors normally attend meetings and there is a meeting at least The Company has awareness of the UN backed International Labour once a year between the Committee and the external auditors at Core Labour Standards.
The Companys policy is not to discriminate which management is not present.
on grounds of colour, race, gender, age, ethnicity or religious beliefs or ever operate with unacceptable worker treatment such as the The matter of auditor independence is considered by the use of child or forced labour.
The Group aims to uphold and Committee.
During the year the UK tax consulting advisory work support human rights wherever it operates respecting local laws was transferred from KPMG to Deloitte & Touche.
Generally the Companys overseas offices are general consulting projects more than one service delivery provider managed and operated by nationals of the relevant country.
The Companys doing the right thing publication available on the The Remuneration Committee is described in the Remuneration Companys web site sets out the way in which the Group Report on pages 21 to 26. encourages employees to become shareholders through its employee share schemes and to make available to employees The Nomination Committee is primarily responsible for making opportunities for training and development including direct financial recommendations to the board for the appointment or support related to job roles within the Company.
Two full-time re-appointment and removal of directors.
It has three members, training officers are available at the Bath site where four year RC Lockwood who chairs the committee, JW Matthews and apprenticeships are offered.
The doing the right thing publication WH Whiteley.
also highlights how employee communication is fostered through employee committees and makes reference to the Groups Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
There is involvement with the wider community through charitable regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and an opportunity donations.
for individual shareholders to put questions to the Chairman at the AGM.
Individual shareholder enquiries are dealt with throughout The Group has health and safety policies in place.
The Group is the year by the Company Secretarys department.
working toward a global health and safety policy compliant with occupational health and safety management system ohsas for the Corporate Social Responsibility benefit of employees and those they interact with worldwide.
The Companys environmental policy is stated within the 2002 Environmental Report published on the Companys web site.
Business integrity and fair dealing is key to the Groups relationships with suppliers and contractors.
Many of the Groups suppliers have The 2002 Environmental Report sets out the key indicators for had long-term relationships with the Group.
Most key suppliers are measurement of environmental performance within the Bath registered to ISO 9000.
Supplier development is ongoing and manufacturing site.
A strategy to introduce global environmental involves elements of the ISO 9000 system developed in the motor reporting of all Rotork assembly plants is in place.
Group environmental report is targeted for publication in 2004.
The strategy also includes plans for the implementation during Statement of directors responsibility for preparing the 2003 of a formal environmental management system compliant financial statements with ISO 14001 at the Bath plant and thereafter to other The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with manufacturing sites on a progressive basis.
During 2003-2004 the auditors Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, included in the audits of the Groups main suppliers will include supplier audit report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders environmental audits.
The Environmental Report references the the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in Groups corporate social responsibility infrastructure including the relation to the financial statements.
standing Environmental Committee: Social Committee and the Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 19 Report of the Directors Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Auditors for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the authorise the directors to determine their remuneration are to be financial year and of the profit or loss for that period.
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on Annual General Meeting pages 28 to 56, the Company has selected suitable accounting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the policies which have been consistently applied and supported by Companys offices at Rotork House, Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all on Friday, 23 May 2003 at 12 noon.
A separate circular containing accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have the Notice of the Meeting is sent to shareholders with this Annual been followed subject to any explanations and any material Report.
departures disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
The directors are required to use a going concern basis in preparing the On behalf of the board financial statements unless this is inappropriate.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
SR Jones, Secretary 20 March 2003 The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company Bath keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Creditor payment policy While there is no formal code or standard, it is Company and Group policy to settle terms of payment with creditors when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to abide by creditors terms of payment provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
There are no creditors subject to special arrangements outside suppliers terms and conditions.
The Company does not have any trade suppliers so that a creditor day payment period is not appropriate.
