Providing customers with industry-specific software solutions A noticeable trend in recent years has been an increasing The specialised module choices of our mid-market customers desire on the part of customers to have software packages show us that, when making purchase decisions, these tailored to the precise requirements of the industry segment businesses are thinking in industry-specific terms.
For in which they operate.
example, in our US mid-market business, 60% of new software sales include manufacturing or distribution modules.
Manufacturing companies, for example, want to have software specific to the needs of a manufacturer.
Modules Sage has powerful software solutions for the manufacturing, to prepare bills of materials, works order processing, distribution, accountants in practice and non-profit sectors, manufacturing requirements, and planning and capacity four important vertical segments where we have particular management, help such organisations manage the concentrations of customers more than one million in total manufacturing process more efficiently and enable around the world.
In the US, for example, our Peachtree just-in-time manufacturing to become a commercial reality.
customer base includes 40,000 non-profit organisations, many of whom represent a clear target market for our Non-profit organisations such as schools, colleges, hospitals, specialist non-profit software solutions.
charities, research institutions, government departments, etc also require specialist software to manage the process of But there are many more verticals where we have raising funds, as well as to manage the funds once they have concentrations of customers and where we intend to have a been raised.
Moreover, non-profit organisations have a myriad vertical offering e. g. construction, transportation, agriculture.
of reporting requirements placed upon them which, again, are We will be investing further in these vertical segments by generally only made available in specialist non-profit software building new products, by working closely with specialist solutions.
value added resellers, or by buying existing vendors of vertical software solutions.
Industry-specific software solutions More and more of our customers are demanding software solutions that fit the precise needs of the industry segment in which they operate.
To date we have vertical solutions for manufacturing, distribution, the non-profit segment and accountants in practice.
In future we intend to build or buy solutions for further specialised industry segments that are relevant to the needs of our customers.
1 Overview 2 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers 18 Financial Review 20 Directors Report 23 Corporate Governance Statement 26 Remuneration and Succession Committee Report 29 Independent Auditors Report 30 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 31 Consolidated Balance Sheet 32 Company Balance Sheet 33 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 34 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses p 14 34 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 35 Notes to the Accounts 56 Notice of Meeting 57 Financial Calendar p 15 Providing customers with industry-specific software solutions A noticeable trend in recent years has been an increasing The specialised module choices of our mid-market customers desire on the part of customers to have software packages show us that, when making purchase decisions, these tailored to the precise requirements of the industry segment businesses are thinking in industry-specific terms.
1 Overview 2 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers 18 Financial Review 20 Directors Report 23 Corporate Governance Statement 26 Remuneration and Succession Committee Report 29 Independent Auditors Report 30 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 31 Consolidated Balance Sheet 32 Company Balance Sheet 33 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 34 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses p 14 34 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 35 Notes to the Accounts 56 Notice of Meeting 57 Financial Calendar p 15
