3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 57 57 HOW do WE WHAT KIND manage our of a responsibilities BUSINESS TO stakeholders?
and values dont exist in isolation.
Theyre shaped by the way we understand and balance a the interests and expectations of our stakeholders.
If you want to do this effectively and responsibly, you cant do it piecemeal.
So we set up a Corporate Assurance Group to oversee all aspects of our ?
responsibilities to stakeholders from managing risk to safeguarding the environment.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 58 58 HOW DO WE MANAGE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES TO STAKEHOLDERS?
we aim to stimulate internal awareness of issues raised, As the size and diversity of our business grows, so does encourage responsive action and change, and report the number of interested parties.
But they generally fall progress back to the relevant stakeholders.
into one of six groups: Shareholders Corporate governance and internal control Customers The Board has identified a set of key business processes Our people and their representatives for which it shares responsibility with senior managers Business partners and suppliers throughout the group.
These processes and their associated Neighbours and local communities internal controls are regularly reviewed by the Audit Regulators and legislators.
Committee and internal auditors, who report back to the Board.
Balancing stakeholder interests Were committed to dealing fairly with all stakeholders, The Corporate Assurance Group CAG gives us a one-stop not just shareholders or customers.
Alongside making a shop for addressing the interests of all stakeholders in an profit which ensures our continuing viability we aim integrated way.
It ensures that: to deliver value to all these groups in a socially responsible Our policies and management systems reflect the cultural and environmentally sustainable manner.
and ethical values weve adopted We comply with national laws and regulations Were realistic.
We know we cant please all these people We protect the safety and wellbeing of staff, all the time.
But we recognise our responsibility to strike customers, the wider community and the a broadly acceptable balance.
environment We identify risks and manage them proactively Open and candid dialogue with stakeholders is one of We protect the value and integrity of our reputation, the foundations of our management style.
To build on it, products, services and tangible and intellectual assets.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 59 59 The CAGs work includes helping our operating businesses The group directors take ultimate responsibility for to maintain effective and efficient business processes, health and safety, delegated through the divisional giving advice and guidance on assurance matters, and chief executives and directors, who ensure effective raising awareness and understanding through education implementation of health and safety policy through and training.
It reports to the Group Board quarterly or documented management systems.
more frequently if need be, advising on policy and ways of achieving best assurance practice throughout the We give staff appropriate and regularly updated organisation.
training to protect their own and others health and safety.
Each division also provides occupational health Risk management and welfare support.
We define risk as the possibility of failure to achieve key business goals: and we define these goals in relation Community to our stakeholders objectives.
Taking and managing risk Our approach to corporate social responsibility CSR is a central part of our business, and balancing risks and delegates responsibility for community involvement opportunities is a key management responsibility.
We have through the business divisions to individual contract robust processes for identifying, analysing and managing managers.
It aims to encourage staff at all levels to risks and minimising the impact of undesired and engage with local community initiatives, and channels unexpected events.
All parts of the business have support from the company through staff volunteers.
Each appropriate risk and crisis management plans that business division develops and maintains processes for meet defined policy standards.
applying the community involvement aspects of our CSR model, setting targets and reviewing performance for each Safety management operating company and contract.
Some examples of our As well as taking care of our staff, we also have to protect community and environmental initiatives are listed on customers and the public in many of our activities.
Action change progress People Shareholders Community Customers Environment Our people SERCO GROUP PLC CSR FOCUS STAKEHOLDERS Safety Policy Business partners and suppliers Risks Community Quality Regulators and Security legislators Monitor report review AN INTEGRATED APPROACH We aim to keep all stakeholder groups in the loop, and to address all stakeholder-related issues in an integrated way.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 60 60 HOW DO WE MANAGE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES TO STAKEHOLDERS?
Environment trade unions, government departments and others.
The Everyone in Serco is responsible for minimising our impact project teams findings were published in December, in on the environment.
We aim to reduce environmental harm, a 68-page report containing 45 detailed recommendations.
minimise use of energy and other resources, and apply The report can be seen on the consultation website at sustainable development principles.
com, where AWE has undertaken to publish is responsible for developing management systems to meet its response by the end of March 2003. group environmental policy and relevant statutory or regulatory requirements.
All divisions conduct regular Quality reviews to update their understanding of their environmental Quality matters in the services and products we supply risks and impacts.
to customers, and in our internal processes.
Our management systems enable us to assess and manage quality, and deliver Individual contracts may also engage with stakeholders continual improvement.
We obtain external quality at local level to help them determine goals and priorities.
At the Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE, for example, we set up an independent consultation exercise led by a Security and asset protection firm of environmental consultants working with Lancaster One of managements major responsibilities is the security University.
During 2002 the programme sought stakeholders of Serco and its customers, staff and assets, including views through a variety of channels including public intangibles such as intellectual property.
Our risk management meetings, a website and a series of workshops involving process includes measures to review and protect these assets, regulators, local Chambers of Commerce, heritage and address the implications of interruption to business and conservation groups, anti-nuclear groups, employees, ensure appropriate insurance cover.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:27 Page 61 61 INSIDE STORY HOW do WE manage our responsibilities TO stakeholders?
Because we see customers as stakeholders, our relationships dont stand still.
Our marine services contract with the Warship Support Agency WSA has evolved from a conventional structure to a partnership that will help shape future procurement policy.
But what hasnt changed is our concern for the wellbeing of other stakeholders employees and neighbouring communities 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:27 Page INS13 Providing services responsively and responsibly Warship Support Agency Our Serco Denholm joint venture provides a wide range of waterborne port services for the WSA at Devonport, Portsmouth and on the Clyde.
We operate and maintain some 140 Ministry of Defence MOD vessels including tugs, passenger vessels, torpedo recovery and minelaying vessels and a variety of fuel, ammunition, stores and tank cleaning lighters.
Originally we operated these vessels under MOD regulations.
Now, after bringing them up to Lloyds Classification Society maintenance standards, we charter them from the MOD and operate them under Marine Safety Agency rules.
