3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 67 Assessment Assessment 1 1 2 2 3 3 High potential person High potential person Active two-way review Active two-way review Appropriate candidates Appropriate candidates identified identified to to attend attend process undertaken process undertaken selected to participate selected to participate IoD Serco company IoD Serco company to create personal to create personal in programme in programme direction programme direction programme development plans development plans linked linked to to an an annual appraisal annual appraisal Ser Serco IoD progr co IoD progra amme modules mme modules January January February February Mar Marc ch h June June Role of company Role of company Strategic business Strategic business Finance Finance f for or n non-finance on-finance Results Results board board a and nd d directors irectors direction direction directors directors Revision day and exam Revision day and exam IoD IoD TIMELINE TIMELINE The course has dramatically enhanced my understanding of why its so important to embrace change to constantly enhance the companys competitive position.
Its boosted my confidence and Im now providing better leadership of my division.
Whats more, I think this confidence boost has also brought out improvement in my management teams performance.
DAMIAN McHALE, DIVISIONAL DIRECTOR, TRANSPORT SYSTEMS Next page: The strategic business direction and finance modules made me ask some difficult questions about the way I manage and lead and the way I measure performance.
The combination of Serco and IoD was good.
Networking with other Serco people was valuable and provided the opportunity to apply the course material directly to Serco while the IoD gave the course standing outside Serco.
DR MARTYN SEN, HEAD OF CENTRE FOR ACOUSTICS & IONISING RADIATION, NATIONAL PHYSICAL LABORATORY 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 68 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 69 69 can a private WHAT KIND SECTOR of a company have BUSINESS a public service ARE WE?
services has always been our business.
We began in the 1960s by providing technical a maintenance services, but since then weve moved from the backroom to the forefront of service delivery.
Were now running peoples buses and trains, managing their hospitals and helping to ?
That requires a special kind of relationship with our customers.
We need to understand their values.
We need to make partnership something more than a slogan.
We need to deliver private sector efficiency with a public service ethos.
Our business depends on it.
WHAT YOU ARE READING now is not the finished copy.
The copy you are now reading is set out to show you the TYPEFACE AND THE TYPESIZE in which the real copy will appear.
The real copy has been typed separately and will not be set until it has received FINAL APPROVAL.
The text has been placed here to show you the position where the text will appear and how much area it takes up on the page.
What you are reading now is not the FINISHED COPY.
