3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 7 7 what kind of a year HAVE we HAD?
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Serco has delivered another impressive performance our 15th successive year of strong and profitable growth.
In addition we have already secured 91% of our planned revenue for 2003 and 80% of our planned revenue for 2004.
Our forward order book continues to grow and, at 7.1bn, is roughly 5.5 times last years turnover.
We are currently addressing a further 12bn of opportunities across a range and scale of activities that ensures we can continue to bid selectively.
Our portfolio approach to a wide range of public sector markets has provided a strong platform during this period of difficult global economic conditions.
We remain confident of achieving double-digit growth both this year and over the longer term.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 8 8 WHAT KIND OF A YEAR HAVE WE HAD?
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to report another excellent performance our after goodwill amortisation.
There were no exceptional items 15th successive year of strong and profitable growth.
Turnover was up 16.2% and pre-tax profits rose 26.3% before goodwill, maintaining our record of consistently high growth.
Earnings per share rose 16.1% to 9.58p before goodwill and In delivering this growth we have continued to convert a high 10.4% to 7.66p after goodwill.
proportion of profits into cash while funding the working capital required to bid successfully and implement new Cash generation remains robust, with 75.1% of group EBITDA business activities and contracts.
This is a very satisfying Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Goodwill result for a year that proved unsettling for the support Amortisation converted into cash.
services sector in the UK.
We raised 117.4m through an international placing of Our vigorous organic growth reflects Sercos key strengths: new shares in March.
This was partly to refinance the our long term contract base, ability to enhance customers September 2001 acquisition of AEA Technologys nuclear operations continuously, and long experience of delivering consulting business now successfully integrated into outsourced public services across a wide range of markets.
Serco Assurance and partly to strengthen the balance We have a well-diversified portfolio, rigorous risk management sheet to facilitate future growth.
Since flotation in 1988 processes integrated with the way we do business, and a Serco has raised new equity totalling 161m less than our selective approach to bidding.
acquisition costs of 180m over the same period.
Apart from this, we have funded our growth from under 50m to over Contract wins during the year totalled 1.2bn.
We won 122 1.3bn annual sales entirely from internally-generated new contracts, achieving our target of winning over half of new cash flow.
In addition, we were awarded 180 rebids or extensions to existing contracts, maintaining our success rate of over More sophisticated forms of contract inevitably mean more 90% in this area.
In response, we have introduced Financial Review sections to our annual and interim results Financial performance announcements and continue to extend our commentary on Turnover grew 16.2% to 1.3bn.
Pre-tax profits were up 26.3% relevant aspects of accounting and corporate governance.
To to 57m before goodwill amortisation and by 22.2% to 48.9m help investors better understand our Private Finance Initiative 2002 turnover 1,325.9m 28.4m 37.7m 118.6m Acquisitions 1,141.2m New awards Increases in scope of existing contracts 2001 turnover 2002 TURNOVER GROWTH Including joint ventures 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 9 9 PFI projects we have also published Our Approach to PFIs.
The year was characterised by strong organic growth built The latest edition, updated in September 2002, is available on solid foundations: a track record of effectiveness that on our website at www.
attracts and convinces new customers, strategic alliances with partners who enhance our capability and credibility, Dividend and an approach to working with customers that encourages The recommended final dividend of 1.44p per share gives partnerships, extensions and broadening of relationships.
a cumulative dividend for the year of 2.08p an increase As in the past, a significant part of our turnover growth has of 11.8% over 2001.
It is proposed that the dividend will be come from add-ons and extensions to existing contracts.
paid on 13 May 2003 to shareholders on the register on 28 February 2003 record date.
Major contract awards in 2002 included an innovative partnership with the UKs Ministry of Defence MOD Pensions Warship Support Agency to manage the Devonport, The recent poor performance of the equity markets has Portsmouth and Clyde marine services contract.
This threeimpacted the groups defined benefit pension schemes.
year partnership, worth up to 110m, builds on an earlier A valuation at 31 December 2002 has identified a net deficit contract we have had since 1996.
We also won a partnership of 73.6m in accordance with FRS 17 on our defined benefit contract to provide communications and information schemes.
This will result in additional funding and an technology services to the Defence Scientific and Technical additional profit and loss charge of 9m per annum.
Laboratory, worth some 10m annually for up to eight years.
Notwithstanding this increase in contributions, we remain on course to achieve good growth going forward.
As a member of the Paradigm Secure Communications team, which was selected in February 2002 as preferred bidder Operational performance to provide and operate Skynet 5 global military satellite Our business is made up of five distinct areas: defence communications services, Serco will be providing network which accounted for 27% of 2002 sales, transport 27%, and facilities management.
This is the largest UK MOD PFI civil government 27%, science 9% and private sector to date, potentially worth some 220m to Serco over 15 clients 10%.
Within these sectors, revenues from PFI years, and good progress continues to be made towards contracts accounted for 12% of total sales.
98 99 00 01 02 98 99 00 01 02 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDEND PER SHARE Before amortisation of goodwill Restated to reflect the capitalisation issue on 5 April 2000.
Restated after the adoption of UITF Abstract 34 in 2002.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT As in any year there were a few disappointments principally a 15-year extension to the contract under which we manage our unsuccessful bid to manage the Army Training Estate the UKs Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE in partnership and Essex County Councils decision not to pursue the with Lockheed Martin and British Nuclear Fuels BNFL.
The outsourcing of educational services.
But disappointment over contract will now run until 2025, adding over 1bn to our the Essex decision was tempered by continuing growth for forward order book.
our education business in Walsall: the local council transferred a further 300 staff to us, tripling the value of our contract to Our stature as a light rail operator continues to grow.
For 1 100m over the remaining 5 2 years.
This followed a very an unprecedented second year running we won the UK Rail favourable review of our performance by Ofsted, the Operator of the Year award, recognising our operational education regulator, which led to a decision to transfer excellence and innovative customer service on Londons the majority of Walsalls Local Education Authority activities Docklands Light Railway DLR.
We intend to build on our to Serco.
achievements with the DLR, Manchester Metrolink and Copenhagen Metro by selectively addressing additional rail This was one of many cases where strong performance was operating opportunities.
We have formed a joint venture with rewarded with substantial contract extensions.
Others included NedRailways, the international arm of Dutch national rail the National Crime Squad, which more than doubled the size operator Nederlandse Spoorwegen, to pursue some of these.
of our partnership contract to support its IT operations and to design and develop its Intelligence Management System.
In the UK our strategy is to build on our contract base and In the US, the Federal Aviation Administration significantly to expand into new areas.
While continuing to grow in our broadened our role: we are already one of its largest private traditional markets, we seek out contracts that require greater providers of air traffic control services, and it has now awarded managerial or technological sophistication, with structures us a contract to provide weather observation services.
that focus on outputs rather than specified inputs.
We continue to bid for selected PFIs and expect our PFI projects The largest addition of all indeed, the largest contract ever to deliver sustained long term benefits both to the public and awarded to the group was announced in January this year: to our investors.
They and their associated service contracts 91% 7% 80% 11% 6% 62% 18% 5% 22% 73% 56% Preferred bidder 35% Extension and rebids Order book 2003 2004 2005 NEAR TERM CONFIRMED ORDER BOOK AS AT FEBRUARY 2003 Percentage of planned revenue for the year.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 11 11 will provide an income stream to supplement our revenues This enables us to sharpen our focus on contracts offering from traditional contracts.
Under the auspices of the CBI public superior growth, margins and cash generation, and may services strategy board, we have joined other public service lead to minor divestments of certain activities.
providers in a programme to promote better understanding of the benefits of public private partnerships.
This aims to Risk management stress their importance and effectiveness in obtaining value One of the keys to Sercos consistently robust performance for money and diversity in public service delivery.
is its management system and control framework.
Our operations are diversified across some 600 contracts and Our commitment to international diversification with 30% a range of business sectors.
Few contracts represent more of our current business turnover overseas is one of the than 2% of our turnover and the largest represents only 7%.
factors that differentiates us in our sector.
But the sheer scale of opportunities open to us in the UK means that we The high degree of autonomy that we give to our contract have to be selective.
In Europe we see particular opportunities managers is balanced by rigorous monitoring and unobtrusive in Italy and Germany, and are making encouraging progress but effective controls.
In 2001 we set up our Corporate in both.
In the Middle East our activities and profile continue Assurance Group CAG to integrate our approach to assessing to develop well.
In Asia Pacific we are focusing principally on business risks and improving controls, and to ensure that Australia and New Zealand, where state governments continue we safeguard the interests of shareholders, customers, staff to develop policies on public private partnerships.
In North and the wider community.
Reporting directly to the Board, America we see public private partnerships emerging in both CAG is proving a valuable asset in risk management.
the US and Canada: these countries potentially represent a major long term market for our skills and experience.
Corporate social responsibility Although Serco is a private sector business, we earn our To concentrate management and financial resources on living predominantly by delivering public services.
We need the most promising opportunities and markets at home and to demonstrate a public service ethos, as a pre-requisite of abroad, we continue to review our business portfolio.
our partnership with public sector customers.
Total forward order book 7.1bn 2.8bn 2.3bn 2.0bn 2003-2005 2006-2010 2011-2028 LONG TERM ORDER BOOK AS AT FEBRUARY 2003 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 12 3 2003 17:12 Page 12 12 WHAT KIND OF A YEAR HAVE WE HAD?
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We take our corporate social responsibility CSR seriously.
We have formed a number of working partnerships with unions Under our corporate governance framework every contract at contract level and are investigating further opportunities.
manager is directly accountable for CSR performance.
We have established a global network of CSR champions to raise To support and sustain our growth, we attach great importance general awareness and support initiatives that range from to training and developing our managers.
During the year the developing an alternative water supply for Goose Bay residents Serco Best Practice Centre provided courses and workshops in Canada to collecting tonnes of stationery for schools and around the world, and our global intranet played an important orphanages in Kabul.
We continue to refine our approach and role by giving people access to training and development are currently developing a new structure for charitable giving.
In a ground-breaking partnership with the UKs This is designed to support initiatives by our contracts and Institute of Directors IoD we have developed a joint individual employees, direct resources towards the communities IoD Serco Certificate in Company Direction assessed and where we work and recognise the personal commitment of recognised by the IoD.
The first 19 Serco managers were Serco people.
awarded the qualification during the year.
People Outlook Sercos continuing success comes from the outstanding The committed future income streams from our contracts give dedication of our people and their personal identification us the assurance of highly visible revenues and profits.
In a MORI survey of a cross section of time of writing we have already secured 91% of our planned staff, 95% regarded their work as more than just a job.
revenue for 2003 and 80% of our planned revenue for 2004.
Other positive indications given our drive for continuous improvement and evolution to meet customer needs were Our forward order book continues to grow.
On 31 December that around three quarters said they understood workplace it stood at 6.1bn, and it now stands at 7.1bn roughly 5.5 objectives and the need for change, and two thirds actively times last years turnover.
We are currently addressing over supported the change process.
We are grateful for all our 12bn of opportunities and our markets are buoyant.
Both peoples energy, enthusiasm and imagination which add at home and abroad, opportunities are emerging at a rate value both to our business and to our customers which continues to allow us to bid selectively.
Our portfolio approach to a wide range of public sector markets We continue to build constructive relationships with trade has provided a strong growth platform during this period of unions.
In the UK we support the Partnership Institute difficult global economic conditions.
We remain confident of launched by the Trades Union Congress TUC to foster achieving double-digit growth both this year and over the co-operative relationships between employers and unions.
