3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 12 3 2003 15:42 Page 39 39 formed team to support clients as they develop strategies for and our portfolio of contracts with a number of European organisational reform, transformation of public service agencies gives us additional capability and credibility.
In delivery and creation of cost-effective supporting infrastructure.
Germany, significant steps are being made in the education, It will deliver sustainable value by establishing long term defence and transport sectors.
In Italy, the outsourcing of relationships based on realistic organisational process non-core government services is now the norm.
In the Middle and fiscal designs and achievable business transformation East, our solid contract base in aerospace and air traffic planning.
By applying its expertise not only in the UK but services is providing a platform for diversification and worldwide, it will benefit our reputation and operations growth as evidenced by our recent contract to deliver throughout the group.
engineering and other support services to the Dubai Ports, Customs and Free Zone Corporation.
The consultancy team will be backed by specialist programme delivery units drawn from within Serco to provide practical Asia Pacific solutions that meet requirements for change and operational The Australian defence outsourcing market in which performance improvement, information management, we are a market leader is maturing, but a programme of infrastructure regeneration and project management.
defence and civil PFIs is beginning to emerge as Australian states come under increasing budgetary pressure.
The New Continental Europe and Middle East Zealand government has begun to pursue public private The diverse European markets in which we operate are partnerships in transportation and to look at wider evolving rapidly.
Financial, political and social imperatives applications for private finance.
In Japan, pressure for are driving governments towards new models for the delivery reform of public finances has led to the introduction of PFIof public services, requiring greater private sector involvement driven opportunities.
We continue to monitor these markets in both funding and providing services.
Germany and Italy closely: our strategy is to focus on selected opportunities are key markets where we are well positioned for growth where our experience will have the greatest impact.
Development curve Mature UK Developing Italy Australia US Western Europe Embryonic Time MARKET DEVELOPMENT Relative position of key markets on the development curve.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:05 Page 40 40 WHAT ARE OUR OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH?
North America Selecting and balancing opportunity The US government has recently announced a major reform A core part of our strategy is to maintain not only a wide of procurement policy.
Over the next two years federal geographic presence but also a broad base of core skills agencies will have to open up 50% of their activities to private and expertise.
This diversity protects us against downturns sector competition, and this will rise eventually to 100%.
This in individual markets, and balances maturity in one with the directive will effectively market-test over 800,000 government growth of another.
It means we can draw on a wide portfolio posts.
In 2002 the US government spent over US$80bn on of management competencies and core skills that enable us services, including information technology, base operations to compete effectively for the most demanding contracts.
And and engineering services, and we expect annual growth of it also exposes us to more growth opportunities than we can at least 12% in the federal sector.
Major growth will be seen possibly pursue so an important function of our annual in the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security, where planning is to select the right opportunities.
the combined 2003 budget is likely to exceed $400bn and further significant growth is expected over the coming years.
Our selection processes are rigorous and designed to help In Canada federal, provincial and municipal governments are us balance the portfolio, maintain our focus on opportunities using public private partnerships to solve budgetary gaps most likely to deliver success and provide the best return and to improve public services, particularly in the health to shareholders.
Our confidence in our growth planning and and transportation sectors.
British Columbia BC has created forecasting is founded on the ability to make considered a new central agency, Partnerships BC, to drive this process.
decisions about each opportunity, be it a new market entry North America remains the worlds largest outsourcing market or a single contract, based on robust assessments of the and so demands careful and constant attention from us.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:22 Page 41 41 INSIDE STORY what ARE OUR opportunities for growth?
One area where we see clear opportunities for growth is rail transport.
In the UK, Scandinavia and Australia were building an impressive track record and demonstrating a variety of options for reducing the cost of public transport to the taxpayer.
Londons award-winning Docklands Light Railway DLR is a case in point 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:22 Page INS5 what ARE OUR opportunities for growth?
Best in Britain twice running Docklands Light Railway An urban metro isnt just a piece of transport infrastructure.
Its part of the way people live.
Its how they go to work, how they get to the shops, how they have a night out.
If you want to run it properly, you have to engage with the way people run their lives.
Thats what the National Rail Awards judges had in mind when they named us Best UK Rail Operator last year, for the second year running.
They didnt just commend our service intervals or the cleanliness of our trains.
"""The DLR is as much part of East London as Bow Bells, "" they said."
ive years ago, when we took over the One key to our success is the close partnership franchise, that certainly wasnt the case.
with our customer, Docklands Light Railway Ltd. F Since then weve stepped-up service This ensures the effective use of resources to deliver frequency and capacity.
Weve cut delays by 70% the best possible services to the travelling public.
and vehicle failures by 40% to beat the franchise target of 96% reliability.
And because people The second factor is the way weve built the DLR know they can trust the service, they use it more.
into the life of the community.
First we made it The number of passengers has more than frequent and reliable.
Then we made sure everyone doubled, from 20m to over 44m.
knew about it, by taking real-time train information out of the stations and into the community.
Our 99 00 01 02 Being able to run our own show is an advantage.
innovations have included displaying train arrival CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Were responsible for the whole business, including countdowns in public buildings and office lifts operation and maintenance of the trains, structures, around individual stations, and making accurate tracks and automatic signalling.
Weve also been arrival information instantly available on the able to increase non-core revenue through internet and mobile phones.
innovations in areas such as advertising, retail and promotions increasing the value of the franchise and ultimately reducing the public cost of supporting DLR services.
86.63% 90.96% 92.04% 92.66% 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:22 Page INS6 Weve also built strong links with local Behind the scenes weve supported crucial organisations, from schools to businesses and infrastructure investment: for example, by charities.
We provide free travel for some local integrating a second-generation computer-based primary schools, community groups and special signalling system.
And our public face has been needs organisations.
We support vital local enhanced by multi-skilled staff who have the initiatives such as an ethnic community centre, a training and empowerment to deliver friendly toddler care centre, a childrens hospice and a dropand helpful service.
in centre for the unemployed.
We sponsor the Women in Docklands business networking That combination of qualities in people, organisation and the Round The Island Road Race technology and communication is whats made 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 for charity.
You can see school childrens art on the delivery of the DLR service special.
This was HOW PASSENGER NUMBERS HAVE GROWN DLR trains, the Salvation Army making weekly reflected by the London Transport Users Committee collections on DLR concourses, and secondary in its 2001 02 annual report: [The DLR] continued Since Serco took over in 1997 passenger numbers have doubled to 44.2m.
school teams in DLR-sponsored football kit.
In to achieve a level of service reliability, and of user these and many other ways weve woven the DLR satisfaction, that Londons other public transport into the fabric of community life.
operators could only dream of.
