3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:22 Page INS8 DLR continued to achieve a level of service reliability, and of user satisfaction, that Londons other public transport operators could only dream of.
a Were enthusiastic participants in the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
Weve been involved in PFIs ?
since 1995 and believe they can benefit investors and taxpayers alike.
In early 2003 the National Audit Office reported that government has obtained a much higher degree of price certainty and timely delivery of good quality build assets with PFI than under traditional methods of procurement.
And the benefits extend far beyond the construction phase.
Throughout the life of their operating contracts, PFIs are about diversity, culture change and innovation in the delivery of specified service outputs.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:06 Page 44 44 WHERE DO WE STAND ON PFIs?
PFIs fit well with our ability to deliver sophisticated service efficient procurement and value for money than with contracts based on long term relationships.
The concept traditional methods and innovation and diversity in service is gathering momentum internationally, and well continue delivery.
Integrating design and service elements from project to bid selectively for PFIs that meet our business criteria.
inception should lead to better operational facilities and But PFI is just one of the many successful models for public more accurately targeted investment.
Uncertainties are private partnership in which were involved.
We expect PFIs reduced because the delays and cost overruns, so often to be a valuable component in our balanced portfolio of associated with public procurement, should be cut or contracts, but by no means a dominant one at present, eliminated by better project definition and financial control.
they account for about 12% of our business.
Risks are transferred from the taxpayer to contractors, who are appropriately rewarded through returns on their investment Whats so good about PFIs?
in line with the risk profile, and through contracts for building PFIs were launched by the UK government in 1992.
The basic and operating the assets.
principle is that public authorities contract-out not only the operation of major capital assets but also the creation of the How do they fit with our strategy?
assets themselves combining financing, design, construction In strategy terms, we see PFIs essentially as a means to and operation into a single contract package.
an end the end being sophisticated, long term operating contracts.
Operating contracts are our core business, and In principle, PFIs offer a win-win result.
Government and PFIs have a part to play in a portfolio diversified across taxpayers should enjoy early access to new assets, more many different sectors, geographies and contract models.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:06 Page 45 45 We have been involved in 13 PFIs to date.
Our total committed PFIs and good relationships with experienced partners.
We were investment in them is 21m, of which we had actually invested in on the ground floor and weve developed the appropriate 12.4m at 31 December 2002.
They have only recently started skills.
As a result we can address new opportunities selectively to contribute to group profitability as the first projects have and bid judiciously anticipating potential pitfalls such as high moved into the operational phase.
In 2002, PFIs contributed bid costs and delays, and factoring them into our calculations.
in total 154m to turnover 12% of the total.
We fully recognise that PFIs are only profitable if you deliver To manage our PFI investments we have established a the goods but we are already building a successful track dedicated investment division, Serco Capital.
This functions record that speaks for itself.
Over the next few years we hope independently from the operating divisions so that we can to leverage that record internationally as other countries follow price and manage operating and investment returns separately.
the UKs example in developing their own PFI programmes.
What makes them good for Serco?
What returns do we get on our PFI investments?
Every PFI project is different: theres an onus on bidding The Special Purpose Company SPC set up to run the project companies to assess the costs and risks accurately and earns fees from the customer: in turn it pays dividends on to secure appropriate terms.
our equity in the SPC and interest on any subordinated debt we lend to it.
After-tax returns anticipated on equity and Some contractors have expressed disappointment with PFIs.
Our lending will vary according to the perceived risk profile, but enthusiasm for the model is based on extensive experience of are currently 15-20% on capital invested.
Government customer Service company 50% Service company 50% Senior debt Subordinated debt & equity Special purpose Banks Banks company Principal & interest Dividends, principal & interest Asset provider 50% Asset provider 50% Operating contract Construction contract Service company Service company Asset provider Asset provider IT solution Catering Potential subcontracts Most PFIs involve the creation of a SPC into which the participants Security invest their risk capital.
The structure and equity shares will vary to suit the project, but this is how a typical SPC would look.
The arrows indicate cash flows.
TYPICAL PFI STRUCTURE The SPC raises senior debt funding from the capital markets which is non-recourse to its shareholders.
In other words, this debt does not represent a risk to the shareholding companies.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:06 Page 46 46 WHERE DO WE STAND ON PFIs?
What returns do we get on the operating contracts?
Were keen to invest in PFI projects where the risk and In some cases, there are opportunities to share in other cash flow profiles are acceptable.
But our primary objective sources of income: for example, at the Traffic Control Centre is to gain the associated long term operating contracts, we will sell traffic information to commercial organisations which increase the visibility of our future revenues and providing traffic information services.
cash flows and enhance our order book position.
In general we seek to minimise our investment outlay in relation to Once the construction stage is complete, the reduction in risk the size of the operating contract.
may provide an opportunity to make a one-off capital gain from refinancing.
It is our policy to share any such gains As the service contractor we derive sales and margin on with the customer.
the operating contract in the same way as with non-PFI contracts.
The return will be in proportion to the levels Full details of the way we approach, manage and account for of risk on each project and will generally be higher than PFIs are given in the report Our Approach to PFIs, available our average margin on sales.
PFI PROJECTS Serco Serco subordinated Value of Duration Serco equity debt Start of operating of operating equity investment investment operating contract contract Project stake m m contract m years Joint Services Command and Staff College 50% 2.9 Aug 2000 168 28 Medium Support Helicopter Aircrew Training Facility 2% 0.2 Oct 1997 36 18 National Physical Laboratory 50% 2.2 Jan 2002 50 25 Traffic Control Centre 100% 3.4 5.2 Jan 2004 130 10 Manchester Metrolink 26% 0.2 1.7 May 1997 153 17 Norfolk & Norwich University Hospital 5% 0.1 1.6 Aug 2001 270 30 Wishaw General Hospital May 2001 42 7 HMP Dovegate 50% Aug 2001 300 25 HMP Kilmarnock 50% Apr 1999 175 25 HMP Lowdham Grange 50% 0.7 2.8 Feb 1998 175 25 HMP YOI Ashfield 50% Oct 1999 175 25 Hassockfield Secure Training Centre 50% Sep 1999 45 15 TOTAL 9.7 11.3 Our interest in another PFI, the Defence Helicopter Flying School, has been sold.
Operating contracts within joint ventures.
Excluding inflation increases and contract extensions.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:23 Page 47 47 INSIDE STORY where DO WE stand on PFIs?
Since 1995 weve embarked on 13 PFI projects of which 11 are now in the operational phase and generating revenue for us under long term service contracts.
Theyre working well for us, and for our customers as evidenced by these two examples Heading range left to margin 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:23 Page INS9 where DO WE stand on PFIs?
A textbook PFI say auditors Joint Services Command & Staff College The Joint Services Command & Staff College JSCSC is emerging as a model PFI.
It has won praise from the public spending watchdog, and also from the people who use it.
Many visitors actually write to tell us how impressed they are sometimes to their great surprise.
One colonel told us we had converted a dinosaur into a disciple of PFI.
he JSCSC replaced three separate services debt capital our equity investment in the housing, training support, mess accommodation colleges at Greenwich, Camberley and joint venture was just 2.9m.
The construction and such elaborate IT systems.
It now carries out all was subcontracted to Laing.
After a two-year command and staff training for the UK armed construction phase Serco took over the site in The audio visual AV system is one of the forces, from junior to advanced and higher August 2000.
Were now running it under a largest integrated presentation and AV facilities levels, as well as for officers from some 50 28-year facilities and task management contract ever built in the UK.
The IT network serving countries worldwide.
employing 345 people and currently worth military, academic and administrative offices, around 8m a year.
eight major lecture theatres and 67 syndicate Its a large complex that cost 120m to create.
rooms supports not only conventional Standing on a 100-acre site, it includes some Making a success of the venture was important applications but also battlefield communications, 2 45,000m of floor space, 290 family houses for Serco, and also for the whole PFI concept.
wargaming and other military activities.
The and a range of sports facilities.
When the JSCSC entered its operational phase War Studies department alone has a Dean and it was one of the most ambitious PFIs to date.
36 lecturers subcontracted from Kings College It was built by a joint venture owned by Serco Even in the defence sector a pioneer in this London, and we run the worlds second largest and Equion, and funded largely by non-recourse field no previous PFI had combined education, war studies library.
