3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 21 21 WHAT have we BEEN doing and WHERE?
BUSINESS REVIEW One of our greatest business strengths is our diversity we apply our management skills across a broad range of activities and geographic markets around the world.
In addition to maintaining our 90% rebid win rate, during the year we continued to extend our capabilities, winning new contracts and forming new partnerships across our principal markets in defence, transport, civil government, science and the private sector.
We maintained strong growth in the UK, made good headway in our priority markets in Europe and the Middle East, broadened our base in North America, and consolidated our position in Asia Pacific.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 22 22 WHAT HAVE WE BEEN DOING AND WHERE?
BUSINESS REVIEW In the following pages we review the years activities top award for industrial safety performance at the site.
The by sector and provide an overview of our operations and extension, until 2025, brings the total contract value for Serco markets worldwide.
to over 1.7bn and will enable AWE to raise external capital if required for investment to continue developing the site as a DEFENCE world-class scientific facility with safety at the heart of its Defence, our longest-established market, accounted for 27% mission.
Meanwhile, investments at AWE during the year of sales in 2002. included installation of the UKs most powerful computer, which has cut program run time from two months to 15 Defence and security activity has increased in all our regions.
In the UK the Chancellors 2002 Comprehensive Spending Review will raise defence spending by 3.5bn to 32.8bn in In February 2002 the Paradigm Secure Communications 2005 06 the largest planned real-terms increase in 20 years.
team was selected as preferred bidder for the largest defence PFI to date to provide Skynet 5 global military Serco is a major provider of services to the UK Ministry of satellite communications services to the UK armed forces.
Defence MOD, which has been in the forefront of developing Serco will provide network and facilities management cost-effective ways to outsource defence support activities.
services including spacecraft and network operations, We are encouraged by the Defence Logistics Organisations network maintenance, training, supply management and declared intention of moving from provider to decider on through-life buildings and facilities maintenance under delivery of services, and expect MOD spending on outsourcing a contract potentially worth 220m to us over 15 years.
We are also a leading Our team has already commenced the implementation of our provider of services to the Australian and New Zealand forces.
phase-in plan and good progress continues to be made towards contract award.
Our strategy is to retain and expand our existing business, leveraging our core capabilities into new but related areas The Warship Support Agency signed a partnering and selected major bid opportunities.
We currently hold over agreement with our Serco Denholm joint venture 90% 2.5bn worth of defence contracts and see no shortage of owned by Serco to manage the Devonport, Portsmouth future opportunities.
and Clyde marine services contract.
This three-year partnership, worth up to 110m, builds on an earlier The defence sector accounted for our largest-ever business contract awarded in 1996.
The aim is to reduce overall win at the start of this year.
In January 2003 the MOD agreed costs by generating new solutions for long term provision a 15-year extension to our contract for managing the Atomic of marine services.
Weapons Establishment AWE in partnership with Lockheed Martin and BNFL.
Since we began the original 10-year Our strength in IT seat management at scientific and contract in 2000 we have delivered all milestones on time, secure sites helped us win a five-year contract with the surpassed 13 out of 16 performance targets and won the UKs Defence Scientific and Technical Laboratory.
We will 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 12 3 2003 14:57 Page 23 23 provide communications and information services to this international VVIPs and senior military and political agency, which currently has over 3,000 staff at sites across visitors.
The award decision is a strong endorsement the UK.
The contract has options for three one-year of our performance at Northolt.
extensions and additional scope, which together could take the value from a baseline 30m to as much as 80m.
In joint venture with SKE Support Services we successfully rebid our contract to maintain over 400 vehicles and We successfully strengthened our position in services provide transport services at Wright-Patterson Air Force to electronic warfare operations, with an MOD contract Base in Ohio.
to provide multi-activity services to the Electronic Warfare Tactics Range at RAF Spadeadam.
And in a competitive In Germany we are continuing to maintain our good rebid we won a further five-year contract from NATO to relationship with the Bundeswehr Germanys ministry of provide engineering services to its Multi-service Electronic defence.
Early in 2002 the secretary of defence opened the Warfare Support Group at Yeovilton.
This is the latest first of two IT training centres that we equipped and are extension to a contract we first won in 1984 and now operating under a three-year 8.1m contract.
The competitively rebid in 1998. centres have already trained some 3,000 soldiers and civilians, achieving above-average results in externallyAt HMND Clyde we began a partnership with Babcock assessed examinations.
This pilot project has helped to Naval Services who now operate the site.
Under a fiveconvince officials of the benefits of involving the private year contract worth 26m we will provide a one-stop sector in non-core Bundeswehr activity, and a third centre shop for estate management services.
has recently been opened in Bonn.
We won three important MOD rebids with a total Meanwhile, we have won two new German defence IT operational value of over 30m.
At RAF Halton we have contracts to help introduce a pilot resource management a wide-ranging contract that extends through general system for the Material Support Command and develop engineering and management of the armoury to cleaning integrated quality assurance for the Army Logistics and media services.
On Ascension Island we provide a Information System.
And we are bidding to provide training comprehensive range of engineering, supply and support support services at the Armoured Training Centre in Munster functions for the RAF.
At Wattisham Station, where we the Panzertruppenschule.
provide air traffic services, maintenance and helicopter simulator services to the Army Air Corps, the new contract Among a number of contract extensions in Australia we gives us a broader role including airfield management.
added a further year, worth over AUS$10.5m, to the manpower and personnel service contract under which we provide At RAF Northolt, where we provide technical services, engineers, technicians, aviation logistics specialists and we expanded our contract to include the Visiting Aircraft managers to the Royal Australian Air Force at bases across Servicing Section which routinely handles royalty, the country.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 24 24 WHAT HAVE WE BEEN DOING AND WHERE?
BUSINESS REVIEW TRANSPORT We won several rebids to maintain urban traffic management The transport sector has been a strong source of growth for and control systems and national motorway communications us in recent years, primarily in the UK and Australia.
In 2002 systems in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
We are it accounted for 27% of sales.
now the market leader in maintaining technology on the English motorways, with contracts covering over half the Governments around the world are continuing to invest system.
We also re-secured the contract to sell, through our in technology and services for joined-up transport systems Swansea-based telesales operation, Select Registrations on that balance different modes of travel and make better use behalf of the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency.
The UK government plans to increase transport spending by 12% annually in real terms, to reach Our PFI to establish the Highways Agencys Traffic Control 11.6bn in 2005 06, and we have continued to win new Centre continues to make good progress.
Construction of the and extended contracts supporting its integrated control centre itself was completed on time and on budget, and transport policy.
the fit-out, roll-out of roadside equipment and systems testing are all well underway.
As part of this contract, we have been Information is the key to transport integration, and during operating the Midlands Driver Information System since the year we secured a contract with the BBC to provide its January 2002, which has released a valuable police resource.
national and regional travel information services covering all road, rail, air and sea networks.
Our broadcast service centre We operate Londons Docklands Light Railway DLR and began operations in January 2003 and we are now working the Metrolink light rail system in Manchester, where we to develop new travel information services using the internet, helped keep the city moving during the 2002 Commonwealth interactive TV, mobile phones and digital radio.
Games by running more frequent services over longer hours to meet increased demand.
At the 2002 National Rail Awards, On the roads we secured the contract to equip the UKs Serco Docklands won the Best Rail Operator award for an first toll motorway, the 27-mile M6 Toll Road, with a 4m unprecedented second year running.
As operator of the DLR, communications and traffic management system.
It is due to which carried 44m passengers last year, we have earned open in late 2003.
The phase-in of a new contract to maintain a reputation for innovation in passenger service and equipment on the motorways in the south east of England information.
Few railway businesses have such an impact was completed on time to start services in February 2003. on community life, said the judges.
Early in 2003 Glasgow City Council awarded us an initial 1 1 2-year contract to supply and install a fully integrated We remain at the cutting edge of providing solutions to system for management and operation of buses running complex technical problems for our customers.
We have on Quality Bus Corridors in the city.
The system will include been working with Network Rail effectively the successor technology for vehicle location, fleet management and realto Railtrack under an 11m contract to develop a newtime passenger information.
Once it is installed we will be generation track measuring vehicle to inspect the UKs main contracted to maintain it for at least five years.
The ability to measure and 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 25 25 monitor track condition at high speed within normal train This is currently bidding for the Wales and Borders and operating patterns will have considerable benefits on Merseyrail Electrics franchises.
The New Measurement Train enters service this spring and two additional monitoring vehicles The first phase of the Copenhagen Metro was completed on will be added later.
time and formally opened by the Queen of Denmark in October.
We are leading the joint venture that operates the system, Network Rail has also given us two short term contract under a contract worth over DKK500m.
A 7.5m 15-month extension continues our driverless light rail system initially serves an 11-station,  contract until April 2003, and 13.9km route with some 180 staff, rising eventually to 300 a 4m four-month extension to our multi-purpose vehicles as we open extensions.
Passenger numbers are expected contract will cover this years weedspraying season during to rise from 60,000 to 120,000 a day by May 2003. which we will treat about 18,000 miles of track.
In Hong Kong, where our transport work is focused Our Cardiff Call Centre, which provides rail passenger on traffic management, we successfully rebid our contract information, became the first business in Wales to achieve to manage, operate and maintain the Aberdeen Tunnel.
NVQ Centre of Excellence status for in-house training.
And in January 2003, at the Welsh Contact Centre Awards, Serco In Australia we further enhanced our tourism business for won both the Best Training Initiative and the e-commerce Great Southern Railway by establishing the groundwork Most Innovative Use of Technology awards.
to extend The Ghan train service to Darwin from late 2003.
In Perth, where we successfully rebid our public transport Our rail testing business continues to broaden its information call centre contract, we were also selected as capabilities to become a one-stop shop for testing and preferred bidder to provide facilities management of busengineering acceptance of rail vehicles.
During the year related infrastructure.
it received accreditation from Railway Safety as a Vehicle Acceptance Body.
In the US we have extended our relationship with the Federal Aviation Administration FAA to include weather In joint venture partnership with SNC Lavalin, we are one observation as well as air traffic control ATC services.
The of two consortia currently bidding for the Phase 3 network FAA has awarded us a five-year contract to operate weather expansion of the Manchester Metrolink a 25-year concession.
observation stations at seven medium to large airports, with The concession will design, build, operate and maintain at five more to follow in January 2004. least three new extensions to the network while also operating and maintaining the existing system.
And in support of our In the Middle East we successfully rebid our contract with plans to bid for selected UK rail franchises, we have formed the United Arab Emirates held since 1986 to provide ATC a joint venture with NedRailways, the international arm of and engineering services at the Emirates Area Control Centre the Dutch national rail operator, Nederlandse Spoorwegen.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 26 26 WHAT HAVE WE BEEN DOING AND WHERE?
BUSINESS REVIEW Further growth in our airport business will come from an boost if the UK adopts proposals for weekend and night-time investment in South Africa signed in November.
Our 50:50 prison sentences enabling offenders to retain normal joint venture with Equity Alliance has acquired a 51% interest employment.
in Apron Services Pty, a government-owned airline ground handling company supporting three international and three In 2001 we stepped in at short notice to support a critical domestic airports in South Africa.
It has contracts with 53 national intelligence system serving the UKs 66 police forces airlines.
This investment of 4m will provide an opportunity and other agencies.
Our response proved effective, and to develop our services in civil aviation and a platform for in 2002 we were awarded a five-year contract to maintain exploring other market opportunities in South Africa.
CIVIL GOVERNMENT Building on our growing reputation for services to police This is our most rapidly-evolving market, with opportunities forces, we won a contract from Merseyside Police to provide emerging in sectors such as justice, education and healthcare and support its new command and control system.
The pilot where outsourcing is relatively new.
In 2002, civil government system went live very successfully in November and full contracts excluding the transport and science sectors, which operations will begin in March 2003.
Other forces for whom are reported as separate segments accounted for 27% of sales.
we operate command and control systems include the Hampshire and Isle of Wight Constabulary which has Justice now appointed us to support the system with a full business Our activity in this field is currently focused on the UK, continuity and disaster recovery solution.
where the criminal justice budget for England and Wales is 14.7bn this year, rising to 18.3bn over three years.
We are the UK market leader in providing road safety We estimate our current addressable market at about cameras.
During the year we won contracts to supply and 1.3bn, covering intelligence, operational support, install over 300 additional camera locations in Lancashire demand management and technology services.
There is and West Yorkshire.
major potential for working with police forces in England and Wales to identify non-core activities that can be Our development work continues on the National Crime outsourced, allowing operational staff to concentrate Squad NCS Operations and Intelligence Management on policing and investigation.
System and we have delivered the first modules, including the Evidence Management System.
We have added several The custodial market continues to expand opportunities enhancements to the original contract.
These include opening 2 include prison PFI tenders, secure training centres for and managing a new 39,000ft seized assets store, introducing juvenile offenders and development of new immigration a secure knowledge management system and providing the IT accommodation centres over the next five years.
Electronic and communications infrastructure for the newly-formed tagging and monitoring of offenders is a current and rapidlyImmigration Crime Teams.
We will provide support services growing non-custodial market which could receive a further to these teams in line with the main NCS contract.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 27 27 Premier Custodial Group PCG continues to perform well.
In April 2002, Ofsted commended our service quality in The business now comprises five prisons, one secure training Walsall and our progress in restructuring and redefining centre, one immigration detention centre and court escort school support services.
After reviewing the remaining services and electronic tagging activities.
There have been some provided by the LEA, Ofsted recommended that these, too, performance issues at HMP Ashfield Young Offenders should be outsourced.
The result was a threefold expansion 1 Institution, which we are working through and are well on of our contract from September: over the remaining 5 2 years the way to being resolved.
it will be worth some 100m to us.
A further 300 Walsall Council staff transferred to Serco in January this year.
As previously reported we are pursuing through the courts a contractual right to acquire full control of PCG following Ofsted has also recognised the significant progress made our partners merger with Group 4 Falck: the courts decision by our educational partnership with Bradford Council.
is expected in the middle of this year.
The performance targets set by the contract are demanding and there is much work still to do before we can meet them Education all.
But already government figures show above-average In the UK, this market has expanded and evolved rapidly improvement in Bradford schools since we arrived and in over the past year.
Opportunities for working in partnership the primary school league tables Bradford is the third most with local education authorities LEAs continue to emerge.
improved LEA in the country.
Over the longer term we believe schools will gain increasing autonomy to purchase the services currently provided or Outside the UK, our activities in the education sector include bought by LEAs.
The education budget for England will rise managing and maintaining school and university facilities by 6% a year in real terms to reach 58bn over three years in Australia and Sweden.
Last year we won a new contract when spending per pupil will be 50% higher in real terms to provide facilities management, teaching assistants and than in 1997.
We have been developing an extended range administrative support to a new 1,200-pupil secondary of services for schools to enhance our market position.
Our school in Hong Kong which opened in September.
turnover in education is currently over 75m a year and in the UK we are one of the sectors leading service providers.
Our strategic focus on organic growth means that when we make acquisitions we tend to buy complementary capabilities Our education business is not only with LEAs.
In April, rather than capacity.
The acquisition in 2000 of Quality for example, we retained and expanded a contract worth Assurance Associates in the UK the basis for our fast-growing over 3m a year to inspect more than 200 schools annually education business was a case in point.
In December 2002 for the UK education inspectorate, Ofsted.
we acquired CCM Software Services for an initial consideration of 8.6m.
CCM produces, maintains, updates and operates Our progress in Walsall, where we have provided services to scheduling, resource allocation and finance systems that 129 schools on behalf of the LEA since 2001, has demonstrated complement our existing school management and improvement how our effective management drives strong organic growth.
products to make a unique integrated toolkit.
Its customers 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 28 28 WHAT HAVE WE BEEN DOING AND WHERE?
BUSINESS REVIEW include a rapidly growing number of schools, universities recognised by the Hong Kong government, which rewarded and colleges and nearly all the secondary schools in Ireland.
us with a prestigious Caring Company award.
This year we have launched Serco Learning, which brings Other public services the CCM products together with our existing portfolio of In addition to the principal areas described above we also virtual learning environment, leadership training and provide a wide range of other services both behind the consultancy products.
Together, these put us in a unique scenes and in direct contact with the public.
position to work with schools on all areas of development.
In the UK we won a 10-year rebid and expansion of our Health environmental services contract with Canterbury City The majority of our activity is currently in the UK, where we Council, worth 53m.
The new contract represents a deeper are involved in two of the first wave of hospital PFIs Norfolk level of partnership with the council and includes operating and Norwich University Hospital and Wishaw General Hospital, the call centre which is the customers first point of contact, both now operational.
New UK markets are emerging in taking 50,000 calls a year on a wide range of council services.
information technology and clinical service provision as well as a variety of support service partnerships.
Outside the UK we Our local council services business made further headway in provide hospital support services in Hong Kong and Australia.
January 2003, when we won Woking Borough Councils ground maintenance and street cleaning services.
Subject to contract, In June we broadened our capabilities by acquiring SDC we will work from a dedicated depot in the Woking area, with Consulting, a leading provider of strategic consultancy contract management and support from our existing operation services to NHS customers.
This enables us to grow into both in Winchester.
This partnership contract is expected to be worth existing and emerging health markets by developing a new at least 25m over 10 years, with additional revenue depending solutions business that combines a strengthened consultancy on the service and extension options that the borough exercises.
and advisory practice with participation in clinical and nonclinical support service partnerships.
The government has In Belgium three contracts further strengthened our recognised our capabilities by making Serco one of only eight relationships with major European institutions.
The European private companies approved to support underperforming NHS Commission EC, already an established IT customer, awarded trusts identified in the NHS franchise programme a role us a new contract to provide IT support.
The European similar to the one we are playing with local education Parliament chose us to provide IT services to its members authorities.
and their offices in both Brussels and Strasbourg.
We also successfully rebid our complete life cycle computer services Our track record at three hospitals in Hong Kong won us contract with the ECs Directorate General for Regional Policy.
contracts to provide cleaning and non-clinical services at two more: the Tseung Kwan O Hospital and the busy 1,265-bed In New Zealand, Wellington City Council awarded us a contract United Christian Hospital.
During the year our efforts were to provide planned and responsive maintenance services for 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 29 29 over 30 buildings ranging from high profile council offices, SCIENCE museums and libraries to retail and office buildings.
Our Management of government scientific undertakings developing relationship with Manukau City Council has earned is a relatively recent but fast-emerging sector, in which us an additional contract each year since 1999.
In 2002 we won Serco was an early entrant and has established a strong two further contracts to maintain its playgrounds, structures competitive position.
Our science contracts now account and asset management of buildings, bringing total annual for 9% of sales.
We aim to be recognised by governments revenue from the city to over NZ$7.6m.
Impressed by our around the world as one of the best private sector partners track record, Rodney District Council awarded us a NZ$17.2m for the management of scientific organisations, programmes five-year contract to manage parks, reserves and coastal areas.
In Australia we successfully rebid our property management UK government investment in science, engineering and contract, worth AUS$22.2m over five years, covering all the technology SET supports innovation and competitiveness justice buildings in Perth and all education buildings in in the economy, as well as defence, health, safety and south Perth.
Government SET expenditure is increasing and we expect it to exceed 8bn in 2003 04.
Hong Kong is planning a sophisticated meter system covering all its on-street parking.
This will use reloadable smartcard In the UK we have demonstrated our capabilities in managing technology compatible with the islands Octopus transport highly complex science-based organisations such as the and cash transaction card.
Our joint venture with Wilson National Physical Laboratory NPL under partnership contracts Parking will design, install and maintain the system using with government delivering services that range from prizedual language technology that we have developed, under a winning international research to support for small business.
seven-year contract worth almost HK$87.9m.
In Singapore We have also built a strong position in nuclear safety and we have carved out a niche with the government as a provider aim to support government in its management of nuclear of accommodation management services.
Last year we gained liabilities: government spending in this area under a long a further contract, as managing agent for 411 housing units.
term programme is estimated to be over 30bn.
We believe our UK experience provides a model that can be applied In the US we extended our contract in San Francisco to install in other countries as they involve the private sector in and manage over 25,000 parking meters, to run for delivering public science services.
All our US government contracts begin and end with an environmental baseline study, which we In the run-up to a rebid at NPL, our contract has been can provide in-house through Serco Environmental Services.
further extended taking our original five-year contract We also market these services externally, and recently won into its eighth year.
Together with Laing, our construction a contract indemnified by the Canadian government to partner, we are currently developing world-class new science conduct a major baseline study on the largest non-commercial facilities at NPL.
After some early setbacks, construction is bulk fuel storage tank farm in North America.
now well advanced and we are working closely with the 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 30 30 WHAT HAVE WE BEEN DOING AND WHERE?
BUSINESS REVIEW Department of Trade and Industry and Laing to resolve all Our existing business consists mainly of multi-service outstanding issues.
Meanwhile, we have launched major new facilities management contracts for blue-chip clients.
national facilities, including a centre to secure accuracy in Microsoft, for example, recently added five years to our radiation therapy for cancer sufferers and a laboratory facilities management contract covering its seven properties developing innovative measurement techniques for bioscience.
It also awarded a one-year contract for support services, with a view to integrating it with the remaining Serco Assurance formerly the nuclear consulting division of four years of the facilities management contract.
AEA Technology has substantially augmented our offering in nuclear safety.
Now integrated with our science business, We increased the scope of our work with Ilford one of it is performing in line with expectations and generating the worlds leading photographic imaging businesses new opportunities.
by taking over the field force of specialist technicians that supports its equipment across Europe and the US.
In May Serco Assurance won a new contract to support the This gave us the opportunity to develop a new Asset and BNFL Magnox Reactor Services Organisation with a range Equipment Services AES business.
In August 2002 we of technical services, in a consortium led by Mitsui Babcock.
finalised agreement with Imation, one of the leaders in The consortium will provide 85% of the external technical removable data storage, to transfer its field services and support to the organisations six operating Magnox nuclear field technician staff to our AES business in Germany and power stations: this is the first time such a contract has the Netherlands.
Together, these contracts have given us been let in the UK civil nuclear industry.
The value to Serco a stable platform for addressing the field service market will be about 10m over three years, with a possible twoand possibly creating further opportunities elsewhere in year extension.
More recent projects have included testing superalloys for In the Middle East, our new Serco Gulf joint venture ALSTOM Power in Sweden, environmental studies for a lowwon a 10-year contract to deliver engineering and other level radioactive effluent pipeline, simulation studies of support services to the Dubai Ports, Customs and Free Zone corrosion in Magnox boilers, specialist computer modelling work Corporation at Jebel Ali, Port Rashid and other locations for the Swedish radioactive waste disposal agency and a variety in Dubai.
This is a ground-breaking contract that should of environmental protection projects.
Contract extensions provide a springboard to other government contracts included two three-year contracts from the UK MOD to provide in this expanding marketplace initially in Dubai and research and support services aimed at detecting and managing eventually in the rest of the United Arab Emirates battlefield radioactivity hazards.
We also extended a contract and other Gulf countries.
with Network Rail under which we are developing asset management information technology, which we have already We continued to grow our relationship with BHP Steel applied to London Underground and Yorkshire Electricity.
in Australia, building on our original protective and emergency services contract at its Port Kembla steelworks.
PRIVATE SECTOR Last year we added fire and transport services, and The private sector accounted for 10% of sales in 2002. are now responsible for fire equipment inspection Because of the scope available to us in the public sector, and maintenance and personnel transport movement this market has not been a primary focus so far, but it at all BHP Steel operations in the Illawarra region does provide opportunities which we address selectively.
