3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 3 3 WHAT SORT of BUSINESS ARE we?
Serco is one of the worlds largest outsourcing businesses, operating in Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and North America.
Nearly a third of our turnover comes from outside the UK.
Our core products are the skills and processes for organisational design and change management.
We are focused on the public sector which represents 90% of our business and have a strong public service ethos.
In partnership with our customers and staff we aim to enhance service levels and operational efficiency by shortening decision-making chains, reducing bureaucracy and achieving continuous improvement.
We apply our skills in an extraordinarily diverse range of fields.
We run world-class scientific establishments and railways, maintain offices and spacecraft, manage schools, prisons and motorway systems, test military assets and control air traffic.
In every case, our job is to make our customers operations more efficient.
We can do this by managing existing facilities, projects and systems.
Or we can create entirely new facilities raising finance, designing and procuring them, then operating them.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 4 4 WHAT SORT OF BUSINESS ARE WE?
A growth business Broader exposure to growth opportunities we can direct Since flotation in 1988 weve averaged over 20% annual funds and people into those that offer the best returns.
growth in both sales and profits.
And weve achieved this largely by organic growth rather than by acquisition.
Better risk management downturns in individual markets and geographies can be offset by growth in A predictable business others, and we can use our established skills to drive Our future earnings and cash flows are highly visible.
Our business performance while developing new skills for contracts run typically for 5-10 years, and in practice our high emerging markets.
renewal rate means they can last for decades.
Our forward order book currently stretches to 2028.
The income from our contracts Better product development we develop competencies is highly dependable: some 90% comes from governments and and centres of excellence around the world, and share best international agencies, the rest from major corporations.
practice across the whole portfolio.
A diverse business A versatile business Our contracts are spread across many countries worldwide Our management processes are designed to exploit the and a remarkable range of activities.
This diversity brings benefits of diversity.
It allows contract managers a We dont see change as a one-off exercise: we focus on high degree of autonomy while maintaining consistency continuously adding value to customers operations over of culture, values and standards and provides an effective time.
So were never content with the status quo.
The mechanism for monitoring and control.
The Serco Best relentless pursuit of constant improvement is part of our Practice Centre and Serco Our World intranet ensure that culture and underpins our success rate of over 90% on every contract has access to what we learn.
A change business An entrepreneurial business Our core task is to manage positive change within One way to manage an outsourcing contract is to focus organisations, making them more efficient and improving on cost cuts.
From the bid stage onwards, we take a more the service they deliver.
Sercos management processes are rounded view: if it was a business, how would we improve specifically designed to help plan and manage change.
Can we extend our range of services?
Can we increase instil customer focus, reduce bureaucracy, encourage staff sales?
Could we develop new revenue streams?
What if we to take on broader roles and have well-developed put in some investment?
Thats how our contract managers techniques for measuring progress.
are trained and empowered to think.
Its what enables them 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 PROFIT m Before amortisation of goodwill Over the last 15 years the group has achieved compound average annual growth in excess of 23% in turnover and profit.
The majority of this growth has been through additions to our contract portfolio with little impact through acquisitions.
The 2001 accounts have been restated after adoption of UITF 34 Pre-contract costs in 2002.
to keep adding value, constantly improving our performance.
An ethical and transparent business Its also why a significant proportion of our new business We deliver public services, and we change the way people in any year comes from broadening the scope of existing work.
In both capacities we touch peoples lives and we contracts: if we show customers what we can do, they often recognise our responsibility to act ethically and sensitively.
Our culture is open and collaborative: we aim to form productive partnerships with both staff and customers.
A public service business We recognise our responsibilities to investors, too: we aim As our national and local government customers would to communicate clearly and transparently with them and to expect, we have a strong public service ethos.
This is not account for our performance straightforwardly.
the same as a public sector ethos: we believe passionately that private sector companies bring distinct benefits to the A socially engaged business task of delivering public services.
In the words of the recent We also recognise our role in the wider community.
We do not UK Confederation of British Industry CBI Statement of believe Serco can or should stand apart from the societies in Intent on public private partnerships, which we helped to which it operates: we aim to engage positively with local formulate, a public service ethos revolves around customer communities and to minimise our impact on the environment.
service, a sense of duty, fairness, openness and accountability.
Accountability for corporate social responsibility at a local level is part of every contract managers job.
