Non Executive Directors Ian Clubb, CA Age 61 Richard Biffa, MinstWM Age 62 Chairman Deputy Chairman Ian Clubb was appointed Chairman in April 2002 Richard Biffa joined the Board in 1991 following the and joined the Board in 1994.
He is Chairman of merger with Rechem Environmental Services PLC of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the which he was previously Chairman.
He is Chairman Trustees of the Companys Pension Scheme.
He is of the Audit Committee.
He has had a long lasting also Chairman of First Choice Holidays PLC and a association with, and a wide experience of, the Non-executive director of Expro International Group plc.
Philippe Delaunois, Ir, IC Age 60 Barry Pointon, BSc Age 55 Philippe Delaunois, a Belgian national, was appointed Senior Independent Director to the Board in May 2001.
He holds a degree in Barry Pointon was appointed to the Board in 1999. engineering from the States University at Mons.
He He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was Chief Executive of Cockerill Sambre, a Belgian is an engineer with over thirty years experience in steel producing company with a turnover in excess of industry.
He is an Executive Director of IMI plc with responsibility for business development.
He is currently a Non-executive director of a number of companies in Belgium.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Top left: Ian Clubb Chairman Top right: Richard Biffa Deputy Chairman Bottom left: Phillippe Delaunois Bottom right: Barry Pointon Senior Independent Director 16 shanks.
2002 Executive Directors Michael Averill, BSc, MBA, ARSM, MinstWM Age 51 David Downes, BSc, MBA, FCMA, FCT Age 56 Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Michael Averill holds an MBA from Craneld David Downes is a qualied accountant and holds an Management School and a degree from Imperial MBA from Stanford Business School and a degree in College of Science and Technology.
He joined the civil engineering from Kings College, University of Group in 1989 as a Business Development Director London.
He was appointed to the Board as Group for Rechem International Limited.
He became Finance Director in 1993.
He was previously Deputy Managing Director of Rechem in 1992.
He was Chief Executive of Hunter Saphir PLC and Group appointed Group Chief Executive in 1994.
Finance Director of MBS plc.
He is a Trustee of the Companys Pension Scheme.
James Meredith, BSc, MSc, C. Eng, MBA, Dip.
M, MinstWM Age 41 Managing Director Waste Services UK Jim Meredith is a chartered engineer specialising in agricultural, soil and water engineering.
He holds an MBA from Middlesex University and a Diploma in Marketing.
He joined the Group in 1987 as an Operations Engineer and was appointed Managing Director of one of the Groups principal UK subsidiaries in 1993.
He was appointed an Executive Director of the Group in November 2000.
Top left: Michael Averill Group Chief Executive Top right: David Downes Group Finance Director Bottom left: James Meredith Managing Director Waste Services UK shanks.
