Retail & packaging Primark has a winning formula of providing quality merchandise at affordable prices.
Allied Glass Containers is one of Europes leading producers of premium glass packaging.
Primark Very strong growth continued at Primark driven by new store openings, particularly in the second half of last year, and like-for-like sales growth of 4% over last year.
Sales increased by 27% to 654 million and profit was up by 20% to 72 million.
As mentioned in the interim report, operating profit margins were reduced, mainly as a result of the overheads arising from the substantial increase in capacity following the opening of our warehousing facility at Magna Park last year.
Primark is now a major retail group employing nearly 10,000 people and operating 114 stores in the UK and Ireland where it trades as Penneys.
Targeted at fashion conscious under 35s, Primark offers stylish, quality merchandise at very competitive prices in a pleasant shopping environment.
The ranges on offer are constantly updated, and buyers work directly with suppliers to develop and source exclusive products and negotiate the best prices on high volumes of merchandise.
Computerised customs clearance and dedicated warehousing and distribution services allow stores to maintain 2002 2001 complete control of their stock to support sales.
Sales m 712 574 Selling price deation is now a factor in many departments in retail textiles reecting Operating profit m 77 63 market competition and lower input costs.
Primarks like-for-like sales value increase profit margin % 10.8 11.0 of 4% in this environment demonstrates the strength of its offering.
Return on capital employed % 22.4 18.6 Six new stores were opened during the year, including the companys agship store in Manchester in October.
In a prime city centre location, it occupies 70,000 square feet and is the companys largest store to date.
Other stores were opened in Lewisham, Glasgow, Torquay, Bromley and in Blanchardstown, near Dublin.
The existing store in Wandsworth was relocated.
Primark is now trading from almost 2 million square feet of retail selling space.
Major refits were started in 11 existing stores, to update the format and to increase selling space at certain stores.
The first of these, at Stevenage, has expanded into space upstairs and has reopened very successfully with sales double those of last year.
Primark is continuing actively to seek additional locations for new stores.
Contracts have already been signed for new stores in Birmingham, due to open in December, East Kilbride and, in the Republic of Ireland, at Dundrum.
Allied Glass Containers The UK market for glass packaging showed moderate growth with a significant increase in the premium packaged spirits sector but a substantial decrease in food.
The continued overcapacity in the market resulted in price pressure during the year.
Although volumes at Allied Glass Containers declined in this competitive environment, cost reductions and an increase in added value sales contributed to an increase in profit.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 23 Retail & packaging continued Primarks branded ranges such as Early Days, Denim Co and Rebel target a variety of age ranges and tastes.
The reorganisation of production facilities started last year was completed, resulting in increased use of three larger, more efficient furnaces at Leeds and Knottingley and a significant reduction in operating cost.
Capital investment during the year focused on this reorganisation, and included a replacement bottle forming machine which increased output.
Allied Glass Containers remains focused on short run, high quality packaging.
Its design innovation skills have been recognised through winning the food and spirits sections of the national Shine Awards, which showcase excellence in glass packaging, with the spirits winner taking the overall prize.
Development work is continuing to produce lighter bottles, with a 15% lighter standard whisky bottle now being offered to the market.
24 Associated British Foods plc A store is born Once the best location for a new Primark store is identied, an opening date is set.
Construction, shoptting, stafng, merchandising and point of sale technology are all precisely co-ordinated to meet the deadline.
Primarks name and reputation as a great place to work provides the prole for selecting the best people for our progressive retail environment.
All new employees take part in a comprehensive induction and training programme before the opening to forge a strong team spirit.
Specially selected high performers from all functions and levels across the company join the team to inspire the new staff and pass on their know-how.
The timing of the opening is communicated through press, radio and leaflet campaigns.
Once the doors are open, customers are enthused by the Primark proposition quality merchandise at very competitive prices in a pleasant shopping environment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 25 In Australia and New Zealand our brands are leaders in the bakery market.
26 Associated British Foods plc australias favourite foods
