Australia & New Zealand George Weston Foods is a major processor and producer of primary and branded food products in Australia and New Zealand.
Sales for the continuing business increased 6% to 580 million.
However, cost and competitive pressures continued to affect the business, particularly the meat and biscuit operations.
As a result, the underlying profit declined from 21 million to 18 million.
In addition, the poor performance of the meat business has resulted in a xed asset impairment provision of 6 million which reduced the profit for the financial year to 12 million.
Baking performed very strongly with increases in sales and profit.
New products, volume growth and cost savings more than offset the effects of a competitive market and increased our costs.
The launch of Noble Rise Crunchy Toast, White and Fruit varieties, the relaunch of the Bergen range and the launch of the Holsom range were all successful during the year.
Sales of Noble Rise increased again to strengthen its position as a leader in the premium bread segment.
In August, a new addition to the Tip Top range was launched, Tip Top-Up, which is enriched with omega-3 oils aimed at the increasing number of health conscious families.
Early indications are 2002 2001 very promising.
Sales m 580 548 In June, re destroyed our largest bakery in Australia at Faireld in Sydney.
Restoration Operating profit m 12 21 of very high levels of customer service within days is a testament to the professionalism profit margin % 2.1 3.8 and speed with which our employees reacted to the problems.
The loss is insured and plans are well advanced for a replacement bakery.
Return on capital employed % 5.8 9.7 In milling, significant cost savings were achieved and margins improved.
There was a focus on increasing market share in the low cost to serve industrial markets.
The New Zealand operation benefited from a new warehouse and distribution centre in Auckland and the commissioning of a blending facility to produce locally, higher value bakery mixes.
Sales were maintained in the biscuit and cake business but profitability was affected by higher input costs and a competitive market.
The product range was strengthened with a number of new product launches including extensions to the popular Wagon Wheels and Ryvita brands.
A new range of products featuring Winnie the Pooh and Toy Story characters was launched.
George Weston Foods is the leading cake manufacturer in Australia with its Top Taste brand.
The meat and dairy business produces some of Australias best known brands including Don, Watsonia, Melosi and Chapmans.
However, substantially higher meat prices, continuing distribution and operational problems combined with reduced volumes had a significant impact in reducing its profitability.
A new senior management team is focused on resolving the problems and improving margins and profitability.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 27 Australia & New Zealand continued Our meat & dairy business is a major producer of meat products, including hams, salamis and sausages.
Elsewhere, Jasol enhanced its presence in the Australian speciality chemical manufacturing and service market.
Several new products were launched during the year, including a range of oxygen-based sanitising and bleaching products.
The underperforming starch business was sold in March 2002.
On 20 September 2002, George Weston Foods became a wholly-owned subsidiary and its shares were delisted from the Australian Stock Exchange on 27 September.
28 Associated British Foods plc Australias favourite brands For over 50 years George Weston Foods products have had a special place in the hearts and homes of Australians.
Our brands feature some of the best-loved and most famous names in Australia and New Zealand, including Tip Top and Noble Rise breads, Wagon Wheels, Quatro, Ryvita and Don.
The changing tastes of our consumers, coupled with their expectation of the highest quality ensures we are constantly adding exciting products to our family of brands.
From healthy additions to our bread range to indulgent cake and biscuit treats there is always something new on the shelves from George Weston Foods.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 29 Finance Directors report Net cash funds... were virtually level with last year at 1,050 million with the cash generated by the group in the year being almost sufficient to fund an acquisition spend, net of disposals, of 234 million... 30 Associated British Foods plc
