Primary food & agriculture Associated British Foods is UK agricultures biggest customer.
The group buys more primary products from British farmers than any other, adding value within the food chain through its sophisticated and efficient processing facilities to produce high quality, staple food ingredients such as flour and sugar.
Good progress was made by British Sugar, Allied Mills and ABNA.
However, profit in the Polish sugar business was impacted by a poor crop and lower market prices.
British Sugar benefited in the year from lower costs arising from the rationalisation of its factories, better yields from processing and the strengthening of the euro.
Following the closure of two factories in 2001, there was further rationalisation with Kidderminster being closed in February 2002 and Allscott being successfully upgraded.
These benets more than offset the impact of the lower sugar beet crop of only 1.22 million tonnes, compared to 1.325 million tonnes for the prior year, the processing problems at the Wissington factory and a fall in world sugar prices which affect the value of sugar exports.
The profit this year included the release of a 7 million provision established some years ago for a potential ne which is no longer needed following a favourable judgement by the European Court of Justice.
The 25 million resin separation plant at Wissington was successfully commissioned 2002 2001 in the spring.
This provides an important new revenue stream from the production of Sales m 1,761 1,867 other beet-derived high value products.
Operating profit m 195 172 Our Chinese sugar business had a good year with sales volumes doubling, benefiting profit margin % 11.1 9.2 from the acquisition of a fourth factory at Wuxuan in October 2001.
However, prices were lower than the previous year.
Political uncertainty, oversupply in the market and Return on capital employed % 24.7 22.4 a poor crop contributed to a disappointing performance by the Polish sugar business.
The process of rationalising the companys ten factories is well underway, and the objective of becoming the lowest cost producer of quality sugar remains on track.
Lower sugar prices in Poland and China are expected to continue in the short-term.
The Germains Technology Group is a leader in the market for seed treatment and coatings.
The UK and continental European operations delivered good results, but the North American business experienced difficult conditions with pressures on volumes and markets.
The US sugar beet seed coating business has been restructured, and production is now focused at the plant in Fargo, North Dakota, following the closure of the Longmont, Colorado facility.
Allied Mills had a good year as it benefited from reduced costs.
Overheads were lower following the closure of two mills last year and the successful centralisation of administration.
Poor weather resulted in the smallest UK wheat harvest since 1988 which in turn triggered increased wheat prices and the first our price increase in five years.
A new semolina packaging plant and warehouse opened at Tilbury in March.
ABNA is the groups agriculture business, comprising grain marketing, animal feeds and identity-preserved speciality crop production.
Across all sectors, UK agriculture remains under severe economic and price pressures, compounded by the legacy of the foot and mouth and BSE crises.
Against this difficult background, the business continued to outperform in its sector.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 19 Primary food & agriculture continued Wheat germ oil is one of the richest natural sources of Vitamin E and has a wide range of different applications in health food, aromatherapy and cosmetic products.
We are involved in the complete supply chain from the purchasing of wheat through Allied Grain, to the milling of wheat by Allied Mills and, finally, to the extraction of the oil by Kings.
In the arable sector, low prices have put pressure on farmers who are buying less seed.
However, ABNAs arable business grew its share of the seed, fertiliser and grain markets, despite a signicantly smaller cereal crop.
This success is a direct result of delivering added value services to farmers and the establishment of long-term marketing contracts with end-users, farming groups and co-operatives.
The animal feeds business has also grown its market share.
Crucial to this has been the continuing development of supply chain partnerships, and the implementation of a new feed grain procurement policy in partnership with the arable business.
New products introduced during the year included organic sugar beet pulp and pressed apple pulp, as well as a new feed for enhanced milk production.
ABNA is now looking to benefit from the integration of its arable and animal feeds businesses with improved logistics and new systems.
When implemented, these are expected to result in an enhanced service offering to both customers and suppliers.
Kings is a specialist business devoted to plant-derived oils, which have a wide and expanding range of applications.
These include pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, personal care and industrial chemicals.
During the year, a new base was established in North Carolina, taking advantage of the southern states climate to grow specic, high value crops for pharmaceutical companies.
An increasing number of customers are looking for absolute integrity of crops, and with the business focused on identity preserved production and processing, it has significant potential for growth.
20 Associated British Foods plc Far Eastern ventures Our involvement with Chinas sugar industry began with a joint venture in 1995.
Within eighteen months the plants cane crushing rate had doubled, thanks to substantial investment in factory technology and new working practices.
We now have majority control of four cane factories in Guangxi province, producing over 350,000 tonnes of sugar a year.
Along with plant upgrades, an agricultural improvement programme has doubled the cane growing area and greatly increased sugar yields.
Western style financial controls and comprehensive training for management and employees have greatly enhanced efficiencies in this business.
The benets of this extend beyond the factories themselves and into the local economy.
Examples of this include our commitment to supporting projects such as new employee housing, educational and nursery facilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 21 Targeted at fashion conscious under 35s, Primark offers stylish, quality merchandise at very competitive prices.
22 Associated British Foods plc value for money
