Ingredients & oils The group has an increasing focus on high added value ingredients and vegetable oils.
It produces functional ingredients from natural products for use in the food, foodservice, pharmaceutical and personal care sectors.
Strong growth this year, with sales up 13% to 800 million and profit up 26% to 53 million, was driven by ACH and SPI which more than offset a decline in Abitec.
ACH Food Companies, our US oils business, made significant progress in the year.
The sale of the loss-making Greenville, Mississippi rice milling operation was completed at the end of last year and the business benefited from lower manufacturing costs following the exit from commodity oil processing at Champaign, Illinois and the rationalisation of production following the closure of Columbus, Ohio.
The branded foodservice and oils business acquired from Procter & Gamble in January 2001 has been fully and successfully integrated.
Despite the initial negative effect on the foodservice market after the events of 11 September 2001, this business achieved higher volumes and profit with new business gained and new product offerings introduced.
2002 2001 The purchase of the Mazola branded cooking oil and corn products business in the Sales m 800 711 US, Canada and Puerto Rico from Unilever was completed in July.
The main brands acquired were Mazola cooking oil, Argo and Kingsfords cornour, Karo and Golden Operating profit m 53 42 Griddle syrups.
This acquisition is expected to be fully integrated with ACHs existing profit margin % 6.6 5.9 oil business by December 2002.
Return on capital employed % 19.8 15.8 Mazola is a premium brand with a strong loyalty in the trade and with the consumer and strengthens the retail position of ACH by adding the leading corn oil brand.
The profit in the next financial year will reect the significant cost savings arising from the integration and the benefits of creating stronger channels to market for Mazola.
The profit contribution from the acquisition in this financial year has been offset by the one-time charges for the integration.
There was a strong recovery at SPI, our US-based polyols business.
Polyols are sugar-free sweeteners derived from carbohydrates which are used in a variety of applications in the food, confectionery, oral care, cosmetic and industrial markets.
Sales growth, improvements in product mix towards higher value added products and cost reductions all contributed to this improvement.
In addition, the organisation and operating processes were strengthened, which will provide further benefit in the future.
In Food, sales rose sharply for the proprietary products based on maltitol which are targeted at the high growth sugar-free confectionery market in North America.
These products function and taste like sucrose and allow the development of sugar-free versions of existing products without compromising taste.
TM In Pharma, following its launch last year, Pharmagum is meeting expectations and has TM been joined this year by Pharmaburst a quick-dissolve drug delivery system.
Several pharmaceutical companies have filed for regulatory approvals employing this novel Annual Report and Accounts 2002 15 Ingredients & oils continued A recent development from Abitec provides the paper industry with an environmentally friendly alternative to chlorine in the bleaching process.
The business continues to extend its technology base through partnerships with other suppliers to the pharmaceutical industry.
Abitec is focused on three business areas: bakery ingredients, lipid technologies and enzymes.
Operational problems were encountered in the reorganisation and integration of its bakery ingredients businesses, Cereform, in the UK and US and resulted in a reduction in profit in addition to the charge taken for the rationalisation.
The rationalisation of the acquired SPP business in the UK with our existing business is now complete and has created the UK leader in the supply of technical bakery ingredients.
In the US the concentration of mixes, icings and fruit fillings activities in Denver has also been completed.
The management focus is now to overcome the operational difficulties and increase the margins and profit of this business.
Lipid technologies delivered a good performance from its sales to the personal care and pharmaceutical markets.
Following a slowing in the first half, the enzymes business continued its strong progress in the second half to deliver a year of profit growth.
It continues its focus of developing innovative solutions for customers in sectors as diverse as animal feeds, beverages and textiles.
Environmental applications have also been devised for paper manufacturers, who use enzymes to reduce the viscosity of pulp, thus saving energy, and to remove bleach from the whitening process.
16 Associated British Foods plc A leader in food oils Our policy has always been to invest in areas where we have substantial strength and expertise.
The successful integration of the former Procter & Gamble branded foodservice oils business last year showed how we can quickly absorb, and add value to, the businesses we buy.
In July we bought Unilevers North American branded corn oil and corn products business, which signicantly strengthened our competitive position in the food oils industry.
We are now a leader in the branded retail sector, with the number one corn oil brand Mazola.
Mazola has exceptionally strong customer loyalty both from trade and consumers alike.
We have also acquired other market leading names such as Argo and Kingsfords cornflour, Karo corn syrup and Golden Griddle table syrup.
We were already a leader in own label and branded foodservice oils, as well as own label retail oils.
This new business, with its premium branded retail products, is a superb t with our existing portfolio.
With our extensive knowledge of the industry and strong trade relationships, we are confident of being able to exploit the full potential of these brands.
We now have the strong presence required in the market to make the most of our sourcing and distribution activities.
In turn, this strength will almost certainly open up avenues for growth.
Creating stronger routes to market, making cost savings and providing a greater sales and marketing focus will ensure that Mazola and its sister brands develop in the future.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 17 We are the UKs leading sugar supplier.
18 Associated British Foods plc a taste for life
