57 9 Independent non-executive director 6 8 Professor Sir Roland Smith is the Senior Independent Director.
Harold W Bailey, Professor Sir Roland Smith, Lord MacGregor and Martin G Adamson are members of the Remuneration and Nomination committees.
Professor Sir Roland Smith, Lord MacGregor and Martin G Adamson are members of the Audit committee.
Non-executive directors 5 WG Galen Weston OC age 61 A director since 1964, he is Chairman and President of George Weston Limited, Canada, a director of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Chairman of Holt, Renfrew & Co and of Brown Thomas, Ireland.
He is a director of Wittington Investments Limited.
6 Martin G Adamson age 63 Appointed a director on 11 October 1999, he was a senior partner of KPMG and a member of that rms board until 1996.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and is Chairman of Compass Group Pension Trustee Company Limited.
7 Professor Sir Roland Smith age 73 A director since 1994, he is Emeritus Professor of Management Science in the University of Manchester.
8 Michael R Alexander age 54 Appointed a director on 16 January 2002, he spent his earlier career with BP plc where he held a number of management positions.
He is a director and chief operating officer of Centrica plc.
Lord MacGregor of Pulham Market, OBE age 65 A director since 1994, he was a Member of Parliament from 1974 to 2001, with 15 years in government including nine years in the Cabinet.
He is a director of Slough Estates plc, Uniq plc, Friends Provident plc, and a member of the supervisory board of DAF Trucks N. V. Annual Report and Accounts 2002 35 Directors report The directors submit to the members their sixty-seventh annual to 6 December 2006.
No such shares have been issued.
report together with the financial statements of the company The directors propose to renew this authority at the annual for the 52 weeks ended 14 September 2002. general meeting to be held on 5 December 2002 for a further period of five years.
The corporate citizenship, corporate governance and remuneration reports on pages 38 to 45 form part of this A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted directors report.
authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the profits and dividends Companies Act 1985.
This authority expires on the date of The group profit and loss account is on page 48. profit for the the annual general meeting to be held on 5 December 2002 financial year amounted to 322 million and the dividends to and the directors will seek to renew this authority for a further 105 million.
Dividends are detailed in note 8 on page 61. period of one year.
Review of activities Associated British Foods plc 1994 Share Option Scheme The activities of the group principally concern the processing and the Scheme manufacture of food in Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Asia and The Scheme was established by the company in 1994. the US, and textile retailing in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Under the terms of the Scheme, options to purchase Comments on the development of the business during the period ordinary shares in the company may be granted to selected under review and on the future outlook are contained within qualifying employees over the ten years from November 1994. the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the The exercise of options is not subject to specified Finance Directors report on pages 4 to 33. performance criteria.
Tangible xed assets Associated British Foods plc Executive Share Option Scheme The groups tangible fixed assets are included in the financial the Executive Scheme statements at cost.
The properties are employed in the business This scheme was approved and adopted by the company at the and many of them were acquired when market values were annual general meeting held on 15 December 2000.
Under the substantially lower than at present.
The directors consider that terms of the Executive Scheme options to purchase ordinary a surplus over book value exists, but are unable to quantify shares in the company may be granted to selected employees the excess.
over the ten years from 15 December 2000.
The exercise of an option under this scheme will, in accordance with institutional Substantial shareholdings shareholder guidelines, be conditional on the achievement of Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the company performance criteria which are based on growth in the group are given in note 30 on page 72. and subsidiary company profits.
Other than as noted above, so far as is known, no other person Auditors holds or is beneficially interested in a disclosable interest in In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, the company.
a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Power to issue shares annual general meeting.
At the last annual general meeting held on 7 December 2001, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued relevant Directors securities in the company up to a maximum of an amount The names of the persons who were directors of the company equivalent to one third of the shares in issue at any time up as at 5 November 2002 appear on pages 34 and 35.
