Grocery Associated British Foods is a major manufacturer of both branded and private label grocery products, many of which are household names.
Strong growth was achieved by our grocery businesses with sales up 5% to 902 million and profit up 35% to 50 million.
This represented a good performance by all businesses except for a lower profit at Speedibake.
Allied Bakeries made good progress in the year.
Sales increased with continued volume growth by the Kingsmill brand and a sales price increase last autumn to recover increases in our prices.
Kingsmill growth was supported by the launch of Whole & White Rolls early in the year and increased marketing support.
profitability improved and was supported by a continuing programme of cost reductions, including the closure of the Shefeld bakery, and improved production efficiencies.
Cost reductions at Allied Bakeries were achieved in distribution, systems and administration.
A much strengthened management team was responsible for increased investment in the business.
This investment was made in improvements to product quality, sales force effectiveness, distribution and systems, all of which are expected 2002 2001 to yield further benets in the future.
Sales m 902 858 Competitive pressure and increased input costs reduced profitability at Speedibake.
Operating profit m 50 37 Progress was made in streamlining the business.
The Northampton factory was closed profit margin % 5.5 4.3 during the year and production was transferred to the other factories at Wakeeld and Bradford.
The business has been restructured to provide a greater focus on innovation Return on capital employed % 15.8 11.6 and market development for its five core product streams: French bread, speciality bread, filled products, muffins and doughnuts.
A new innovation centre opened in Wakeeld, and has already made an important contribution to the ow of new products.
Partnerships with our main customers have worked to stimulate consumer demand for in-store bakery products.
Dating back to 1706, Twinings is one of the oldest tea brands, and is popular in more than 100 countries.
It continued to make strong progress with increases in sales and profit.
In the UK, the agship black and gold speciality tea range was successfully relaunched in the autumn.
There was continued good growth in the herbal and infusions sectors, and Twinings brands are also now leaders in green tea.
Sales of iced tea grew strongly, supported by major sampling initiatives and in-store promotions.
Export and international sales now represent nearly 80% of Twinings sales.
The US operation performed particularly well and, in France, the La Tisanire Bien Etre range of herbal products grew substantially.
The acquisition of Ovaltine and associated brands from Novartis was announced in October 2002.
Ovaltine, or Ovomaltine outside the UK, is a large, growing international brand with leading market positions in Europe and Asia.
The brand comprises a range of nutritional malt based beverages, snacks and confectionery.
In addition to Ovaltine, the acquisition includes a number of strong national brands including positions in coffee and hot chocolate.
Ovaltine provides sustained energy Annual Report and Accounts 2002 11 Grocery continued Our market leading brand Silver Spoon continued to add to its wide range of products with Crusha, a syrup based milk shake mix.
The brand adds to our existing range of sweeteners and ice cream toppings.
The launch of organic rice cakes by Ryvita is the latest product development from a brand established in 1925. and nutrition benets which are especially appealing to mothers, young children and teenagers.
The combination of Ovaltine and Twinings will create a strong speciality hot beverage business with international scale.
Both businesses will be strengthened with wider geographic opportunities, stronger distribution within markets and an enhanced international management team.
Ryvita had another record year.
It maintained its volumes and benefited from television advertising in the UK to support its brand leading position.
Ryvita rice cakes were successfully launched in the year and have quickly become a brand leader.
Silver Spoon is the UKs leading sugar brand, selling nearly one million 1kg packs of sugar a day.
Market share was gained in the retail sugar market.
Good progress in articial sweeteners continued with Nothing Comes Closer to Sugar which achieved significant sales growth and it now has a 10% share of its market.
The Crusha milk shake syrup business, acquired in December last year, has now been fully integrated.
Skilled marketing and strong trade relationships have resulted in increased listings and effective promotions.
Its performance has exceeded all expectations, showing major volume growth despite the poor summer weather.
Westmill Foods is a major supplier of rice and ours to supermarkets and specialist ethnic food stores.
Good progress was made this year and its profit increased.
Rice performed particularly well in the face of strong competition, by regaining lost sales from last year and launching Asli basmati rice, which is aimed at the premium ethnic sector.
In retail, branded rice sales increased following the launch by Patak of their dry rice.
A range of microwaveable rices for the branded and private label sectors was launched in the spring and early reaction has been extremely favourable.
There was further significant growth in the Allinsons breadmaking range.
12 Associated British Foods plc The refreshing way to a modern lifestyle Tea, like Twinings, has been around a long time, but the choice of avours and variations is greater now than ever before.
Peoples tastes are as different today as the lives they lead.
Increasing interest in healthier living is driving our product development programme.
Decaffeinated and organic teas, and herbal and fruit infusions, are rapidly becoming just as popular as our traditional avours.
Green teas are a fast growing market and ready to drink iced teas have taken us in a new direction again, providing instant refreshment straight from a carton.
It all goes to show that even after 300 years, we can still rise to the challenge of satisfying and anticipating changing preferences.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 13 Our vegetable oils business is a leader in the North American branded oil sector.
The recent acquisition from Unilever of Mazola and its associated brands moves us into the leading position in the US corn oil market.
14 Associated British Foods plc a recipe for success
