In accordance with the Articles of Association, GG Weston, JG Bason and MG Adamson retire from the board by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
HW Bailey will retire from the board at the conclusion of the annual general meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, MR Alexander, having been appointed since the date of the last annual general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Controlling interest The ultimate holding company of Associated British Foods plc is Wittington Investments Limited, which together with its subsidiary undertaking, Howard Investments Limited, held 54.5% of the total issued ordinary share capital.
Non-beneficial interests The directors of the company at the end of the year had the following non-beneficial interests: 1 WG Galen Weston and George G Weston are trustees of a trust, in which they have no beneficial interest, which at 14 September 2002 held 683,073 ordinary shares of 50p 2001 683,073 in Wittington Investments Limited.
2 Harold W Bailey is a trustee of a trust, in which he has no beneficial interest, which at 14 September 2002 held 15 38,665 ordinary shares of 5 22p 2001 38,665 in Associated British Foods plc.
Subsequent changes The interests shown above remained the same at 5 November 2002.
By order of the board Paul Lister Secretary 5 November 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 37 Corporate citizenship Business principles to provide and maintain a safe and healthy working The groups organisational structure is decentralised and based on environment for all employees, taking into account individuals short lines of communication.
Management responsibilities for the needs and abilities: and major businesses are devolved to their chief executives who report directly to the Chief Executive.
to develop safety awareness amongst all employees to enable them to take reasonable care for their own health and safety and that As such our businesses devise procedures appropriate to and of other people who may be affected by their acts or omissions.
compliant with local laws, culture and operating conditions but within the overall context of the following overriding principles.
Ethical procurement We seek to develop relationships with supplier companies Employment consistent with the basic principles as set out above, and General principles specifically with respect to human rights and conditions of Managers of our businesses continue to evolve procedures employment.
Where supplier audits show shortcomings in any appropriate to the size and organisation of their businesses.
of these areas we will strive to encourage a programme of These procedures take account of the core International Labour improvement leading to compliance.
Responsibility for specic Organisation conventions and, in addition, are designed to keep supplier codes and agreements rests with individual companies.
employees and their representatives briefed on all relevant matters.
Environment The group is committed to offering equal opportunities to all The purpose of our environmental policy is to establish, as far persons in their recruitment, training and career development, as possible, uniform standards across our businesses.
In the UK, having regard for their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Full and we will take such steps as are necessary to ensure that: fair consideration is given to applicants with disabilities and every effort is made to give employees who become disabled whilst emissions to air, releases to water and land lling of solid wastes employed by the company an opportunity for retraining.
do not cause unacceptable environmental impacts and do not offend the community: Health and safety We consider health and safety as equal in importance to that of significant plant and process changes are assessed any other function of the company and its business objectives.
and positively authorised in advance to prevent adverse environmental impacts: Within the overall context of complying with all relevant legislation, the responsibility for health and safety within each of our energy is used efficiently and consumption is monitored: businesses rests with its chief executive or managing director.
raw material waste is minimised: The aims of the health and safety policy The purpose of this health and safety policy is to establish, as solid waste is reduced, reused or recycled where practicable: far as possible, requisite standards across our UK businesses.
We will take such steps as are reasonably practicable, to ensure the amount of packaging used for group products is that they meet their health and safety objectives.
These are: minimised, consistent with requirements for food safety and product protection: to provide and maintain safe and healthy working places and systems of work in order to protect all employees and others, products are transported efficiently to minimise fuel usage, including visitors and the public, in so far as they come into consistent with customers demands, production arrangements contact with foreseeable work hazards: and vehicle fleet operations: 38 Associated British Foods plc
