Directors report The directors present their report on the affairs of the Group and the The Hon James Grant, Non-executive Director Company together with the audited consolidated financial statements Mr Ronald Nordmann, Non-executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Results and dividends Dr Barry Price, Senior Non-executive Director The loss on ordinary activities before taxation of the Group was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 526.8 million 2001: profit of 81.4 million.
The net assets of the Group as at 31 December 2002 were 2,747.7 million 2001: Mr Grard Veilleux, Non-executive Director 3,393.9 million.
Directors interests The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
As at Details of the current directors interests in the share capital of the 31 December 2002, the Company had an accumulated deficit of Company, as shown in the register maintained in accordance with 15.9 million.
Future dividend policy will be dependent upon distributable Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985, together with the details profits, the financial condition of the Company and the terms of any then of the share options granted to them are disclosed in the directors existing debt facilities and other relevant factors existing at that time.
remuneration report on pages 11 to 20.
Principal activity Re-appointment The principal activity of the Group is the marketing, research and In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr Angus development of prescription medicines.
The Group focuses on four Russell, Dr Wilson Totten, and The Hon James Grant retire by rotation therapeutic areas: central nervous system disorders, gastrointestinal, and offer themselves for re-appointment.
oncology and anti-infectives supported by three platform technologies: Interest in material contracts advanced drug delivery, lead optimisation for small molecules and Other than the related party transactions disclosed below, none of the biologics.
current directors had a material interest in any contract of significance Business review to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party A review of the Groups business and important events during the year during the period under review.
and likely future developments is set out in the Chairmans statement, Related party transactions the Chief Executives review and the financial review on pages 1 to 5. a Mr Spitznagel, a former Director of the Company, entered into Corporate governance a consultancy agreement with the Company in December 1999, The Directors are committed to business integrity and professionalism which provided that: and as an essential part of this commitment the Board supports high i if he had good reason, as defined in his service agreement with standards of corporate governance.
Details concerning the Groups Roberts, to terminate his employment with Roberts under his service arrangements relating to corporate governance and its compliance with agreement, the Company would cause Roberts to provide him with the Combined Code of Best Practice are given on pages 9 to 10 and the payments and benefits he would be entitled to upon a good the remuneration policy contained in the directors remuneration report reason termination: is detailed on pages 11 to 20. ii Mr Spitznagel would provide consulting services to the Company Authorised and called up share capital for at least 42 months following the acquisition of Roberts, unless Details of the authorised and called up share capital of the Company Mr Spitznagel terminated the consultancy agreement prior to the as at 31 December 2002 and the changes during the year are set out end of the 42nd month upon 30 days notice: and in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
iii the Company would pay Mr Spitznagel at a rate of 248,000 per Research and development annum for his consulting services, 93,000 per annum as an office The Group continues an active research and development programme allowance, 155,000 per annum to comply with certain restrictive and as a result has incurred research and development costs of covenants contained therein and 93,000 per annum for tax, 126.1 million in the financial year ended 31 December 2002 31 financial and estate planning advice, life insurance and health December 2001: 103.8 million.
These costs have been charged insurance.
to the consolidated profit and loss account in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The amount owed to Mr Spitznagel at 31 December 2002 was 0.3 million 2001: 1.0 million.
Directors The directors who served during the year were as follows: b The Group incurred professional fees with a Canadian law firm in which The Hon James Grant is a partner, totalling 771 for the year Dr James Cavanaugh, Chairman and Non-executive Director ended 31 December 2002.
At 31 December 2002, no amounts were and Chairman of Nomination Committee due to from the law firms in which the Hon James Grant is a partner Mr Matthew Emmens, Chief Executive 2001: nil.
Appointed 12 March 2003 c BioChem Immunosystems Inc Immunosystems, formerly a wholly Mr Rolf Stahel, Former Chief Executive owned subsidiary of BioChem, was sold in February 2000 to a Stepped down 19 March 2003 third party.
Dr Bellini, the former Chief Executive Officer of BioChem, continued as a director of Immunosystems.
In December 2001, the Mr Angus Russell, Group Finance Director Company acquired a 19.9% equity interest in Immunosystems in Dr Wilson Totten, Group R&D Director consideration for the release of a debt owing to the Company from Immunosystems.
This debt existed prior to the Companys merger Dr Francesco Bellini, Non-executive Director with BioChem.
As part of the same transaction, the Company was Dr Bernard Canavan, Non-executive Director released from a pre-existing BioChem guarantee over other Deceased 8 August 2002 Immunosystems liabilities.
Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc 7 Directors report Directors and officers liability insurance Disabled employees In the year under review, the Company and the Group maintained an Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully insurance policy for its directors and officers in respect of liabilities considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
arising out of any act, error or omission whilst acting in their capacity In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made as directors or officers.
to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the Substantial shareholdings training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, No information has been disclosed to the Company pursuant to as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 regarding any holding in the ordinary share capital of Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Health, safety and welfare exceeding 3% at 1 May 2003, except that Franklin Resources, Inc.
The directors are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare including its affiliates have a holding of 15%, Fidelity International of the Groups employees at work.
Accordingly, it is the Groups policy Limited and its direct and indirect subsidiaries have a holding of 11% to manage its activities so as to avoid causing any unnecessary or and the Legal & General Group a holding of 3%.
unacceptable risk to employees and those who may be affected by the Groups business.
Political donations The Group did not make any donations to political parties during the Payment of creditors year ended 31 December 2002.
It is the Companys policy, also adopted by the Group, to agree payment terms with its suppliers, making sure the supplier is aware of those Charitable contributions terms, and to abide by them.
As at 31 December 2002 there were During the year, UK charitable contributions amounting to 10,000 were 21 trade creditors days outstanding 31 December 2001: 36 days.
The contributions were primarily to charitable medical foundations.
Annual General Meeting The euro The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on The Group has a number of subsidiaries in European countries that have 12 June 2003 at 11am can be found in a separate notice accompanying converted to the euro.
All such subsidiaries successfully converted to the Annual Report.
Its introduction did not cause any disruption to the business, and the Group operates systems to receive and make payments in Auditors euros.
The Company continues to monitor the UKs stance in relation Deloitte & Touche were appointed during the year to fill a casual vacancy to participation in the euro.
arising on the resignation of Arthur Andersen.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche as auditors to the Company Employee involvement will be put to the Annual General Meeting in accordance with Section As at 31 December 2002, the Group employed 1,847 personnel, 282 384 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Audit Committee reviews both the of whom were based in the UK.
level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees as part The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
and constantly seeks to develop employee involvement throughout the Recommendation Group.
Employees are kept informed on matters affecting the Groups The directors have considered Resolutions 1 to 11 which deal with, performance and on matters that concern them as employees.
The inter alia, the proposals relating to authority to make market purchases, Group communicates with its employees by routinely circulating details to increase borrowing limits, to set up an Employee Benefit Trust and and announcements concerning the Groups performance, informing to set up a Deferred Bonus Plan to be put to shareholders and believe them of policies and guidelines that may affect them, and holding regular they are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and accordingly briefing meetings.
The Group publishes an employee newsletter and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of them at the Annual information brochure to which employees have an opportunity to General Meeting as they intend to do in respect of their aggregated contribute.
The Group also operates various employee share schemes, beneficial holdings of 6,791,916 ordinary shares, representing details of which are set out in the directors remuneration report on approximately 1.4% of the issued share capital of the Company.
pages 11 to 20 and in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
By order of the Board The Groups employment polices are developed to reflect local legal, cultural and employment requirements and to maintain high standards Tatjana May wherever the Group operates.
Employees at all levels within the Group Company Secretary are encouraged to make the best possible contribution to the Groups success.
1 May 2003 Equal opportunities The Group operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on grounds of sex, race, ethnic origin or disability.
Applications for employment, including those by disabled persons, are fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
