Board of Directors Dr James Cavanaugh 66 Dr Wilson Totten 47 Chairman and Non-executive Director Group R&D Director Joined the Board on 24 March 1997 and was appointed as nonJoined Shire on 17 January 1998 as Group Research and Development executive Chairman with effect from 11 May 1999.
Dr Totten is a medical doctor and has wide experience in the is President of HealthCare Ventures LLC.
Formerly he was President pharmaceutical industry covering all phases of drug development.
of SmithKline & French Laboratories, the US pharmaceutical division He has substantial experience in the field of central nervous system of SmithKline Beecham Corporation.
Prior to that, he was President disorders.
His last position was Vice President of Clinical Research & of SmithKline Beecham Corporations clinical laboratory business and, Development with Astra Charnwood where he served from 1995 to before that, President of Allergan International.
Prior to his industry 1997, having previously worked for Fisons Pharmaceuticals from 1989 experience, Dr Cavanaugh served as Deputy Assistant to the President to 1995, and prior to that with 3M Health Care and Eli Lilly.
Dr Totten of the US for Health Affairs on the White House Staff in Washington, DC.
is a member of the Executive Committee.
He is Non-executive Chairman of Diversa Corporation and Vicuron, Inc. Dr Francesco Bellini 55 and a Non-executive Director of MedImmune Inc. Dr Cavanaugh is a Non-executive Director member of the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Joined the Board on 11 May 2001 as a non-executive director.
is Chairman of Picchio International Inc. and Neurochem Inc. and Mr Matthew Emmens 51 is also on the board of several companies and organisations such as Chief Executive Molson Inc. and Industrial-Alliance Life Insurance Co.
Formerly, he was Joined Shire as Chief Executive and member of the Board on 12 March Chairman and CEO of BioChem Pharma which he co-founded in 1986.
Mr Emmens began his career in international pharmaceuticals The Hon James Grant 65 in 1974 when he joined Merck & Co.
He held a wide range of sales, Non-executive Director marketing and training positions with Merck & Co before moving to Joined the Board on 11 May 2001 as a non-executive director.
He was help establish Astra Merck, the joint venture with Astra Pharmaceuticals.
formerly a director of BioChem since 1986, and is a partner with the He later became its President and Chief Executive.
Astra Merck Inc. law firm of Stikeman Elliot in Montreal.
Mr Grant sits on the boards became an independent, top 20 US pharmaceutical company with of two other Canadian corporations, in addition to other foundations annualised sales in excess of $4 billion and 4,000 employees.
In 1999 and councils that are not-for-profit organisations.
He attended McGill he joined Merck KGaA and established EMD Pharmaceuticals, the University receiving a BA in Arts in 1958 and a BCL in Law in 1961. companys US prescription pharmaceutical business.
Until Mr Emmens Mr Grant is a member of the Nomination Committee.
joined Shire, he was based in Darmstadt, Germany as President of Mercks global prescription pharmaceuticals business, which in the Mr Ronald Nordmann 61 year 2002 achieved sales of US$2 billion.
Mr Emmens graduated from Non-executive Director Fairleigh Dickenson University in Rutherford, New Jersey, US, with Joined the Board on 23 December 1999 having previously served as a BS in Business Administration.
Mr Emmens is a member of the a non-executive director of Roberts Pharmaceutical Corporation since Executive Committee.
May 1999 and has been a financial analyst in healthcare equities since 1971.
From September 1994 to January 2000 he was an analyst and Mr Rolf Stahel 58 partner at Deerfield Management.
He has held senior positions with Former Chief Executive PaineWebber, Oppenheimer & Co. F Eberstadt & Co. and WarnerJoined Shire in March 1994 as Chief Executive from Wellcome plc where Chilcott Laboratories, a division of Warner-Lambert.
Mr Nordmann he worked for 27 years in Switzerland, Italy, Thailand, Singapore and the received his undergraduate degree from The John Hopkins University UK.
As Regional Director of Wellcome based in Singapore, Mr Stahel and an MBA from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Mr Nordmann is also was responsible for 18 Pacific Rim countries.
From April 1990 until a director of Guilford Pharmaceuticals Inc. Neurochem Inc. and February 1994, he served as Director of Group Marketing reporting Pharmaceutical Resources Inc. Mr Nordmann is Chairman of the Audit to the Chief Executive.
A business studies graduate of KSL Lucerne, Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Switzerland, he attended the 97th Advanced Managers Program at Harvard Business School.
On 15 March 2001 Mr Stahel received Dr Barry Price 59 the Chief Executive Officer of the Year Award 2001 for the global Senior Non-executive Director pharmaceutical industry.
On 19 March 2003, Mr Stahel stepped down Joined the Board on 24 January 1996 having spent 28 years with as Chief Executive and as a director of the Company.
Glaxo holding a succession of key executive positions with Glaxo Group Research.
He is Chairman of Antisoma plc and also Biowisdom Ltd. Mr Angus Russell 46 He is also on the board of directors of Pharmagene plc.
Dr Price is Group Finance Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of both the Joined Shire on 13 December 1999 as Group Finance Director.
Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Mr Russell worked for ICI, Zeneca and AstraZeneca for a total of 19 years.
His last position was Vice President Corporate Finance at Mr Grard Veilleux 60 AstraZeneca PLC, where he was responsible for financial input into Non-executive Director M&A activities, management of tax, legal and finance structure, investor Joined the Board on 11 May 2001 as a non-executive director.
He was relations activities and the management of various financial risks.
Prior formerly a director of BioChem since 1999.
He is President of Power to this, he held a number of positions within Zeneca Group from 1993 Communications Inc. and Vice President of Power Corporation, until 1999, including Group Treasurer, and before that in ICI from 1980 a diversified management and holding company.
Mr Veilleux is a director until 1992.
Mr Russell is a chartered accountant, having qualified with of several public and private companies as well as a member of the Coopers & Lybrand, and is a fellow of the Association of Corporate Board of Governors of McGill University.
He has a Masters degree in Treasurers.
Mr Russell is a member of the Executive Committee.
Public Administration from Carleton University and a Bachelor of Commerce from Laval University.
Mr Veilleux is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
