Report of the Directors The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings the Group, together with the Group accounts and the Independent Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal activities and business review The principal activities of the Group are the distribution of thermal insulation materials and associated products: roofing materials: ceiling tiles: personal protective equipment and the design, manufacture and distribution of partitioning.
A review of the business during the year and comments on the future outlook are contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review of Operations on pages 10 to 13.
Results The results for the year are shown on page 32.
The movement on the Group reserves during the year is shown in Note 18 on page 51.
Details of dividends are shown in Note 7 on page 41.
Directors and their interests The directors who served during the year were: B Cottingham Non-Executive Chairman D Williams Chief Executive G W Davies Finance Director appointed 1 August 2002 M J Chivers Managing Director, SIG Roofing Supplies Limited F C Prust resigned 15 October 2002 P H Blackburn Non-Executive N C Paul Non-Executive resigned 1 March 2003 Messrs. D A Haxby and L O Tench were appointed directors on 1 March 2003.
Mr Williams age 52 joined the Group in 1983 having gained UK and overseas sales and marketing experience in several diverse industries.
He was appointed Managing Director of Sheffield Insulations Limited and to the main Board in June 1993.
He became Chief Executive on 1 January 2002.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Mr Davies age 39 joined the Group on 15 November 1993 as Group Financial Controller, having previously been a senior manager with Arthur Andersen.
He was appointed to the main Board on 1 August 2002 as Finance Director.
Mr Chivers age 50 joined the Group in July 1975 and was appointed a director of Sheffield Insulations Limited in April 1989.
He became Managing Director of SIG Roofing Supplies Limited in July 1997 and was appointed to the main Board on 1 September 2001.
Mr Prust age 58 joined the Group as Company Secretary and Treasurer in October 1985 after fifteen years in Investment Banking.
He was appointed Finance Director in December 1987.
Mr Cottingham age 69 became a non-executive director in August 1993 and non-executive chairman in April 1996.
He is chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
He was chairman of the Audit Committee until 1 March 2003.
He is a former senior partner of Coopers & Lybrand, chartered accountants.
He is non-executive chairman of Cattles plc, a non-executive director of Vp plc and non-executive deputy chairman of Dew Pitchmastic plc.
Mr Blackburn age 62 became a non-executive director on 1 July 2001.
He is chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is non-executive chairman of Northern Foods plc and a non-executive director of Compass Group PLC.
From November 1997 to June 2001 he was chairman and chief executive of Nestl UK.
He was, until recently, president of the Food and Drink Federation.
Mr Paul age 58 became a non-executive director on 1 July 2001.
Until 1 March 2003, when he resigned, he was a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Mr Haxby 61 is currently a non-executive director of Cattles plc and Cyberes plc, positions he has held since 1999 and 2000 respectively.
From 1991 until his retirement in 1995 he was the London Office managing partner of Arthur Andersen and since then has served on the board of a number of public and private companies.
He became a director on 1 March 2003 and has been appointed chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Mr Tench 57 joined CRH plc in 1992, and since 1998 until his retirement in December 2002 was managing director of CRH-Europe, Building Products.
He is a non-executive director of the privately owned Shepherd Building Group Limited, a position he has held since 1994.
He became a director on 1 March 2003 and has taken on the role of senior independent director and has been appointed a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs. Davies, Haxby and Tench retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Cottingham retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
20 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors interests in the shares of SIG plc The beneficial shareholdings of the Directors who held office at 31 December 2002 were as follows: Ordinary shares of 10p 31 December 2001 or 31 December 2002 date of appointment B Cottingham 64,100 58,100 D Williams 52,463 36,429 M J Chivers 32,227 26,549 G W Davies 7,940 7,940 P H Blackburn 8,000 8,000 Subsequent changes The interests shown above remained the same at 3 March 2003 for those Directors who held office at that date.
Share capital and substantial shareholdings Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 17 to the accounts on page 49.
As at 3 March 2003 the Company has been notified of the following interests, held directly or indirectly, in 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: Number of shares % of issued share capital Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4,490,810 3.75% Prudential plc 4,486,000 3.75% Payments to suppliers It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The Company does not trade and therefore its average number of days outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 31 December 2002 was nil.
The Groups average number of days outstanding in respect of trade creditors was 32 2001: 29.
Charitable contributions The Group contributed 45,000 2001: 45,000 to local charities during the year.
Employees It is the Groups policy that employees should be kept as fully informed as is practicable about the performance and prospects of the Group.
The Group gives every consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job may be adequately covered by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where employees become disabled, the Group endeavours to continue to employ them provided there are duties which they can perform, bearing in mind the handicap or disability.
As far as possible, training, career development and promotion are available to handicapped and disabled persons where this is in their own as well as the Groups best interests.
Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings related and other employee share schemes.
At 31 December 2002 there were 1,086 employees saving under the savings related schemes.
Auditors Arthur Andersen resigned as auditors during the year and Deloitte & Touche were appointed auditors to fill the casual vacancy.
The directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors for the ensuing year.
Annual General Meeting The notice of the meeting can be found on pages 59 to 60.
Included in the notice of the meeting and explained in Note 4 on page 60 to that notice is the Special Business to be conducted at the meeting, which relates to the following matters: Authority to allot equity securities: Resolution No.
10 Shareholders approval is requested each year for the renewal of the Directors authority to issue up to 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital without application to the statutory pre-emption rights.
10 seeks to renew that authority until the next Annual General Meeting.
Authority to make market purchases: Resolution No.
11 gives the Directors power to make market purchases of the Companys shares up to approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
This power will expire on the earlier of 1 August 2004 and the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
There is no present intention to purchase shares and, if granted, the authority would only be exercised if the Board considered it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and, in any case, if it would result in an increase in earnings per share.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 21 Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Statements These corporate governance statements, including the Internal Control section of this report and the Directors Remuneration Report, on pages 24 to 29, set out how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice encompassed in the Combined Code the Code, annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Throughout the year the Company has complied with the Code provisions, except as detailed below with regard to the appointment of a senior independent non-executive director Code provision A.
The Company is now compliant in this respect with the Code provision.
Deloitte & Touche has reviewed the Directors compliance statement and have made reference to this review in their Independent Auditors Report on page 31.
Directors The Board meets regularly throughout the year, normally ten times a year, monitoring the executive management.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda of matters specifically reserved for decision and approval of the Board, ensuring that full control of appropriate financial, strategic, organisational and compliance matters is maintained.
All directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties and have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Mr B Cottingham, a non-executive director, chairs the Board, and Mr D Williams, the Chief Executive, is responsible for running the Groups business.
Previously, in view of the small size of the Board, it had not been felt necessary to nominate a senior independent non-executive director.
However, with effect from 1 March 2003, Mr L O Tench has been appointed to this position.
Until 1 March 2003, the Board consisted of six directors, of whom three were non-executive directors.
On 1 March 2003, Mr N C Paul resigned and Messrs. D A Haxby and L O Tench were appointed non-executive directors.
Details of the Board as at 31 December 2002, together with short biographies and their membership of Board Committees, are set out on page 18.
The non-executive directors bring considerable knowledge and external experience to the Board's discussions and the Board considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
The Board receives reports and financial information prior to meetings, together with other relevant information on business, corporate and strategic issues.
The Nomination Committee consists of the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
The committee is currently chaired by Mr B Cottingham.
The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Board to submit themselves for re-election, on a rotational basis, every year.
No director is exempt from seeking re-election.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial term of three years.
Directors remuneration The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the directors remuneration principles of the Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 29.
Relations with shareholders During the year directors have met with most of the Companys larger institutional investors to whom presentations were made after the announcement of the Companys preliminary and interim results.
Care is taken to ensure that any price sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional or private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial Services Authority requirements.
All directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, attended the Annual General Meeting and were available to answer questions from those shareholders present.
The Chairman, after the show of hands on each resolution, indicated the number of proxy votes for and against each resolution.
Accountability and audit The Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review of Operations on pages 10 to 13, together with the Finance Directors Review on pages 14 and 15, give an assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities for preparing the accounts is set out on page 30.
Until 1 March 2003, the Audit Committee, which meets at least twice a year, comprised the three non-executive directors, Mr B Cottingham Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr P H Blackburn and Mr N C Paul.
From 1 March 2003, the composition of the Audit Committee is Mr D A Haxby Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr B Cottingham, Mr P H Blackburn and Mr L O Tench.
The Audit Committee monitors the accounting policies, internal control and financial reporting of the Group.
The external auditors attend all the meetings and have direct access to the Committee Chairman.
22 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
For the whole of the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts, the Board has had formal procedures in place to ensure that it is in a position to consider all significant aspects of internal control.
As required by the Code, the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This review has covered all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial.
The formal process followed, and reviewed by the Board, to assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control accords with the guidance issued by the Turnbull working party: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is part of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is summarised as follows: lOperating company management is charged with the ongoing responsibility for identifying risks facing each of the businesses and for putting in place procedures to mitigate and monitor risks.
lOperating companies formally review all business risks and set out the significant risks to the business, the controls in place and additional controls which could be implemented.
These proposals are approved by each operating company board and submitted to Group executive management for review.
Any significant matters arising from this review are formally reported to the Board by the Finance Director.
lThe risk and control identification and management process is monitored and periodically reviewed by Group executive management.
lThe key elements of the controls framework within which the Group operates are: - an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting requirements.
- an embedded culture of openness of communication between operating company management and the Group executive management on matters relating to risk and control.
- operating company reviews covering all aspects of each business are conducted by Group executive management each quarter.
- a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget for each operating company is prepared in detail and approved by the Chief Executive.
The Board approves the overall Groups budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the year is revised where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances are questioned by the Board and remedial action is taken where appropriate.
There is weekly cash and treasury reporting to the Finance Director and periodic reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and treasury position.
The Group does not have an internal audit function.
However, the Board annually reviews the need for such a function and has done so during the year.
Bearing in mind that, during the year, there were no adverse trends evident from the monitoring of internal controls or unexpected or unacceptable results of a material nature, at present the Board considers that an internal audit function is not necessary.
Going concern The directors report that, after making enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board: J R Swynnerton, Secretary 10 March 2003 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 23
