Directors report Principal activities On 1 July 2002, the group closed down the remuneration report on pages 66 to 69.
This also The principal activities of the group comprise the operations of Southern Emergency Vehicles, a contains details of each directors interest in the share provision of port facilities and related services to small vehicle-modification business in the USA.
capital of the company at the year end.
ship owners and other users of seaports in the UK and the USA.
The group owns and operates 21 On 29 July 2002, the group entered into a conditional Share capital ports in the UK and provides vehicle-processing agreement for the sale of AMPORTS USA's Aviation Details of changes in the companys share capital, services from four port locations in the USA.
In division, which comprised 11 airport facilities, to including shares issued and options granted under addition, the group engages in the provision of subsidiaries of Macquarie Global Infrastructure the employee share schemes, are set out in note 27 to value-added transport-related services in the UK, Funds, the sale being conditional upon obtaining the financial statements.
Details of the companys and generates income from the ownership and consents from the relevant airport and regulatory shareholders at the year end are provided on page 71. development of properties at port locations within authorities.
All of these consents, together with the the UK and the USA.
This report should be read in cash proceeds of 32.0 million US$50.0 million, Payment of suppliers conjunction with the operating and financial review were received by 13 December 2002.
The group agrees terms and conditions with on pages 24 to 29 and the Group Chief Executives suppliers before business takes place.
The groups review on pages 12 to 14, both of which include Investment property policy and practice is to pay agreed invoices in details of the groups trading during the year and an The groups tangible property assets were valued accordance with the terms of settlement.
At the indication of likely future developments.
on the basis of open market value as at 31 December year end, the amount owed to trade creditors 2002 at 568.8 million, leading to a decrease in the amounted to 30 days 2001: 20 days of purchases Results and dividend revaluation reserve of 5.5 million.
The profit for the year attributable to shareholders was 101.1 million, giving underlying earnings per share of Directors and their interests Research and development 30.4 pence.
Further details of the groups results are Biographies of the directors of the company are The group undertakes research and provides a set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
The directors provided on pages 22 and 23.
Of the three directors wide range of hydraulic, dredging and engineering are recommending a final dividend of 8.25 pence per retiring at the Annual General Meeting AGM in consultancy services both for Associated British share to be paid on 1 May 2003 to ordinary shareholders accordance with the company's Articles of Association, Ports and outside customers through ABP Marine on the register at close of business on 4 April 2003.
Richard Adam and Aubrey Adams, being eligible, Environmental Research Limited, a wholly-owned Combined with the interim dividend of 6.5 pence per offer themselves for re-election.
share paid on 1 November 2002, this would make a not seeking re-election.
Stuart Chambers has been total ordinary dividend for the year of 14.75 pence per appointed since the last AGM and, being eligible, Employee involvement share, representing an increase of 7.3 per cent on will also offer himself for re-election.
The company uses various methods to provide the previous years dividend of 13.75 pence per share.
information to, and, where appropriate, consult with Of the directors offering themselves for re-election, employees about current activities and progress.
Acquisitions and disposals Richard Adam has a service agreement with the The company believes that financial participation is On 19 April 2002, the group acquired the business company.
a major constituent of employee involvement and and operating assets of Hams Hall Railfreight employee share schemes are well established.
An Terminal from Parsec of Europe Limited for a cash Details of the remuneration paid to directors who offer under the Share Incentive Plan formerly consideration of 0.3 million.
held office during the year are given in the known as the All Employee Share Ownership Plan 62 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 was made to employees in 2002, as well as grants held on 16 April 2002, shareholders approved an The directors are further proposing that a special of options under both the Savings-Related Share ordinary resolution conferring a general authority resolution be submitted at the AGM giving the company Option Scheme SRSOS and the Executive Share for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies authority to purchase in the market up to 32.8 million Option Scheme ESOS.
A further offer under the Act 1985 on the directors to allot equity securities of its ordinary shares of 25 pence each representing Share Incentive Plan and a grant of options under up to an aggregate nominal amount representing approximately 10 per cent of the present issued share the SRSOS will take place in 2003.
The company the lesser of i the unissued ordinary share capital of capital.
The authority would expire on the date of the also intends to make another grant under the ESOS the company and ii one-third of the issued equity AGM in 2004.
In reaching their decision to purchase in 2003 at the full, undiscounted market price of the share capital of the company, for one year ending ordinary shares, the directors will take into account the shares at the date of the grant.
Offers were also made on the date of the AGM in 2003.
The directors are company's cash resources and capital requirements in 2002 to employees under the US and Californian proposing that an ordinary resolution be submitted and the effect of any purchase on earnings per share.
Stock Purchase Plans, with further offers scheduled at the AGM, in order to grant a general authority for There is no present intention to use this authority.
for 2003. a further year in respect of an amount equivalent to one-third of the issued equity share capital.
The Finally, the directors are proposing that an ordinary Disabled persons authorised share capital of the company is resolution be submitted at the AGM giving the It is group policy to give full and fair consideration to 125,000,000 divided into 500,000,000 ordinary company authority to establish the Associated applications for employment by disabled persons.
shares of 25 pence each, of which 27,409,096, British Ports Long-Term Incentive Plan, as outlined Where employees become disabled during comprising 109,636,384 ordinary shares, in the appendix to the letter from the Chairman to employment, the group seeks to provide opportunities represents one-third of the issued equity share shareholders dated 11 March 2003. for them to continue employment in positions capital as at 19 February 2003.
The directors have compatible with their disability wherever possible.
no present intention of exercising such authority Auditors Disabled employees, in line with all staff, are other than to issue shares pursuant to the Following the conversion of our auditors encouraged to make use of training and development company's employee share schemes.
Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, The directors are also proposing that a special  resigned on 17 February Charitable and political contributions resolution be submitted at the AGM to empower 2003 and the directors appointed its successor, Donations for charitable purposes in 2002 amounted them to allot, wholly for cash, up to a nominal  LLP, as auditors.
The group also made amount of 4,111,364 16,445,456 ordinary to re-appoint  as auditors contributions of 2,000 2001: nil for political purposes shares representing approximately five per cent of to the company will be proposed at the AGM.
the issued equity share capital of the company as at 19 February 2003, without offering them first to By order of the board Special business at the Annual General Meeting existing shareholders.
The authority would expire at AGM the AGM in 2004.
The directors believe it is in the The remuneration report will be put to the AGM for best interests of the company that, as permitted by approval, as an ordinary resolution.
the Companies Act 1985, they should have Hywel Rees available a relatively small number of shares in order Company Secretary New authorities for the issue of the balance of the that they may take advantage of any appropriate authorised share capital are being sought.
At the AGM opportunities that may arise.
