01 Richard Adam Accountants, Aubrey has spent the majority of sector before moving into publishing.
He trained Group Finance Director, 45 his career within the property sector.
In 1990, he as a production engineer, progressing through Having qualified as a chartered accountant with joined Savills plc, the global property services a variety of managerial appointments leading up KPMG in 1982, Richard gained a broad range of business, as finance director, becoming to general management.
Prior to Johnston Press, experience in a variety of senior financial posts managing director in 1991 and group chief Tim worked as a divisional managing director of predominantly within the media sector before executive in 2000.
Previously, he was financial Cape plcs building and  joining the group in 1999.
At the age of 30, he was director of Peachey Property Corp. plc, where companies.
Tims advice to the board is drawn group finance director of TVS Entertainment plc, he played an important part in turning the from his experience as the chief executive of an which held the ITV franchise for the south and company around.
Aubrey holds a number of expanding public company.
During his time with the other board positions, and is a director of company, he raised some 300 million of funds Trammell Crow Savills and a non-executive 04 Stuart Chambers for the acquisition of new businesses.
In 1993, as director of Wigmore Hall.
He is also chairman Non-executive, 46 chief financial officer of International Family of the Accounting Committee and a member Stuart joined the board in 2002.
He is a member Entertainment UK, Richard played a key role in of the Policy Committee of the British Property of the Remuneration and Nomination planning and launching the new Family Channel Federation.
Aubreys knowledge of property Committees.
He joined Pilkington plc, one of the on satellite television.
Between 1996 and 1999, matters has contributed greatly to the success worlds leading glass manufacturers, in 1996 as Richard was group finance director of Hodder of the groups estate-management activities group vice-president responsible for marketing Headline plc, the book-publishing business and its non-core property disposal programme.
and business development of Building Products.
He is credited with In 1998, he was promoted to managing director building up Hodder Headlines financial controls 03 Tim Bowdler of Pilkingtons Primary Products Europe, and was during a period in which pre-tax profits grew by Non-executive, 55 subsequently promoted to president of Building 64 per cent.
Since joining Associated British Ports Tim joined the board in 2001.
He is a member Products Worldwide.
In May 2002, he became Holdings PLC ABPH, Richard has developed its of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Pilkingtons group chief executive.
Stuart began communications with investors and stakeholders Committees.
Tim is chief executive of Johnston his career with Shell where, using his academic significantly and overseen the groups disposal of Press plc, one of the UKs major regional background in applied physics, he worked as a non-core assets.
He is also chairman of both the newspaper publishers, which he joined as group chemical engineer and market analyst in a groups risk management working group and managing director in 1994.
Since becoming chief number of Shells divisions, including Shell Oil UK main defined benefit pension scheme.
executive in 1997, Tim has more than doubled and Deutsche Shell AG, before becoming Shell the size of the group.
Tim is also president of the Oil UKs regional sales manager for retail in 1986.
02 Aubrey Adams Newspaper Society, a member of the Council of In 1988, he joined the Mars Corporation as a Non-executive, 53 the Newspaper Society, a director of The Press national account manager, becoming its Aubrey joined the board in 1996.
He is a member Standards Board of Finance and a non-executive European sales director four years later.
In 1995, of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination director of The Press Association Ltd. Tim spent he was promoted to vice-president for sales Committees.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered the early part of his career in the manufacturing and marketing of Mars Electronics International.
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consendrenut ctetuer 01 02 03 04 Board of directors adipiscing elit, sed diam utyrew aha nonummy nibh may consectetuer adipiscing elit, sed diam nonuy nibh euismod tincidunt yes laoreet dolore magna aliquam erat lem.
Delenit augue duis te feugait null facilisi ser.
22 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Stuart is able to share his experiences as an While not having previously worked in the ports He is also deputy president and deputy chairman of 09 Andrew Simon, OBE active chief executive of a public company with industry directly, Bo had first-hand knowledge of the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Non-executive, 57 the board on many business matters.
a port-users requirements from his time as viceAndrew joined the board in 1994.
He is a member chairman and then president and chief executive 08 Ross Sayers of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination 05 George Duncan of Stena Line, one of Swedens largest companies.
The first 23 years of Andrews career Non-executive Deputy Chairman, 69 He was also director of new business investments Ross spent almost a decade running utility were spent with Evode Group, where he was George joined the board as a non-executive at Stena AB.
Bo had previously been group companies before joining the board in October chief executive officer and chairman until 1989, director in 1986 and was appointed Deputy president and chief executive of Ernstromgruppen, 2001 as a non-executive director, becoming during which time he grew the groups adhesives Chairman in 1998.
He is a member of the a building-materials group, and a director of both chairman after the 2002 AGM.
He is a member and sealants business from a 10 million to a Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Tarkett and Nordjs Frg.
He is currently a nonof the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
300 million international speciality chemicals Remuneration Committee.
Georges extensive executive director of Inmarsat Ventures Ltd. Ross has a long and distinguished track record and materials group, developing a number of business experience spans a variety of industries, Bo is a member of the Nomination Committee.
within the international transport industry.
From market leadership positions in the process.
including brewing and financial services, and he 1988 to 1992, he was executive chairman of the Following the takeover of Evode ten years ago, has held a number of executive and non- 07 Derek Sach State Rail Authority of New South Wales.
During Andrew has built up a widely-diversified portfolio executive board positions.
Currently he is nonNon-executive, 54 this time, he introduced a major change of non-executive directorships and chairmanships executive chairman of housebuilders Swan Hill Derek joined the board in 1998.
He is Chairman programme in which customer service standards in UK, European and North American companies Group plc.
He is also a Fellow of the Institute of of the Audit Committee and a member of the were enhanced, operating costs significantly across a variety of sectors.
He is currently nonChartered Accountants and Freeman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
reduced and the railway infrastructure and rolling executive chairman of Germanys Kaffee Partner, City of London.
The board has benefited from With a career spent in investment management stock were upgraded.
From 1986 to 1988, Ross Zeus Group Ltd and Ascent Investments Ltd, Georges considerable boardroom and business and banking he is currently managing director was executive chairman of New Zealand Railways, deputy chairman of Dalkia plc, is on the experience over the many years in which he has of Specialised Lending Services at the Royal where he introduced a change programme to supervisory board of SGL Carbon AG of Germany been involved with the group.
He is stepping Bank of Scotland plc Derek provides the board realise significant cost savings and efficiency and is a non-executive director of Brake Brothers down from the board at the 2003 Annual General with strategic advice on banking and financing improvements.
In 1993, he became chief Holdings Limited, Hampsons plc and Finning Meeting AGM.
He joined Royal Bank of Scotland in executive officer and managing director of Hong International Inc. of Canada.
The considerable 1992 to set up its Specialised Lending Services Kong-based CLP Holdings, previously known as European and American business experience 06 Bo Lerenius business and has held a number of posts China Light and Power, where he refocused the that Andrew shares with the board includes major Group Chief Executive, 56 subsequently, including director of group risk.
utility on customer service, improved operating strategy reviews and corporate development in a Since his appointment as Group Chief Executive In 1997, Derek was seconded for one year as efficiencies and reduced costs.
In 2000, he moved wide range of industries.
in May 1999, Bo has developed the management chief executive to Tesco Personal Finance, a joint to the UK to become chairman of Innogy Holdings team, re-focused the group on its core ports and venture between Royal Bank of Scotland and plc.
He resigned in 2002 following the acquisition transport business and instigated a programme to Tesco.
Before joining Royal Bank of Scotland, of Innogy by German utility RWE.
Ross is a Fellow dispose of non-core assets.
He is also responsible Derek was managing director UK of 3i Group Chartered Accountant NZ and is also a nonfor the significant progress the group has made in from 1988 to 1992.
His other directorships include executive director of Intertek Testing Services plc implementing its clearly-defined growth strategy.
The Berkeley Group plc and Priority Sites Limited.
