SkyePharma annual report 2002 The Directors present their report on the affairs Directors Directors and officers liability insurance of the Group, together with the consolidated The membership of the Board on During the period under review, the Company financial statements and auditors report for the 2 April 2003 was as follows: and the Group maintained an insurance policy for year ended 31 December 2002. its Directors and officers in respect of liabilities Ian Gowrie-Smith which could arise in the discharge of their duties Principal activities and business review Michael Ashton in the ordinary course of business.
A review of the Operating and Financial business Air Chief Marshal Sir Michael Beavis and future developments of the Group is set out in Dr David Ebsworth Substantial shareholdings the Chairmans Statement, Review of Operations Stephen Harris In addition to Directors interests as disclosed and Financial Review on pages 6 to 23 and 30 to 34.
Dr Argeris Jerry Karabelas in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48 Dr Keith Mansford the Company has been advised or is aware of the The principal activities of the Group are the Donald Nicholson following individual interests which at 1 April 2003 research and development, manufacture and sale Walter Zeller exceeded 3% of the Companys issued of prescription pharmaceutical products.
Torao Yamamoto share capital:- Results and dividends Douglas Parkhill Dr J Gonella 8.8% The Group made a profit for the year to Company Secretary Oppenheimer Funds 5.4% 31 December 2002 of 1.1 million 2001: loss Jupiter Asset Management 5.2% 9.5 million.
The Directors do not propose to pay Audit Committee Kowa Company Limited 4.9% a dividend.
Remuneration Committee Standard Life Group 3.4% Nomination Committee Legal & General Investment Research and development Management Limited 3.3% The Group incurred research and development On 30 October 2002 Mr Torao Yamamoto joined cost of 29.3 million 2001: 17.9 million during the Board as a Non-executive Director.
Employees and disabled persons the year which has been written off to the profit The Group is committed to a policy of promoting and loss account in accordance with the Groups The Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual employees awareness of its activities, encouraging accounting policy.
General Meeting are Messrs Ashton, Harris and employees participation in the growth of the Karabelas who, being eligible, offer themselves Group and welcomes staff input at all levels.
Mr Yamamoto was appointed The Company is conscious of its responsibilities since the last Annual General Meeting and retires It is recognised that by far the most important in respect of the environment and has produced in accordance with Article 108 of the Companys form of involvement and information regarding agroup wide environmental policy.
Articles of Association and being eligible offers the progress, performance and plans of the Group himself for reappointment.
Mr Zeller will retire take place during informal daily discussions between Payment of creditors from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual management and other employees.
It is Group The Groups policy is to pay its suppliers within General Meeting.
In accordance with the policy to offer the same opportunity to disabled 30 days from receipt of invoice unless otherwise Companies Act 1985, S. 293, Sir Michael Beavis people as to all others in matters of recruitment agreed with suppliers prior to goods or services and Dr Keith Mansford, having respectively and career advancement, provided they have the being ordered.
Suppliers are made aware of the reached the ages of 73 and 71 years of age, will ability to perform the tasks required, with training terms of payment and it is the Companys policy offer themselves for re-election to be appointed where appropriate, and to institute retraining to abide by the agreed terms subject to the terms under resolutions of which special notice will be where practical in cases where disability is and conditions being fulfilled by the supplier.
Subject to the overriding approval of the incurred during employment with the Group.
31 December 2002 creditor days outstanding in shareholders, Non-executive Directors hold their respect of the Company amounted to 23 days appointments for a period of three years except All employees may have the opportunity to 2001: 31 days.
In the opinion of the Board participate in the Companys relevant share option Sir Michael Beavis and Dr Keith Mansford have schemes and the SkyePharma International been key in the successful development of the Share Purchase Plan described on pages 41 and 42.
Company and continue to provide a worthwhile Employee remuneration is determined on an contribution to its future growth.
annual basis by the Remuneration Committee and Executive Committee as appropriate.
The Details of Directors interests in the share capital Group attracts and retains employees of the of the Company together with details of the share highest calibre by offering remuneration that is in options granted to them are disclosed in the line with that offered by industry competitors and Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48 of this local practice in the countries in which it operates.
Charitable and political donations As at the date of this report, the Directors of No contributions were made to charities 2001: the Company had an interest, beneficially and Nil.
No contributions were made to political non-beneficially, in an aggregate of 26,314,418 organisations 2001: Nil.
Ordinary Shares, representing 4.3% of the Companys issued share capital.
