Business overview Served markets and Business growth in 2002 overview World market value Orthopaedics Growth: 13% A comprehensive highly advanced range of orthopaedic implant and trauma products.
5.2bn Implants for hips, knees and shoulders Trauma products for severely broken bones utilising internal and external fixation methods Clinical therapies including ultrasound bone healing Market position devices and joint fluid therapy 6th We have a unique range of technology and products which repair the human body.
We are World market value Endoscopy Growth: 6% Industry leader in the development and commercialisation of endoscopic minimally invasive surgery products and techniques.
3.0bn Access Fluid management and insufflation instruments IDET procedure for better surgical access.
After years of struggling Visualisation Digital cameras, digital image capture, Market position arthroscopy with lower back pain central control, multimedia broadcasting, scopes, resulting from a herniated light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation.
disc, he was able to use Resection State-of-the-art radiofrequency wands, 1st his landscaping skills ElectroMechanical and mechanical blades, and hand once again after being instruments for resecting tissue.
treated with Intradiscal Repair Specialised devices, fixation systems and ElectroThermal Therapy bioabsorbable materials to repair damaged tissue.
also known as the IDET procedure.
World market value Advanced Wound Management Growth: 12% Advanced treatment for hard-to-heal wounds offering a complete range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to successful wound closure.
1.5bn These products are targeted particularly at wounds connected with the elderly.
Pressure ulcers Market position Venous leg ulcers Diabetic foot ulcers Serious burns 1st For more detailed business and product information visit: www.
com businesses 06 Smith & Nephew 2002 What is driving Our achievements Our key new products market growth in 2002 and developments in 2002 Ilizarov technique Both legs had been deformed since birth, but on September 11, 2001, she walked down nearly Expanding patient pool Grew sales 20% Continued rollout 50 flights of World Trade Increasing numbers of Expanded global sales of Oxinium knee Center stairs to safety.
elderly people living longer team by 12% applications A surgeon had corrected Expectation of better Over 10,000 Oxinium Accuris minimally invasive her limbs using the Ilizarov quality of life knee implants uni-compartmental knee technique.
New, longer-lasting Over 250 Computer instrumentation materials technology Assisted total knee Exogen 3000 Demand for less invasive procedures newly OrthoGuard AB procedures branded as Achieve antimicrobial sleeve, Patient knowledge due Supartz joint fluid the orthopaedic to the internet and media treatment exceeding industrys first  coated medical device Completed new to be cleared by the US manufacturing facility regulatory agency focusing on three research areas non-invasive stimulation, tissue engineering, bioabsorbables.
Increase in sports injuries Grew sales 10% TwinFix bioabsorbable More active lifestyles Entry into the minimally suture anchor for Increased surgeon use invasive spinal market shoulder repair of endoscopic techniques through ORATEC ElectroBlade Resector Innovative technological acquisition Vulcan System RF developments Launch of the Digital generator Need for cost-effective Operating Room concept Vision 337 Autoclavable procedures in hospitals Major growth in implants Camera System Growing demand for for soft tissue repair Decompression Catheter digitally-integrated Launched industrys first for herniated discs OR equipment ElectroMechanical Saphyre bipolar ablation Growth in ambulatory resection device probe ProGuide surgery centres Reached 30,000 Having developed Payer support driven procedures for TriVex a venous leg ulcer, by supporting clinical Launched worldwide nurses at his local evidence network of surgeon hospital agreed to take training sites part in the clinical trial of ProGuide, a two-layer elastic compression More elderly people Grew sales 11% Improved and extended system designed for living longer World leadership in Allevyn range launched venous leg ulcers.
This More clinically advanced advanced wound care Continued global roll-out allowed the correct methods of healing wounds strengthened of Acticoat silver burns pressure to be applied Therapies that reduce Allevyn, our largest dressing and reduced the number nursing time and speed product, grew 21% Global launch of Cutinova of dressing changes.
recovery for cost efficiency Acticoat burns dressing Hydro and range Two-thirds of global market increased sales by 65% extension still to be converted to Successful launch of Dermagraft full US launch advanced wound healing Wound Bed Preparation New, advanced concept technologies expanding 100% ownership of breadth of market Dermagraft and TransCyte 88% coverage of US outpatient population for Dermagraft on an underlying basis Smith & Nephew 2002 07 Acticoat Oxinium hip implant She tried to help her Although he could have mother with the cooking delayed his total hip but she pulled a pan of replacement surgery boiling water off the until after his daughters stove, causing mixed wedding, Smith & partial thickness burns Nephews mini-incision to her arms and upper technique, in concert torso.
In the burns unit with an Oxinium implant, at the hospital, Acticoat, restored his pain-free a unique antimicrobial mobility in time to give barrier dressing, was away the bride and take applied to the affected a full part in this important areas, helping to minimise day in his daughters life.
the risk of infection and scarring.
The burns healed quickly, allowing her to rejoin her playmates at nursery school.
Our commercially orientated innovation is contributing a strong new product pipeline, Sustaining our growth rate Chief Executives Over the past few years we have maintained consistently strong investment in expanding the statement continued sales force and expanding our product pipeline.
In 2002 we expanded the Orthopaedics sales and a thermal decompression catheter for team by 12%, the Endoscopy team by 30% herniated spinal discs.
The Digital Operating including the sales force acquired with ORATEC, Room concept gained ground with installations and the Advanced Wound Management team in leading hospitals.
1 Advanced Wound Management We invested 5 2% of sales revenue in research In its first full year as an advanced wound and development across our businesses.
In management business, we strengthened our 2002, products introduced in the last three years world-leading position in advanced treatments rose to 18% of sales.
Our group focus on unique for hard-to-heal wounds.
Underlying sales methods to repair and heal the human body growth was 11%, with the Allevyn product range has led to group wide research in three fields: achieving 21%.
We have successfully integrated bioresorbable materials to facilitate healing and into the business the advanced wound products surgical reconstruction: tissue engineering to of Beiersdorf and the Acticoat silver product for help replace, repair and regenerate damaged burns acquired in 2001 and these products are tissue: and non-invasive devices to stimulate growing strongly.
Towards the end of the year, we secured 100% Enhancing manufacturing capacity and quality ownership of the Dermagraft and TransCyte To meet future sales growth we expanded our arrangement by acquiring ATSs 50% share.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy manufacturing Reimbursement for Dermagraft continues to capacity.
Orthopaedics enlarged its production progress well, with 88% of the outpatient space in Memphis, Tennessee, by about a third.
population now covered in the US.
Sales of Endoscopy expanded two factories and moved Dermagraft in its US launch year achieved 3m.
its headquarters to new premises near its production facility in Andover, Massachusetts.
Advanced Wound Management has begun 08 Smith & Nephew 2002 Allevyn TwinFix bioabsorbable Following a long illness, suture anchor she suffered from a He was a talented tennis severe pressure ulcer player in college, and he around the sacral area, never lost his love for the causing much pain and sport.
After suffering a discomfort, and limiting serious rotator cuff injury, her mobility.
Despite the his days of swinging a efforts of a district nurse, racket seemed to have it wasnt until Allevyn vanished forever.
But Sacral was used, a thanks to the use of shaped, highly absorbent a TwinFix bioabsorbable hydrocellular dressing, suture anchor by his that the ulcer showed surgeon, he is back on any signs of improvement.
the court twice a week After a few weeks the and easing the stress of pain was alleviated, the work with some friendly pressure ulcer healed and competition from the mobility was restored.
and surgeon medical education programmes are continuing to speed product adoption.
building a new manufacturing plant in Largo, Our complete Sustainability Report is published Florida, near its existing facilities.
We continue to maintain rigorous quality Outlook assurance and control systems that are subject We are in the next phase of our companys to regular internal and external review.
We have focused our businesses product quality very seriously and are committed on three high-growth medical device sectors.
to the highest standards of manufacturing quality.
We are delivering sustained growth in sales and underlying operating margins.
Business Development In March we completed our restructuring with We have excellent management teams in place, the disposal of our Rehabilitation business to intent on building sales and market share as well AbilityOne in the US.
We received 71m in cash as improving the financial performance of their and retained a 21.5% interest in the enlarged businesses.
Our new products are advancing company to benefit from the substantial value clinical performance by benefiting both patients that we believe will be created by combining and healthcare systems.
Our sales people the two businesses.
continue to be excited by our product ranges and we have every reason to expect that our Our joint venture with Beiersdorf, BSN Medical, markets will themselves continue to grow.
We had a successful trading year.
BSN and remain confident that we can deliver sustainable AbilityOne made a combined operating profit growth over the next three years.
Corporate social responsibility We are committed to sustainable development, reducing our impact on the environment while contributing to the quality of life enjoyed by society at large.
We support local communities Christopher ODonnell around our manufacturing operations and play Chief Executive a substantial role in professional education in our clinical fields.
