DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities The retained profit of 49m was transferred to Reserves.
The principal activities of the company and its subsidiaries are the development, manufacture, sale and support of: Research and development R&D 212m was spent on R&D during the year, integrated aerospace systems, including of which 116m was funded by the company electronic and actuation systems and and the balance by customers.
Each precision components, for civil and military business carries out R&D programmes aircraft.
Also equipment for land, naval to suit its own particular market and and marine and other defence applications, product needs.
Interchange of technology including detection and protection against and technical information between chemical and biological agents: Smiths manufacturing businesses is medical devices and critical care centrally co-ordinated.
equipment aligned to specific therapies, principally airway, pain and temperature Changes in the company and its interests management and infusion.
Also needle during the year On 10 September 2001 EIS Group plc sold protection, critical care monitoring, womens healthcare and vascular access: its fluid handling business, Plenty Group, comprising the assets of GSF Europe BV: mechanical and polymer seals used in Plenty Products, Inc. : Plenty India Limited: industries ranging from petrochemical Plenty Uniquip Pty Limited and the majority processing to aerospace: of Plenty Limited, to SPX Lightnin for interconnect products to connect and 11m in cash.
protect safety-critical electrical and electronic equipment, and air movement On 14 September 2001 Smiths Industries systems and components.
B. V. sold all the issued share capitals of Induplas SpA and Flexiplas S. A.
The main manufacturing operations are and Smiths Industries Industrial Group in the UK, the Americas and Continental Limited sold the EuroHose business to Europe.
A review of the development of A. G. Petzetakis S. A. for a total of 12.55m the company and its subsidiaries during in cash.
the 2001-2002 financial year is on pages 05 to 14.
On 26 October 2001 TI Group Limited sold all the issued share capitals of Cambridge Results and dividends Vacuum Engineering Limited: Wentgate The results for the year to 31 July 2002 Dynaweld Limited: and Wentgate Dynaweld, Inc. to Aquasium Technologies Limited for are set out in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 30.
Sales for the year 4.3m in cash.
amounted to 3,223m, against 4,958m last year.
The profit for the year after taxation, On 31 October 2001 Smiths Group North minority interests and goodwill amortisation America, Inc. bought all the issued share capital of Bivona, Inc. for approximately amounted to 191m 2001 loss of 206m.
An interim dividend of 8.75p per ordinary share of 25p was paid on 19 April 2002.
On 2 November 2001 Polymer Sealing The directors recommend for payment on Solutions Limited sold its Woodville Airbags business to Automotive Safety Components 15 November 2002 a final cash dividend on each ordinary share of 16.75p, making International for 3m in cash.
a total dividend of 25.5p for the year.
20 Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 On 30 November 2001 EIS Group plc sold Cartwright Manchester Engineers Limited Apart from the exceptions referred to above, all the issued share capitals of Horstman for 5.75m in cash.
no director had an interest in any contract Defence Systems Limited, Aeronautical to which the company or its subsidiaries & General Instruments Limited and On 19 July 2002 EIS Group plc sold the was a party during the year.
AB Precision Poole Limited to Harris Mixing Solutions business to a subsidiary Watson Holdings PLC for 4.2m in cash.
company of American Manufacturing Interests in shares Company for a nominal amount.
As at 24 September 2002 the company had On 2 December 2001 Smiths Group North been notified, pursuant to the Companies America, Inc. bought all the issued share During the year, all the external Act 1985, of the following material or capital of Summitek Instruments, Inc. for shareholders interests in Nordex SpA and notifiable interests in its issued share capital: approximately US$10m in cash.
Triveni Flexibox Limited were acquired.
of share shares capital On 5 December 2001 EIS Group plc sold Post balance sheet events The Capital Group all the issued share capitals of Hick, There have been no post balance Companies, Inc 61.9m 11.1% Hargreaves and Company Limited: Hibon sheet events.
Franklin Resources, Inc. 34.1m 6.1% International SA: Wilhelm Klein GmbH: Scottish Widows and 3H Czech and the business of Stokes Future developments Investment Partnership 16.8m 3.0% Vacuum, Inc. to BOC Edwards for 12.8m The company will pursue its existing Includes the interests of Capital Guardian Trust Company in cash.
international activities and continue to in 10.0% of the issued share capital seek business opportunities in both the Percentage of share capital in issue on 24 September 2002 On 20 December 2001 Portex, Inc. bought UK and overseas.
the anaesthesia kit and tray business and The company has not acquired or disposed assets of Abbott Laboratories for US$26m Charitable and political donations of any interests in its own shares.
During the year the company made donations of 853,000 for charitable The interests of the directors, their families On 1 April 2002 Smiths Group North purposes including payments totalling and any connected persons in the issued America, Inc. bought all the issued share 300,000 for the Portex Chair of share capital of the company and details capital of Able Corp. for US$21.5m in cash, Paediatric Anaesthesia.
No political of their share options are shown on pages of which US$4m will be paid over five donations were made.
27 and 28. years, plus earn-out provisions potentially worth up to a further US$1.2m.
Directors Corporate governance The names of those who were directors The company complies with the Combined On 15 April 2002 the company sold the at the end of the financial year are listed Code, as defined in the Listing Rules of the John Crane-Lips group of companies to on pages 18 and 19.
UK Listing Authority, the Code, except Wrtsil Corporation of Finland for 235m that no senior independent director is in cash.
Reappointment of directors recognised as required by A.
Messrs K Orrell-Jones, L H N Kinet and Subject to that exception, the company On 16 April 2002 Smiths Industries B. V. R W OLeary will retire by rotation, in has complied with the Code throughout the sold all the issued share capital of Dan accordance with Articles 73 and 74 and, accounting period covered by this report.
Chambers Limited to Season Controls being eligible, will seek reappointment Reasons for non-compliance with A.
2.1 Group plc for 0.96m in cash, payable at the AGM.
Mr J M Hignett will retire at are given below.
the AGM and will not seek re-election.
The Board of Directors normally meets On 7 May 2002 Portex Limited sold its Directors interests in contracts formally eight times a year to make and urology and ostomy businesses to Mentor Details of the executive directors review major business decisions and Corporation for 7.3m in cash.
service contracts are as disclosed in monitor current trading against budgets the Contract Terms section of the Report which it has approved.
It additionally On 12 July 2002 Roof Units Group Limited of the Nominations & Remuneration exercises control by determining matters sold the Fans & Spares businesses to R&S Committee on page 25. specifically reserved to it in a formal Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 21 DIRECTORS REPORT continued schedule which only the Board may change: appointments.
Appointments approved by these matters include the acquisition of the Board are subject to confirmation by companies and major capital expenditure.
the shareholders at the next AGM.
Once a year the Board meets in conference to consider long-term strategy and All directors are subject to retirement industrial developments affecting the by rotation and submit themselves for company.
Additional meetings are arranged re-election at intervals of no more than as necessary to deal with urgent items.
three years: any director who attains the age of 70 is subject to annual re-election.
There is an agreed procedure for all The initial appointment of non-executive directors to take independent professional directors is for three years: they do not advice at the companys expense in participate in company bonus, share connection with their duties.
They option or pension schemes.
also have access to the advice and assistance of the Company Secretary The Nominations & Remuneration whose appointment is in accordance Committee meets at least three times with the Code.
Arrangements are in place a year.
The Chief Executive and General for all directors to receive appropriate Counsel normally attend meetings of training, whether on their appointment the Committee by invitation but do not or periodically, as necessary.
participate in discussions of their own interests.
The Committee monitors the Mr Orrell-Jones, who is the senior performance of the Chief Executive and non-executive director, is the Chairman other executive directors and has access and also chairs the Nominations & to all information required for that purpose.
Sir Colin The report on directors emoluments and Chandler is the Deputy Chairman and interests is set out on pages 25 to 28. chairs the Audit Committee.
No other non-executive director has been appointed The company maintains a dialogue with as a recognised senior independent institutional shareholders through regular member for the purposes of A.
2.1 of the meetings and presentations.
At the AGM Code because matters of concern can shareholders are encouraged to ask readily be brought to the attention of either questions and after the meeting have Mr Orrell-Jones or Sir Colin.
Mr Butleraccess to directors and other senior Wheelhouse is the Chief Executive.
The company has complied There are six independent non-executive with the Code provisions relating to directors and seven executive directors principles C. 1 and C. 2. on the Board.
The Board believes that the Report The Board is provided with detailed and Accounts present a balanced information on matters to be considered and understandable assessment of at its meetings and non-executive the companys position and prospects: directors have ready access to the the Board has complied with the Code executive directors.
Regular site visits provisions D. 1.1 to D. 1.3.
A statement and on-site briefings are arranged and by the auditors appears on page 29. the Board is free to discuss aspects of the business with employees at all levels.
The Audit Committees terms of reference accord with the Code.
The Committee There is a formal procedure for comprises all the non-executive directors appointment of all new directors.
The and meets at least three times a year with Nominations & Remuneration Committee, the Chief Executive, Financial Director, which is chaired by Mr Orrell-Jones and General Counsel, Director of Internal Audit comprises all the non-executive directors, and the auditors normally attending.
makes recommendations to the Board on 22 Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Apart from work in relation to acquisitions executive directors and senior corporate corporate staff director has responsibility and disposals, all work not related to the staff to address financial, human resource, for environmental, health and safety audit for which the company might consider risk management and other control issues.
EHS matters: three full-time managers engaging the auditors, is put out to tender.
Experience is shared by subsidiaries report to that director and co-ordinate and The Board is kept fully informed of all nonthrough company-wide seminars.
monitor the EHS activities of the company.
audit work awarded to the auditors.
A more detailed statement appears on Throughout the year the Board has reviewed pages 15 to 17.
Internal control is based the effectiveness of internal control and on assessment of risk and a framework of the management of risks at its regular Employment policies control procedures to manage risks and to board meetings.
In addition to financial It is the companys policy to provide equal monitor compliance with procedures.
The and business reports, the Board has opportunities for employment and to attend procedures of accountability and control, reviewed medium and longer-term to employment prospects for the disabled.
which accord with the guidance on internal strategic plans: capital expenditure and The company continues to be actively control issued by the Turnbull Committee, development programmes: management involved in all aspects of the training and are outlined below.
and product development programmes: development of young persons, including reports on key operational issues: tax: government sponsored schemes and unit The Board accepts its responsibility for treasury: risk management: insurance: initiatives designed to ease the transition maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness legal matters: and Audit Committee from school to work.
of the companys internal control systems.
reports, including internal and external These are designed to meet the companys auditor reports.
Share-option schemes enable employees particular needs and the risks to which to acquire an interest in the companys it is exposed and, by their nature, can Going concern.
The Boards review of shares and to align their interests more provide only reasonable, not absolute, the accounts, budgets and forward plans, closely with those of the shareholders.
assurance against material loss to the together with the internal control system, company or material misstatement in lead the directors to believe that the Employees are regularly provided with a the financial accounts.
company has ample resources to continue wide range of information concerning the in operation for the foreseeable future.
performance and prospects of the business The group has an embedded process The accounts are therefore prepared on in which they are involved by means of for the identification, evaluation and a going concern basis.
Employee Councils, Works Councils and management of significant business other consultative bodies that allow the risks.
The process is reviewed through Auditors.
 have views of personnel to be taken into account.
the Audit Committee and monitored by reviewed the companys statements as to the Group Internal Audit Department.
compliance with the Code to the extent All matters concerning EHS continue to The four operating divisions and Corporate required by the Listing Rules of the UK be regulated by preventative, investigatory HQ have, during the year, identified and Listing Authority.
The results of their and consultative systems.
Issues relevant to evaluated the key risks under three review are set out on page 29. the company pension scheme are likewise categories strategic: operational: and covered by means of structured committees, information and have ensured that Policy on payment of creditors including representation from recognised effective controls and procedures are The companys policy and practice are to trade unions.
A more detailed statement in place to manage these risks.
pay creditors promptly in accordance with appears on pages 15 to 17. agreed terms of business.
The average In the highly regulated environment time taken to pay an invoice was 37 days Authority to issue shares of the aerospace and medical industries, for the parent company and 51 days for the At the AGM shareholders will be asked to procedures are codified in detailed operating group as a whole calculated in compliance renew the authority, given to the directors procedures manuals and are reinforced by with the Companies Act 1985 Directors at the last AGM, to allot relevant securities regular educational programmes.
This is Report Statement of Payment Practice for the purposes of section 80 of the designed to ensure not only compliance with Regulations 1997.
Companies Act 1985, so as to reflect the the regulatory requirements but also with increase in the companys issued share the general principles of business integrity.
Environment capital since the last AGM.
The authority The company seeks to minimise, as proposed will expire on the fifth anniversary A key element in any system is far as is reasonably practicable, any of the meeting unless otherwise renewed.
communication and a number of detrimental effects to the environment The amount of relevant securities to which committees exist which enable the from its operations and products.
A senior this authority relates 46,536,930 nominal Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 23 DIRECTORS REPORT continued share capital represents one third of the quotations of the company's shares, as executive directors from the current level of share capital in issue on 24 September 2002. derived from the London Stock Exchange 200,000 per annum, which was established The directors have no present intention Daily Official List, for the five business in 1995, to 500,000 per annum.
Further of exercising this authority except for days prior to any purchase.
details of the principal differences between allotments of shares pursuant to the the existing Articles and the proposed companys share-option schemes.
The directors will exercise the authority new Articles are set out in the Notice of The ordinary resolution is set out in the only if they are satisfied that any purchase Annual General Meeting to be held on Notice of Annual General Meeting.
will increase the earnings per share of the 12 November 2002. ordinary share capital in issue and will be Also in the Notice is the special resolution in the interests of the shareholders.
The Summary Financial Statement to renew the power granted to directors directors will also give careful consideration The company has produced a Summary under section 95 of the Companies Act to the gearing levels of the company and Financial Statement SFS as an 1985.
The new authority sought will be its general financial position.
alternative to this Annual Report and on substantially similar terms to those Accounts and intends to continue to attaching to the existing authority and On 24 September 2002 options over produce SFSs as well as statutory will expire on the fifth anniversary of approximately 25.9m shares were reports and accounts in future years.
the meeting, unless otherwise renewed.
outstanding under the companys share Shareholders will automatically be sent It will permit the directors to allot equity option schemes, representing approximately SFSs each year unless they elect in writing securities for cash: 4.5% of the then issued share capital.
If the to receive the full report and accounts.
authority to purchase shares being sought Copies of the 2002 SFS may be obtained in connection with a rights issue pro rata at the AGM were to be used in full, then free of charge by writing to the Deputy to the rights of the existing shareholders: the outstanding options would represent Group Secretary, Smiths Group plc, pursuant to the terms of any share approximately 5.1% of the reduced issued 765 Finchley Road, London NW11 8DS scheme approved by the shareholders share capital.
in general meeting: and Shareholders who wish to receive the full No shares have ever been purchased accounts instead of SFSs or vice versa for any other purpose provided that or contracted for or are the subject of should write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, the aggregate nominal value of such any option under the expiring or any The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex allotments does not exceed 6,980,539 prior authority.
The approximately 5% of the issued share company expects the introduction of SFSs capital on 24 September 2002.
Auditors to result in significant savings in the cost Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM of producing the accounts each year.
The directors intend seeking renewal to reappoint  as of these authorities annually.
auditors and to authorise the directors to www.
com determine the auditors remuneration.
Electronic copies of this Report and During the year ended 31 July 2002 Accounts, the Notice of Annual General the following ordinary shares in Smiths Articles of Association Meeting and the Summary Financial Group plc were issued: A special resolution will be proposed at Statement will be posted on the companys 1,113,378 shares pursuant to the terms the AGM to replace the companys Articles website, www.
The of the companys shareholder-approved of Association.
The current Articles were companys announcements to the Stock share-option schemes: adopted in 1995 and, although amendments Exchange and press releases are available have been made, the directors propose on-line through the website.
Shareholding 1,574,364 shares pursuant to the terms that new Articles be adopted which will details and practical help on share of TI Group share-option schemes.
comply with current best practice and the transfers and changes of address can Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Authority to purchase shares Proposed changes include provisions i At the AGM the company will seek to renew to facilitate electronic voting at general By Order of the Board the authority, granted at the last AGM to meetings and electronic communications the directors, to purchase the companys with shareholders: ii requiring directors DAVID P LILLYCROP shares in the market.
The authority will be to retire at intervals not exceeding three DIRECTOR AND SECRETARY limited to 10% of the share capital in issue years: and iii to permit expressly the on 24 September 2002 and will be renewed transfer of securities through CREST, the 27 September 2002 annually.
The maximum price that may be paperless trading system.
The directors 765 Finchley Road paid under the authority will be limited to also propose to increase the limit on the London NW11 8DS 105% of the average of the middle market aggregate fees which may be paid to non- 24 Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
