Review of operations continued This well also experienced a borehole collapse near the top of the Basement interval.
Information gathered from a production logging tool, was believed to indicate that the oil flowed primarily from the Oligocene section.
However, due to the impediment caused by the collapsed borehole, the oil source was not definitive.
In late November, the final well of the initial exploration programme spudded on the C prospect on Block 9-2.
The Ca Ong Doi-1X COD-1X well was drilled to a total depth of 4,618 metres terminating in granite wash.
The well encountered more than 1,050 metres of oil shows from inter-bedded Oligocene sands and shale source rocks.
A DST was conducted over an open hole section from 3,565 metres to 4,618 metres.
However, the interval was not heavily fractured and reservoir quality was therefore inadequate to yield commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.
From seismic re-interpretation, the COD-1X well appeared to be approximately five kilometres from the top of the Basement structure in a location chosen to test both Oligocene and Basement potential.
On the basis of information gained from this well, the Company expects a subsequent exploration well will be drilled on the newly interpreted crest of the Basement structure.
Subsequent events and outlook for 2003 The rig used in the drilling of the first four wells in Vietnam has been retained for another four to five well programme to begin further exploration and appraisal drilling to substantiate the discoveries.
The Group, which has thus far been carried except for the additional interest in Block 16-1 acquired from Hess, will fund its participating interest going forward.
This includes funding its pro rata share of Petrovietnams interest through the remainder of the exploration and appraisal programme.
A well spudded in February 2003 as an exploratory offset to the Voi Trang-1X discovery on Block 16-1.
Mongolia Mongolia Notably, the 19-16 well appears to In the Tamtsag Basin in Mongolia where the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, have intersected the highest quality SOCO Tamtsag Mongolia, currently holds an approximate 85% working interest oil bearing reservoir yet encountered in production sharing contracts PSCs over Contract Areas 19, 21 and 22, in Mongolia.
drilling commenced in the second half of 2002 after the Group negotiated a new drilling contract with the Chinese company providing the drilling services, Huabei Oilfield Services Huabei.
Through reduced contract drilling rates, Huabei has earned the right to take a pro rata working interest participation of 10% and a 5% working interest is being carried by the Group through the exploration phase for Petrovietnam, the Vietnamese national oil company.
The Group has thus far conducted a minimal programme having drilled a total of only 23 exploration and appraisal wells over four original PSCs encompassing an area of approximately 53,000 square kilometres.
Mongolia remains primarily an exploration venture except for the pilot production programme in the southeastern quadrant of Contract Area 19.
Crude oil produced from the pilot production test is sold at world prices under a contract with China National United Oil Corporation.
The crude sold is trucked under a turnkey contract to a pipeline terminal in the Aershan Oilfield in China for further transportation to a refining centre.
14 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Review of 2002 results The Group had encouraging results in Contract Area 19 as it significantly expanded its area under evaluation by drilling two exploration wells 20 and 25 kilometres, respectively, outside of the pilot production area, which has been the focus in recent efforts.
Both exploration wells, only one of which was production tested prior to suspension of drilling operations with the onset of the harsh Mongolian winter, encountered hydrocarbons.
Notably, the 19-16 well appears to have intersected the highest quality oil bearing reservoir yet encountered in Mongolia.
An appraisal well, drilled across a fault line from one of the structures drilled last year, gave additional confirmation to the reserves upgrade associated with last Mongolia years drilling programme.
Producing site from the pilot production programme in Contract Area 19.
The first well drilled, the 19-15 appraisal well, spudded in August at a site approximately one kilometre east of the 19-14 well, a producing well drilled in 2001.
The 2002 well reached a total depth of 2,579 metres on 28 August having encountered 27 metres of oil shows in a gross interval from 2,006 metres to 2,084 metres in the same interval, the Tsagaantsav Sands of Lower Cretaceous age, as the adjacent discovery.
The well was perforated and fracture stimulated prior to being put on production in November at an initial rate of 110 BOPD.
The 19-16 well was an exploratory test located approximately 20 kilometres northeast of the Contract Area 19 development to test a large, previously undrilled structure.
It was the first well to be drilled on a sparse seismic grid covering the eastern margin of the basin.
The well was drilled to a total depth of 2,227 metres and encountered 31 metres of oil shows in the Tsagaantsav gross interval from 1,682 metres to 1,730 metres.
Initial production testing recovered oil and formation water and indicated a good reservoir capable of sustained production.
The last well in the 2002 drilling programme and the second exploratory well was located approximately 25 kilometres north of the Contract Area 19 development.
The 19-17 well was drilled to a total depth of 2,445 metres having encountered 26 metres of oil shows in the Tsagaantsav interval from 2,175 metres to 2,348 metres.
The well was suspended due to the onset of winter and is expected to be tested in the second quarter of 2003.
Although wells capable of production are located in Contract Areas 19 and 21, those in Contract Area 21 are shut-in primarily due to the distance from processing and storage facilities.
Producing wells are regularly taken off stream to deal with mechanical or downhole issues or to experiment with various production enhancing techniques as the operations group seeks to identify the optimum producing configuration for the field.
As a consequence, it is unlikely that production will materially increase in this pilot production scheme in the near term.
Subsequent events and outlook for 2003 Following the results of the 19-16 well, the Group has budgeted for the acquisition of additional 2D seismic in the region northeast of the current pilot production programme.
A 2D acquisition programme is also scheduled for the northern part of Contract Area 21, where little seismic has been acquired to date.
This area has become of heightened interest due to the major discovery in the Hailar Basin, the China extension of the Tamtsag Basin, reported in November 2002 by Daqing Oil and Gas.
In total, the Group plans to acquire approximately 1,500 kilometres of 2D seismic during the winter and spring seasons to identify the location of exploratory tests to be drilled during 2003.
Current plans call for a 2003 15 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
