Board of Directors 1 Patrick Maugein 55 3 Olivier Barbaroux 47 Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Mr Maugein joined the Board in July 1999.
Mr Barbaroux joined the Board in July 1999.
He has developed a portfolio of private He is a member of the Executive Board of investments in several industries and is Vivendi Environnement and the Chairman currently Chairman of the Alternative Finance and Chief Executive Officer of Dalkia.
Mr Maugein is Chairman of the 1999 to 2003, Mr Barbaroux was Managing Nominations Committee.
Director of Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux and President and Chief Operating Officer 2 Ed Story 59 of Vivendi Water S. A. having formerly been President and CEO head of the Energy Sector of the corporate Mr Story was President of the international finance department of Paribas.
Between subsidiary of Snyder Oil Corporation, Vice 1993 and 1996, he was Chairman and CEO Chairman of Conquest Exploration Company, of Coparex International.
Mr Barbaroux is Vice President and CFO of Superior Oil a member of the Audit and Nominations Company and has held various positions Committees.
with Exxon Corporation, including seven years resident in the Far East.
He is 4 Roger Brittain 65 currently a director of Cairn Energy PLC.
Non-Executive Director Mr Story is a member of the Nominations Mr Brittain joined the Board in March 1998.
Having served seven years with HM Foreign Service, Mr Brittain is also a former director of Corporate Finance at Investec Henderson Crosthwaite.
He was an advisor to Devon Energy Corporation and until recently the Chairman of CanArgo Energy Corporation and a director of Transmeridien Exploration, Inc. Mr Brittain is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
10 7 2 8 4 9 28 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 5 Roger Cagle 55 8 Rui fide Sousa 47 10 John Norton 65 Executive Vice President Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Deputy CEO and CFO Mr fide Sousa joined the Board in July 1999.
Mr Norton joined the Board in April 1997.
Mr Cagle previously held the position of He has been the Chief Executive Officer He is a Chartered Accountant and retired Chief Financial Officer with the international of the Toro Group for over a decade and in 1995 as a partner from Arthur Andersen, subsidiary of Snyder Oil Corporation and is also the Chairman of Mediterranean Oil where he headed its oil and gas practice with Conquest Exploration Company.
Since Supply and Trading Limitada and a director in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
1975 he has held various managerial positions of Quantic Limited and New Falcon Oil He is currently a director of the Arab-British in the oil and gas industry including at Limited.
Mr fide Sousa serves on the Chamber of Commerce and a member Superior Oil Company and Exxon Corporation.
of the Oil Industry Accounting Committee.
Mr Norton is a member of the Audit and 6 Robert Cathery 58 9 Peter Kingston 60 Nominations Committees.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Mr Cathery joined the Board in June 2001.
Senior Independent Director 11 John Snyder 61 He has been a member of the London Stock Mr Kingston is a petroleum engineer who Non-Executive Director Exchange since 1967 and currently is has worked in the oil and gas industry since Mr Snyder joined the Board in April 1997.
Managing Director at Canaccord Capital 1965 in various roles.
He was a founding He was Chairman of the Board of Santa Fe Europe Limited and a non-executive director of Enterprise Oil plc, going on to Snyder Corporation, and also founded its director of IndigoVision plc.
Mr Cathery become Managing Director Technical and predecessor, Snyder Oil Corporation.
is a member of the Audit and Nominations a director of Elf-Enterprise Petroleum Ltd.
Currently, he is an advisory director for 4D Committees.
He is currently a director of Corporate Global Energy Advisors and a director of Kudos Ltd, a consultancy advising senior Texas Capital Bancshares.
Mr Snyder is a 7 Ettore Contini 29 managers on corporate social responsibility.
member of the Nominations Committee.
Non-Executive Director Mr Kingston is Chairman of the Remuneration Mr Contini joined the Board in December and Audit Committees and a member of the 2001.
Formerly an Asset Manager at Banca Nominations Committee.
del Gottardo, Switzerland, he is currently on the Board of Directors of Italiana Energia e Servizi SpA.
Mr Contini is a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
