Chairmans and Chief Executives statement Our portfolio based strategy driven by recognising opportunity, capturing potential and realising value was almost exclusively weighted toward capturing potential within the asset base that we carried into the year.
Patrick Maugein, Chairman right Ed Story, President and Chief Executive 4SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 For SOCO, 2002 was focused on adding value through the drill bit.
Our portfolio based strategy driven by recognising opportunity, capturing potential and realising value was almost exclusively weighted toward capturing potential within the asset base that we carried into the year.
The particular asset in focus was Vietnam where the Company was well rewarded, as there were three discoveries out of the four exploration wells drilled one of which appears to be a major discovery.
Against a backdrop of uncertainty in the oil markets and indeed the broader financial markets, the Company hedged the exploration risk in Vietnam by farming-out 50% of the Groups interests in return for the remainder of its interests to be funded through the initial four well exploratory drilling phase a carried interest.
As a result, the Companys cash position remained robust with a 51.5 million balance at year end.
The initial four well exploration drilling campaign began in May 2002 and continued into the first quarter of 2003.
With the carried portion of the exploration phase ended, the Company will have to incur the obligation of funding approximately 50% of the continuing exploration and appraisal drilling programme in Vietnam.
Therefore, the Board of Directors have decided not to declare a dividend.
Operations Crude oil prices fluctuated widely during the year as they tested both the highs and lows of the target range established by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, casting doubt on this organisations ability to manage prices and thus fuelling further uncertainty.
Overall, however, operating results were in line with expectations as SOCO reported an approximate 0.9 million increase in operating profit before exceptional items rising to 10.4 million from production net to its working interest of 6,203 barrels of oil per day BOPD, which compares to 9.5 million from 5,964 BOPD reported last year net of the contribution from the discontinued Russia joint venture.
Net cash flow from operating activities was down only 2% from 19.3 million to 18.9 million despite the disposal of over 30% of production.
Although total profitability declined from the previous year, which included contribution from the Russia operations sold in that year and the profit from that sale, it compares favourably with the adjusted net profit, decreasing only 0.9 million to 6.1 million before exceptional items.
Drilling programmes in Yemen and Tunisia resulted in additions to the Companys crude oil reserves.
Although demonstrating significant success in the Vietnam exploration drilling programme, SOCO must await the results of an appraisal drilling programme before determining any resultant impact on its proved and probable reserves.
The exploration drilling successes in Mongolia require additional production testing before the full impact on reserves can be assessed.
Significant events Prior to the commencement of the 2002 exploration drilling programme in Vietnam, the Group finalised two major transactions impacting its operations there.
In January, the Company executed a Share Exchange Agreement with the minority shareholders of SOCO Vietnam Ltd SOCO Vietnam.
Under the terms of this agreement, SOCO acquired an additional 10% stake, increasing its interest in the majority owned subsidiary from 70% to 80%.
Subsequently in February 2002, SOCO Vietnam executed a farm-out agreement with PTT Exploration and Production Public Company Limited of Thailand PTTEP to fund SOCO Vietnams share of drilling a four well exploration programme on Blocks 16-1 and 9-2 in Vietnam in order for PTTEP to earn one-half of SOCO Vietnams interest.
5SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Chairmans and Chief Executives statement continued As reported in the 2002 Interim Report, SOCO Vietnam entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Amerada Hess Hess to acquire one-half, 13.5%, of the Hess total working interest in Block 16-1 in the Cuu Long Basin offshore Vietnam.
The remaining one-half interest was acquired by a subsidiary of our co-venturer in Vietnam, PTTEP.
With this transaction, SOCO Vietnams participating interest in Block 16-1 rose to 28.5%.
The aforementioned transactions reflect the Groups tactic of utilising relationships not only to acquire projects but also to strengthen the impact of its presence in such projects.
As was the case with the Russia joint venture where we partnered with a subsidiary of OAO Lukoil and brought in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for multi-national aid donor financing, the chances of success with projects, especially those in emerging economies or developing nations, can often be significantly enhanced by choosing complementary co-venturers.
PTTEP is a strong organisation that brings regional credibility and expertise to the Vietnam projects.
By increasing the Groups direct stake in Block 16-1, we have reinforced our desire to have large enough interests in projects with upside to have a material impact on the Companys portfolio.
Stakeholder commitment For the first time, this report includes a section specifically dedicated to corporate responsibility see pages 20 to 23.
Along with its economic results, the Companys environmental, ethical and social performances serve as benchmarks of its overall achievement.
On behalf of all the Directors of the Company, we wish to ensure that the process through which we attain our corporate results is conducted in such a manner as to ensure that the direct or tangential effects on dependent or interdependent systems or relationships are positive.
Essentially, our aim is that all constituents should benefit from their interaction with the Company and each host country should benefit from the presence of SOCOs activities there.
Corporate Following the vacancy created when the Groups prior auditors ceased trading in the UK, the Board conducted a rigorous review of proposals from a majority of the leading accounting firms.
At the conclusion of the process the Board appointed Deloitte & Touche to serve as the Companys auditors until the 2003 Annual General Meeting at which time the shareholders will have an opportunity to vote on their reappointment.
In January 2003, two reports addressing various elements of corporate governance were issued for comment by special committees appointed by UK regulatory and governmental advisory groups.
These reports, the Smith Report on audit committees and the Higgs Report on non-executive directors together the Governance Reports, introduce many suggestions for sweeping changes in the structure and accountability of boards of directors particularly the role of non-executive directors.
As this years Annual Report and Accounts goes to press, the final comment period on the Governance Reports remains open: however, it is our belief that a significant number of these reports recommendations will be implemented with full effect for the next accounting year.
We believe that both of these reports mark progress in amalgamating a diverse set of previous recommendations and guidelines relating to corporate governance into one coherent set of benchmarks.
We believe that SOCO has been a leader in its peer group in implementing best practice standards and we intend to continue to be pro active.
We shall follow developments closely and commit to being prepared to incorporate any relevant requirements when the time arises.
6SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Summary The guiding principle for the Company continues to be value accretion.
As 2002 sharply demonstrates, the focus is on adding shareholder value through building a portfolio of assets, which generate sustainable reserves, then capturing that value rather than focusing on generation of current income.
The Company enjoyed unparalleled success in 2002 with most of the exploratory wells it participated in encountering oil.
In this industry, it is foolhardy to count on sustaining such a record.
But clearly, by targeting projects that have acceptable risks and material upside, there is a reasonable opportunity for the Company to achieve a great deal of success.
The formula that has worked for us is one we intend to apply in the future as we build our asset portfolio.
Outlook We intend to build on the exciting beginning of our drive to realise potential in Vietnam.
A rig has been retained for a further four to five wells to be drilled during 2003 with the expectation of being able to quantify reserves on the discoveries of the past year.
Even beyond the upcoming programme, we believe there to be significant additional potential in as yet untested leads and prospects on both Blocks offshore Vietnam.
Although Vietnam is expected to be a cornerstone of our ongoing portfolio, the Company intends to progress other assets in the portfolio, will seek opportunity to add additional value and will weigh opportunities for ongoing rationalisation of some of its non-core assets.
Whilst the phase of capturing potential has not yet begun in Libya, there are a large number of opportunities in the country that we believe fit the joint ventures requirements.
Even so, assimilation and analysis of the data on these will require a significant amount of effort.
By comparison, we are just completing our first evaluation programme in Vietnam although the first project was awarded in 1999.
When first bringing projects into the portfolio, it takes time to find the right entry point and to build a structure that not only provides a framework to effectively progress each project, but also one that allows a smooth ingress or egress.
The entry phase in Russia took over two years.
It is important to realise the number of obstacles to overcome and the time required to do this, and how these factors vary from phase to phase of the portfolio valuation cycle.
We would like to express our appreciation to all the men and women around the world who have contributed to the success which the Company has enjoyed.
We also wish to thank all of our stakeholders who believed in the SOCO story and who have supported us throughout.
We appreciate your support and look forward to another exciting year for the Company.
Patrick Maugein Ed Story Chairman President and Chief Executive 7SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
