Review of operations continued Mongolia drilling programme that includes the drilling of five wells in the Tamtsag Basin.
The first well is expected to spud in the second quarter of the year.
Although some uncertainty remains as to the final outcome, plans for a pipeline delivering crude oil from the Russian oil fields near Irkust to the refining centres in Daqing seem to be progressing.
Should these plans become reality and further exploration provide justification, there is discussion of a spur line which would extend south through the Hailar and Tamtsag Basins connecting to the refining centres near Beijing.
The Group continues to be in discussion with interested parties concerning participation in the Mongolia project.
Although recent drilling successes both in China and in the Tamtsag Basin have increased interest in the Groups holdings, it is impossible to ascertain the eventual outcome of any of these discussions.
Thailand The Company operates and holds a 100% interest, following relinquishment by a co-venturer, in Block B8 38 located offshore in the Gulf of Thailand.
Block B8 38 holds a small field discovery, which is a candidate for development, and has remaining exploration potential.
Review of 2002 results A 2D seismic programme was conducted in February as a prelude to the Group extending the Block B8 38 concession licence for another three years.
A portion of the Block was relinquished as a prerequisite to an extension approval by the Thailand regulatory authorities in October.
The Groups co-venturer in Block B8 38, which has generally exited the upstream oil and gas industry, opted not to participate in the licence extension and defaulted its 50% working interest back to the Group pending Thailand Governmental approval.
Various discussions continue regarding the nature of future exploration and development of this Block.
Although prior negotiations regarding a farm-out leading to development did not come to fruition due to adverse events involving the potential farm-in company, discussions continue with at least three interested parties.
Subsequent events and outlook for 2003 With the Group having a 100% interest in Block B8 38, there are some interesting possibilities for progress to be made on the Block.
In the meantime, personnel in the Thailand office continue to oversee the obligations as operator on the Block as well as acting as facilitators with PTTEP regarding joint interests in Vietnam.
North Korea SOCO affiliate SOCO-Koryo International Ltd. acquired interests in a PSC over an approximate 9,600 square kilometres concession, mostly offshore, in the West Korean Bay after evaluating regional geological similarities to the highly prospective Bohai Bay Basin of northeastern China.
The concept was to take advantage of a relatively inexpensive opportunity in a virgin basin to forge a co-venturing team providing the Group with a carried interest.
16 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
