Production equipment aboard the FPSO was modified and upgraded during the year to accommodate the presence of produced water, which appeared for the first time since the sole producing well was put into service.
The water cut was fairly stable at approximately 10% of the production stream as of year end.
There was a temporary halt to production in December as a result of damage to the marine riser.
The well was out of service for approximately three weeks pending installation of a temporary replacement.
Evaluation of the equipment failure and planning for a long term solution are in progress.
Tunisia Drilling on the Didon 4 appraisal well began in July and ended just after year Unloading of the FPSO at the Didon field end after overcoming a number of difficulties while attempting to penetrate an in the Zarat Permit.
apparent field extension east of the Didon 3 producing well identified through re-interpretation of seismic.
The well was drilled to a total vertical depth of 2,763 metres and a total measured depth of 3,040 metres.
The well identified excellent quality reservoir rock and subsequently tested at 3,200 BOPD from a horizontal section in the El Gueria reservoir.
The well was shut-in pending completion of future field development plans.
Subsequent events and outlook for 2003 Work continues for the completion and tie-in of the Didon 4 discovery well as part of a comprehensive plan for total field development.
The FPSO is expected to be taken out of service during the year for scheduled maintenance, which will have an adverse impact on 2003 production.
The Didon field, which has been producing since mid 1998, has just begun to produce some associated water.
Based on the new discovery well and information related to the oil-water contact, the field is expected to continue to perform above initial expectations.
Reserves in the Didon field have been increased from initial estimates by approximately 300% due to production performance to date.
19 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
