In the interim, the much anticipated reconciliation overtures between North Korea and South Korea have become increasingly bellicose.
On the eve of a decision to renew the Groups commitment there, the likelihood of a meaningful thawing of relations between the two countries appears even more remote.
As a consequence, the Group believes that it is not prudent to pursue the North Korea project any further and does not envision renewing its licence, which is now in force majeure, beyond its expiry date in May 2003.
Production and development Crude oil production net to the Groups working interests, excluding the contribution from its disposed Russia operations 2,853 BOPD, rose slightly in 2002 to 6,203 BOPD from 5,964 BOPD the previous year.
The majority of production, 4,214 BOPD, comes from the East Shabwa Development Area in Yemen East Shabwa.
Production from the Didon field in the offshore Tunisia Zarat permit, 1,609 BOPD, and from the Tamtsag Basin pilot production project in Mongolia, 380 BOPD, account for the remainder.
Yemen Dan Mercer, Vice President-Operations SOCO holds its interests in East Shabwa through its 58.75% majority shareholding right and John Snyder, Non-Executive in Comeco Petroleum, Inc. Comeco, which translates into a 16.785% indirect Director.
working interest in East Shabwa.
A subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corporation, which also has an unrelated independent interest in East Shabwa, acquired the minority interest in Comeco in 2002.
The East Shabwa concession is operated by TotalFinaElf E&P Yemen.
East Shabwa production is piped to crude oil transfer facilities on the neighbouring Nexen operated Masila Block which produces approximately 270,000 BOPD.
East Shabwa crude oil production is commingled with Masila production and transported by pipeline to the Ash Shihr export terminal on the Yemen coast.
SOCOs share of the crude produced is currently sold under a 12 month contract benchmarked to the official Yemen selling price.
Review of 2002 results Total crude oil production increased approximately 22% during the year rising from approximately 23,000 BOPD to 28,000 BOPD as the Phase III drilling programme got underway in the first half.
The drilling of new wells and improvements in facility throughput offset the increasing water cuts typical of wells in this area of Yemen.
Nine wells were drilled during the year seven producers, one water disposal well and one exploration well.
The exploratory test, the Amani well, was drilled into Basement reservoir which yielded some gas, but the well was plugged back and tested heavy oil from the Cretaceous Biyad reservoir.
Drilling performance improved throughout the year, resulting in a steady reduction of drilling costs to approximately 20% below budgeted targets.
A new development approach consisting of directional wells drilled from multiwell clusters contributed to reduced drilling and tie-in costs.
17 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Review of operations continued Facilities at the Atuf field were upgraded, boosting water treating capacity to 20,000 barrels of water per day BWPD and injection capacity to 18,000 BWPD.
Field crude oil export capability was increased to 10,000 BOPD when pipeline upgrade work was completed, thus eliminating the requirement for supplemental trucking of oil.
Engineering work progressed on a hydro-cyclone project, which will allow increased field level separation and injection of produced water.
The first installation is expected later this year, thus allowing production rates to be increased from many of the existing high water cut producing wells.
Yemen Production facilities in the East Shabwa Subsequent events and outlook for 2003 The Phase III drilling programme will continue throughout the upcoming year.
A recent Basement test provided a natural flow of approximately 2,000 BOPD, which could lend a new dimension to the remaining prospectivity of East Shabwa.
Special equipment is required to place the flowing Basement test on long term production as the remaining wells in the area are on artificial lift.
The equipment is being sourced.
Yemen and the surrounding region have been prominent in the news in relation to general unrest and various acts of civil disobedience.
Although the East Shabwa operations have thus far been rather unaffected directly by events in the area, an incident that caused damage to an oil tanker preparing to dock at the export terminal during the past year did force a short production curtailment, but with no loss of product.
Tunisia The Company holds a 22.22% non-operated working interest in the Zarat permit located 75 kilometres offshore eastern Tunisia in the Gulf of Gabs.
Crude oil from the Didon field is produced into a floating production storage and offloading facility FPSO and is sold into the spot market.
Sales of 497,000 barrels were achieved during the year through six off-loadings from the FPSO.
Review of 2002 results Improvement of production facilities resulted in new production records for the Didon field during the year as new highs were set for both annual production, approximately 2.6 million barrels of oil, and daily production, approximately 9,300 BOPD.
The records were achieved as a result of a sub-sea cooler being installed to reduce flowing temperatures, which had previously restricted production rates.
18 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
