A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 20 directors report The directors of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited accounts for the year ended 31st December 2002.
RESULTS The results of the Group for the year are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review on pages 2 to 12. DIVIDEND An interim cash dividend of 5.8p per share 2001: 5.6p was paid in November 2002.
The directors now recommend the payment of a final dividend of 13.5p per share 2001: 13.0p.
If approved at the annual general meeting the final dividend will be paid on 20th May 2003 to shareholders on the register at 22nd April 2003.
The total distribution for the year will be 19.3p per share 2001: 18.6p.
BUSINESS REVIEW A review of the operations of the Group in 2002 together with an indication of future prospects of the business is given on pages 2 to 12.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Groups business is the provision of knowledge, service and products, including peristaltic pumps, worldwide for the control and efficient use of steam and other industrial fluids.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group continues to devote significant resources to the updating and expansion of its range of products in order to remain at the forefront of its world markets.
Expenditure in 2002 on research and development amounted to 4,411,000 2001: 4,593,000.
MARKET VALUE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS In the opinion of the directors, the market value of the land and buildings of the Group exceeds the book value of those assets at 31st December 2002 by approximately 9,000,000 2001: 8,000,000.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The directors of the Company are those listed on pages 16 and 17.
Mr. W. H. Whiteley was appointed to the Board on 26th July 2002 as an independent non-executive director.
In addition Mr. C. G. Sneath was a director until 26th July 2002 when he retired.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association: i Mr. Whiteley will retire from office at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for appointment.
Mr. Whiteley, as an independent non-executive director, has no service contract with the Company.
Ball and E. Lindh retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Mr. Ball has a service contract with the Company determinable on two years notice.
Mr. Lindh, as an independent non-executive director, has no service contract with the Company.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND REMUNERATION The interests of the directors in the share capital of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc are set out below.
The number of shares over which directors hold options, together with their remuneration, is detailed in The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 24 to 30.
Ordinary Shares of 25p each Ordinary Shares of 25p each Beneficial Interests Non-beneficial Interests 31.12.02 31.12.01 31.12.02 31.12.01 or date of or date of or date of or date of retirement appointment retirement appointment T. B.
Fortune, D. J. Meredith and P. A. Smith are trustees of those funds.
Messrs. D. J. Meredith and P. A. Smith, together with Mr. M. J. D. Steel, are trustees of the Spirax-Sarco Engineering 1992 Share Ownership Scheme, which holds 257,118 shares in the Company at 31st December 2002.
EMPLOYMENT REPORT AND POLICIES Details of the Groups Employment Policies are set out on pages 20 and 21.
18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 21 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Notice of Meeting and an explanation of Resolutions 7 to 11 to be proposed at the annual general meeting are set out in the enclosed Circular.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of shares issued during the year are set out in note 25 on page 45.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES There was no purchase of shares by the Company during the year.
At 31st December 2002 the number of shares which may be purchased under the shareholders authority given at the annual general meeting in 2002 was 7,300,000 and the number of shares in issue was 74,300,622.
SHAREHOLDINGS OF 3% OR MORE The Company received notice of material interests in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 17th February 2003 as set out below.
So far as is known there is no other notifiable interest of 3% or more in the issued capital.
Ordinary Shares % The Capital Group Companies Inc. 4,449,891 5.99 Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 3,925,277 5.28 JP Morgan Fleming Asset Management 3,574,294 4.81 Arnhold and S Bleichroeder Advisers Inc. 3,350,397 4.51 Newton Investment Management 3,099,566 4.17 NFU Mutual 2,833,853 3.81 STATEMENT OF THE POLICY AND PRACTICE ON THE PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS It is the Groups policy to meet the terms of individual supply contracts and in the UK to make payment to suppliers at the end of the month following receipt of goods.
In view of this, the Group does not follow any particular prescribed code.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc has no trade creditors.
GROUP CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS Charitable donations amounted to 51,861 2001: 41,031.
There were no political donations 2001: nil.
AUDITOR A resolution to re-appoint the auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
CAPITAL GAINS TAX For capital gains tax purposes the market value of the Companys ordinary shares at 31st March 1982 was 140.375p.
COMPANY INFORMATION Further information on the Company is available on the Group web site: www.
com By order of the Board Charlton House, Cirencester Road, P. A. Smith Secretary Cheltenham.
10th March 2003 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 19 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 22 corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility of the whole Board.
This statement describes how the Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of The Combined Code - Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice embodied in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Board considers that it was throughout the year, and continues to be, in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code as explained in The Directors Remuneration Report.
Board Composition and Procedures The Board meets formally six times per year to consider strategic developments and to review trading results and operational and business issues.
In particular it deals with those matters reserved to it for decision, including the acquisition and disposal of businesses and major capital expenditure.
All directors receive detailed progress reports one week prior to each Board meeting.
The Board comprises a balance of seven executive directors, three independent non-executive directors and the non-executive Chairman.
The positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director are held by separate individuals.
The non-executive directors have all had senior executive experience and offer independent judgement on board matters.
Non-executive directors do not participate in bonus, share option or pension schemes.
There are procedures for individual Board members to receive induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent professional advice where specific expertise is required in the course of exercising their duties.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes and regulations.
All directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
The Board delegates specific responsibility to Board committees, notably the Audit, Finance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The membership of these committees is detailed on page 22.
Additionally the executive directors comprise the Risk Management Committee.
Shareholder Relations The Group conducts regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and provides such information as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
The preliminary results announcement may be accessed by individual investors on the Group web site, www.
The final results will also be on the web site in due course.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting, where the chairmen of the Audit, Finance, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Management Committees will be available to answer questions.
The results of proxy votes are declared at Annual General Meetings after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and this practice will continue at future general meetings.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is an emerging concept and embraces a wide range of issues but in particular focuses on social, ethical and environmental matters SEE.
CSR implies that a company conducts its business in a socially acceptable way with due regard to relationships with its employees, customers, investors, suppliers and society generally.
During the course of 2001, the ABI issued investment guidelines which encourage disclosure by companies in their annual report and accounts as to how they have taken into account the significance of SEE matters.
The Board has reviewed these guidelines within the Group and comments as follows.
Compliance with the principles of CSR, embedded in the guidance, can only be achieved if its management of such risks is incorporated into the policies, systems and procedures of the Group.
The Groups operations are carried out under the Groups Business Code which was established in 1995.
This formalised policies followed over many years by the Group.
The main areas are as follows, although further details are set out below:- compliance with all applicable laws and regulations operation of the internal controls established by the Group having proper regard for all stakeholders in the business outlawing of bribes commitment to fair treatment of all employees compliance with the Treasury Policy of the Group all health, safety and environmental matters The Group also recognises that the achievement of good quality products and services, the maintenance of health and safety, and the achievement of good environmental practices, are an integral part of running the business and require consideration as part of the day to day operations of the Group.
The responsibility held by Board members for all the Groups operations including the implementation of its policies enables the Groups Business Code and Group policies to be applied on a consistent basis.
SEE training will be part of the training provided for newly appointed directors appropriate to their experience, knowledge and previous training.
For each subsidiary there is a nominated person who is responsible to the Board for monitoring compliance with the Groups policies.
These reporting procedures within the Group enable the executive directors, who have direct responsibility for implementing policy, to monitor, report and take any appropriate action.
20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 23 In the risk management process explained in paragraph i of Internal Controls, see page 22, the risks involved in not achieving appropriate SEE standards continue to be assessed and any significant risk is monitored by the Board following half yearly reports from all Group companies.
In compliance with the ABI Guidelines, the Group considers and applies appropriate policies through the Groups Business Code to the following areas:- i Human Rights The Group supports and applies the principles of Human Rights in its operations.
ii Employee Rights Board members satisfy themselves that the terms of employment in subsidiaries worldwide are appropriate.
The Group has a policy of non-discrimination on grounds of race, gender or disability and does not tolerate harassment in any form.
The recruitment procedures throughout the Group avoid employment of underage staff.
Care has been taken to provide for a culture of openness and honesty.
Channels of communication appropriate to the local operation have been established to allow employees to voice their views and concerns.
The Group encourages development of employee skills through a policy of reward and recognition.
Recognition is given to individual employees needs and requirements throughout the Group and, where possible, flexible working arrangements are considered where the circumstances are justified.
The Group operates personnel policies and communication structures designed to meet the needs of its subsidiaries and employees around the world.
The Groups management philosophy recognises employees as its most important asset.
Employees are encouraged to apply their skills, knowledge and energy.
Employees have the opportunity to comment on matters of concern to them through established communication channels.
A summary of the Groups annual accounts is made available to its employees.
The Group encourages the growth of employee share ownership.
The Group applies the principles of equal opportunity.
The Group has a continuing policy of giving disabled people full consideration for all job vacancies for which they offer themselves as suitable applicants.
Wherever practical the Group maintains employment of those employees who become disabled and offers appropriate training.
iii Community Involvement The operating companies in the Group are encouraged to provide support to local communities through Company donations, employee organised charitable activities, donation of equipment no longer required and through provision of information.
In India with our partners the local company supports a hospital it established many years ago making provision for both company employees and the local community who also benefit from an established welfare programme based in company provided premises supporting community initiatives particularly for women.
iv Supplier Relations The Company policy is to use suppliers of goods and services which maintain appropriate standards in their operations.
v Product Stewardship The provision of information and support in providing appropriate technical advice to provide a solution to customers needs together with installation and after sales service are integral to the Groups business.
The proper application of products and environmental and safety considerations are dealt with in detail in the technical literature made freely available by the Group.
vi Corruption The Companys policy outlaws corruption or anti-competitive practices.
In addition to provisions within service contracts general managers of the Group subsidiaries are required to certify personally that all laws and regulations have been met in their territory.
vii Health and Safety The Company has a clear attitude to health and safety, which is that each operation will maintain a healthy and safe environment.
In the first instance the general manager of each company has the responsibility for ensuring that this is effectively managed at the local level.
The Director - Supply is responsible for overseeing all health and safety matters in each of the Groups subsidiaries.
Funds are allocated for health and safety training.
Regular reviews are conducted to ensure that employee knowledge of health and safety matters relevant to them is up to date with current practice.
The health and safety record of all subsidiaries, including actions taken, is reported by Board members and supervised by the Director - Supply.
Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 21 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 24 corporate governance continued In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has complied, throughout the year and up to the date of this report, with the Combined Code provisions on internal control having established the procedures necessary to implement the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
i Risk Management The Group has operated procedures for considering risks in the normal operations of the Group and with regard to significant transactions.
Strategic and annual planning also encompasses considerations of business risks.
The Risk Management Committee specifically review any risks facing the business which could give rise to a significant loss.
As part of the on-going process, the Group companies have reported on a six monthly basis their position with regard to implementing the identified countermeasures to address the Groups significant business risks.
The six monthly returns are assessed by the Risk Management Committee.
Reports are made to the Board as a whole, by the Chief Executive, for review of the risks and measures taken.
Annually the executive directors carry out a reappraisal of the business risks.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of reporting and monitoring and its effectiveness as a whole.
ii Financial The Finance Committee of the Board considers financing and investment decisions concerning the Group, including the giving of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk within the limits laid down by the Board.
Financial reporting systems include comprehensive annual plans approved by the directors and monthly reporting of actual results with appropriate comparisons against plan and previous years results.
Forecast operating results for the year are regularly updated.
Capital investment is subject to approval under a clear policy.
This includes annual plans, appropriate authorisation, detailed investment appraisal and post-investment review and due diligence requirements where businesses are being acquired.
iii Operational All subsidiaries of the Group are required to complete self-certification questionnaires regarding compliance with the policies, procedures and minimum requirements for an effective system of internal control.
iv Audit Committee The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year to consider the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, policies and procedures and the outcome of the external audit for the year.
Its meetings are normally attended by the Director - Finance and the external auditor.
There is provision for the Committee to confer with the auditor without the attendance of executive directors.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence of the external auditor on an annual basis.
The recommendations of the Smith Report on audit committees, dated January 2003, will be considered over the coming year.
Internal Audit The Board assessed the requirement for an internal audit function and concluded that the current internal controls remain satisfactory.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Senior Independent Director Mr. M. Townsend was the Senior Independent Director.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees and Directors' Responsibilities The Directors Remuneration Report presented by the Board of Directors is set out with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
The Board has a Nomination Committee for appointments to the Board.
Committee Membership i Audit Committee Messrs. T. B.
Fortune, E. Lindh, C. G. Sneath, M. Townsend Chairman and W. H. Whiteley.
ii Finance Committee Messrs. T. B.
Fortune Chairman, D. J. Meredith and M. J. D. Steel.
iii Nomination Committee Messrs. T. B.
Fortune Chairman, E. Lindh, C. G. Sneath, M. J. D. Steel, M. Townsend and W. H. Whiteley.
iv Remuneration Committee Messrs. E. Lindh, C. G. Sneath, M. Townsend Chairman and W. H. Whiteley.
v Risk Management Committee Messrs. C. J.
Ball, A. D. H. Black, G. P. Marchand, D. J. Meredith, P. A. Smith, P. M. Smith and M. J. D. Steel Chairman.
until retirement on 26th July 2002 with effect from 26th July 2002 22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 25 Higgs Report Review of the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors dated January 2003 The Board will consider the recommendations of this report over the coming year.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The Group regularly reviews its written policy statement and performance with regard to environmental matters to ensure compliance with good practice and statutory regulations in all its operations and to meet corporate objectives.
The Group operates its businesses with a proper concern for their impact on the environment generally and, particularly, with concern for the local communities where the Groups operations are located.
The Group, through its Board of Directors, ensures that its managers and staff are aware of the actions required to meet environmental considerations in each of the Groups plants and the risks of failing to do so.
Managers are required to take environmental considerations into account in running the business, for example in its energy efficiency, its use of appropriate materials and the design and manufacture of its products generally and in the investment in new equipment, new processes and new buildings and services.
There is a detailed procedure which lays down responsibility for seeing that the Groups policy is carried out.
Employees are also expected in their daily job to be aware of environmental considerations and draw to the attention of management any matters of possible concern.
Implementation The Board has given the Director - Supply specific environmental responsibility in relation to the Groups operations and their impact on the environment.
The Groups objective is to comply with environmental laws and good practice and where non-compliance is identified to have management systems in place to ensure that this is rectified within an appropriate timeframe.
The environmental policy set out above is appropriately circulated to management and to all employees.
General managers of operating companies within the Group are responsible for local compliance with the Groups policy and with local legislation.
A manager within each operating company is nominated to ensure compliance with the policy.
Agreed actions are implemented by the operating company overseen by the Divisional Director.
The Group also operates a regular system of review, under which every operating company reports on environmental issues and compliance with local legislation.
Following a prescribed approach regular reviews of the Groups facilities worldwide are conducted.
Following a review the implementation of recommendations, if any, is monitored at Group level.
The general manager will report through the Divisional Director on any issues identified as is appropriate in the circumstances.
If recommendations are made then in the first instance the general manager of each company has the responsibility for ensuring that they are effectively considered and implemented where appropriate at the local level.
Where environmental upgrades are made to plant and machinery in any jurisdiction, consideration is given to implementation of such upgrades across the Groups facilities worldwide.
In the past the Group has utilised external environmental consultants to audit a number of manufacturing facilities and has, as a result, established an internal environmental audit process under which a senior manager assesses the environmental position in each of the major manufacturing units and reports to the local management.
This process is overseen by the Divisional Director who reports appropriately to the Director - Supply and is distinct from the process identified above.
Partly as a result of these processes there have been improvements in the use of solvents, chemicals and fluxes all of which have contributed to a cleaner operating environment which together with noise attenuation have benefited both employees and local residents.
Environmental Benefits from the use of Group Products The use by customers of Group products has a significant environmental benefit which outweighs the environmental issues associated with the production of the products.
Certainly the environmental impact arising from the manufacture of the Groups range of steam system products is significantly less than the energy saving benefits enjoyed by customers in the application of those products.
The name Spirax Sarco is synonymous with steam and its efficient use worldwide.
The majority of sales are the result of helping customers to improve the efficiency of their plant and processes, reduce energy consumption and emissions and meet local safety regulations.
The Groups technical advice on the application of its products and in relation to steam systems, which is freely given to customers, is the key to maximising the benefit of the products we supply.
There are numerous individual examples of benefits enjoyed by customers which include improved overall boiler efficiency, improved energy efficiency of process plant, and reduced consumption of water, water treatment chemicals and lower production of effluent.
Many applications for Watson-Marlow Bredel peristaltic pumps are those where environmental improvement is the main aim.
They are particularly suited to applications like waste water treatment where difficult fluids have to be handled safely and reliably.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 23 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 26 the directors remuneration report The Board presents the following report on directors remuneration and the operation of the Remuneration Committee.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE This Committee has been established for many years and operates under terms of reference agreed by the Board.
Messrs. E. Lindh, C. G. Sneath, M. Townsend Chairman and W. H. Whiteley were members of the Committee during the year when the Committee was considering matters relating to directors remuneration.
Mr. Sneath served on the Committee until his retirement on 26th July 2002.
Mr. Whiteley commenced membership of the Committee on his appointment as an independent non-executive director on 26th July 2002.
The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, the Companys remuneration policy and for determining the employment conditions and remuneration packages of the Chairman and individual executive directors.
The Committee also administers and determines the grant of options under the Groups share option schemes for executive directors and other senior employees.
The Committee obtains independent professional advice from Towers Perrin to ensure that the Companys remuneration policies are appropriate and competitive.
Towers Perrin was appointed by the Committee and has not provided other services to the Company during the year.
Fortune, the Company Chairman, and Mr. M. J. D. Steel, the Chief Executive, attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee to provide information requested by it.
However, they do not participate in any discussions involving their own remuneration.
The Company has throughout the year complied with the code of best practice set out under the Combined Code with regard to directors remuneration.
The Committee has given full consideration to the Combined Code in establishing the remuneration policy and packages for directors.
POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Companys policy is to reward directors competitively and on the broad principle that their remuneration should be comparable with remuneration in other similar public companies.
The total remuneration package is appropriate and necessary to attract, retain and motivate directors of the calibre required to take the Company forward.
In order to align the interests of directors and shareholders, the Committee has structured the total remuneration package to provide a material performance-related element, this portion being increased with effect from 1st January 2002 when further nonpensionable elements were added to the performance-related bonus.
The structure of directors remuneration packages, which was established in 1989 and confirmed following a specific review in 1995, has been amended for appointments of executive directors after 1st January 1998 to provide normally for a 12 month, rather than for a 24 month, notice period in the service contract.
The Remuneration Committee considers that as the length of service contracts complied with normal practice at the time the contracts were entered into it is inappropriate to change existing 1 terms and conditions.
The service contracts provide for a normal retirement age of 62 2 for each executive director.
The Remuneration Committee establishes the remuneration package for the executive directors having regard to pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group and in particular to those senior executives who are not Board members.
The following table shows the number of executives at differing levels of basic pay and bonus.
of Senior Executives 100,000 - 150,000 9 150,001 - 200,000 2 200,001 - 250,000 1 The Committee currently has no plans to change the Companys policy on directors remuneration or the structure of their remuneration packages during this year or subsequent years.
However this position will be kept under review to ensure the directors overall packages remain properly competitive and shareholders will be informed of any resulting change.
The remuneration packages comprise the following:- Basic Salary The Committee obtains independent professional advice using published information for comparable public companies.
Salaries are reviewed annually on 1st January taking into account the experience, responsibility and performance of the individual.
24 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 27 Annual Bonus The Company operates an annual bonus scheme for executive directors.
The bonus is paid as a percentage of salary.
This percentage is the sum of:- i 33% of the percentage increase in pre-tax profit for the year over the average pre-tax profit for the previous three years: ii 67% of the percentage increase in earnings per share for the year over the average earnings per share for the previous three years: additionally from 1st January 2002:- iii cash generation expressed as a percentage of profit will carry a maximum of 30% bonus.
Where cash inflow, as determined from the Accounts, is less than 100% of profit for the financial year, no bonus will be earned: where cash generated equals or exceeds 140%, the full 30% will accrue with proportionate bonus being earned between 100% and 140% of profit: and iv gross margin percentage will be compared with that for the previous year.
Where the gross margin has deteriorated by 0.5 percentage points or more, no bonus will accrue: where there has been an improvement of 1.5 percentage points or more, the full allocation of 20% will accrue with proportionate bonus being earned between these limits, provided always that the percentage is above the required minimum.
There is a contractual maximum bonus payment equal to basic salary.
The bonus forms an integral and regular part of the executive directors remuneration and elements i and ii have been and are pensionable.
Elements iii and iv are not pensionable.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the bonus scheme.
Options Spirax-Sarco Engineering 1992 UK & Global Share Option Schemes and Spirax-Sarco Engineering Approved & Global Share Option Schemes The Company operates share option schemes for executive directors and senior management which are administered by the Committee which determines the grant of options under the schemes usually once per year.
These are designed to align the longer term interests of directors and senior management with those of shareholders by giving an incentive linked to added shareholder value.
The policy is to phase options over the ten year life of the share option schemes.
Options granted to each director are subject to performance criteria which are set out below.
The exercise of any option granted to any director under the Companys share option schemes since 1995 and any discounted option granted before 1994 when the granting of discounted options ceased is subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria.
In accordance with market practice, options granted are normally specified to be exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant and, for grants from 1995 and up to and including 2001, only if specified performance criteria are satisfied.
In line with the then established market practice, these performance criteria require an increase in earnings per share of more than 6% greater than the increase in the UK retail prices index over a period of three consecutive years between grant and exercise.
For options granted from and including 2002 the performance criteria require an increase in earnings per share of more than 9% greater than the increase in the UK retail prices index over a period of three consecutive years between grant and exercise.
The same performance criteria apply to each director.
The performance criteria chosen were considered appropriate because it ensured increases in the share price were achieved having taken account of UK inflation.
In assessing whether the chosen performance criteria are met the Committee arranges for the auditor to confirm the calculations made.
This method of assessment is considered appropriate to confirm compliance with the criteria.
The performance condition requires a comparison with a factor external to the Company, namely the growth in the UK retail prices index over the performance period.
The exercise of options granted before 1995 other than discounted options is not subject to any performance criteria being met.
This is in line with market practice at the time of grant of those options.
The discounted options granted are exercisable between five and ten years from date of grant at an alternate exercise price which reflects a 15% discount to the market price at the time of grant.
These require an increase in earnings per share of more than 10% greater than the increase in the UK retail prices index over a period of five consecutive years between grant and exercise.
Details of total share options issued are set out on page 46.
The above performance criteria also apply to other relevant options granted to participants in the share option schemes.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Employee Share Ownership Plan The executive directors participate in the Employee Share Ownership Plan, as described on page 29.
Participation in the Employee Share Ownership Plan is open to all eligible UK employees.
No employees entitlement under the Employee Share Ownership Plan is subject to performance conditions.
This is because the aim is to encourage increased shareholding in the Company by all eligible UK employees.
There are no other long term incentives provided to directors.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 25 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 28 the directors remuneration report continued Pensions The executive directors are members of an Inland Revenue approved non-contributory defined benefit pension scheme based on 1 60th of pensionable salary, for each year of pensionable service.
The maximum pension is two-thirds of pensionable salary.
The executive directors accrue pro-rata additional service at a rate which gives a further two and a half years of service at their normal 1 retirement age of 62 2.
Additionally Mr. G. P. Marchand accrues pro-rata additional service at a rate which gives a further nine years of service at age 60.
The scheme provides lump sum death in service benefit of four times pensionable salary.
Spouses pensions are payable where death occurs in service or in retirement.
No executive director is affected by the Inland Revenue earnings cap and there are no unapproved pension arrangements in respect of directors.
Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of non-executive directors is approved by the full Board within the limits set out in the Companys articles of association.
Their remuneration reflects the amount of time spent on the Companys business.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the bonus, share option or share ownership schemes and their appointments are non-pensionable.
Service Contracts In determining the amount of compensation payable on termination of a service contract, it is the Committees policy to apply normal principles of mitigation which, in its opinion, confer greater flexibility to deal with individual circumstances than seeking to include in directors service contracts a fixed compensation payment.
Poor performance will not be rewarded.
The executive directors have service contracts as follows:- Date of Contract Notice Period M. J. D. Steel 30.12.92 24 months C. J.
Ball 26.11.92 24 months A. D. H. Black 18.11.98 12 months G. P. Marchand 30.12.92 24 months D. J. Meredith 30.12.92 24 months P. A. Smith 24.12.92 24 months P. M. Smith 01.09.98 12 months The Committee believes it is appropriate to retain the 24 months notice period for Messrs. M. J. D. Steel, C. J.
Ball, G. P. Marchand, D. J. Meredith and P. A. Smith, being the established practice at the date of their appointment.
As a result of a specific review, the Committee, recognising the subsequent change in practice, has determined that in normal circumstances appointments of executive directors made after 1st January 1998 would be on a 12 months notice basis.
Messrs. A. D. H. Black and P. M. Smith have service contracts which are subject to 12 months notice.
The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, Mr. T. B.
Fortune, do not have service contracts.
They have appointment letters, normally for three year periods, and reappointment is not automatic.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The performance graph illustrated shows the Companys total cumulative shareholder return for the five year period ended 31st December 2002 compared with the total cumulative shareholder return for the FTSE All-Share Engineering and Machinery Index.
"This ""#$%&% comparison is selected as being the most appropriate sector for the Companys operations as the comparison automatically !"
takes account of the impact on the Companys shares of the markets view of the engineering industry generally.
26 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 29 DETAILS OF INDIVIDUAL EMOLUMENTS The auditor is required to report on the information contained in this section of the Report.
Basic Benefits 1 Annual Total emoluments Salary performance excluding pension Fees related 2002 2001 bonus Total Total T. B.
3 Mr. C. G. Sneath retired from the Board on 26th July 2002.
4 Mr. W. H. Whiteley was appointed to the Board on 26th July 2002.
Long Term Incentives i Spirax-Sarco Engineering 1992 UK & Global Share Option Schemes and Spirax-Sarco Engineering Global Share Option Scheme The interests of directors are set out below:- 31.12.01 Granted Exercised 31.12.02 Average Date Expiry during in year exercise from date year to price per which 31.12.02 share exercisable 1 No.
Options shown on lines A and B relate to options granted to members of the Board, whereas options shown on lines C and D relate to options granted to individuals prior to their appointment to the Board.
Options shown on lines A and C are those where the exercise prices are lower than the middle market price of the Companys ordinary shares on 31st December 2002.
Options shown on lines B and D are those where the exercise prices are higher than the middle market price on that date.
Options were granted to directors during the year over 135,000 ordinary shares at 436.0p per share under the Spirax-Sarco Engineering Global Share Option Scheme, which is unapproved.
Mr. M. J. D. Steel was granted 30,000 options and each of the remaining executive directors were granted 17,500 options.
Options Option Market 2002 2001 exercised exercise price on Gain arising Gain arising price the date on exercise on exercise options exercised No.
These are the weighted averages of the exercise prices for ordinary shares under option at 31st December 2002.
The market price of the ordinary shares on 31st December 2002 was 414p.
During the period from 1st January 2002 to 31st December 2002, the ordinary share price ranged between 473.5p and 341p.
Within the number of options set out in the table above, the outstanding discounted options held by executive directors as at 31st December 2002 are as follows:- No.
of discounted options Discounted price Expiry date pence A. D. H. Black 631 301.81416 07.10.03 G. P. Marchand 3,784 301.81416 07.10.03 P. A. Smith 2,587 301.81416 07.10.03 P. M. Smith 2,144 301.81416 07.10.03 The Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
There have been no changes in the number of shares held or share options granted as shown above since 31st December 2002.
28 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 31 ii Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Employee Share Ownership Plan The Company operated an employee share ownership plan in which all the executive directors are eligible to participate on the same basis as all other eligible UK employees.
For the Plan period the individual directors contributions are limited to a maximum of 1,500 per annum under Inland Revenue Rules.
Interest as Vested Interest as Period of qualifying at 01.01.02 at 31.12.02 conditions No.
Ball - 949 949 3 years A. D. H. Black - 949 949 3 years G. P. Marchand - 949 949 3 years D. J. Meredith - 949 949 3 years P. A. Smith - 949 949 3 years P. M. Smith - 949 949 3 years DIRECTORS PENSIONS The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require disclosure of directors defined benefit pensions arrangements on a different basis from that specified in the Combined Code.
Details on both bases are shown below.
Age Accrued Accrued Change in Change in Transfer Transfer Transfer Change in attained pension pension accrued accrued value of value of value of total at at at pension pension change in accrued accrued transfer 31.12.02 31.12.01 31.12.02 during during accruedpension at pension at value the year the year pension 31.12.01 31.12.02 pa pa pa pa M. J. D. Steel 57 136,570 151,310 14,740 12,418 153,000 1,694,000 1,699,000 5,000 C. J.
The following is additional information relating to directors pensions: i Dependants pensions On the death of a director in service, a spouses pension equal to one-half of the directors pension based on pensionable service to the date of death is payable.
On the death of a director after payment of the pension commences, a spouses pension of one-half of the directors pension entitlement at the date of death, ignoring commutation and any early retirement actuarial reduction, is payable: in addition directors pensions are guaranteed to be paid for five years from retirement.
ii Early retirement rights After leaving the service of the Company, a director has the right to draw his accrued pension at any time after his 60th birthday with no reduction.
iii Pension increases All pensions are subject to contractual annual increases in line with the annual rise in the RPI subject to a maximum of 5% per annum.
The Trustees and the Company have the discretion to apply a greater increase.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 29 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 32 the directors remuneration report continued iv Transfer values The changes in transfer values stated above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
v Other discretionary benefits There are no discretionary practices which are taken into account in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
Fortune Chairman on behalf of the Board statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: i Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
ii Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
iii State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
iv Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:27 pm Page 33 auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SPIRAX-SARCO ENGINEERING PLC We have audited the accounts on pages 32 to 53.
We have also audited the information in The Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on page 30, this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of The Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 20 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of The Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of The Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of The Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of The Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
OPINION In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31st December 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the accounts and the part of The Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc London 10th March 2003 Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 31
