S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 D IRECTORS R EPORT The directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the fty two weeks ended 2 August 2002.
Activities The activities of the Group comprise offset magazine printing, book printing and binding, direct response and general commercial printing, corporate and financial security printing and printing for the multimedia and music industries.
2. Review of operations and future prospects A detailed review of the activities of the Group and its future prospects can be found in the Chairmans Statement and the Review of Operations.
Results and dividends The Group profit for the year before taxation amounted to 24,276,000 2001 60,459,000.
The directors propose a final dividend of 12.15p for each ordinary share payable on 4 December 2002 to holders on the register at 25 October 2002.
If approved, the final dividend will make total dividends for the year of 17.15p per ordinary share: 000 Ordinary dividends interim 5,153 proposed final 12,535 4.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
Substantial interests As at 15 October 2002, the only notied share interests in excess of 3 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: Number of ordinary shares % Prudential plc and its subsidiaries 11,164,906 10.88 Silchester International Investors Limited 10,414,145 10.09 AXA S. A. and its subsidiaries 3,988,195 3.87 6.
Directors The present membership of the board is set out on page 11.
The directors interests in shares of the Company are set out on pages 21 and 22 in the Report by the board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration.
12 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 ORS R EPORT continued 7.
Employment policies The Group is an Equal Opportunities Employer and no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, sex, marital status, race, colour or creed.
It is the policy of the Group that disabled people, whether registered disabled or not, should receive full and fair consideration for all job vacancies for which they are suitable applicants.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
The Group is prepared to modify procedures or equipment, wherever this is practicable, so that full use can be made of an individuals ability.
Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are regularly consulted by local managers and kept informed of matters affecting them and the overall development of the Group.
Details of the Groups pension schemes are set out in note 4 to the financial statements: all of the schemes are independently managed.
The investments of the Groups principal pension scheme are managed separately, partly passively and partly actively.
The fund manager of the actively managed portfolio is proscribed from holding any investment in the Group.
Neither fund manager is permitted by the Trustee to lend to the Group.
The number of trustee directors of the Groups principal pension scheme is split equally between member and Company-nominated trustee directors.
Environmental policy The board has established an environmental policy which is implemented through the Groups existing management structure.
The policy concentrates on achieving a deliverable improvement in performance in consultation with suppliers, customers and employees.
Specic areas targeted for continuous attention include the adoption, where practicable, of processes which reduce the Groups emissions of volatile organic compounds, noise and dust, minimising and recycling of waste products, recycling of water and securing reductions in energy consumption.
The Group has made good progress towards improving its performance in the areas identied for attention.
Targets to minimise the net financial impact on the Group of the Climate Change Levy have been set.
Terms of payment It is the Groups normal practice to agree terms of trading, including payment terms, with all suppliers.
Provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, it is the Groups policy that payment should be made accordingly.
The average creditor days outstanding at 2 August 2002 for the Group and the Company were 45 and 27 days, respectively 2001 50 and 35 days.
13 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 D IRECTORS R EPORT continuedD IRECT 10.
Political and charitable contributions The Group made charitable donations of 26,000 during the year 2001 97,000.
No political donations were made in either year.
Introduction of the single European currency The possibility of the UK joining the European Monetary Union at some stage continues to be monitored and the changes required to our systems and accounting procedures, were this to occur, have been identied.
The costs of making such changes will not be significant.
Special business a Partial disapplication of pre-emption rights The Companies Act 1985 requires that pre-emption rights must be applied to any issue of shares for cash unless shareholders have given their consent to the waiver of such rights.
Resolution 7 set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will therefore be proposed to enable the directors to issue shares for cash other than by way of a rights issue or pursuant to the Groups share option schemes up to a maximum of 5,150,000 ordinary shares, representing approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital, without applying pre-emption rights.
Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
b Authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 29 November 2001, the directors were authorised on behalf of the Company to purchase the Companys ordinary shares on The London Stock Exchange.
Resolution 8 set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be proposed to renew this authority to purchase up to 10,300,000 ordinary shares, being approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The directors will continue only to exercise such power if it is anticipated that it would result in an increase in the earnings per share attributable to the ordinary share capital of the Company and would be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
14 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 ORS R EPORT continued 14.
Corporate governance The following describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code have been applied during the year.
Areas where the board has not complied with the detail within the Combined Code are also commented on below.
Board of directors Throughout the year the board has consisted of four executive directors and three non-executive directors.
The board considers that the balance of executive and non-executive directors is appropriate and effective for the control and direction of the business.
It is the opinion of the board that, throughout the year, each of the Companys non-executive directors was independent for corporate governance purposes and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of his or her judgement.
None of them participates in any bonus, share option or pension scheme of the Company.
David Wilbraham is the senior non-executive director.
Non-executive directors do not have service agreements and their terms of engagement are agreed by the executive directors and confirmed in writing by the Chairman.
It continues to be the policy of the board that executive directors should be employed under service agreements which can be determined by serving twelve months notice or less.
The board meets at regular intervals and is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisitions and divestments, major capital projects and financial matters.
It reviews the strategic direction and annual budgets of individual trading subsidiaries, and approves major individual items of capital expenditure.
The matters reserved to the board for consideration specifically include risks such as: matters likely to disrupt a subsidiarys ability to carry on business, or damage the reputation of the Group as a whole in the eyes of its shareholders or the general public and matters which are likely to result in a substantial unplanned financial risk to any subsidiary.
The directors consider themselves collectively responsible for ensuring that risks arising from environmental, social and ethical factors and the health and safety of the Groups employees are suitably managed and are referred to the board, as necessary.
All directors have full and timely access to all relevant information needed to enable them properly to discharge their responsibilities.
The board carried out its annual review of matters reserved to it for decision and those delegated to its executive committee.
The roles of Chairman and Managing Director are separate and distinct and have been so since the Company first obtained a Listing on The London Stock Exchange in 1985.
The Companys Articles of Association require all directors to retire and offer themselves for re-appointment by shareholders at least once every three years.
The procedure for directors to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and to be reimbursed their reasonable legal fees was reconrmed during the year, as was the right of each to have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
All directors also have unrestricted access to other executives within the business to discuss any matter of concern to them.
15 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 D IRECTORS R EPORT continuedD IRECT 14.
Corporate governance continued Board committees Separate Audit and Remuneration Committees of the board exist, with written terms of reference which were reviewed during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is made up solely of independent non-executive directors, namely David Wilbraham chairman of the committee, Lorraine Baldry and Graham Menzies.
The Audit Committee continues to consist of a majority of independent non-executive directors, together with two executive directors Miles Emley and Raymond Morley.
Throughout the period under review, therefore, the composition of the Audit Committee did not comply with provision D. 3.1 of the Combined Code.
The board believes that it is appropriate and in the best interests of the shareholders for the executive directors to be represented on the Audit Committee, albeit as a minority.
David Wilbraham chairs the committee.
Lorraine Baldry and Graham Menzies also served on the Audit Committee throughout the year.
The Audit Committee meets at least once a year with the Groups external auditors to review the scope and results of the audit prior to the approval by the board of the Groups financial statements and to review the independence of the auditors.
The nonexecutive directors have been given specic approval by the board to meet separately with the Groups auditors should they, or the auditors, consider it appropriate.
The board has not formed a Nomination Committee: the full board decides on nominations and all directors participate in interviewing prospective members of the board, whether executive or non-executive.
In this respect, therefore, the Company does not comply with provision A.
Internal control The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A workable and realistic system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, therefore, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year the directors reviewed the need for an internal audit function and concluded that the existing financial controls and the annual external audits of all trading subsidiaries are sufficient.
The board believes that its internal control procedures, outlined below, have enabled the directors to report in full compliance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
The board exercises these controls via ongoing monthly meetings of each divisions senior management with the Groups Chairman, Managing Director and Finance Director present.
All attendees receive agendas and papers in advance of each meeting: detailed minutes are recorded and actions followed up.
Regular items for discussion encompass any areas of significant risk to the businesses and are also raised at the next parent company board meeting, when appropriate.
In addition, the executive directors meet each month with divisional managing directors, the company secretary, the Groups director of personnel, and the Groups technical manager, as an executive committee to review the Groups businesses world-wide as an integral part of the Groups internal control mechanism.
16 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 ORS R EPORT continued Annual internal control reviews are performed by all operating sites and any inconsistencies with the Groups established corporate governance and authority limits regimes are identied and disclosed to the Audit Committee.
The board has also carried out its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control which covers the year under review and the period up to the date of this annual report.
Compliance statement Other than those areas of non-compliance regarding board committees set out above, the board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period under review and up to the date of the approval of these financial statements.
Shareholder relations The board attaches considerable importance to the maintenance of good relationships with shareholders.
Effective two-way communication with institutional shareholders and analysts is established through regular presentations, sometimes at production sites, involving the Chairman, Managing Director and Finance Director.
The Annual General Meeting is regarded as an opportunity to communicate directly with shareholders and the chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting has been circulated more than twenty working days prior to the meeting, in accordance with the Combined Code.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources and borrowing facilities to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors responsibilities The following statement is made for the purpose of clarifying for members the respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in the preparation of the accounts.
The auditors responsibilities are contained within their audit report on page 24.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group enabling them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are also responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and they have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are 17 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 D IRECTORS R EPORT continuedD IRECT 17.
Statement of directors responsibilities continued reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Approved by the board of directors and signed on its behalf by Philip Harris Secretary 15 October 2002 18
