S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 R EVIEW OF O PERATIONS continued digital pre-press capability.
Our creative photographic studios are now fully equipped with digital cameras and we have improved the interface with pre-press to expand digital photographic capacity.
F INANCIAL The depressed state of global capital markets led to very low volumes of transactional financial printing.
A gradual decline in equity values, combined with the events of September 11, resulted in the lowest level of IPOs for 15 years and very few mergers and acquisitions.
Consequently we have had to reduce our costs, which has regrettably led to redundancies.
Whilst these conditions led to an overall decline in turnover, we maintained our position as market leader in the UK and achieved a modest increase in our market share in the USA.
We were involved with a number of high prole deals.
In Europe these included IPOs for easyJet, Intertek and Autoroutes du Sud fide la France.
We handled the mergers of National Grid and Lattice, and Aceralia, Arbed and Usinor to form Arcelor: the E. ON acquisition of PowerGen and Imperial Tobaccos purchase of Reemtsma.
We also printed all the documentation in connection with a proposed return of 2 billion to shareholders for Marks and Spencer.
In the USA we completed exchange offers for iVillage and Rite Aid and equity issues for ToysUs and AC Moore.
In the process of these transactions we further enhanced our reputation for producing complex time-sensitive documentation and are well placed to benefit from an upturn in the market when it comes.
We have had a successful year in the printing of companies annual reports and accounts and reports for mutual funds.
We remain the market leader in producing annual reports for FTSE 100 companies.
New customers in the UK included Whitbread, Lattice, BG and mmO.
In the USA, we produced annual reports for a number of leading 2 companies including A&P, Chase Manhattan, Delta Airlines, Ford Motor Company and General Motors Corporation.
Outside the annual report season we have continued to focus on attracting other corporate and ne art work.
The quality of our printing has led to us winning a number of awards at both St Ives Westerham Press and St Ives Inc Case-Hoyt.
