S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 In the mutual funds market we have continued to expand our client base, carrying out new assignments in Europe for Swiss Life, Nordea and Deutsche Asset Management and in the USA for Delaware, ING and Barons.
This area of the business continues to provide good opportunities for growth and we are in the process of installing a new 8-unit sheet-fed press at Woolwich.
Competition, particularly in the web offset market, has remained M AGAZINES erce, mainly as a consequence of the closure by publishers of UK uneconomic publications and a general reduction in the level of advertising, which has seen paginations reduce by an average of 10 per cent.
Internet-related titles have been particularly affected.
As a result there is a significant excess of supply over demand.
In response, we undertook a review of our own capacity, which led to the closure of our Gillingham factory following consultation with the workforce.
This factory operated our least modern equipment, and we were able to retain the work previously produced there at our other sites where we have benefited from better utilisation, whilst maintaining a high level of service to our customers.
During the year we installed computer-to-plate systems at our Roche and Caerphilly factories.
With the installation at Peterborough in August 2002, all our factories are now equipped with fully digital pre-press systems.
Following the success of the first press, at our Roche factory we installed a second 16pp, 5 5 super perfector sheet-fed press, which prints short-run magazine and catalogue sections, covers and other products on both sides at a single pass.
During the year we renewed our contract to produce the Sunday Telegraph Magazine and the Southbank portfolio for IPC, which includes Marie Claire, Woman and Home, Homes & Gardens, Family Circle and other prestigious titles.
As part of the latter agreement we will also be producing both Wallpaper and Instyle magazines.
We were successful in winning Computer Active from VNU: the BBCs Top Gear magazine: Resources supplement for News International: and a further portfolio of 14 titles from EMAP, including Todays Golfer, Golf World, Max Power, Revs and Period Living.
