Sales held up well and initiatives are in hand to combat current difficulties Yule Catto & Co plc The niche position and Annual Report Performance Chemicals high market share enjoyed by our companies in this sector provide ample opportunity for good returns 14 15 and positive cash flow.
Substantial effort is being applied to achieve this goal.
2002 saw work centred on the development of growth opportunities Sales m Market conditions for our companies were testing last year with the downward pull of the weakening US dollar adding 00 157.5 to the pressure on margins.
In the 01 147.5 circumstances, sales held up well and initiatives are in hand to combat 144.2 02 current difficulties.
During 2002, work was centred on the development of growth opportunities for inorganic chemicals, ultramarine and colour developers.
In addition, strategic reviews have been completed or are in progress in inks, dispersions and the organic businesses.
The niche position and high market Inorganic Chemicals Divisional operating profit m share enjoyed by our companies in A pleasing return to profit growth was this sector provide ample opportunity achieved by William Blythe Limited.
The for good returns and positive cash flow.
difficulties of the copper market, following 16.3 00 Substantial effort is being applied to the collapse of the UK printed circuit board 01 15.3 achieve this goal.
industry, came steadily under control 02 10.8 throughout the year.
Newly installed facilities for copper digestion enabled cost effective product to be available for the latest environmentally friendly timber treatment products for which demand is increasing.
Tin products had a strong year with good demand across all areas.
This was particularly true of sales to pharmaceutical applications and rising demand for stannic chloride to the European glass industry.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report Performance Chemicals continued 16 17 2003 will be very busy fulfilling contracts already secured The iodine product group developed Dyes and Chemicals excellent momentum with buoyant Overall global leadership was maintained sales of higher margin products and by our ultramarine business with good new business in reprocessing residues progress in extending their lead and returned from customers as part of market dominance of the most technically total service contracts.
A substantial proportion of ultramarine is sold to US Sulphur dioxide derivatives also had a dollar territories and the weakening of good year despite increased competition that currency reduced profits.
In addition, from central Europe on the back of a strong volumes were constrained in the second pound.
Sales are also now well established half of the year due to a fire within the flue in the new application area of bleaching in gas desulphurisation plant at our French the manufacture of paper.
Plans were already well advanced to replace this equipment with a larger capacity, higher efficiency unit.
Timing of the installation has been significantly brought forward with the target for 01 01 01 commissioning now set as late 2003.
William Blythes new stannic chloride plant will supply the pharmaceutical and glass Research and development work to coating industries.
broaden the range of ultramarine applications continues to receive high levels of interest from customers.
In some areas these new developments have already been included in major colour styling programmes.
Other Activities 02 The management changes and restructuring within our consumer chemicals operations have started to bear fruit.
Margins have improved substantially, whilst costs and working capital have been brought under tight control, improving results substantially.
New initiatives are underway to market the product range more aggressively from the solid base that has been established.
The houseware and automotive business of Brencliffe Limited had a very strong year, achieving record profits.
Autoclenz Limited had another good year, 02 The James Robinson activities had a taking advantage of structural changes Highlighting the use of ultramarine in screen difficult year with the expected upsurge within the UK automotive market to printing inks and foils for packaging purposes.
in demand in the second half being further offset competitive market pressures.
The company retains leading James Robinson produces hair dye intermediates, positions in hair dye, photochromic and photographic chemicals and novel photochromic photographic chemicals and an in-depth dyes from three locations in the UK, Germany and India.
strategy review is in progress to assess how best to structure the business to maximise returns.
Our joint venture in India suffered delays in the build up of orders for photographic developers.
This has now completely reversed and 2003 will be very busy fulfilling contracts already secured.
