Yule Catto & Co plc These results are the reward Annual Report Pharma and for the years of hard work Fine Chemicals and focus on developing a growing range of generic active pharmaceutical 10 11 intermediates, together with the creation of ever closer links with major customers to provide an efficient and responsive outsourcing service.
Sales m Divisional operating profit m 88.0 11.3 00 00 85.6 11.1 01 01 106.5 22.7 02 02 The long-awaited news of the launch of The outlook remains positive with the generic omeprazole in the USA emerged opportunity to sell substantial volumes towards the end of last year.
It was, of omeprazole to the USA as Prilosec however, advances on a broad front across is replaced by the generic alternative.
our Pharma and Fine Chemical activities However, other products are also showing 10 105 5% % that led to the growth of 24.4% in turnover.
significant progress with contracts in place that will keep our factories busy in the profit growth across The higher sales, better product mix months ahead.
our Pharma and Fine and close attention to production and raw material efficiencies delivered a profit Chemical activities that more than doubled.
These results are the reward for the many years of hard work and sustained focus on the development of a growing range of generic active pharmaceutical intermediates, together with the creation of ever closer links with major customers to provide an efficient and responsive outsourcing service.
Our flavour and fragrance customers experienced weaker trading in 2002 which reflected on the results from our businesses.
To meet this slower growth, restructuring has taken place at our Dutch facility and all round greater emphasis given to marketing and new product launches.
USA saw the long awaited launch of generic omeprazole Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report Pharma and Fine Chemicals continued 12 13 Pharma The new pilot plant is performing well with The Uquifa companies achieved good a number of chemical products in early forward momentum, not only on the phase, successfully developed to industrial sales front, but also with the development scale.
Capacity for this unit is already programme for generic products.
This saw reserved for most of the year ahead.
Fo Fou ur r four new drug master files registered in the USA and Europe.
The process is continuing Our Italian company was challenged by new drug master files with a programme clearly mapped out for a fall in the market for cephalosporins, were registered in the the next few years.
but patient work was rewarded by the securing of attractive contracts for ethical USA and Europe In Spain, sales of omeprazole increased intermediates.
A decision has been taken to European customers as it progressively to cease cephalosporin production and came off patent in a number of countries.
convert it to prime cryogenic manufacturing New production capacity was installed capacity for high volume generics and new and commissioned in the middle of the ethical intermediates.
The change will year in readiness to handle the extra release an additional 12% capacity to demand forecast for the launch of the the Uquifa group and will be completed 01 generic product in the USA.
Further by mid 2003. capacity expansions will take place during the course of 2003.
The improvement in the performance of the Mexican business continued apace All other generic products performed well, with high capacity utilisation for ethical with notable advances in sales of ranitidine intermediate contracts and growing sales and cimitedine.
A contract has also been of generic products.
The introduction of secured for a high volume veterinary active.
three new generics was also achieved providing good opportunities for the future.
The consolidation of the Uquifa companies is complete and they now boast the ability to offer highly efficient manufacturing capabilities for both the generic and ethical markets.
The management team are pushing forward with generic filings and the offer of ever more complex intermediates.
01 Agrate Brianza, Italy one of Uquifas four manufacturing plants.
Additional capacity will be created by the cessation of cephalosporin production and the conversion to cryogenic manufacturing.
02 02 The long awaited news of the launch of generic omeprazole in the USA emerged towards the end of last year.
We look forward to further growth in 2003.
Flavour and Fragrance The performance of PFW Aroma Consolidation and restructuring Chemicals BV was adversely affected continues to be a major influence on the by increased raw material costs.
Lower markets we serve, but equally provides volume for its Tonalid polycyclic musk business opportunities.
The adoption by products was balanced by a notable 2003 multinational companies of global gain in production efficiency and reduced purchasing is one of many challenges.
Prospects for 2003 are prospects are However, our position as a niche producer, considerably improved by the withdrawal considerably particularly in sulphur compounds, gives of our last competitor from the market, as protection against the stronger downward well as new initiatives to secure costimproved in the pricing forces.
This is unlike the more effective feedstocks.
commodity products, where increased marketplace competition from China and India has Insourcing and toll manufacture, particularly been noted.
in Friedel Crafts chemistry, combined with world class distillation and separation A focus on quality and production techniques, has created significant new efficiency, backed by innovation, will business opportunities.
In addition, recent remain a feature in delivering momentum European legislation requiring the labelling, in this growing market as the spread of even of low hazard chemicals, is creating convenience food extends to interest in our label free citrus range.
Oxford Chemicals Limited has enjoyed good demand for its top selling high impact range, particularly its sulphur chemicals.
As well as flavour applications, good progress was seen in other markets, in particular, the adoption of non-sulphur products for domestic gas odourants has boosted sales.
With its wide geographic spread and customer base, the company is well placed to exploit e-business and they have spearheaded the groups development of this important additional sales tool.
