Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report Group Overview 511 67 million million total turnover operating profit 02 03 Before amortisation of goodwill Turnover by Origin % UK 44 Other Europe 38 Asia 12 Rest of World 6 Key products Polymer Chemicals Emulsions Over the past two years sales of our water-based polymer products have grown by Synthetic latices close to 20%.
This has obviously been influenced by the benefits of the acquisition of Adhesives 100% control of Harlow Chemical Company Limited, but it is a more than satisfactory Natural rubber latex result in the current economic environment.
Liquid polybutadiene Polyvinyl alcohol Profits increased by over 20% in 2002, and would have been higher had not the impact Polyvinyl acetate of rising raw material prices been in evidence in the second half.
Overall, margins were Alkyd and polyester resins recorded at the traditional levels seen for our speciality products and action is in hand with regard to pricing and product mix in an endeavour to sustain these levels.
Key products Pharma and Fine Chemicals Generic and ethical The long-awaited news of the launch of generic omeprazole in the USA emerged towards pharmaceutical actives the end of last year.
It was, however, advances on a broad front across our Pharma and Development and manufacture of Fine Chemical activities that led to the growth of 24.4% in turnover.
clinical phase compounds Flavour and fragrance ingredients The higher sales, better product mix and close attention to production and raw material efficiencies delivered a profit that more than doubled.
Key products Performance Chemicals Ultramarine pigments, photographic Market conditions for our companies were testing last year with the downward pull chemicals, sulphur dioxide derivatives, of the weakening US dollar adding to the pressure on margins.
In the circumstances, inorganic intermediates, colour sales held up well and initiatives are in hand to combat current difficulties.
dispersions, inks Cleaning and engineering During 2002, work was centred on the development of growth opportunities for inorganic maintenance chemicals chemicals, ultramarine and colour developers.
In addition, strategic reviews have been Services contract aerosol filling, completed or are in progress in inks, dispersions and the organic businesses.
cleaning services 12 12.. 5 5p p 29.8 30% per share million improvement dividend free cash flow in profit before taxation Before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items Turnover by Destination % UK 26 Other Europe 38 Asia 16 Rest of World 20 Markets Geographic scope Sales including joint ventures 260.0m 50.9% Surface coatings UK and Continental Europe Divisional operating profit Dipping eg gloves Asia 37.6m 52.9% Carpets and non-woven textiles Middle East Paper South Africa Adhesives PVC manufacture Markets Geographic scope Sales 106.5m 20.9% Major pharmaceutical manufacturers Europe Divisional operating profit Generic drugs North America 22.7m 32.0% Food industries South East Asia and Far East Fragrances Toiletries Detergents Markets Geographic scope Sales 144.2m 28.2% Plastics UK and Continental Europe Divisional operating profit Household chemicals South East Asia and Far East 10.8m 15.1% Surface coatings North America Timber treatments Middle East Photographic Africa Cosmetics and hair dyes Textiles Toiletries Engineering consumables Janitorial supplies
