Directors 12 Robert Kiernan 62, Non-executive Chairman Robert Kiernan joined the Board in 1998.
He was previously Chairman of Routledge Publishing Holdings Limited which was acquired by Taylor & Francis in 1998.
Prior to his position with Routledge, Robert was Chief Executive officer of Thomson Corporation Publishing.
He is also the Non-executive Chairman of the Discovery Group plc and has a number of other private business interests.
David Smith 53, Chief Executive David Smith was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 8 April 2002.
In the previous ten years David held senior management positions at Wolters Kluwer and was latterly Chief Executive of its European Education and Legal, Tax and Business divisions.
Anthony Foye BA, ACA, 40, Group Finance Director Anthony Foye joined Taylor & Francis in 1987 as Group Chief Accountant after qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Haines Watts.
He joined the Board as Company Secretary in May 1987 and was appointed Finance Director in July 1994.
Anthony resigned as Company Secretary in December 2002 and was replaced by Jeff Thomasson.
Anthony is responsible for the Groups finance function and is Managing Director of Taylor & Francis Publishing Services Limited.
Roger Horton 45, Director Roger Horton joined the Board in 1994 with over 15 years of publishing experience.
Roger is responsible at Group Board level for all book publishing activities and is Managing Director of Taylor & Francis Books Limited.
Jon Conibear 51, Director Jon Conibear joined the Board in November 2001 from the Blackwell publishing group, bringing with him over 25 years experience in academic publishing.
He is responsible at Group Board level for all journal publishing activities and is Managing Director of Taylor & Francis Limited.
David Banister BA, PhD, MCIT, MIL, FRSA, 52, Non-executive Director David Banister has been a non-executive Director of Taylor & Francis Group plc since 1990.
He is Professor of Transport Planning at University College London and has authored or edited 16 books and written more than 200 papers for refereed journals and books.
12 Derek Mapp 52, Non-executive Director Derek Mapp joined the Board as non-executive Director in 1998.
He is Executive Chairman of Leapfrog Day Nurseries Limited and Chairman of the East Midlands Development Agency, as well as having a number of other private business interests.
Derek was formerly Managing Director of Tom Cobleigh plc.
2 David Wallace CBE, FRS, FREng, FRSE, FinstP, 57, Non-executive Director David Wallace was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2000.
He is Vice-Chancellor of Loughborough University and a director of UK e-Universities Worldwide Limited and also chairs the e-Science Steering Committee of the Ofce of Science and Technology.
David is also currently President of the Institute of Physics and a Vice President of the Royal Society.
1 Nicholas Berwin, MA Hons, 45, Non-executive Director Nicholas Berwin joined the Board in March 2001.
Nicholas has broad experience in strategic and financial consulting having held positions with Morgan Grenfell & Company Limited Deutsche Morgan Grenfell and more recently in his own consultancy business.
1 denotes member of Audit Committee 2 denotes member of Remuneration Committee Taylor & Francis Group plc - 9
