8 TNS review More than information The proliferation of the media means that its influence analytical and diagnostic tools that can be used, among other today is more significant than ever.
How does TNS Media things, to provide an up to date view of the competitive Intelligence help companies understand this increasingly environment.
In addition, our team of experienced media and advertising First, we offer a wide range of local and international professionals has in-depth market knowledge.
They can monitoring services: these give clients an understanding of devise innovative solutions to media issues.
They provide the extent of their media and advertising exposure, and that expert analysis, evaluation and commentary to assist clients of their competitors.
Beyond this we undertake a range of with a range of matters, such as how to optimise the analysis and evaluation, which allows them, for example, to effectiveness of media, advertising and sponsorship understand whether they are using the most effective expenditure, as well as formulate appropriate combination of media for their marketing activities.
A key benefit for our clients is that they can receive, from Technology must play a key role in your ability to provide one supplier, data and analysis that is comparable across such powerful information.
different forms of media as well as different markets.
This Technology is fundamental to our ability to track, store, enables them to take a regional, or even a global view on analyse and deliver information continuously on such a their strategies.
Its application has enabled the group to How does TNS add insights to the information it collects?
achieve great efficiencies in media monitoring.
For example, We have a unique source of historical references from our we have developed automatic recognition systems for extensive media databases, some dating back as far as thirty monitoring television and radio advertisements, which years, which we use to identify and analyse trends in identify an ad the first time it appears and then automatically advertising and media.
We have also developed a range of register each subsequent appearance.
Santiago fide Chile Buenos Aires So Paolo Mexico City Monterrey Tijuana Santiago fide Chile Buenos Aires So Paolo Mexico City Monterrey Predictive In January, TNS CMR Media Intelligence forecast that US advertising expenditure would grow by 3% in 2003.
It predicts spending increases in 2003 for all major media, with Spanish language television, cable TV and internet expected to lead the way 22.00 23.00 www.
com 9 In the US, TNS tracks over 100 million advertising Further, we have responded to our clients demands for occurrences each year, covering more than one million information on an international basis by establishing global brands.
monitoring services including Womens World Adex, which tracks advertising in womens magazines from around the Technology also allows us to deliver to clients immediately, world, and Euro Presse, which monitors the editorial information that is unique to them.
We have developed content in 60 international titles.
extensive online multi-media databases that give clients an up to the minute view of media coverage and allow them to We are rolling out our media services into new regions as download media references and advertisements.
The clients launch their products there, such as China, a market demand for ever-faster access to data comes from all our where there is great potential for growth in media activities.
These range from public relations agencies to A major consumer buying and lifestyle study of Chinese multi-national companies and government services, print media readers, which we based on long term including the Spanish Parliament, to which we supply a established surveys we undertake in France and daily review of press, radio and television, together with a Scandinavia, demonstrates how we effectively transfer media impact analysis.
our expertise across the global network.
With globalisation a driving force behind this market, is there an increasing appetite for international information?
Jean-Michel Portier Responsible for Media Intelligence and France Thats certainly the case for many of our multi-national Based in France clients, such as LOral, for which we provide worldwide Contact jean-michel.
To provide this level of service, we have developed the capability to integrate and deliver consistently high quality data from around the world.
Tijuana Santiago fide Chile Buenos Aires So Paolo Mexico City Monterrey Tijuana Santiago fide Chile Buenos Aires So Paolo Mexico City 24.00 01.00
