Executive committee Pedro Ros The day-to-day running of the group is the Associate Director responsibility of the TNS executive committee, Age 41, based in Spain.
Joined the group in 1985, working initially which comprises Mike Kirkham, Chief in the consumer panel division and then in a number of different roles in Spain.
He was appointed Country Manager in 1994, a Executive and David Lowden, Finance position he held until 1999, when he became Regional Director for Director, together with an international team Southern Europe and Latin America.
In 2001, he took additional of senior managers.
responsibility for Consumer Panels worldwide.
Bruce Shandler Mike Penford Associate Director Associate Director Age 55, based in US.
Started his research career in 1970 with Age 49, based in the UK.
Joined the group in 1993 and took Alan Widra & Associates, a small field service research company.
charge of UK panel operations.
In 1997, he became Head of the He developed this business into Intersearch, one of the largest Consumer Panels sector.
From 2001, he has had responsibility for custom research companies in the US and was appointed the UK and Ireland, the Healthcare sector, TNS Branded President in 1991.
He became CEO of TNS Intersearch, when it Solutions, TNS Interactive and the development of syndicated joined the group in 1997 and took responsibility for the IT sector services.
Mike Petch Sam van der Feltz Age 47, based in the UK.
Joined the group in 1986 as Personnel Associate Director Director of AGB International and has remained with the company Age 48, based in the Netherlands.
Joined the group in 2001 through a period of significant change and growth.
During that with responsibility for Northern and Central Europe.
Previously, time, he has gained considerable international HR experience and he spent 22 years at Unilever in a number of international is now Group Director of Human Resources.
management roles, including Managing Director, Elida Gibbs BV Jean-Michel Portier and Chairman of the Dutch ice cream division.
He was also a Associate Director member of the board of Unilever Netherlands.
Joined Sofres in 1987 as Scientific and Technical Director and became Chairman of Secodip in 1992.
From 1994 to 1999, he was also Chief Executive of Europanel.
In 1999, he was appointed Head of the Media Intelligence sector and in 2001 took additional responsibility for France.
top left to right Mike Petch, Bruce Shandler mid left to right Jean-Michel Portier, Sam van der Feltz, Mike Penford left Pedro Ros www.
