6 TNS review Making the right connections The group is widely regarded as a leader in internet research.
Are you seeing demand for online research in all of your What has driven your success in this area?
We combine proven research methodologies, specialist Yes, especially in IT, Telecoms, Healthcare and Financial sector expertise and technological know how, which has Services.
The IT sector is particularly well suited to internet enabled us to build a reputation for providing leading research, given that a high proportion of survey targets are internet research solutions.
This is not just helping us to online users.
Combining our specialist knowledge of the IT win new business: it is also proving to be instrumental in industry with our internet research capabilities, we have attracting high quality people who want to work at the been able to deliver effective online research solutions to our cutting edge of online research.
Where is the largest market for internet research?
TNS has a reputation for innovation.
How is the group To date, by far the largest market for internet research has developing its internet capabilities?
been the US, which has grown as online research replaces We have developed web-based research tools that help our traditional methods.
In response, early last year we considerclients to address common internet marketing issues.
For ably strengthened the internet research capabilities of our example, WebEval is used to evaluate website usability, custom business in the US, by acquiring the custom research while AdEval assesses advertising effectiveness.
In division of Greenfield Online GFOL, which conducts addition, the group has been web enabling its branded hundreds of studies annually for blue chip clients.
We had already developed an online version of brought into the group one of the most experienced teams in Miriad and have recently introduced The Buy Test the US in the design and execution of internet research.
As online, which allows clients to evaluate and test their TV part of the deal, the group secured preferential rights to use advertising completely through the internet.
Greenfields online panel of over one million individuals.
San Francisco Los Angeles Chicago Montral Qubec Dallas Clarksville Youngstown Chesapeake West Chester Edina Horsham Kansas City 17.00 18.00 www.
com 7 How has the internet enhanced the way the group delivers TNSInfo is an effective tool for the wide dissemination of information to clients?
What role does it play managing key accounts?
We are seeing a significant increase in the take up of Over half of our top 50 clients use TNSInfo and there are TNSInfo, our web portal system that provides clients with now more than 280 client sites in use in over 52 countries.
a single online source of information.
Sam van der Feltz talked earlier about the work we do for Our clients like TNSInfo.
Not only does it give them a secure McDonalds around our global network.
TNSInfo has been source of data that is always up to date, it can be accessed by very effective in supporting those activities.
For example, we multiple users via the internet wherever they are in the currently provide web delivery of personalised information world.
TNSInfo offers functionality that enables users to to McDonalds users in 25 countries.
TNSInfo has also been customise their web page, receive alerts when there are instrumental in helping the group secure new business with market developments and undertake their own data analysis.
The market information and analysis we provide is part of We will continue to rollout TNSInfo across the network and our clients day to day business.
TNSInfo is an effective way develop it as an interactive communications tool, both with of ensuring that information is immediately accessible and clients and internally for teams managing key accounts.
It was recently adopted by a Dutch car dealership as the method of delivering 900 customer satisfaction reports Bruce Shandler Responsible for US to 120 car dealers each month.
The results of those reports custom business and IT provide the basis for the dealers monthly bonuses.
Based in the US Therefore, it is critical that we deliver the results on a timely Contact: bruce.
com basis and in a clear and accurate format.
TNSInfo is the obvious choice.
San Diego Atlanta Princeton New York Tucker Torrance White Plains Wilton Eugene Chula Vista Bala Cynwyd Del Mar Jenkintown Princeton International TNS Government Online study interviewed almost 29,000 people across 31 countries.
30% said they had accessed government online services, up from 26% in 2001.
Most significant increases were in Australia, Turkey, Netherlands and US.
Services most commonly used were to search for and download information 19.00 20.00 21.00
