2 TNS review Around the world in 24 hours What does having a global presence mean to TNS?
sports sponsorship with the TNS name for consumer Our worldwide reach is one of the groups greatest assets.
This immediately gave TNS Sport a broader range We have a significant presence in all of the worlds main of products and services, helping it to win new clients and markets.
Our challenge is to leverage that position by using extend its business with existing ones.
Operating as part of the network as a distribution channel a means of bringing TNS Media Intelligence, the company has used the sectors new products and services to the market.
By combining this expertise in various countries to win new business.
Other with our ability to share knowledge, skills and information countries are calling in TNS Sport to act as experts on across the group, we will make this valuable asset work to its specific projects.
Is it common practice to share expertise around the group?
Is the group succeeding in acquiring products to sell into This is a key driver that allows us to introduce new products other markets?
and services, particularly in developing markets, faster than TNS Sport illustrates how being part of the group can add would otherwise be possible.
Take political polling even more than additional geographic coverage.
Before internationally, we believe we are the largest political polling joining TNS in 2001, the company had developed a good organisation in the world.
This is very much a localised reputation for sponsorship evaluation in the UK and was activity but the skill sets are the same.
So, when our business operating internationally through franchises.
Its clients in Korea wanted to establish itself in this area, it turned for include large corporate sponsors, sports federations, help to our specialists in France, where we are the No 1 individual teams or clubs, sports marketing agencies and polling company.
By combining the advice and resource it governing bodies.
They began to want more in-depth gained from elsewhere in the group with its local services, involving additional consumer research.
The group knowledge, TNS is now the leading political pollster was able to meet this demand by combining expertise in in Korea.
Almaty Beijing Guangzhou Shanghai Hong Kong Kolkata Bangalore Chennai New Delhi Mumbai Hyderabad Jakarta Tokyo Kuala Lumpur 07.00 08.00 09.00 www.
com 3 Other examples include our rapid establishment of a From that strong base, we have extended into Norway and regional panel presence in Asia, which now spans eight Finland and now Sweden where, within a year, we have won countries, using methodology developed for our European over 40 major clients.
panels and shared client knowledge.
The group has taken its Pedro Ros will talk later about the value we derive from well-established TV audience measurement and media having a pan-regional panel presence in Asia.
The strength intelligence skills to the fast-growing Chinese market.
In the of this and our European panels is enhanced by the focus we space of six years, we have become the number one provider are placing on global delivery systems.
These systems allow of these services in China.
The TV audience measurement the group to transport ideas easily around the network.
service operated by our joint venture reports on the viewing They enable us to provide clients with consistent global habits of more people than any other in the world and in information, helping them to make regional comparisons adex we monitor around 600 TV channels daily.
about the performance of their brands and services.
How does the network lend itself to the development of pan-regional services?
Mike Penford Responsible for UK and The group is the largest market information provider in the Ireland, Healthcare, branded solutions and development of syndicated services Nordic region: the ideal platform for the development of Based in the UK pan-Nordic services.
Internet measurement is a good Contact mike.
Using innovative, licensed technology, our sitecentric service has been adopted as the standard for internet measurement in Denmark, where TNS also specialises in TV, radio and print readership measurement.
Internet has been fully integrated into our complete media offering.
Mataki City Cebu City Davao City Singapore Seoul Taipei Bangkok Ho Chi Minh City Hanoi Can Tho City Nha Trang City Hai Phong Danang City Hu Dalat City Regional Prior to the 2002 World Cup, a study that polled over 10,000 people from ten Asian countries showed that the battle for Asias favourite football player was being closely fought between the UKs David Beckham 21% and Ronaldo of Brazil 19% 10.00 11.00
