Directors Report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal Activities The Groups principal activities are the publishing and distribution of scientific, technical, medical, social science and humanities journals and books.
The Groups main objective is to continue to develop these activities on a worldwide basis, in support of the academic, scientific and professional communities and for the benefit of the Groups shareholders.
Business Review The results for the year are summarised in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 28.
A review of the Groups business and future prospects is set out in the Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Operating Review.
Share Capital: Increase of Capital and Authorities to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption Rights Resolution 9 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting proposes an increase in the authorised share capital of the Company from 5.75 million to 6.25 million by the creation of 10 million Ordinary Shares of 5p each, an increase of 8.70 per cent.
This increase is to maintain an appropriate amount of unissued capital, consequent upon issues of shares which have taken place since the authority referred to below was last renewed.
Resolution 10 set out in the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting contains authority for the directors to allot relevant securities for a period of five years up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,427,958 representing 33.33 per cent of the total issued ordinary share capital as at 18 March 2003.
Resolution 11 gives the directors power to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to this authority, disapplying the pre-emption provisions contained in Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power is valid for the same period and is limited to the allotment of equity securities up to a nominal amount of 214,193 approximately five per cent of the issued ordinary share capital at 18 March 2003 or in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any further shares other than to satisfy the exercise of option holders rights under the Companys share option schemes or in relation to any appropriate acquisition opportunities which may become available to the Company.
Dividends Trends in publishing require the Group to invest in new technology and products: reserves need to be built up to accommodate this investment.
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.94p per share, making a total of 4.39p per share, an increase of 10% on 2001.
The final dividend will be payable to shareholders registered as at the close of business on 4 April 2003 and will be paid on 20 June 2003.
Directors Details of directors who held ofce during the year ended 31 December 2002 and their interests in the issued share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 18 to 24.
Resolutions will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association for the reappointment of three directors.
Messrs D Wallace, D Banister and N Berwin retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Brief biographical details of those directors who are proposed for re-election appear on page 9.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 18 June 2003 and the notice is set out on page 58.
Taylor & Francis Group plc - 11 Directors Report continued Charitable and Political Contributions The Group made gifts during the year for charitable purposes of nil 2001: 670.
No political donations were made 2001: nil.
Auditors On 1 June 2003 Deloitte & Touche will transfer their entire business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership formed pursuant to the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
The Company has given its consent to treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 June 2003.
Accordingly, although the accounts were signed in the name of Deloitte & Touche, a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 18 March 2003 the Company has been notied of the following interests, other than those held by the directors, of 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: Number of shares % held The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 7,593,023 8.86% Henderson Global Investors Limited and fellow subsidiaries 7,072,126 8.26% FMR Corp and Fidelity International Limited and their subsidiaries 4,356,300 5.09% 3i Group plc 4,072,900 4.76% Zurich Financial Services and its Group 2,583,712 3.02% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 2,581,256 3.01% Policy on Payment of Creditors It is the Groups normal practice to make payments to suppliers in accordance with agreed terms, provided that the supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
At 31 December 2002 and 2001 the Company had no trade creditors.
Social, Environmental and Ethical Matters Social, environmental and ethical SEE matters have in the past been referred to the Board as part of regular operational and strategic reports it receives from the business units, the executive directors and through the formalised process of Risk Assessment.
These issues are regularly discussed as part of the Boards review and reporting procedures and are given high prominence as having relevance to the image, reputation and ultimately valuation of the business.
Going forward, managers will be specifically required to comment on SEE matters within the formalised Risk Assessment process.
These SEE matters will then be referred to the Audit Committee as part of their review and, where appropriate, to the Environmental Policy Committee.
Board members will also be given the opportunity to receive external training on SEE matters and during 2003 the Board will be formalising its ethical conduct policies which will then be implemented throughout the Group.
It is the Groups policy not to make any political donations.
Environmental Policy The Board has an Environmental Policy Committee, consisting of Mr R Kiernan and Mr D Banister, who review policies and practices surrounding environmental issues throughout the Group.
The objective is to provide Group-wide targets for key areas of environmental impact and to encourage initiatives to make the business more environmentally friendly.
Products The primary issue for the Group in relation to the impact of the business on the environment relates to the use of paper for its books and journals, of which 100% are produced on acid chlorine free paper.
The Group works with its printers throughout the world to ensure that water based biodegradable inks are used wherever possible.
Targets have been set to improve the Groups 12 - Taylor & Francis Group plc Directors Report continued environmental impact and we seek to reduce consumption of paper through, for example, electronic publishing, through reducing print runs and stock levels, through the replacement of colour wet-proong with colour digital proong and through converting backlist titles to electronic form.
Operations The preferred method of internal communication within the Group is through the intranet and email, which reduces the amount of paper used in the business.
All Group ofces have established recycling and waste recovery e. g. paper, toners, etc.
Energy use is subject to regular reviews with the objective of improving procedures to reduce energy consumption and to source energy efficient technology such as low energy computer display equipment.
This is part of a Group wide policy of monitoring and improvement to ensure the Group moves towards reaching a compliance plus position.
Staff On transport, staff are encouraged to use public transport.
In the UK interest free loans are offered for annual season tickets for rail and bus travel.
There is a limitation of 15 car parking spaces in our London ofce none in New York or Philadelphia for 319 staff.
Additionally, the Group provides locked storage facilities and, where possible, facilities such as showers to encourage staff to cycle to work.
During 2003 the Group will also offer loans to UK staff to purchase bicycles.
Employee Policies The Groups employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective of race, ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, religion or disabled status.
Full consideration is given to applications for employment, the continuing employment, training and career development of disabled persons.
During 2002 the Group again expanded the opportunities for staff to own shares in the Company through a number of share option schemes.
Shares have again been allocated to UK staff during the year under the Save As You Earn scheme and under an equivalent US scheme.
The Board intends to allocate further shares under both schemes during 2003.
Also during 2003 a number of employee incentive schemes will be introduced which will link bonuses to achievement of individual and Group objectives, both financial and non financial.
Every effort is made to keep staff as fully informed as possible about the operations and prospects of the Group.
Information on the activities of the Group and consultation with staff are provided regularly through various management communication channels, which include bulletins, notices, press releases and through meetings and presentations by senior management.
During 2002 we also involved a significant number of employees in an on-going review of our publishing activities.
The objective is to encourage staff to participate in the development of the business while utilising their knowledge and skills to enhance its performance.
By order of the Board 11 New Fetter Lane London EC4P 4EE J Thomasson Secretary 19 March 2003 Taylor & Francis Group plc - 13
