4 TNS review Going the extra mile Key account management has been established as an integral What gives TNS the confidence to pursue such a strategy?
part of TNS ongoing strategy.
Our confidence comes from the powerful presence and Key account management is increasingly a significant driver quality of people we have around the world.
We are in a for growth in our business.
By focusing attention on major position to take both a global and local view of our major international clients, we are better able to service their clients business issues, in the same way that they multi-national needs.
Healthcare is just one example of a themselves are doing.
Whether they look at the world as one sector where we have done this very successfully.
market, or take a regional approach, we have the flexibility to mirror their view.
But doesnt key account management mean more than that what does it mean for your clients?
Can you really expect to grow your business with one client It is beneficial to our clients they receive informed both geographically and into new services?
solutions delivered by a stable team that really understands McDonalds is an excellent example of where we have their business.
Our association began over ten years ago in the UK and has grown into a group-wide relationship.
As we build this partnership, we are in a position to identify McDonalds require dedicated teams to provide information new opportunities and to offer additional products and and work with them in using it to make better business services.
We gain understanding of clients issues in such decisions.
By focusing on McDonalds needs, we have depth that we can provide real business intelligence, helping grown our own business.
to develop their decision-making process and offer them an independent view.
The original brand tracking study has now extended to 29 European countries and Asia Pacific.
Miriad, our The ultimate result is that we have become the preferred software system, has been introduced as an analysis tool in supplier to some of the worlds leading companies.
Brisbane Canberra Melbourne Sydney Noumea Papeete Brisbane Canberra Melbourne Sydney Noumea Papeete Brisbane Canberra Melbourne Sydney Noumea 12.00 13.00 www.
We conduct mystery shopping in Spain And how do we manage the clients needs and issues in and Latin America and are piloting the service in Japan.
We have a TNS expert resident in their HQ, working as part of their Consumer Insights team.
On top of that, our team spends a good deal of time talking to the client to assess their requirements, allowing us to be Is key account management a driver only in custom business?
proactive in introducing other products that meet their It has for a long time also been a valuable tool in the needs, such as employee studies and sports sponsorship successful growth of our consumer panels.
we have people working out of our clients offices.
This is an important factor in client retention and early identification TNS has focused on developing sector expertise.
Does this of new opportunities.
Unilever, for example, is a major contribute to successful key account management?
client we have a large team dedicated to that account, It is an important element of our strategy.
Take Motorola, which has a close relationship at senior management level.
a company for which we are now a global preferred research This has allowed us to develop a consultancy-type role.
It is no secret that telecoms companies have had a tough time lately but over recent years we have grown our business with Motorola significantly, mostly on consumer Sam van der Feltz Responsible for Northern and Central Europe brand and retail tracking.
Based in the Netherlands This is an outstanding example of where we combine our Contact sam.
com global presence with sector expertise we really understand their business.
Our key account team works from the US, UK, Malaysia, China, India, Argentina and Chile, leading projects that came out of Motorolas Chicago headquarters.
Papeete Brisbane Canberra Melbourne Sydney Noumea Papeete Brisbane Canberra Melbourne Sydney Noumea Papeete Brisbane Canberra Melbourne Sydney Insight TNS Global Employee Commitment survey 2002 interviewed almost 20,000 full-time employees across 33 countries, using EmployeeScore to assess levels of employee commitment.
57% are committed to the job they do but only 51% to the company they work for 14.00 15.00 16.00
