10 TNS review Seeing the total solution Adding value is a phrase often used when talking about variety of questions relating to audience behaviour.
It is used market information what does it mean?
in 12 countries by over 4,000 individual users at more than Adding value means helping our clients to get closer to their 550 client organisations.
It was recently introduced into the customers, by giving them deeper understanding of peoples UK and already over 90 per cent of the UK broadcast sector behaviour.
This allows them to anticipate better the needs of uses the system to analyse one of the worlds most complex their customers by providing greater insight into what TV markets.
This is high visibility business, with many people really want by becoming their sixth sense of clients signing contracts for two years or more.
With our technology, we can provide clients with Is this approach applicable to panel business?
enormous amounts of data but, increasingly, they rely on us Added value services have been an important element in the to analyse it for them and advise on appropriate action.
successful development of TNS consumer panels and a We have moved from purely describing markets to number of new tools are being launched in 2003.
Clients use predicting future developments.
this analysis to help run their business and our ability to TNS has an outstanding reputation in TV audience deliver on a regional scale is very important.
Have the groups analytical abilities Palmolive in Asia, which has a multi-country, three-year contributed to this?
They appreciate the fact that not only can The introduction of satellite and digital TV has brought we compare take-up of a new product launch right across considerable change to TV audience measurement.
With the region, but also tell them why this has happened.
the huge number of commercials and programmes being We analyse the data in different ways, such as highlighting transmitted, broadcasters and agencies need more than the fastest growing categories across each country, enabling raw data.
In response, TNS has developed InfoSysTV, a the regional development team to allocate its promotional powerful and flexible analysis system, which answers a wide resources accordingly.
Dublin Lisba Barcelona Cardiff Edinburgh London Bruxelles Amsterdam Paris Luxembourg Bielefeld Milano Belgrade Tirana Sarajevo Sofia Bucharest 02.00 03.00 04.00 www.
com 11 The group has an impressive range of branded solutions: First launched in the UK, it has potential for expansion into what is their role in adding value?
new markets and new applications are being developed.
Our recent experience with Renault Nissan is a good TNS is ideally positioned to build this service, as it requires illustration of how we combine products and skills to in-depth knowledge of the healthcare market, combined provide decision-making tools for clients.
This client was with expertise in consumer data analysis.
looking for an advertising effectiveness solution for use in Finally, what is the way forward for the group?
We drew from expertise across our We will continue to maximise the benefits we derive from sectors in France to form a special team.
That team put our key strengths our multi-national reach combined with together our advertising pre-test, ad tracking, post-test and our local knowledge, our sector expertise and business mix, media tracking solutions, to produce what we consider to be our highly skilled people and advanced technology: to all of one of the most comprehensive advertising tools of its kind.
these attributes we bring energy and enthusiasm.
It assists the client in optimising its selection of media and communications opportunities.
By doing this, we become the company that clients naturally look to for informed and insightful business solutions across How do you add value in a data rich environment?
In the Healthcare sector, pharmaceutical companies have access to a wealth of information but recognise the need to Pedro Ros Responsible for Consumer identify undiagnosed patients earlier.
To meet this need, Panels, Southern Europe and Latin America TNS has developed GeoMedics, which is unique in Based in Spain identifying neighbourhoods with specific healthcare needs Contact pedro.
This is invaluable information for both pharmaceutical companies and health service providers.
Pristina Kyiv Warsaw Budapest Riga Vilnius Prague Oslo Stockholm Copenhagen Tallinn Helsinki Skopje Athens Bratislava Moscow Istanbul Ramat Gan Added value Only 42% of mobile phone users in Europe are interested in 3G.
Bored with the hype, they want to see the real benefits.
Interest increases when they realise it can mean high-speed internet and email.
Moving away from selling 3G as a concept to packaging services for specific users may stimulate uptake 05.00 06.00
