This is Taylor Woodrow by focus on customers We consistently strive to improve the products we offer as well as developing new ways of working and better standards of customer care across all our businesses.
Our philosophy is more closely aligned to that of a retailer the customer comes first than a more traditional house builder.
In the UK our Customer Journey is designed to reduce the stress associated with moving house by making the process as smooth and easy as possible.
We offer homebuyers additional services such as interior decorating, garden design and after-sales maintenance.
In North America, our CARE programme customer, attitude, respect & excellence in Arizona benchmarks the relationship with customers against nine criteria, with quarterly reviews.
In California, buyers can tailor the interior of some of our homes to suit their particular requirements.
In our construction business we apply similar criteria.
One example is our 15 year relationship with Tesco developing prototype schemes and other new initiatives tailored to Tescos FACTS & FIGURES changing needs.
BRYANT AT WARWICK Bryant Homes development at Warwick is one of our largest, consisting of 800 homes with fifteen house types and a range of apartments.
Prices range from 147,000 for a two bed apartment to 290,000 for a four bedroom house.
The development has been Bryant Design carefully designed to reflect the allows customers to unique character of the town, using personalise their materials that blend effortlessly new home.
The Tierra Rosa one Our new marketing suite provides of our entry-level a high-end retail experience, Homes in Arizona.
demonstrating our homes, the skill with which we build them and our Tescos 80,000 sq ft store in Altrincham, range of design options and garden Manchester opened landscaping.
The style and layout in November 2002. enhances our customer experience through a comfortable, informal environment for them to browse through brochures, chat to our site staff and consider their choices in an unhurried way.
6 Taylor Woodrow plc Annual Report 2002 Taylor Woodrow plc Annual Report 2002 7 This is Taylor Woodrow FACTS & FIGURES AQUA ON QUEENS QUAY Aqua on Queens Quay is located in the heart of Torontos downtown by developing living and waterfront, close to the CN Tower, the Sky Dome, the Hockey Hall of Fame, the theatre and business districts and the ferry to Toronto Island.
Public transport is on the doorstep this is city living at its best.
A resort-style rooftop lounge working environments includes sundeck, whirlpool, changing rooms, sauna, steam room, equipped fitness room, BBQ area and outdoor patio area, all with spectacular water and cityscape views ADDITIONAL FEATURES Opened for sales Summer of 1999 Occupancies started: November 2002 16 storey condominium 273 suites comprised of studios, one bedroom and two bedroom suites, some with dens Sizes range from 410 to 1,711 sq ft Prices started from C$86,900 Working closely with our customers we to over C$655,000 create environments tailored to their needs and aspirations.
This means we are focused on the integrity of our design, the best locations, first class amenities, beautiful landscaping, natural habitats and efficient, effective office environments.
In Canada, our Aqua development offers spectacular views of Lake Ontario and city living on the doorstep.
We are also working on one of the largest developments in Toronto.
Waterview will consist of eight buildings with views of the Toronto skyline.
The complex will offer extensive recreation amenities for the local residents including swimming pool, gym and fitness facilities: theatre, library, cyber lounge and golf practice putting green and golf simulator.
In Florida and Texas our country club communities provide golf, tennis and other leisure amenities to enhance the residents living experience.
Our Mirasol development hosted the PGA Honda Classic in March 2003.
In the UK, our Bryant homes are very often specifically designed to fit in with the local surroundings, using indigenous materials and reflecting regional architecture.
Mirasol at Palm Beach, Florida offers spectacular views of the 18th green from the swimming pool.
Princes Way, Solihull, one of our property developments, built by TW Construction, is now our central office.
Creating the village idyll at Throop, Dorset.
Taylor Woodrow plc Annual Report 2002 9
