Exploring new markets Over the past six years the Group has grown rapidly in China by providing domestic and international companies with exible, customer focused logistics solutions.
Our Hutchison Tibbett & Britten joint venture, for example, is the first major third-party logistics provider to enter into a long term management contract with a Chinese retailer.
Wu Mei, with 276 stores throughout the country, was previously supported by a traditional warehouse in Beijing.
Working with the customer, we have transformed this into a modern distribution centre, supported by sophisticated IT systems.
Capacity has increased 2.5 times and operational efficiency has almost trebled.
Supply chains are lengthening and becoming more complex, placing logistics at the heart of globalisation.
This has led some logistics service providers to conclude that they have to stretch their resources to offer global services.
We prefer to take an indepth international rather than a supercial global perspective.
Successful companies are focused companies.
We are focused by geography and by industry sector.
We operate primarily in two markets Europe and North America and in three sectors where we have unrivalled expertise and capacity: food and beverage, clothing and mass consumer products.
These are everyday consumer sectors, relatively resilient to economic cycles.
We know that one size does not t all, and we have shown ourselves able to translate our operating skills from one country to the local context of another.
As recently as 1989, Tibbett & Britten operated only in the UK and Ireland.
Now, despite UK growth of more than 15% compound per annum since 1989, almost 60% of our revenue comes from overseas.
This achievement won us a Queens Award for International Trade in 2002 the first specialist logistics company to be so honoured.
We have tailored and adapted our solutions to work in 34 countries.
But we are looking for strength of coverage, not breadth.
In Mexico, a market we only entered in 2002, we are the largest logistics service provider.
Indeed we always aim to be in the top three in any country in which we operate: the United States, for example, where we pioneered contract logistics and have built up our market-leading business largely organically.
In China, a key emerging market, our joint venture leads in contract distribution in the domestic retail sector.
6 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002
