Report of the directors For the year ended 31 December 2002 The directors present their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002, which were approved by the directors on 25 March 2003.
Results and dividends The consolidated profit and loss account is set out on page 32 and shows a profit after taxation attributable to shareholders of 2.6m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 17.4 pence net per Ordinary share, amounting to 8.5m, payable on 28 May 2003 to Ordinary shareholders who are on the register on 2 May 2003.
An interim dividend of 7.9 pence net per Ordinary share was paid on 11 November 2002, amounting to 3.8m, which makes a total of 25.3 pence net per Ordinary share for the year.
Principal activities, trading review and future developments The principal activity of the Group is the provision of logistics and supply chain management services and related systems expertise to the manufacturing and retail industries.
A review of trading and an indication of future developments are contained in the Chairmans statement, and Chief Executives and financial reviews.
Details of overseas activities and turnover generated outside the UK are contained in the Chief Executives review and note 2 to the accounts.
Share capital The Companys issued share capital increased as a result of Ordinary shares allotted in respect of share options exercised during the year under the Groups share option schemes.
Further details are contained in note 21 to the accounts.
Changes in directors There have been the following changes to Board membership: Messrs. M Evans, M S Graham and D Musgrave retired as directors of the Company on 13 December 2002.
Mr S Hammad was appointed as a director of the Company on 3 February 2003.
Mr E Buchan and Mr M Sprague retire by rotation and Mr S Hammad was appointed as a director since the last Annual General Meeting.
Mr J A Harvey has also offered to stand for re-election, being over 65 years of age.
Being eligible, each of the directors submits themselves for re-election.
Ordinary shares Substantial shareholdings Number % Schroder Investment Management 4,120,202 8.47 INVESCO Asset Management 3,708,212 7.62 J A Harvey including non-beneficial interests 2,980,800 6.14 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 2,780,447 5.72 Threadneedle Asset Management 2,436,281 5.01 Insight Investment Management 2,135,934 4.39 Legal and General Investment Management 1,678,287 3.45 Employee involvement The success of the Group depends upon the commitment, knowledge and involvement of its people.
The Board continues to encourage accountable and participative management and aims to empower its people and to nurture good relations with staff, customers and the wider community.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, and is a member of the Employer Disability Forum in the UK.
Tibbett & Britten is a non-ageist, equal opportunity and racially integrated employer.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, and the Company magazine, Smart Talk.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
Staff are provided with appropriate on and off the job training.
A modular in-house Management Development Partnership programme ensures the development of high quality management standards.
Business units are encouraged to achieve the Investors in People standard, and many have already attained this nationally recognised accreditation.
In North America, the Group sponsors the TBG College, which provides training for management, together with the opportunity to earn nationally recognised college diplomas in logistics.
Annual employee surveys are conducted, which provides an opportunity for all to provide feedback on the Groups policies, practices and approaches to people management.
Summary results are published in Smart Talk.
In North America, subsidiary companies have distinctive cultural programmes designed to instil customer focus, pride and a local identity.
Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 21 Report of the directors continued The Company has in place a Savings Related Share Option Scheme for UK tax paying employees, to further encourage participation in the business.
Health, safety and welfare The Group aims to achieve, as far as is reasonably practicable, the highest standards of health, safety and welfare.
Mr Hammad has specic responsibility for health and safety and reports to the Board on these matters.
Social, environmental and ethical policy The Groups social, environmental and ethical policy is explained on page 30 in the corporate governance report.
Creditors payment policy The Group operates decentralised supplier payment systems.
Its general policy is to x terms of payment for all suppliers when agreeing the terms of such business transactions, to ensure the supplier is aware of those terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The number of days purchases represented by the Groups year end trade creditors was 61 days.
This reects the varied nature of arrangements with suppliers in the Groups worldwide operations and the impact of acquisitions, organic growth and the seasonality of business during the year.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 21 May 2003.
Resolutions are being proposed at the Annual General Meeting to give the directors the permitted authorities to issue authorised but unissued shares previous authorities expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors have no present intention to issue shares for cash in the Company other than pursuant to the Tibbett & Britten Group Share Option Schemes note 21 to the accounts and the existing executive incentive schemes.
Full details of all resolutions being proposed are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Post balance sheet events There have been no material post balance sheet events.
Auditors BDO Stoy Hayward have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board, Registered Ofce Centennial Park N L Smith Elstree Secretary Hertfordshire WD6 3TL 25 March 2003 United Kingdom 22 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002
