Board of directors With the creation of the Operating Board in January 2003, the Group Board has been streamlined to focus on the strategic direction of the company and corporate governance issues, and to provide challenge and support to the executive directors.
John Harvey CBE BA Saad Hammad BA MBA Mark Whiteling Bill Thomson FCIT FILT Managing Director Europe MCom Hons Non-Executive Director Executive Chairman Appointed to the Group Board Group Finance Director Appointed to the Group Board Appointed Chairman and as Managing Director Europe Appointed to the Group Board in June 1998.
Managing Chief Executive after leading effective early 2003, with in October 2001.
Previously Director of Forth Tankers plc.
the management buy-out responsibility for activities in spent four years at Enodis Formerly Chairman Forth Ports, of Tibbett & Britten from the UK, Ireland and Mainland plc, latterly as Chief Financial Relayfast and the British Ports Unilever in 1984.
Previously Chief officer of the Food Equipment Federation, and a member of executive director of Sygen Executive of Autocascade Ltd Division, Europe and Rest the Scottish Advisory Forum International plc, a director an Avis Europe Inchcape Plc of World.
Prior to this was to British Telecom.
of The Institute of Grocery joint venture company.
Also with SmithKline Beecham plc Distribution, a Member of held senior management between 1989 and 1997 in Robert Wood BSc the DEFRA Freight Forum, positions at Minit Plc, Vision the USA and Europe.
Non-Executive Director Chairman of TRANSAID Express Group, Thorn EMI, Joined the Group Board in Worldwide Services Ltd, Boston Consulting Group and Edward Buchan BSc FCA June 2000.
Chairman of and Visiting Professor and Procter & Gamble.
Non-Executive Director Henlys Group plc previously Chairman of the Craneld Appointed to the Group Chief Executive of Henlys Centre for Logistics and Mike Sprague MA Board in 1996.
Managing 1991-2002 and Chairman Transportation Advisory Board.
President Americas Director Corporate of Prevost Car Inc.
Joined the Group in 1991 and Finance of LCF Rothschild Mike Arrowsmith BSc FCMA appointed to the Group Board Securities.
Formerly Head of Group Chief Executive in 1995.
Previously President Transportation Industry Group Appointed to the Group Board of Quest Canada, Group Vice UK Investment Banking, as Group Finance Director in President of Coles Book WestLB Panmure, Managing May 1999 and promoted to Stores and International Director of Close Brothers Chief Executive officer in Operations Director of Nairn Corporate Finance Limited, May 2001.
and Managing Director and Vice President and Finance Head of Corporate Finance Director of SmithKline at Hill Samuel Bank Limited.
Beecham plcs Worldwide Consumer Healthcare business and Group Finance Director of Astec BSR plc.
20 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002
