Pro-active customer solutions Insight is the key to reducing costs and driving the business forward.
The closeness of our long term partnership with Debenhams, for example, allows us to plan capacity to deliver the required service levels to the stores at optimum cost.
Information flow was boosted in 2002 by the seamless introduction of a PkMS warehouse management system into two of the four distribution centres we operate exclusively for Debenhams.
Standing out from the crowd sounds difficult when you have 560,000 competitors in Europe alone.
But what differentiates us from everyone else is the quality of our IT services.
Logistics is about managing information as well as pallets.
It is about systems as well as trucks.
The right systems improve service levels and reduce costs.
Effective IT guarantees that service levels can be achieved by producing management information to monitor performance.
It allows us to make sure we can deliver on our promises.
Our proprietary SMART business integration service tool, for example, enables us to provide universal electronic compatibility with our customers systems quickly, reliably and at low cost.
SMART handles data in any current or emerging format.
It provides visibility along the supply chain with real-time information to match just-in-time needs.
Effective IT is of strategic importance to Tibbett & Britten an integral part of our corporate business strategy.
Planning not only ensures that our own IT capacity is sufficient to meet our business goals, but that we have the right IT products for our customers today and for years ahead.
We talk to our customers, examining the software needs of their present and future supply chains.
Then, as the architects of new systems, we discuss how to meet those needs with strategic partners.
SMART was born from our own IT resources and we are continuing to develop new service offerings opening up new routes to market for new types of customer.
8 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002
