2002 financial highlights 1 2002 financial highlights Autonomy holds the #1 position for advanced unstructured information systems.
Autonomy dominates today's In sharp contrast to many other software companies, Autonomy gave an contenders due to the impressive performance in 2002: company's platform product Profits up 32% and market strategy.
A strong balance sheet with approximately $147.5 million of cash Forrester, Grading Search Hopefuls, December 2002 Remained cash generative Dominated the OEM space for unstructured data management Autonomy is a vendor to Won key deals for Intelligence and Homeland Security watch because of its good Third consecutive year of profitability technology approach, market reach and estimated viability.
R&D Up 10% Alexander Linden, Gartner Group, October 2002 Autonomy Fastest growing public company in information access software market Company building on #1 position Gartner Group, Dataquest Collaboration Software and Gross Margin R&D Spend as a Percentage of Revenue Knowledge Management Tools Market Statistics, 2002 Comparison of profits for fiscal year ending 12 31 02 versus fiscal year ending 12 31 01, excluding translational foreign exchange gains and losses, impairment of equity investments and associated tax effects.
2 letter from the CEO demonstrable success in an uncertain marketplace 2002 was a momentous year for both the IT industry and the wider marketplace, If your organization wants to get with world events and a tough economic climate affecting everyone.
However, in more of a handle on the value of such an environment, it is relatively easy to spot a company that is leading the way, hallmarked by stability, an efficient business model, a compelling offering and information, and how to exploit demonstrable ROI.
It is these qualities that see them through the difficult periods information, then Autonomy is and enable them to lead into the more prosperous times to come.
In this light, I am pleased to report that, despite the economic upheavals of 2002 and in probably the only company you contrast to the vast majority of software companies, Autonomy turned in an should be talking to.
impressive performance during the year.
Martin Butler, October 2002 In 2002, Autonomy: Butler Group TECHwatch article Announced its third consecutive year of profitability Increased its Average Selling Price to an impressive $380,000 Dominated the OEM space with almost all major new deals won Led in the intelligence market with many significant new deals for advanced information management Affirmed its number one position in new software license sales for advanced information systems Increased Research and Development spend by 10% over 2001 levels to $9.2 million Reported adjusted net profits up 32% Reported a strong balance sheet with approximately $147.5 million of cash and continued to be cash generative Reported stable revenues of $51 million with gross profits of $50 million, yielding an impressive 98% gross profit margin Today, Autonomy is leveraging a horizontally applicable, scalable and award winning technology and has a network of 130 partner organizations, serving a blue-chip customer base of more than 600 organizations.
Autonomys profitable and cash generative operations and stable headcount have helped to distinguish the company and provide a solid foundation from which to take advantage of future improvements in the environment.
letter from the CEO 3 a unique value proposition and compelling ROI In 2002, Autonomys profitable, cash generative operations continued to be Any enterprise that chooses underpinned by its unique value proposition, which is to provide the software Autonomy as a technology infrastructure that automates operations on unstructured information.
provider for understanding the Autonomys software enables computers to form an understanding of humanfriendly unstructured information such as text documents, emails, voice and video capabilities and expertise of extracts.
Since the content of these types of information is essentially meaningless individuals within the to computers, leveraging its value depends heavily on expensive manual organization, will be working processes, which introduce error and waste time.
Autonomys software addresses this issue by enabling computers to automatically process unstructured with a company that not only information, which, according to Gartner, doubles in quantity every three months.
knows what it knows, but that Moreover, Butler Group has demonstrated that this type of information constitutes 85% of digital assets within the modern enterprise.
A customer base of more than recognizes how to apply what it 600 global organizations and government agencies has already recognized the knows to real business issues.
fundamental importance of Autonomys unique value proposition.
Bill Lange, Delphi Group, Spring 2002 In todays enterprise, unstructured information is utilized in virtually every area of Taxonomy and Content Classification: Milestone Report business.
This is why Autonomys software provides an infrastructure layer that enables organizations to take a modular approach to the challenges of managing their information assets.
As new challenges emerge, customers extend the functionality of their Autonomy deployment to process diverse data types, such as voice and video, for example.
The unique challenges posed by the management and exploitation of unstructured information are not restricted to the enterprise.
In 2002, Autonomy won a series of highly prestigious security contracts, and is particularly proud to be providing the information infrastructure that will link the 21 agencies comprising the US Governments newly created Department of Homeland Security DHS.
As Lee Holcomb, Director of Infrastructure for the White House DHS recently stated, the Department purchased a 250,000 seat license for Autonomy.
The critical nature of Autonomys infrastructure technology and its demonstrable ROI are ultimately borne out by our firm average selling price of $380,000, compared to many software companies that have had to dramatically reduce prices.
4 letter from the CEO revealed: autonomy #1 Revealed: Autonomy #1 Autonomy is ahead of the Throughout 2002, Autonomys impressive performance garnered positive market.
commentary from respected analyst groups such as Giga, Gartner, Butler Group, Ovum, Forrester and Delphi.
We believe these endorsements to be a telling Autonomy is pioneering testimony to the unique value of Autonomys offering.
technologies that extract Autonomy fastest growing public company in information access software market - Gartner information from the data Autonomy #1 in new license sales - Butler Group Autonomy is ahead of the market - Butler Group and technology resources we Autonomy Leader in Search Platform Market - Forrester have invested so much time Autonomy is probably the only company you should be talking to - Butler Group Autonomy recognizes how to apply what it knows to real business issues - Delphi and energy in.
Martin Butler, October 2002 New Technology: Continued Investment in R&D Butler Group TECHwatch Article Autonomys considerable investments in research and development continued throughout 2002.
With R&D up 10% on 2001 and up a staggering 41% since 2000, 2002 saw further significant extensions to the IDOL platform.
In October, Autonomy was pleased to launch its Legacy Compatibility Module LCM, which enables organizations to efficiently leverage existing legacy systems and seamlessly make the transition to an automated infrastructure, while retaining full manual control where customers wish to do so.
Also in October, we were delighted to announce the launch of our new Collaboration and Expertise Networks interface CEN.
CEN enables companies to effectively exploit vital knowledge and expertise within the enterprise, driving collaboration, fostering best practice and decreasing duplication of effort.
Significant progress has also continued in the area of voice technology.
In 2002 Autonomy developed Autonomy VoiceSuite for the Greek, French, Spanish and Italian languages, further highlighting the flexible nature of Autonomys infrastructure offering.
With the announcement of its new automatic meta-data inference module, Educe, in January 2003, Autonomy sent a strong signal that these developments are set to continue, despite ongoing uncertainty in the economic climate.
letter from the CEO 5 a special business model A Special Business Model While enterprise content Profit and cash generation are the acid tests of any business success story and management vendors with a as the enclosed accounts reveal, Autonomys lean business model has once again ensured that we ended the year in a stable financial position.
In contrast to portal relationship certainly see other companies that have been forced to make large lay offs and restructurings, the need for personalization of in particular in the key area of research and development, Autonomy avoided the content, they do not have the need to lay off any of its talented individuals and reported significant increases in R&D spend.
Autonomy is well positioned for the future.
larger vision of a company like While other software companies often derive more than 50% of their revenues Autonomy.
from services, Autonomys strong focus on the indirect channel enables us to Giga, Dan Rasmus, May 2002 pass all services to Systems Integrators, Value Added Resellers, Application Finding Value in Context Service Providers and other distribution partners.
A Scalable Future: Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs Throughout the year, Autonomy continued to show its dominance in the OEM market, which provides a stable revenue stream and enables the company to penetrate a wide range of rapidly growing software markets.
In 2002, Autonomy's OEM Program was ahead of target, with the addition of 19 new OEM agreements and an increase in OEM revenues of 63% year-on-year.
The OEM programme contributed 20% of Autonomys revenues in 2002.
During the year, Autonomy also achieved virtually all new major OEM product wins for high-end information management, including EDS, Citrix and ATG, and expanded its relationships with Computer Associates, Vignette and BEA.
Above all, I am pleased to highlight the diverse nature of Autonomys OEMs, with our unique technology being embedded into new voice and video technologies.
6 letter from the CEO in conclusion In this difficult economic climate, Autonomys leading position is becoming all the Autonomys success lies in a more evident.
Weaker companies struggle to survive while Autonomy wisely combination of innovative prepares for the future.
Continued investments in R&D are enabling us to reach toward new horizons.
Our gross margins continue to be high and we have proven technology, an adaptable the credibility and effectiveness of our highly flexible business model and unique product set and astute technology during this challenging year.
We remain well positioned for future marketing.
valuation of more than $4 I take this opportunity to thank once again our customers, shareholders, employees and partners for their continued support of our business.
billion at one stage, it has used the resulting market The future belongs to those who are prepared to blaze a trail, regardless of the environment or conditions they face along the way.
Autonomy has been blazing visibility and cash to that trail for over seven years and I am confident that we are prepared to profit establish itself as a pacefrom what lies ahead and lay the trail for others to follow.
Unlike many companies, it has also proven itself to be a strong competitor in the post-boom environment.
The fact that Dr Mike Lynch, CEO and Founder Autonomy has maintained February 17, 2003 its profitability is much to its credit.
Eric Woods, OVUM, Jan 2003 Autonomy Vendor Analysis
