26 IDOL case study DTI iBio - UK BioTechnology Portal Biotechnology is one of the UK's fastest IDOL and the New Technologies growing industries.
Endorsed by the Office of Autonomys IDOL enables a wide range of operations to be performed the E-Envoy, the UK's Department of Trade automatically, including automatic hyperlinking, categorization, taxonomy and Industry commissioned a crossgeneration, profiling, alerting, community and collaboration, clustering, concept governmental project team to create an retrieval and summarization.
'Information Biotechnology' portal that would As a result of continued investment in research and development, Autonomy was act as a single, reliable source for all UK public able to launch a range of new IDOL components in 2002.
These included: information and research.
The objective was to deliver a service that Collaboration and Expertise Networks CEN provided a coherent picture to government Autonomys Collaboration and Expertise Networks interface enables companies to departments, as well as serving the needs of effectively exploit vital knowledge and expertise within the enterprise, driving the biotech industry, academic community and collaboration, fostering best practice and decreasing duplication of effort.
CEN is a the general public.
The challenge therein was breakthrough in collaborative tools because of its ability to automatically build to aggregate this information across more than dynamic profiles of users and form an understanding of their real areas of interest 14 government departments through a cost and expertise, without reliance on costly, inaccurate manual processes.
The DTI iBio team chose Autonomy to automatically aggregate information from multiple government departments, without having to impinge on the varying technologies residing within them.
Autonomy's unique ability to understand concepts delivers highly accurate, relevant results to users automatically and in real-time.
Personalization features, including Autonomy agents, alert users to relevant new information, thereby allowing them to stay up to date and keep abreast of new developments.
"""Autonomy allows us to create an information infrastructure that allows multiple repositories of information to come together in a virtual, joined CEN Visualization up partnership. """
Illustrates the relationship of one expert with others in the knowledge - Mark Philips, Project Director, iBio.
community and available information assets.
