return on investment 19 significantly reduced labor case study costs through automation AT&T - connecting customers & information Autonomy empowers employee self-service environments including corporate AT&T is among the premier voice, video and communications, virtual universities and e-learning.
In addition, Autonomy's data communications companies in the world, automation and scalability increase individual productivity by providing users with serving businesses, consumers, and highly relevant summarized information while they work.
The delivery of timely governments.
The company runs the largest, content also means the value of subsequent decision-making increases most sophisticated communications network in dramatically.
Autonomy automatically links similar content and connects expertise the U. S. With more than 50 million and users with similar interests.
consumers and 4 million business customers, AT&T is a market leader in local, long distance, On an e-commerce site, the ability to provide seamless interactions retains Internet services and transaction-based customers by building interest, encourages loyalty and turns one-time visitors into services such as collect calling, prepaid cards regular users.
Improved customer service is further enhanced by Autonomy's and directory assistance.
ability to automatically route or answer emails or deliver what customers would like to buy.
This can be achieved by enabling users to create their own profiles, e. g. The companys web site, ATT.
"com provides ""I'm interested in pocket PCs"" in natural language."
The same technology features product and service information for consumer, applied within the enterprise maximize investment in people by transferring skills, business and wireless customers.
AT&T best practice and highlighting expertise automatically.
selected Autonomys infrastructure technology to automatically aggregate, hyperlink and Finally, Autonomy maximizes customer intelligence by providing focused deliver information within corporate news, advertising targeted at an individual's information consumption, or valuable customer service forms, product brochures intelligence about a user's behavior patterns on-line.
Interactions Between People - Automatically Autonomys technology makes it possible for Autonomy provides a suite of powerful tools for managing human resource capital existing and potential AT&T customers to find in real-time and establishes new precedents in automating the digital economy.
information regarding products and services The technology drives collaboration by automatically generating profiles of users' within their areas quickly and easily.
The value of these interactions is further enhanced using Autonomys technology, customers use natural Autonomy's Peer-to-Peer technology to identify and share vital information, language to describe their needs.
This allows knowledge and experience directly between relevant people.
them to find products or service plans even if they dont know how to describe them exactly.
The successful modern enterprise continually seeks new combinations of Because Autonomy provides a flexible knowledge and expertise to maximize the potential of every employee, drive architecture, AT&T was able to implement its innovation and deliver leading-edge products and services.
In research and development, for example, it is discovering the unknown, rather than the known, patented Smart Search technique to compliment Autonomys natural language that yields the vital solution and by accurately identifying users' skills and information requirements, Autonomy provides a pathway to increased competency.
20 functionality functionality where is this functionality used?
Taxonomies - Fully hierarchical and Where is this functionality used?
relational, dynamic, individualized, trainable Autonomy's horizontal technology is able to intelligently manage information within many different software environments, from CRM systems to portals and Business and editable by example or legacy methods Intelligence applications.
Clustering - Ability to take information, Enterprise Information Portals: Autonomy's technology automates content phone calls or people and cluster them aggregation, integration and delivery within portals.
Customers such as the U. S. automatically into related groups Army, NASA, and U. S. Navy use Autonomy's technology to power their portals.
NASA deployed Autonomy to automatically organize, manage and hyperlink the Profiling - Employees' profiles can be documents in its library - an immense repository of scientific literature.
automatically matched and connected for Customer Relationship Management Applications: Autonomy's technology collaboration, creating centers of expertise increases the capabilities of CRM solutions such as Siebel and E. piphany, and offers companies many benefits through the automatic integration and delivery of Personalization - Fully granular information found in customer emails, voicemails, call center reports, product automatic and individual personalization that descriptions, PDF files and customer databases.
This allows companies to is also configurable by users or administrator achieve resolution on the first call and handle more inbound calls with less staff.
For example, using Autonomy's infrastructure software, Omnitel Vodafone Italy has Alerting - Accurate, scalable, proactive automated a customer call center that services a large customer operation, alerting, unachievable through the use of fielding help requests from millions of customers.
keyword systems E-Learning Portals: Manufacturers such as Ford, General Motors, Ingersoll-Rand, Norsk Hydro, Philips and Volkswagen employ Autonomy technology to Hyperlinking - Fully automatic generation automatically discover expertise inside their organizations, power automated of hyperlinks across diverse data types e-learning infrastructures and provide users with natural language retrieval.
Retrieval - Natural language, concept Business Intelligence and Collaboration Portals: Autonomy's technology matching, full legacy Boolean, metadata and automates the profiling of employees and drives automatic expertise location.
The XML, distributed and federated, refine by U. S. State Department uses Autonomy's technology behind its Interagency example, combinational, cross-lingual, user Collaboration Zone Portal.
With Autonomy's technology 2,000 employees in the feedback, results weighting, parametric search field can collaborate with each other and get up to the minute information that is vital for their jobs.
Intranet Rationalization: In response to the challenges posed by the explosion of Intranet content, organizations are now employing consolidation and integration strategies across their networks.
Autonomy's technology aggregates content regardless of format or source, and delivers it via virtually any application, device, or interface.
For example, BAE Systems Virtual University deployed Autonomy to integrate the contents of their 50,000 people intranet.
technology and products 21 case study technology and products Telecom Italia - e-learning infrastructure for leading telecommunications group Telecom Italia is one of the world's foremost Technology and Products telecommunications groups, operating in the fixedAutonomys strength lies in a unique combination of technologies that employs line, mobile, satellite telecommunications, Internet, advanced pattern-matching techniques non-linear adaptive digital signal Media and Information Technology markets, processing utilizing Bayesian Inference and Claude Shannons principles of serving over 50 million individuals and 3 million Information Theory.
Autonomy identifies the patterns that naturally occur in businesses.
The company is Italy's #1 provider.
information, based on the usage and expression of ideas and concepts.
In this way, Autonomy extracts a documents context, forms an understanding of the key With a vast and distributed workforce, the concepts, and thus facilitates a host of operations to be performed automatically.
challenge in achieving an efficient strategic model was maximizing employee The innovative high-performance pattern-matching algorithms provide effectiveness, without incurring significant cost.
sophisticated contextual analysis and concept extraction.
For the first time, With valued information spread across the computers are able to automatically form an understanding of a page of text, business, the challenge was how to get that emails, documents and people, and can analyze and leverage voice and video information to the right people, furthering their data and automate operations on them.
knowledge and skills base and ultimately Proven, high levels of ROI are provided by Autonomy's automatic solution.
However, Autonomy's open philosophy enables us to offer in addition the full Telecom Italia selected Autonomy's infrastructure range of legacy manual approaches, allowing the customer to choose the most to power their integrated e-learning network.
suitable options for their business.
Unlike so-called 'Black Box' legacy Autonomy's technology will automatically technologies that do not allow users to understand why particular results are aggregate, categorize, summarize, personalize returned, Autonomy is a transparent technology, enabling full manual control, and deliver content through an interactive portal including the manual editing of keywords, relationships and term weightings.
application, creating personalized training paths with content in text, voice and video formats, all of which are essential to an integrated learning network.
This investment will enable employees to receive pre-packaged and highly relevant training that is precisely tailored to their needs.
Additionally, Autonomy's Classification Server will provide Telecom Italia with a high-level overview of all the training material available within the organization, illuminating knowledge gaps.
Autonomy was selected for its ability to generate significant cost savings through automation and the removal of time consuming manual processes, as well as for Autonomy facilitates full manual control of content operations enabling users to find out how documents were categorized and allowing complete manipulation of all terms and weights.
22 technology and products Unsurpassed Scalability & Distribution Autonomys technology is: Completely Automatic Data Type, Format and Source Agnostic Language Independent and Multilingual Fast Fully Scalable and Distributable Consistent, Contextual and Accurate Fully Voice, Video un semi and structured information Compatible Fully XML Compatible Autonomy enables the provision of a demonstrably Fully Legacy Keyword and Boolean Compatible high performance, high-capacity and highly scalable Capable of Full Meta-data Handling platform for content exploitation both today and in Rapidly Implemented, Integrated and Deployed the future.
Autonomy's Intellectual Asset Protection System is the crucial security layer that enables IDOL to UnMapped Security Mapped Security deliver a powerful and reliant infrastructure that preserves security within the enterprise.
technology and products 23 Collaboration and Expertise Networks CEN case study 3 - automation across third generation wireless communications In May 2000 Hutchison 3G UK, part of the Hutchison Whampoa Group, was issued a class 'A' third generation licence by the UK government.
3 comprises a unique combination of media, information and telephony, which enables people to gain access to the information they require, whenever, wherever Autonomy is therefore able to power any application and however they need it.
dependent upon unstructured information including: In order to retain their competitive position Business Intelligence in the 3G arena, 3 realized the need for a scalable solution that would facilitate the Content Publishing delivery of highly relevant information to their Customer Relationship Management users in real-time.
"Email Routing Enterprise Information Portals ""As the amount and type of data supported by Internet Portals the 3G Network increased, we needed a Knowledge Management scalable solution. """
Online Publishing - Colin Tucker, Managing Director, 3.
E-Commerce, etc 3 selected Autonomy's Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL and Portal-in-a-Box interface to power their solution.
Thanks to its unique ability to integrate unstructured, semistructured and structured information in multiple languages and formats, Autonomy will enable 3 to classify and deliver unique, location-specific information from hundreds of different sources, including live news, e-commerce, sport and entertainment.
Autonomy's automated approach not only minimizes traditional labor and maintenance overheads associated with information processing, the software will also improve the experience of the consumer, ensuring that navigations present the most accurate and pertinent information at the right time, through the right channels and in the Autonomy's language independent infrastructure ensures the delivery of the right information most user-friendly format.
to the right people, regardless of the language that information is represented in.
24 IDOL IDOL 25 intelligent data operating case study layer IDOL Arup - effectively leveraging and sharing knowledge online Founded in 1946, Arup is a world leader in Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL design, employing more than 7000 people IDOL is a fully automated infrastructure layer, which makes it possible for across 50 countries.
The company boasts a organizations to automatically process digital information.
Autonomy's technology wide range of expertise including automotive, enables Integration Through Understanding ITU, which allows applications to infrastructure and structural engineering.
communicate with each other without any manual effort involved in setting up complicated connectors, or the use of meta-data.
"Autonomy's technology makes Knowledge is the foundation of Arup's enterprise systems ""data-agnostic"" and provides automated efficiencies never business: the ability to leverage and deliver this experienced before."
Because Autonomys technology is entirely modular, is fundamental to the company's continued success.
However, as the organization grew, organizations can progressively extend their IDOL deployment to meet new delivering mission critical information and information challenges as they arise.
locating experts within the global employee base became an impossible task.
Arup selected Autonomy to enable the harnessing of critical knowledge and expertise within the global organization.
Autonomy's technology is directly mapped onto Arup's preferred way of working, making use of successful processes that already existed.
"""We are all about knowledge, and the delivery of our collective knowledge."
It's fundamental to what we do.
"Autonomy has enabled us to further our vision of effectively leveraging the skills and expertise of our employees, and has thereby delivered significant returns"" - Tony Sheehan, Group Knowledge Manager, Arup."
Autonomy's Collaboration and Expertise Networks CEN delivers a number of key benefits, helping Arup to make efficient use of their employees' core competencies.
CEN Before IDOL, enterprises had to cobble systems together into an incoherent information network that identifies and recommends similar users as well was expensive to build and maintain.
as experts in the community, detailing synergies between people, fostering collaboration and decreasing the likelihood of duplication of effort.
This is critical for an organization like Arup, where employees may be working on diverse projects that actually leverage highly similar principles.
