Autonomys leading position is becoming all the more evident the modern enterprise has become dependent on the content of humanfriendly forms of digital information such as text documents, emails, audio and video extracts lighting the path ahead 9 lighting the path ahead The Challenge: Autonomy provides the In stark contrast to a few years ago, the modern enterprise has become software infrastructure that dependent on the content of human-friendly forms of digital information such as automates operations on text documents, emails, audio and video extracts.
As the medium through which many daily business operations are conducted, this type of information is now the unstructured information critical link in a wide range of business operations.
This poses a challenge to the enterprise because human-friendly information is unstructured and meaningless to computers.
It demands significant manual processing to enable the value of its content to be accessed and shared.
The growing volumes of unstructured information in todays enterprise have significant cost implications that are directly linked to the bottom line.
Autonomys Philosophy: Autonomy employs a unique combination of technologies to enable computers to form an understanding of unstructured information and peoples interests and activities.
Autonomys open-minded philosophy enables the company to offer a range of solutions for the management of information, ranging from full manual control to our hallmark award-winning automation.
The effectiveness of our technology, the virtually limitless marketplace and our efficient business model enable almost every industry and every software application dependent on unstructured information to utilize Autonomys technology.
This is evidenced by the short time it has taken for Autonomy to penetrate a multitude of industry sectors.
Autonomys repeat sales rate of approximately 30% demonstrates that many customers have experienced first hand both the benefits of the technology and the value it delivers, and have purchased additional modules to address differing forms of information, and to increase the level of automation and sophistication of their existing implementations.
10 customers and markets customers and markets Autonomys Customers Autonomys customer base comprises more than 600 organizations from manufacturing to finance, government to pharmaceutical.
In 2002, Autonomy added almost 15% to its growing customer base.
New customers included the U. S. Department of Homeland Security, ARM, Boeing, British American Tobacco, European Commission, Harrahs, Omnitel Vodafone, PacifiCorp, Telecom Italia Learning Services, the U. S. Department of Education and various U. S. intelligence agencies.
Autonomys Markets Manufacturers such as Ford, Ingersoll-Rand, Norsk Hydro, Philips, Boeing, Lafarge, General Motors and FIAT employ Autonomys technology to automatically discover expertise inside their organizations, provide users with natural language retrieval and consolidate their intranets.
Many Finance and Banking organizations such as ABN Amro, Deutsche Bank, HSBC, Lloyds TSB, Nomura, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, State Farm Insurance and Nordea have deployed Autonomy technology to help meet the challenges posed by changing customer expectations, innovations in technology and evolutions in regulatory policies.
Nordea - delivering personalized content across the corporate environment Autonomys infrastructure technology was recently selected by Nordea to power three applications, including their intranet and CRM system, across the corporate environment covering the Nordic countries, the Baltic States and Poland.
Autonomy was selected for its unmatched ability to offer value through automation, seamlessly integrating with Documentum and BEA delivering information from Lotus Notes, Fileservers and Exchange repositories.
customers and markets 11 Pharmaceutical customers such as AstraZeneca, Henkel, Novartis, Pfizer, OnMedica and NV Organon use Autonomy to address typical industry challenges such as soaring R&D costs and burdensome information complexity.
By automating connections between information, people and products, the leaders in the pharmaceutical industry are utilizing Autonomy to identify duplication of effort and share best practice.
During 2002, Telecommunications continued to face a number of challenges that only served to intensify the resolve of companies such as 3, AT&T, Ericsson, Lucent, Telecom Italia and Omnitel Vodafone to demand the benefits of automation.
These organizations are deploying Autonomy in a variety of ways, ranging from the creation of integrated e-learning infrastructure to the implementation of fully automated call-centers.
3 - information backbone summarizing & delivering content to mobile devices 3 the third generation mobile phone endeavor of Hutchison 3G is deploying Autonomy as the information infrastructure to automate the processes behind consumer services in the forthcoming 3G roll out.
By analyzing, summarizing and personalizing vast quantities of information in real time, they are able to address the limitations of mobile devices and PDAs, such as small screens and memory sizes.
Consulting and Professional Service customers, which include AMR Research, KPMG, Logical, SAIC and PA Consulting, Deloitte & Touche and Milward Brown Precis, derive benefit from Autonomys ability to process interactions between people and not just the information they produce.
For example, identifying expertise automatically is vital to consultancy organizations, whose customers demand the very best personnel support available and whose consultants are spread out in different geographical locations.
12 customers and markets autonomys customer base comprises more than 600 companies For Technology companies, time to market is critical, as complex solutions must be delivered in ever decreasing timescales and at lower cost.
Autonomy serves companies such as EMC, Intel, Hewlett-Packard, Sun, Blue Martini, Seagate, ARM Limited, Infineon Technologies and Fujitsu Technology Services by driving collaboration, aggregating and delivering market intelligence, and routing customer requirements to relevant people inside the organization.
In the Legal environment, the key assets of skill and knowledge have to be identified and served in short timescales and with zero margin for error.
Autonomys infrastructure enables law firms such as Butterworths, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Burgess Salmon, as well as litigation teams inside companies like British American Tobacco, to build and maintain highly scaleable systems that proactively ensure that attorneys spend their time adding high-value services and avoid loss of time searching for information or, worse, utilizing stale data.
Burges Salmon - delivering personalized content to employees and clients alike Burges Salmon chose Autonomys infrastructure to ensure that employees and clients alike are delivered pertinent information covering all areas of legal matters including employment and building law.
Burges Salmon is also benefiting from Autonomys automation in litigation support, ensuring that the latest information is delivered and leveraged to help with critical decision-making processes.
customers and markets 13 from manufacturing to finance, government to pharmaceutical Media companies such as the BBC, Pearson, Reed Elsevier, Reuters, TF1, McGraw-Hill, Taylor & Francis, Milward Brown Precis, Channel 4 Corporation, Belga NV, Greek Business Channel and Forbes.
com publish large volumes of information on-line and deploy Autonomy technology to drive down high labor and production costs via automatic categorization, hyper-linking and automated XML publication.
Dremedia - cutting costs and driving automated production During 2002, Autonomys OEM Dremedia continued to gain ground and deliver products to the Broadcast Television market that automate research and production tasks, such as tape logging, transcription, scene, speaker and subject identification, tasks that had previously required significant investments in time and labor.
Utilizing Autonomy, Dremedia has been recognized as the technology leader in the space.
On-line Retail and e-commerce providers such as Tesco, yaTack, Safeway.
com employ Autonomys technology to automate interactions between both on-line information and their website visitors.
They are able to organize web site material automatically, reduce maintenance costs and retain high-yielding repeat visitors by linking relevant information with compelling up-sell opportunities.
14 security security During 2002, Autonomy secured its position as the fide facto standard inside intelligence agencies for sophisticated, high-end information management.
In 2002, Autonomy saw its information infrastructure licensed for a series of key government, security and military applications.
In one of the most prestigious deals of the year, Autonomy was chosen by the U. S. Department of Homeland Security to provide the information infrastructure that will link the 170,000 employees of the 21 agencies that comprise this new department.
Autonomys technology will enable the agencies to automatically aggregate, analyze, route and retrieve critical information, monitor suspicious and potentially dangerous activity, react faster and with greater insight, and consolidate and leverage expertise.
In Gigas paper Autonomy Connects with Homeland Security, Dan Rasmus describes the Autonomy advantage that has lead to success in the intelligence market.
The other model [to Autonomys] using a rules-based or explicit knowledge approach, is too costly because rules must be written with the assumption that things are known.
In the case of Homeland Security, the investigators are looking not only for the known, but also for the unknown new relationships and rules cannot accommodate that.
Autonomys unique ability to form an understanding of unstructured information and to form relationships between such content has enabled it to penetrate a wide range of government agencies and departments on a global scale.
The UKs Department of Trade and Industry, the U. S. Department of Defense, the Belgian Government, the Dutch Government, the Flemish Government, the Parliament of Singapore, the UKs Home Office, the European Commission, the U. S. Army and NASA all leverage Autonomys ability to extract real value from their content.
security 15 case study US Department of Homeland Security The US Department of Homeland Security The Department purchased a 250,000 seat DHS is a consolidation of 21 domestic agencies sharing one common goal - to protect license for Autonomy the US against threats and terror attacks.
Lee Holcomb, Director of Infrastructure for the White House DHS, October, 2002 Autonomy has been selected by the DHS as one of only a handful of companies that are supporting America in the task of fighting We cant leave any stones unturned when it terrorism.
Autonomy's technology will be used by up to 200,000 employees to analyze intelligence comes to finding the right mix of information and more efficiently assess and share information related to suspected terrorist groups.
and getting it into the right hands Using Autonomy's technology, government Dr Nathaniel S. Heiner, Chief Knowledge Officer of the US Coast Guard analysts and investigators will be able to use in the New York Times, October 21, 2002 natural language to describe what they are tracking or what they have heard.
Because the system analyzes and understands the concepts within text, video and audio content, Autonomy Enlisted in War on Terror rather than relying on keywords, it is able to Silicon.
com, October 21, 2002 identify patterns or clusters of words that when combined may signal dubious activities.
With this powerful technology, employees will be automatically alerted to new developments.
In Autonomy Joins the Fight Against Terrorism addition, the technology enables potentially hazardous situations to be identified before The Financial Times, October 21, 2002 they occur and increases the likelihood that accidents of discovery will take place.
This will enable the homeland security related agencies Autonomy Scoops American Anti-Terror Deal to monitor suspected terrorist groups and create a consolidated terrorist watch list.
The Independent, October 21, 2002 The Homeland Security mission is to prevent terrorist attacks within the Unites States, reduce the country's vulnerability to terrorism British Concern to Help Track US Terrorists and minimize the damage and aid recovery from any attacks that do occur by providing a The New York Times, October 21, 2002 robust and united infrastructure that can mobilize the resources of the federal, state and local governments and private sector.
16 partners and OEMs partners and OEMs Partners Autonomy's partner program continues to leverage the power of the indirect channel to achieve coverage of every software application type, including Customer Relationship Management, Knowledge Management, Content Management, Security, B2B Commerce, Portals, Document Management and Business Intelligence.
Strategic relationships and partnerships with consultants, system integrators and resellers have created a dynamic network of more than 130 organizations worldwide, including IBM Global Services, BearingPoint, Hewlett Packard, Compaq and Sapient.
This vital component of Autonomy's highly scalable business model delivers the highest value and service to the customer by engaging the customers selected provider, and provides partners with the benefits of working with the leading technology in the marketplace.
Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs Autonomy's Original Equipment Manufacturer OEM Program is an integral part of Autonomy's business model.
Autonomy's OEMs are world leading software companies that embed Autonomy's advanced information management capabilities into their own products creating greater feature differentiation, making products more marketable, reducing production development cycles and decreasing time to market.
Initially, Autonomy receives an up-front payment from new OEMs.
After a year or so, the company's new product starts to ship and royalty payments are made to Autonomy.
OEMs such as Business Objects, Corechange and Sybase already license Autonomy's technology to automatically aggregate, categorize, link, profile, personalize, summarize or deliver unstructured information within their own applications.
In 2002, Autonomy achieved virtually all new major OEM product wins in the sector, and concluded a total of 19 new agreements, with, amongst others, EDS, Citrix and ATG, and expanded relationships with Computer Associates, Vignette and BEA.
The horizontal nature of Autonomy's technology was further highlighted in 2002 as IDOL was licensed into a wide range of software products from product lifecycle management to voice and video applications.
return on investment 17 return on investment Return On Investment Autonomy is unique in providing a business efficiency tool that rapidly delivers tangible return on investment by automating interactions between people and unstructured, semi-structured and structured information.
Autonomy provides 'Hard' return on investment, which is generated through significantly reduced labor costs resulting from automation, whereas 'Soft' return on investment comprises benefits such as increased collaboration, better information sharing and increased competency.
As the above diagram illustrates, the areas where Autonomy is able to add value can be broadly classified into 'Interactions between Information', 'Interactions between People and Information' and 'Interactions between People'.
Interactions Between Information - Automatically The ability to effectively manage the ever-increasing amount of information in an organization presents a major challenge to businesses today.
A key part of Autonomy's value lies in its ability to minimize labor costs by removing the need to manually classify, tag, hyperlink or categorize unstructured content.
By identifying the concepts in context, Autonomy enables the real-time automation of interactions between information, thereby significantly reducing back-end costs.
Automation dramatically improves information retention by providing access to large archives of content that could otherwise only be retrieved via unwieldy lists of search results.
Furthermore, by automatically aggregating and ranking information - regardless of format, application type, subject, language or size of the repository in which it is stored - Autonomy also boosts the return on investment of other applications including CRM systems and portals.
Interactions Between Information and People - Automatically Traditionally, interactions between information and people have relied upon people searching for information such as in a knowledge management environment, or manually tagging information such as in an e-commerce or publishing environment.
These laborious approaches are expensive and rendered unnecessary by Autonomy's technology, which proactively performs operations, thereby decreasing the need for costly manual labor.
18 return on investment The efficiency with which information is managed has a direct impact on the bottom line, which explains why Autonomy's ability to understand information and automate the processes around it achieves significant savings and adds value
