TRA V IS PERKINS PLC Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2002 The directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Activities The principal activities of the group are the marketing and distribution of timber, building and plumbing materials and the hiring of tools to the building trade and industry generally within the United Kingdom.
Review of groups position, developments and future prospects These subjects are dealt with as part of the chairmans statement, the chief executives review and the finance directors report on pages 3 to 14.
Results and dividends The group results and dividends for the year ended 31 December 2002 are set out on page 42.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2003 to those shareholders on the register on 22 April 2003.
Directors The directors at 31 December 2002 were as listed on pages 24 and 25.
Mr. J. N. Clarke served as a director throughout the year until his retirement on 31 December 2002.
In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, Mr. E. C. Adams, Mr. M. B. Dearden and Mr. P. J. Maydon retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
As non-executive directors, none of them has a service contract.
None of the directors had an interest in any contract to which the company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
The disclosable interests of directors at 31 December 2002, including holdings, if any, of wives and of children aged under 18, were as detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 37.
Substantial interests At 7 March 2003, the only substantial interests that is, 3 per cent or more in the companys share capital notified to the company were as follows: Mr. E. R. A. Travis 9,228,070 Beneficial and non-beneficial 8.189 per cent Close company status The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the company.
Employee participation, disabled persons and charitable donations Statements on these matters are contained in the corporate social responsibility statement on pages 16 and 17.
Supplier payment policy The groups policy is to pay all of its suppliers in accordance with established terms.
Group trade creditors at 31 December 2002 represent 42.4 days 2001: 45.3 days of average purchases of goods and services.
The company has no trade creditors.
Annual general meeting special business The following items are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as items of special business.
38 TRA V IS PERKINS PLC Resolution 7: directors remuneration report In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, this resolution seeks shareholders approval of the directors remuneration report set out on pages 31 to 37.
Resolution 8: renewal of authority to allot shares Under the Companies Act 1985 the board is not able to allot shares except with the general or specific authority of shareholders.
Resolution 8 renews the boards authority to issue share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,232,216 being the lesser of the companys authorised but unissued share capital and one third of its issued capital.
This represents 19.8 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the company as at 7 March 2003.
The authority extends until the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and the date fifteen months from the passing of this resolution.
The board does not have any present intention of exercising this authority other than for the purposes of the companys employee share option schemes.
Resolution 9: limited authority to allot shares for cash The Companies Act 1985 provides that, when equity securities are being issued for cash such securities must first be offered to existing shareholders unless the board is given a power to allot them without regard to that requirement.
Resolution 9 therefore empowers the board to allot for cash, equity securities of a nominal amount not exceeding 563,389 representing 5 per cent of the issued share capital without first offering such securities to existing ordinary shareholders.
Any issue of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Resolution 10: authority to purchase own shares Your directors believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders that the company should have the flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares up to 10 per cent of the issued share capital for cancellation.
The effect of any such purchases would be to reduce the number of shares in issue and the directors would only make such purchases after consideration of the effect on earnings per share and the longer term benefits for shareholders.
The fact that such authority is being sought should not be taken to imply that shares would be purchased at any particular price or indeed at all.
At 7 March 2003, there were options outstanding over 4,820,778 ordinary shares, representing 4.28 per cent of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
This would rise to 4.75 per cent if the authority being sought were to be exercised in full.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche are willing to continue in office and a resolution for their reappointment as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the board A. S. Pike Secretary 7 March 2003 39
