TRA V IS PERKINS PLC Health and safety report For the year ended 31 December 2002 Policy The group continues to demonstrate its commitment to the achievement and maintenance of high standards in health and safety throughout our branch network and offices.
Health and safety is an agenda item at board and executive meetings where key performance indicators KPIs and lost time accidents LTAs are reviewed with action taken to minimise health and safety risks.
Health and safety reporting, monitoring, controlling and improvement continues to be front of mind for all of our managers and staff as we strive to make our place of work and systems of work safe for employees, customers, suppliers and sub-contractors.
Our fundamental goals in health and safety are embodied in the group policy, which has been reviewed during 2002 and re-issued to all operating premises across the group.
Measurement and reporting In 2002 we continued to measure our health and safety performance with a focus on accident frequency rates and severity rates.
Frequency rates are improving and severity rates have reduced by 50 per cent on the previous year.
There were no fatalities during the year.
Our new computer based health and safety audit, was successfully launched during 2002 enabling the business to capture data which not only helps our managers establish health and safety action plans but also provides the opportunity to review year on year improvement and common health and safety challenges.
Each audit was formally reviewed in September 2002 by operational management to ensure all proposed action was on target.
Continuous improvement The need to ensure that health and safety is a constant priority for our workforce is fully recognised and the following initiatives not only support the achievement of this, but also have contributed to our improving safety record: Health and safety induction and manual handling training continues to be carried out for all new employees: A new risk assessment and planning process will be launched in early 2003 containing assessment procedures designed to involve managers and employees at all levels in implementing the most effective control measures: Standards for health and safety have been widely communicated throughout our company magazines and notice boards: Our health and safety and risk assessment seminars for managers were updated in 2002 and continue to be delivered to all new managers: Action plans following our audits have resulted in significant investment in our branch network and plant to minimise health and safety risk.
For example, by the end of 2003 over 50 per cent of our forklift trucks will be fitted with speed restrictors: Traffic management systems continue to be introduced in our larger branches to reduce the risk of injury by customer vehicles and moving plant.
Our team of health and safety specialists continues to support management and the regulatory authorities in striving for ever-improving health and safety standards in our operating premises.
22 TRA V IS PERKINS PLC TP PLUMBING & HEATING articulated lorry passing Blackpool Tower.
