6 Board of Directors Patrick Plunkett, non-executive Chairman Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Mr Plunkett 52 joined the Board in 1998 and Mr Heavey 50, a founding Director and was appointed Chairman in April 2000.
He is a shareholder of the Company, has played a key Director of a number of private companies and role in the development of Tullow to its current was previously Chairman of the ABN AMRO international status.
With an accounting stockbroking and corporate finance businesses background, Mr Heavey previously worked in Ireland.
He was a Director of the Irish Stock in the airline and engineering sectors.
Graham Martin, Legal and Commercial Director Matthew ODonoghue, Operations Director Mr Martin 49 joined the Company in 1997 Mr ODonoghue 58 was appointed to the Board in from an international law practice.
He has more than 30 years experience in the has been principal legal adviser to Tullow oil and gas industry, working with Schlumberger since its incorporation and has many years Wireline in Africa and the Middle East.
He has been experience of UK and international corporate with Tullow since 1987 and has been a core member and energy transactions.
of the team that built the Companys international exploration and production portfolio.
Tom Hickey, Finance Director John Lander, Managing Director of Tullow Oil UK Mr Hickey 34 joined the Board in 2000.
Mr Lander 59 has been involved in international oil He was previously an Associate Director of and gas exploration for over 30 years and from 1989 ABN AMRO Corporate Finance Ireland Ltd. to 1995 was Managing Director of Pict Petroleum plc.
In this role he advised a wide range of More recently he was Executive Director UK for public and private companies in the areas British Borneo Petroleum Syndicate plc and of mergers and acquisitions, flotations and Managing Director of Vectis Petroleum Limited.
Eskandar Maleki, non-executive Director Rohan Courtney, senior non-executive Director Mr Maleki 52 has an interest in shares Mr Courtney 55 was a career banker for 27 years representing 3.35% of the issued share and held senior positions in London and Hong Kong capital of the Company, mainly through including as Chief Executive in Europe of the State Centrotrade Corporation.
He was appointed Bank of New South Wales.
He is currently Chief to the Board in 1996.
Executive of Turnbulls Group Limited, a financial services group, and non-executive Director of Education Development International plc and Boisdale Restaurant.
Clare Spottiswoode, CBE, non-executive Director Steven McTiernan, non-executive Director Ms Spottiswoode 50 joined the Board in 2002.
Mr McTiernan 51 joined the Board in 2002.
An economist by training, she began her career He began his career as a petroleum engineer in the Treasury and more recently was Head of and moved into banking in 1979 with Chase UK gas regulator Ofgas, a role she occupied Manhattan.
While at Chase, Mr McTiernan from 1993 to 1998.
Ms Spottiswoode is currently structured a broad range of corporate and Deputy Chairman of British Energy, President of project financings and managed a number of Economatters, non-executive director of Advanced ground-breaking acquisition and divestiture Technology UK plc and Chairman of Busy Bees.
Since leaving Chase in 1996 he has also worked as Head of Oil & Gas Investment Banking for NatWest Markets and Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees for the London office of CIBC World Markets.
Member of Nominations Committee TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 7 Senior Management United Kingdom International Brian Williams Paul McDade Brian OCathain Gerry Sheehan Finance and Operations and Managing Director Exploration Commercial Technical Director Manager Director Pete Dickerson Ken Vosper John Welding Kevin Quinn Group Commercial Commercial Drilling Manager Area Manager, Manager Manager South Asia Chris Flavell Graham Brunton Jack Scott Bob Cramp Exploration and EHS Manager Petroleum Finance Manager Exploitation Manager Engineering Manager
