REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
ACTIVITIES, BUSINESS REVIEW AND DEVELOPMENT During 2002 the groups principal activities were in the areas of market research, news distribution and professional media.
The current activities of the group are described in more detail on pages 6 to 13.
The financial review on pages 14 and 15 contains details of the performance of the group and its divisions during the year, and the operating review on pages 8 to 13 gives an indication of future developments.
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR AND DIVIDENDS The results for the year are set out in the group profit and loss account on page 33.
After accounting for dividends totalling 24.2m including the proposed dividend of 13.5m and an accrued LIBOR related B share dividend of 0.6m, the balance to be transferred from reserves is 263.2m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 4 pence per share for the year ended 31 December 2002 to be paid on 29 May 2003 to those shareholders on the register on 14 March 2003.
An interim dividend of 3 pence per share was paid on 24 October 2002, making a total for the year of 7 pence 2001: 12 pence.
A dividend of 8.77 pence per B share will be paid on 24 April 2003 to holders of B shares on the register on 14 March 2003.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS Biographical details of the directors in office as at 28 February 2003 are set out on pages 16 and 17.
The following directors held office during the year: Sir Ronald Hampel resigned 5 November 2002, Clive Hollick, John Botts, Charles Gregson, Jonathan Newcomb, Christopher Powell, Adair Turner, Geoff Unwin, Malcolm Wall, Nigel Wilson and Fields Wicker-Miurin.
Adair Turner and Geoff Unwin will retire in accordance with the companys articles of association at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Geoff Unwins contract may be terminated by either party on twelve months notice, such notice not to be given before 1 November 2003.
Adair Turner does not have a service contract.
Adair Turner and Geoff Unwin are considered by the company to be independent.
The interests of the directors in office at 31 December 2002 in the shares of the company and its subsidiary undertakings are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 18 to 26.
No director had a material interest in any contract other than a service contract with the company or any subsidiary at any time during the year.
CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL The issued share capital of the company at 1 January 2002 was 335,005,854 ordinary shares of 25 pence each, 10,480,642 B shares of 8 23 44 pence each, and 132,484,195 deferred shares of 8 23 44 pence each.
The ordinary shares and B shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The deferred shares are unlisted.
During the year 555,040 ordinary shares were issued in connection with the exercise of options under the companys share option schemes, of which 300,000 were issued to the Qualifying Employee Share Trust to satisfy the exercise of options under the United SAYE Scheme and MAI Sharesave Scheme.
2,118 ordinary shares were issued on conversion of the companys 6.125 per cent convertible bonds and a further 52,341 ordinary shares were issued to Sir Ronald Hampel on his resignation from the board.
In accordance with a resolution passed at the annual general meeting held on 2 May 2002, the outstanding 132,484,195 deferred shares were purchased by the company for an aggregate price of one penny and were cancelled under the provisions of the Companies Act.
The company also repurchased a further 2,934,255 B shares with a nominal value of 0.2m for consideration of 7.2m and cancelled them under the provisions of the Companies Act.
The issued share capital of the company at 31 December 2002 was 335,615,353 ordinary shares of 25 pence each and 7,546,387 B shares of 8 23 44 pence each.
At the annual general meeting held on 2 May 2002, shareholders authorised the company to purchase up to 33,505,797 ordinary shares and up to 10,480,642 B shares.
These authorities were still valid at 31 December 2002 and will expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held on 15 May 2003.
Resolutions to renew them will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT During 2002 the company continued to implement the longer term initiatives established in 2001 to reward, retain and develop its employees, and sought opportunities to benchmark itself against industry best practice.
Where possible, subsidiaries continued to support and develop the principles of flexible working as it has been demonstrated that employees value highly ways to help balance home and work priorities more effectively.
These initiatives include in particular the increased use of homeworking, which helps to rationalise the use of office accommodation.
The online corporate voluntary benefits programme for employees launched in 2001 continued to ensure that employees had access to a wide variety of benefits and services to maximise their spending power.
All divisions continued to make management development a priority in 2002.
A range of customised training solutions were offered at local level in order to underpin retention of staff initiatives and ensure managerial skills were developed to meet new business requirements and cope with the difficult trading conditions.
Progress continues to be made in furthering the companys commitment to diversity, which is championed at board level.
Diversity forums were set up in 2002 in the US and UK to develop targeted initiatives aimed at recognising and valuing the diversity of the groups employees and creating a supportive and highly productive working environment for all.
The company continued its membership of Opportunity Now to benchmark progress and take stock of best practice.
Employees throughout the group receive regular updates on corporate performance, business objectives and development through various formal and informal channels of communication, including local intranet sites and group meetings.
A series of web chats were held during the year to allow employees from across the group a real time opportunity to provide feedback to and ask questions of divisional and board level executives.
Good use of divisional staff consultative forums was also made to ensure employees received timely communication on relevant issues.
Selection of employees is determined on their aptitude, skills and ability that are relevant to the job.
Should an employee become disabled during their employment, efforts are made to enable them to continue their career where possible, including appropriate re-training.
30 UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA ANNUAL REPORT 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The company actively supports corporate social responsibility.
It has developed and introduced a range of modern employer, community involvement and product integrity programmes right across the group.
The board has adopted a statement of business principles which is published on the companys website and which outlines its core values in dealing with its principal stakeholders.
These principles provide a framework within which the various divisions around the group have developed their own codes of conduct to enable them to prioritise those issues that are of key concern to their specific business.
In each of the groups market places, the integrity of the product or service offered is of paramount importance.
Product performance is regularly measured and often publicly reported, as in the case of CMP Medias US publishing statistics.
Businesses strive to improve their service to customers by the development and implementation of customer relationship management tools and measure their impact in this area by the use of customer satisfaction surveys.
The company seeks to maximise shareholder value by insisting on the highest standards of financial management, assessment of risk and control.
This is achieved by means of detailed financial plans and procedures, setting clear performance targets and monitoring progress against them.
Acquisitions are subject to rigorous investment targets which are designed to improve shareholder value and are benchmarked against alternative uses of capital.
Financial reporting procedures are designed to ensure transparency and clarity of financial information.
The company pursues employment practices which are designed to assist its employees in achieving an appropriate work life balance.
Work place discrimination or harassment is not tolerated and procedures are in place to support these policies.
The company recognises that it has a role to play in supporting the community which is undertaken both by means of cash donations and by encouraging employees to provide their services as volunteers and facilitating their involvement in their local communities.
As part of the groups risk mapping process, which is described in more detail on page 28, companies within the group assess the risks attaching to the failure to implement social, ethical and environmental policies.
These risks are considered by the board twice a year as part of its examination of the overall risk maps.
Due to the nature of its businesses, the group does not have a high environmental impact.
Its principal impact arises from energy consumption, which the company continues to monitor and to set reduction targets where practicable.
Overall energy consumption levels are expected to continue to decrease during 2003 both as a result of targeted reductions and as a consequence of the ongoing rationalisation of the groups property portfolio.
Many of the groups business practices tend to support environmental good practice, for example the increasing use of new technology such as the internet to facilitate data collection within its market research businesses has led to reduced demand for paper resources.
The company continues to review and develop its reporting on relevant CSR issues and will provide periodic updates about these on its website.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are required by the Companies Act to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
The directors confirm that in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002 the group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the company and of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements are also published on the United Business Media website: the maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DONATIONS In 2002 the group donated 232,000 to charitable organisations 2001: 316,000.
The group made no political donations during 2002 2001: nil.
At the annual general meeting held on 2 May 2002 shareholders approved a resolution allowing the company to make EU political donations and expenditure as defined in the Companies Act totalling in aggregate up to 100,000.
This approval was sought as a precautionary measure in view of the broad definition of this term, and no such expenditure or donations were made during the year.
A similar resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on 15 May 2003.
31 UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA ANNUAL REPORT 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 28 February 2003 the company had been notified of the following interests of 3 per cent or more in its issued ordinary share capital:- Number of ordinary shares held Percentage of ordinary shares held FMR Corp. 51,477,234 15.34 Franklin Resources Inc. 49,924,336 14.88 Schroders PLC 29,146,201 8.68 Legal & General 10,173,931 3.03 CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY In view of the diversity of its businesses the group does not offer or operate a uniform timetable for payment of suppliers.
Each operating company is responsible for agreeing with its own suppliers the terms and conditions on which it will transact business with them, including payment terms.
The groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with these agreed terms.
The company has no trade creditors.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The annual general meeting of the company will be held on 15 May 2003.
The notice of meeting and a description of the business to be transacted is contained in the accompanying document.
AUDITORS Following the companys review of its audit arrangements the directors appointed Ernst & Young LLP as auditors in May 2002.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution for their re-appointment and on their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
By order of the board Registered office: Anne Siddell Ludgate House Secretary 245 Blackfriars Road 28 February 2003 London SE1 9UY 32 UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA ANNUAL REPORT 2002
