Remuneration report UNAUDITED INFORMATION Composition and role of the Remuneration Committee The Company complies with the relevant conditions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance relating to Directors remuneration as published by the London Stock Exchange and the new Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The members of the Committee are the non-executive Directors P Macfarlane and A Walker and Sir Frank Holroyd is the Chairman.
The task of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the framework of executive remuneration and to determine annually the individual salaries, annual bonuses payable if any and other terms and conditions of employment of the executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Committee also approves the terms of any discretionary share schemes in which executive Directors and senior executives may be invited to participate, and the terms of the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme and All-Employee Share Ownership Plan.
The Committee consulted with one other Director, Dr Julian Blogh Chief Executive, with regard to the remuneration and benefits packages offered to executive Directors and senior executives during the year except in relation to his own remuneration and benefits package.
In addition, wholly independent advice on executive remuneration and share schemes was received from specialist consultants who were appointed by the Company and who provided no other services to the Company during the year.
Remuneration policy The policy of the Committee is to reward senior management competitively, enabling the Company to recruit, motivate and retain executives of high calibre, whilst avoiding paying excessive remuneration.
Further details of the remuneration policy followed by the Committee are set out below.
In conjunction with the remuneration consultants who advise the Committee, the remuneration practices adopted by a group of like companies that, in the opinion of the Committee, face similar remuneration issues to the Company are considered.
The size and nature of each key element of the remuneration package of executive Directors has been determined following this analysis.
It is the aim of the Committee to encourage and reward high performance.
It is the opinion of the Committee that shareholders interests are best served by setting a moderate level of fixed pay while providing competitive potential levels of total remuneration through short and longer term incentive arrangements which would require the satisfaction of challenging performance conditions.
Therefore, a significant proportion of the executive Directors remuneration is performance-linked.
Salaries Salaries of executive Directors are reviewed by the Committee annually.
In addition to an analysis presented by specialist consultants, the Committee uses published salary surveys and information available in the annual reports of similar companies as sources of market information.
The Committee takes account of pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining annual salary increases.
Specific factors taken into account by the Committee when determining each executive Directors base salary are: the median level of base salary for a similar position within a like group of companies: the individual Directors performance: and the responsibilities of the respective Director.
Annual bonus scheme Bonus payments are based upon the achievement of operating profit and cash flow targets.
The maximum bonus for 2002 was 40% of base salary.
The performance measures for bonus payments are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market conditions and position of the Company and, therefore, that they 28 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Remuneration report continued continue to remain challenging.
It is the opinion of the Committee that the use of operating profit and cash flow targets remain appropriate for the 2003 bonus.
For 2003, the maximum bonus payable will be 50% of base salary.
However, the maximum bonus will only be payable in return for exceptional performance which will require the achievement of even more stretching operating cash flow targets than was required to achieve maximum bonus in 2002.
Long-Term Incentive Plan At the last Annual General Meeting in April 2002, shareholders approved the establishment of the Ultra Electronics Long-term Incentive Plan 2002-2007 the New LTIP to replace the previous Ultra Electronics Long-term Incentive Plan the Old LTIP that had expired.
The Committees current policy is for the New LTIP to be the sole vehicle through which long-term incentives are provided to executive Directors and that executive Directors who participate in the New LTIP will not be granted options under either the Company Share Option Plan or the Executive Share Option Scheme which are share schemes operated by the Company for the benefit of less senior executives and certain key employees.
Under the New LTIP, a participant may be granted an award over ordinary shares worth up to 100% of gross base salary each year.
The vesting of awards is dependent on the extent to which genuinely stretching performance conditions are met over the three-year period following grant.
The Committee believes that the most appropriate approach to determine the extent to which these performance targets are achieved is for the relevant calculations to be undertaken by an independent third party.
For the purposes of the performance targets, the Companys EPS will be taken as earnings per share calculated before goodwill amortisation but after exceptional items.
More particularly, the Committees current policy is for vesting of awards to be dependent upon the Companys EPS growth over this three-year period relative to the EPS growth of the following group of aerospace, engineering and defence companies: Aim Group plc Delta plc Senior plc Alba plc Domino Printing Sciences plc Smiths Group plc Alvis plc Halma plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Amstrad plc Hampson Industries plc Telemetrix plc BAE Systems plc Henlys Group plc TT Electronics plc Charter plc Meggitt plc Vitec Group plc Chemring Group plc Pressac plc Volex Group plc Chloride Group plc Rolls-Royce plc VT Group plc Cobham plc Rotork plc Whatman plc Vesting commences at 20% for median performance, rising on a straight-line basis so that the award vests in full for upper-quartile performance.
To the extent that the targets are not met at the end of the three-year period, the award lapses.
This system of measuring performance has been in place since 2000 and, in that period, upper-quartile performance has been achieved in each year against the comparative group of companies.
The Committee believes that the appropriate performance measure for New LTIP awards is comparative EPS, because this measure ensures that the Companys earnings growth must be at the upper-quartile of a group of similar companies before awards vest in full.
Such earnings growth performance, sustained over the medium to long-term, should ensure above average share price growth.
The executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys Inland Revenue approved Savings Related Share Option SAYE Scheme and All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Under the SAYE Scheme, participants open an approved savings account.
When the saving starts, options are granted to acquire the number of shares that the total savings plus bonuses payable will buy when the contract matures.
Under the AESOP, employees in the UK are offered the opportunity to buy shares up to the value of 1,500 per year from pre-tax salary.
Shares are then held in trust on behalf of employees until the maturity date or until they leave the Company.
