Directors NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN James Henry Newman, Aged 53 James joined the Board in January 1999 following the merger with YEGWM and became Chairman of the Company in June 2002.
He was previously Deputy Chief Executive and Group Finance Director of Kelda Group plc.
He is a Chartered Directors Accountant and a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He is currently a Non-Executive 1 7 8 Director of Richmond Foods plc and Partnership Investment Fund Limited.
2 6 James was formerly Group Finance Director of Watmoughs Holdings 3 4 5 PLC and BRIDON plc.
He is the Chairman of the Audit and Nominations Committees and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Philip Hudson Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director 2.
John Napier Chief Executive Non-Executive Director 3.
Paul Rackham Finance Director Non-Executive Director 4.
Sam Wauchope Commercial Director Non-Executive Director EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Nigel Desmond Alexander Sandy Hugh Charles Etheridge Chief Executive, Aged 58 Finance Director, Aged 52 Nigel was appointed Chief Executive Hugh joined the Board in September and joined the Board in May 2001.
He was previously Finance He was previously Finance Director Director of Matthew Clark plc from and then Managing Director of 1991 to 2001 and Finance Director Hanson Waste Management from of Strong and Fisher plc.
Prior to this, Nigel held Chartered Accountant and a member a number of financial appointments of the Association of Corporate with Boskalis, a Dutch construction Treasurers.
Group, and ARCs aggregates business.
He was Vice-Chairman and then Christopher Marthinus Cox Chairman of the Environmental Commercial Director, Aged 40 Services Association from 1994 to Chris was appointed to the Board in 1998 and he currently represents the September 2001 having joined the Group on the Associations Executive Group in February 1999.
Nigel has a Masters Degree worked in the waste management in Business Administration.
industry for more than 15 years, in both contracting and consultancy.
Chris has degrees in Economics and in Land and Water Management, along with qualifications in Marketing.
12 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002
