Directors Report The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Activities The principal activities of the Group are the receiving, processing, recycling and disposing of waste materials, the generation of electricity from landfill gas and quarrying.
Results and Dividends The Group made a loss for the year, after taxation and minority interests, of 9,148,000 2001 7,906,000 profit.
Reviews of the business of the Group during the year and its future development are included in the Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Reviews on pages 2 to 11.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.1p per share 2001 3.1p, which, together with the interim dividend paid of 1.5p per share 2001 1.4p, gives a total dividend for the year of 4.6p per share 2001 4.5p amounting to 5,421,000 2001 5,300,000.
The deficit for the year of 14,569,000 2001 2,606,000 profit is to be transferred from to reserves.
Employees The Company encourages a policy of equal opportunity employment throughout the Group at all times.
Subject to the nature of its businesses, the policy of the Company is to ensure that there are fair opportunities in the Group for the employment and training of disabled persons.
The Directors recognise the importance of communication with employees.
Members of the management team regularly visit sites and discuss with members of staff matters of current interest and concern to the business.
Consultation forums have been established in each business unit to improve internal communication between management and employees.
Charitable and Political Donations The Group made charitable donations amounting to 5,291 2001 4,878 during the year.
It also contributed 21,857,000 2001 16,018,000 of its landfill tax liability to WREN and other ENTRUST registered environmental bodies as permitted by Government regulations.
No political donations were made during the year 2001 nil.
Corporate Responsibility The Group takes regular account of its corporate, social and environmental responsibilities and is publishing a separate report on these matters.
The report, which outlines the Groups environmental objectives and reports on health and safety, training and community relations, is being circulated to all shareholders and is also posted on the Groups web site, at www.
The Environment Panel appointed by the Group has again published its own statement concerning the Groups environmental performance for 2002.
The Group has again taken part in the Business in the Environments corporate environmental engagement survey and further improved on its already high ranking in this important assessment of UK business.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 1 May 2003.
A notice of meeting is set out at the end of this annual report and financial statements and a separate proxy form is enclosed.
14 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 Directors Report continued Directors and their Interests The Directors of the Company throughout the year and the interests of the Directors in office at 31 December 2002 in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, were as follows: Ordinary shares of 25p each Ordinary shares of 25p each At 31 December At 31 December At 1 January At 1 January 2002 2002 2002 2002 Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial J H Newman 5,000 N D A Sandy 3,600 H C Etheridge 3,600 C M Cox 1,500 P J Hudson appointed 5 August 2002 J A Napier P A Rackham 2,156,879 2,000,636 S A Wauchope 18,909 18,909 P A Barrett appointed 4 March 2002, resigned 18 June 2002 The beneficial interest of Mr P A Rackham includes 2,000,000 2001 2,000,000 ordinary shares at the year-end and at the date of this report arising as a result of the holding in the Company by Paul Rackham Limited, a company in which he is a shareholder.
Apart from the arrangements referred to in note 25 to the financial statements, no Director had a material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiaries, save for service agreements, details of which are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There has been no movement in the Directors holdings between the year-end and the date of this report.
The Directors interests in share options are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Retirement of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company require that a Director should retire from office at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Accordingly, Mr P J Hudson will retire and submit himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following interests of 3 percent.
or more in the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this report.
Ordinary shares Shareholder Number Percent.
Kelda Group plc 53,667,900 45.6% ISIS Asset Management plc 8,089,050 6.9% Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 5,655,000 4.8% Amvescap plc 4,781,285 4.1% Corporate Governance Policy Statement Waste Recycling Group plc fully supports the Principles of Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance published in June 1998 the Combined Code.
This report also deals with the requirements of paragraphs a and b of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rule 12.43A relating to Section 1 of the Combined Code, setting out how the principles of the Combined Code have been applied.
The Directors, having reviewed the Companys Corporate Governance policies, consider that the Company has throughout the year been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code save for the following matters: There is no senior independent Non-Executive Director identified in this report, to whom concerns can be conveyed, as recommended by Code Provision A.
The Board does not feel that any positive benefit would arise from doing this, given the small number of Non-Executive Directors.
Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 15 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance continued Policy Statement continued Two of the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year are nominated by Kelda Group plc and were not wholly independent of management, as recommended by Code Provision A.
3.2, owing to their position as directors or employees of Kelda Group plc.
Mr J A Napier, who is a Director of Kelda Group plc, served throughout the year.
Mr J H Newman was a Director of Kelda Group plc until 6 August 2002 and was replaced as a Kelda Group plc nominated Director on that date by Mr P J Hudson who is Company Secretary of Kelda Group plc.
In the opinion of the Board their independence was not materially impaired.
The Remuneration Committee is not wholly comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors as recommended by Code Provision B.
2.2, by virtue of the inclusion of Mr J A Napier who is a Director of Kelda Group plc.
In the opinion of the Board the Committees independence was not materially impaired.
The Audit Committee comprised of only two Non-Executive Directors rather than the minimum number of three recommended by Code Provision D. 3.1. until Mr P J Hudson joined the Committee in August 2002.
Until that date a majority of the members of the Audit Committee were not independent.
In the opinion of the Board this did not impair the effectiveness of the Committee due to the range of skills and experience of the two members.
Detailed reviews of the performance of the business are included in the Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Reviews on pages 2 to 11.
The Board uses these reviews to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Board Constitution and Procedures The Board currently comprises three Executive and five Non-Executive Directors and meets regularly throughout the year.
The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are clearly defined and separate.
Mr P A Barrett was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 4 March 2002 and resigned on 18 June 2002, being replaced by Mr J H Newman.
Mr Newman resigned from Kelda Group plc on 6 August 2002.
Mr P J Hudson, Company Secretary of Kelda Group plc, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 5 August 2002.
Of the Non-Executive Directors, Mr S A Wauchope and Mr J H Newman, since his resignation from Kelda Group plc, are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, which could materially affect their independent judgement.
The composition of the Board satisfies the provisions of the Combined Code, which provide that the Board should have a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors in terms of number and relevant experience to enable it to have effective leadership and control of the Company and its subsidiaries.
It also ensures that the decision making process cannot be dominated by any individual or small group of individuals.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board for its decision has been agreed.
In particular the Board is responsible for determining overall Group strategy and decisions concerning acquisitions, capital expenditure and funding.
A formal procedure has been agreed for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice.
Board Committees The Board has an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations Committee.
The composition of these committees and their respective functions are detailed below.
Where appropriate these committees include the participation of specialist members of staff.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee was established by resolution of the Board, which sets out its written terms of reference.
These include a duty to keep under review the scope and results of internal and external audits, their cost effectiveness and the objectivity of the auditors.
The Committee consists of Mr J H Newman Chairman, Mr P J Hudson and Mr S A Wauchope.
Meetings of the Committee may be attended by the Finance Director and by representatives of the Groups auditors.
The Committee meets regularly and, in addition, the auditors may request that they meet with the Committee at any time they consider it necessary.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of Mr J A Napier Chairman, Mr J H Newman and Mr S A Wauchope and meets to decide annual salary and benefits for the Executive Directors and the granting of share options for staff.
A separate Directors Remuneration Report is included on pages 19 to 22.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of Mr J H Newman Chairman, Mr P J Hudson, Mr J A Napier, Mr P A Rackham and Mr S A Wauchope.
16 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance continued Board Committees continued The Boards policy on appointments to it is that every Board member should have the opportunity of individual meetings with prospective candidates for the Board following which there should be a unanimous view in favour of the appointment.
Care is taken to ensure that new appointees are given a thorough understanding of the Groups activities.
Internal Control Detailed reviews of the performance of the business are included in the Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Reviews on pages 2 to 11.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout the financial year and has remained in place up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The process is reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull working party.
The Board recognises its overall responsibility for internal control.
It believes strongly that senior management within the Groups operating businesses should also contribute in a substantial way and this has been built into the process.
In carrying out their review of the effectiveness of internal control in the Group, the Board has taken into consideration the following key features of the risk management process and system of internal control: Senior management from all key disciplines and each operating division continue to be involved in the process of risk assessment in order to identify and assess Group objectives, key issues, those risks relevant to the Group as a whole and controls.
This assessment encompassed all aspects of risk including operational, compliance, financial and business risk.
A risk register is updated on an ongoing basis and a control strategy has been determined for each of the significant risks.
A Risk Management Committee identifies, monitors and controls the significant risks to an acceptable level throughout the business.
The committee receives reports on risk matters, relevant to the Group, from line management and other sources on a regular basis.
The Risk Management Committee reports formally to the Audit Committee and the Board on a regular basis.
A detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting the Groups operations is in place which is monitored, both locally and centrally, through a review of monthly management information.
Risks are identified and appraised through the annual process of preparing these budgets.
Divisional management meetings consider and report on risk on a monthly basis as part of the monthly business review process.
This process is followed in order to ensure that, as far as possible, the controls and safeguards are being operated in line with established procedures and standards.
The internal audit function has been performed by Pritchard Wood previously HLB Kidsons.
The remit of the internal audit function is determined each year by the Audit Committee who review and update the internal audit work plan.
The internal audit function reports to the Audit Committee and its reports are circulated to all members of the Board.
Safety, Health and Environmental risks are continually monitored at all sites and are reviewed on a monthly basis by senior management and on a regular basis by the Risk Management Committee.
Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk management into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and the Boards attention.
This process is continuing to increase risk awareness throughout the Group.
The Groups systems of internal control are designed and operated to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of approving the financial statements that in their opinion the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 17 Directors Report continued Relations with Shareholders The Company actively seeks to enter into dialogue with institutional shareholders whenever possible.
It also endorses the Combined Code principles generally on the conduct of Annual General Meetings including that such meetings be used as an opportunity for effective communication with private shareholders whose participation in the proceedings should be encouraged.
The Company has established a web site on which announcements, interim results and the annual report and financial statements are posted.
This and other information on the Groups activities are available at www.
Creditor Payment Policy Whilst there is no formal creditor payment policy, it is the policy of the Group to settle the terms of payment with all suppliers when agreeing the terms for the transactions as a whole and to abide by such terms.
The Companys outstanding creditor days at the end of the year were 33 days.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Alan Waterhouse Company Secretary 3 Sidings Court White Rose Way Doncaster DN4 5NU 28 March 2003 18 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002
