DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report BOARD OF DIRECTORS PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES and accounts for the year ended The directors are listed on pages 10 The company is authorised to purchase, 2 March 2002.
All of them served throughout in the market, the companys own of a general nature, on which the the financial year.
Approval to renew this authority directors are required to report, Alan Perelman resigned as directors for a further year will be sought from the report deals with corporate on 20 March 2001.
Sam Whitbread shareholders at the 2002 AGM.
governance and the companys resigned on 18 September 2001. activities in the area of social MAJOR INTERESTS responsibility.
The remuneration Prue Leith, David Richardson, David As at29 April 2002, the company had report follows.
Thomas and Lord Williamson will been notified by Prudential plc of an stand for re-election at the forthcoming interest in 9,866,620 shares GENERAL Annual General Meeting.
John Padovan representing 3.33% of the issued will retire at the meeting.
Details capital of the company: by AXA S. A.
CHANGE OF NAME of directors service contracts are given of an interest in 10,040,512 shares On 10 May 2001, the name of on page 20.
None of the non-executive representing 3.40% of the issued share the company was changed from directors has a service contract capital of the company: and by Legal Whitbread Holdings PLC to other than as described in the & General Investment Management Whitbread PLC.
Remuneration Report page 20 Limited of an interest in 10,561,568 in relation to Sir John Banham.
shares representing 3.57% of the issued RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS capital of the company.
The group profit before tax for the SHARE CAPITAL year amounted to 213.4 million before At the beginning of the year, the SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY exceptional items, 7.0 million after authorised share capital was The group keeps to the payment exceptional items.
The directors have 4,725,000,002 divided into terms which have been agreed with recommended a final dividend for 1,050,000,000 ordinary shares of suppliers.
Where payment terms have the year of 12.75 pence per share.
The 450 pence each and 2 subscriber notbeen specifically agreed, itis the dividend will be payable on 12 July 2002 ordinary shares of 1 each.
On 10 May groups policy to settle invoices close to shareholders on the register at close 2001 pursuant to a special resolution to the end of the month following the of business on 10 May 2002.
The total dated 20 April 2001 the nominal value month of invoicing.
The groups ability dividend for the year, including the of each ordinary share was reduced to keep to these terms is dependent interim dividend of 5.05 pence paid on to 30 pence.
Each share was then upon suppliers sending accurate and 8 January 2002, amounts to 17.8 pence consolidated and sub-divided into adequately detailed invoices to per share.
This is in accordance with ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
the correct address on a timely basis.
the statement in last years Report and The authorised share capital is The group had 38 days purchases Accounts of the companys dividend 315,000,000 divided into 630,000,000 outstanding at2 March 2002, based policy for this year, which is to pay ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
on the trade creditors and accruals dividends of approximately 40% outstanding at that date and of profits after tax, giving a dividend ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING purchases made during the year.
The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 18June 2002 atThe Brewery, Chiswell EMPLOYEES AND Shareholders may participate in Street, London EC1Y 4SD.
The notice EMPLOYMENT POLICIES a dividend re-investmentplan, under of meeting is enclosed with this Whitbread strives for excellence in the which their cash dividend is used report and is accompanied by a letter treatment of its people in providing to purchase additional shares in the from the chairman.
In addition to a working environment in which all its company.
Further details can be found the ordinary business of the meeting, employees as well as its customers on page 57. shareholder consent will be sought and business partners are treated with to renew authority for the purchase dignity and respect.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND REVIEW by the company of its own ordinary OF THE BUSINESS shares, to approve a Share Incentive The company is also committed A detailed review of the companys Plan for all employees, and to receive to increasing employee involvement activities and the development of its the Remuneration Report, which and believes that effective two-way business, and an indication of likely is on pages 18 to 24 of this report.
communication between the future developments, are given on company and its employees brings pages 5 to 9. real business benefits.
Employees have opportunities to express their views DIRECTORS REPORT and receive information about Potential awards over 152,423 shares AUDITORS the company at regular meetings were made to senior executives under On 28 June 2001, Ernst& Young, the with management, via elected the Long Term Incentive Plan, which companys auditor, transferred its representatives at Business is described on page 19. entire business to Ernst & Young LLP, ImprovementGroups, and through a limited liability partnership regular employee opinion surveys.
As at 29 April 2002 there were incorporated under the Limited outstanding options over 9,335,010 Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
The In order to attract and retain the best ordinary shares, representing 3.16% directors consented to treating the people, Whitbread continually looks of the companys issued share capital.
appointment of Ernst & Young as for effective ways to reward its extending to Ernst & Young LLP with employees.
It offers competitive DISABILITY effect from 28 June 2001. salaries, incentive payment As part of an ongoing and rigorous arrangements to reward individual policy review process, the company is Ernst & Young LLP have expressed and company achievement, a wide committed to implementing a formal their willingness to continue in range of non-cash benefits, including disability management policy to office as auditors of the company share schemes, healthcare, employee include a detailed training programme and a resolution proposing their counselling and discounts against to ensure that Whitbread is capable re-appointment will be put to Whitbread products and the products of offering people with disabilities shareholders at the Annual General and services offered by many of our the same employment opportunities Meeting.
After proper consideration, the Audit Whitbread also seeks to give its If an employee becomes disabled in Committee is satisfied that the employees a direct stake in the the course of their work with the group, companys auditors, Ernst& Young business and to align the interests full supportis provided, for example, LLP, continue to be objective and of employees with those of other through training programmes, to independent of the company.
ensure that, wherever possible, the In July 2001,516,540 ordinary shares individual can remain in continued Although the auditors also perform were issued to the trustees of the employment within the group.
certain non-audit services for Share Ownership Scheme on behalf Whitbread, the committee is satisfied of 13,097 employees.
Due to changes EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES that such work being primarily in legislation, the Scheme will come The Whitbread group values diversity corporate finance related, is best to an end in 2002 and the last and equality at all levels within the handled by Ernst& Young LLP, because appropriation will be made to organisation.
The companys stance of their knowledge of Whitbread.
The company on equality and diversity permeates The Audit Committee has also is seeking approval from shareholders throughout the employment lifecycle considered what work should not be for a new Share Incentive Plan from recruitment and selection, carried out by the external auditors which, if operated, will be open to through performance and development and have concluded that certain all employees.
reviews, to retirements and leaving the services including internal audit organisation.
All staff are encouraged and IT consulting services will not In December 2001,3, 858 employees to develop to the best of their abilities.
be carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
were granted options over 1,885,996 shares at 431 pence under the terms TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT GOING CONCERN of the Sharesave Scheme.
Presently, The company continues to recognise, After making enquiries, the directors some 6,000 employees hold options through a number of accredited have a reasonable expectation over some 5 million shares under programmes, the importance and that the company has adequate that Scheme.
motivational impact of high levels resources to continue operating of training and development both for the foreseeable future.
For this During the year some 67 senior in terms of improvements in serving reason, the going concern basis executives were granted options over customers and also in developing continues to be adopted in preparing a total of 1,163,300 shares under and retaining talent within the the accounts.
the executive share option schemes.
These options may only be exercised if the performance criteria described on page 19 are met.
Whitbread PLC 12 13 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE locations.
To further build up the The committee reviews the half-year directors knowledge of the business, financial statements, annual accounts The company is committed to high other visits to Whitbread sites are and accompanying reports to standards of corporate governance as arranged.
The company secretary shareholders before their submission set out in Section 1 of the Combined ensures that the board are briefed on to the board.
This report sets out how the legal and regulatory issues, such are all non-executive directors: principles set out in the Code have as health and safety.
The performance John Padovan chairman, Sir John been applied.
of the board is appraised annually by Banham, Prue Leith, David Turner the chairman, having consulted with and Lord Williamson.
The committee The company has complied with the each director.
meets three times a year, with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the finance director and other officers Combined Code throughout the year The chief executive and finance also attending.
It also meets with the with the exception of certain provisions director hold a performance review auditors atleastannually, withoutan relating to the appointment of a senior meeting with each operating division executive director present.
independentdirector, and to directors board every two months.
These are explained The Remuneration Committee is in the report below and in the The non-executive directors bring responsible for determining broad policy Remuneration Report.
to the board considerable knowledge for the remuneration of the executive and experience from other areas directors and members of the Group THE BOARD of business and public life.
The board Executive and for determining their entire In the year under review the board considers that all of the non-executives individual remuneration packages.
consisted of the chairman, five nonare independent.
The board has The committee takes advice from executive directors and five executive considered whether to appoint a deputy remuneration consultants Towers Perrin.
There is a clear division of chairman or a senior independent nonresponsibility between the chairman, executive director.
In view of the strong The report on directors remuneration who leads the board, and the chief independent non-executive element on pages 18 to 24 gives full details executive, who is responsible for the on the board, itwas decided that of the companys policy on executive running of the business.
it was not necessary to create such remuneration and of individual directors an additional role.
The company has a formal procedure Throughout the financial year ended for the appointment of directors by Any shareholder may contact the 2 March 2002 the company complied means of the Nomination Committee chairman or chief executive to raise with the provisions on the design of see below.
New directors stand for any issue, or may raise any such issue performance related remuneration as re-election at the Annual General with one or all of the non-executive set out in Schedule A of the Combined Meeting following their appointment.
The Code and the Remuneration Report Every director is required to retire by company secretary can facilitate any has been prepared in accordance with rotation, and may stand for re-election such communication if requested.
if nominated by the committee, atleast every third year.
All new appointments BOARD COMMITTEES The committee meets at least twice a of non-executive directors are for The board has delegated authority to year.
Its members are Charles Gurassa an initial fixed term of three years.
the following committees on specific chairman, Sir John Banham, Prue An induction to the companys business matters, which are setoutin a written Leith, John Padovan, David Turner and and training is available for all directors constitution and terms of reference Lord Williamson, all of whom are nonon appointment.
The board meets at least 11 times a year The Audit Committee reviews the The Nomination Committee makes and has a formal schedule of matters companys internal controls and recommendations to the board reserved to itfor decision, which include ensures that the financial information for appointment and re-election of annual and interim results, the group supplied to shareholders presents a directors, both executive and nonbusiness plan, treasury policy and major balanced assessment of the companys executive.
The committee uses external acquisitions and disposals.
It is also responsible for recruitment consultants where are given timely and appropriate reviewing the internal audit appropriate.
No director is involved information for each board meeting, programme, and major findings of in any decision about his or her own including monthly financial and trading auditreviews, the appointmentof re-appointment.
A number of board meetings external auditors, advising the board take place at different Whitbread on the auditors fees and reviewing the scope of the annual audit.
1 The principles of good governance and code of best practice appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The committee members are in the major risks facing the group customers, suppliers and government Sir John Banham chairman, Charles and development of the appropriate officials: safeguarding the companys Gurassa, Prue Leith, John Padovan, action plans: assets: keeping accurate and reliable David Turner, Lord Williamson and the formulation, evaluation and records: and avoiding conflicts of David Thomas.
annual approval by the board of interest.
Its principal message is that business plans and budgets.
Actual all employees must observe a code of The board has delegated authority results are reported monthly against conductbased on honesty, integrity to the General Purposes Committee budget and the previous years and fair dealing.
to deal with business of a routine figures.
Key risks are identified and nature and with other specific action plans prepared accordingly: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS matters delegated to it by the the Treasury Committee, which The company recognises the board.
The committee is made up reviews treasury activities monthly.
importance of dialogue with both of at least two directors designated The committee is chaired by the institutional and private shareholders.
by the board and meets as required.
Treasury activities Institutional shareholders, fund are conducted in accordance with managers and analysts are briefed at In addition to the above, the Group detailed procedures and mandates: regular meetings and presentations.
Executive meets monthly and deals the consideration of risks and the All major announcements are with the day-to-day management appropriate action plans, when available to shareholders via of the company.
It comprises appraising and approving all major webcasts on the Whitbread website the executive directors, Angie Risley capital and revenue projects and www.
This site human resources director change programmes.
A post is a source of corporate information and Tim Hammond corporate completion review of each major for investors and key stakeholders.
projects is undertaken: financial policies, controls and The AGM provides an opportunity INTERNAL CONTROL procedures manuals, which are for shareholders to raise questions The board is responsible for the groups regularly reviewed and updated: with the chairman and the board.
system of internal control and for the limits of authority, which are The chairmen of the audit and reviewing its effectiveness.
The remuneration committees normally system is designed to manage rather companys organisational structure attend the meeting and are than eliminate the risk of failure to allows the appropriate segregation available to answer questions.
achieve business objectives and can of tasks: As at the 2001 AGM, there will only provide reasonable, and not the groups Code of Business Ethics, be a presentation by the chief absolute, assurance againstmaterial which is briefed annually to employees: executive at the 2002 meeting.
the internal auditfunction, which reports on the effectiveness of In addition to the stakeholder review The board has established an ongoing operational and financial controls and the company website, telephone process for identifying, evaluating and across the group.
The Audit helplines are used to provide additional managing the groups significant risks.
Committee regularly reviews the support to communicate matters of This process was in place throughout major findings from both internal particular relevance to shareholders.
This process and external audit.
is regularly reviewed by the board Whitbread shareholders are also and accords with the internal control The board has carried out a specific being given the opportunity to guidance for directors on the assessment of the groups system of register to receive future shareholder Combined Code.
internal control for the purpose of this communications electronically via annual report.
The Group Executive LloydsTSB Registrars website Key elements of the groups risk and Audit Committees have assisted www.
Further details management and internal control the board in discharging these review of this service are given in the system include: responsibilities.
chairmans letter attached to the the production by each business of Notice of Meeting.
an annual risks and controls matrix, CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS covering major risks and plans to The company takes the view that mitigate against potential risks.
These corporate governance is not a matter matrices are considered by the Audit for the board or its committees alone Committee and the Group Executive: and has developed a Code of Business a quarterly review by the Group Ethics, which is briefed annually to Executive and the board of changes employees.
This covers dealings with Whitbread PLC 14 15 DIRECTORS REPORT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Each division has developed a The divisions review their performance health and safety management plan annually and set action plans for The company is aware of the recently setting out its goals and the strategy continuous improvement over the published ABI guidelines on social for achieving them.
In the course coming year.
responsibility and is considering how of the coming year a programme to apply them in the context of the will be put in place to monitor the The connection between good Whitbread businesses.
activity of the divisions, standardise environmental management and the reporting structure and ensure good business practice is perhaps HEALTH & SAFETY that current and emerging legal most clear in the area of energy use.
The company supports the Health & requirements are identified, prioritised A shift from electricity to gas and Safety Commissions revitalising Health and communicated throughout the the rapid adoption of combined heat & Safety Strategy and has revised its company.
and power generation across suitably Health & Safety Policy to reflect the sized operating units has contributed boards responsibilities in this area.
More formal and extensive health significantly to savings and will reap The company is aware of the Health and safety and food safety audit further rewards in coming years.
& Safety Commissions guidance programmes have been established.
on disclosure on health and safety and These audits are undertaken by an Water efficiency is another area is developing its reporting systems external organisation that reports on where the company has been directing accordingly in this area.
compliance with legal requirements its attention.
Hotels, restaurants and and company standards.
leisure clubs are all potentially big Health and safety is now a regular users of water.
However, the total used agenda item atboard, Group Quarterly performance reports, is largely in the control of customers, Executive and divisional board which include comparative accident and there is much that can be done to meetings.
statistics, are prepared for the board provide hotel guests and club members The chief executive is the director and Group Executive.
with the means of helping reduce with overall responsibility for health consumption without affecting their and safety.
ENVIRONMENT enjoyment of services and facilities.
Each division has appointed a Whitbread believes it is both a core safety and security manager with responsibility and sound business The third area of focus has been responsibility for developing strategy practice to reduce the disruptive effect logistics and the consumption of diesel and championing health, safety the company has on the environment by our fleet of food distribution lorries.
in which its employees and customers Savings have been made here, The group risk manager is responsible live and work.
not only by specifying more efficient for facilitating the establishment vehicles, butalso by improving their of an integrated risk management Good environmental management route planning.
strategy and championing this not only reduces wastage and saves throughout the group.
money: it also helps control risks Green Globe was established in A cross-divisional risk management which the business may face now response to the 1992 Earth Summit in group has been established to share or in the future.
Rio which called for development of the best practice and develop common travel and tourism industry to be made policies and procedures.
The chief executive is responsible to the sustainable.
Eleven Marriott hotels are board for setting and implementing now certified under the Green Globe Corporate governance best practice environmental policy throughout scheme of independent assessment requires the company to regularly the group.
In each of the divisions, and audit to have reached the schemes review its major risks, and, in addition, environmental management and standard of environmentally and each division has risk assessment performance is the responsibility socially sustainable performance.
The procedures, inspections and control of a nominated director who ensures standards set by the scheme become measures in place, which are regularly compliance with the overall group more stringenteach year, ensuring that reviewed.
policy and with the divisions our hotels stay on a path of continuous environmental plans.
The full Whitbread environmental report can be found on the Whitbread website www.
DIRECTORS REPORT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP The Whitbread Volunteer Action Under the new programme, Whitbread Whitbread has been actively involved Awards are a celebration of the brands will play a more direct role in in the community for over 25 years.
achievements of volunteers deciding their strategic community During that time an extensive range throughout the UK.
The awards were investment partners and the of leading and award-winning set up by Whitbread some 18 years programmes they support.
These will programmes have been initiated ago, developed into a partnership be ones which fit well with brand and or supported, particularly in the with government and the voluntary company objectives and values, and volunteering and education sectors.
sector, and in 2001, the responsibility where, in turn, the brand can contribute for administration of the awards was clear, added value to community Whitbreads community investment taken up by the National Centre for programmes.
programme is the responsibility Volunteering.
Over 900 nominations of the community investment policy were received in 2001 for 21 regional committee, chaired by the chief and special category awards.
Committee members are the group HR director, corporate affairs Whitbread Awards for Volunteer director, and community investment Effort were introduced in 1995 to director, and senior representatives demonstrate the companys support from Whitbread Hotels, David Lloyd for the tremendous volunteering work Leisure and Whitbread Restaurants.
carried out by Whitbread people.
Anyone working for Whitbread can During the year under review apply for an award of up to 200 every Whitbreads contribution to year to give to the charity they already community investment was about support themselves.
2.1 million, made up of directcash contributions, donated employee In 2001 Whitbread was named time and money raised, and donated a payroll giving champion by the furniture and equipment through charity, Sharing the Caring, for the companys highly successful CARE the 470,781 raised by Whitbread programme Community Action by people through payroll giving Recycling Equipment.
Through the across its businesses.
CARE programme some 50 charities benefited during the year from FUTURE PROGRAMME equipment, furnishings and furniture Over the last 12 months Whitbread no longer needed in Whitbread has refocused its community businesses.
The aim is to concentrate resources and Whitbread continued to give strong work closely with a limited number support to volunteering and education of strategic partners and to make initiatives throughout the year.
The a significant difference in the chosen programme included the following: area of operation, while achieving specific and measurable business benefits.
The umbrella theme for the new programme is helping young people achieve their potential.
Whitbread PLC 16 17 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT Towers Perrin use data from ANNUAL PERFORMANCE-RELATED a comparator group with similar PAYMENTS The companys remuneration policy characteristics to Whitbread to The executive directors are eligible to is designed to enable the company determine competitive base salary receive an annual bonus based on the to attract, retain, and motivate levels and to measure the companys achievement of agreed profit targets executives who have the skills, relative Total Shareholder Return.
expertise and enthusiasm to drive the business forward and to reward them To ensure that individual levels of The profit-related bonus payments are in line with both their personal reward are in line with the companys based on company profit achievement contribution and the companys overall achievements and the interests of for executive directors with groupsuccess.
It is a further element of the shareholders, significantelements wide responsibility and on a companys policy to ensure that the of executive reward are directly linked combination of group and divisional levels of reward are in line with those to the performance of the company achievement for divisional managing offered by the companys comparator in the short, medium and long term.
The scheme also provides group of companies.
The components of executive the opportunity to differentiate and reward are therefore salary, annual reward truly exceptional performance Key points of note are: incentive payments linked to profit where profit targets are exceeded.
There have been no significant improvement and the achievement changes to the companys of specific business objectives, share Payments related to the achievement remuneration policy during 2001 02: option schemes linked to the growth of personal objectives are based on The total remuneration for the of earnings per share over the medium balanced scorecard objectives, such directors in 2001 02 was 2,474,069, term and a long-term incentive plan as increasing sales, reducing operating which was 489,543 less than in linked to improved Total Shareholder costs, the developmentof our people 2000 01: Return.
Executives also receive certain and maximising customer satisfaction, The chairman, the executive taxable non-pay benefits and and or individual objectives where directors and members of the Group participate in the companys pension these are over and above normal dayExecutive have agreed to defer the arrangements.
date of their 2002 annual pay review by six months, until October.
The following comprise the In the year under review the annual The board has taken the decision components of remuneration of incentive arrangements provided for that shareholders should be given executive directors and senior a payment of up to 60% of salary the opportunity to receive this executives: for the achievement of stretch profit detailed Remuneration Report at targets and up to a further 20% for the the Annual General Meeting.
SALARY achievement of personal objectives.
The Remuneration Committee reviews In total, these arrangements provide This report has been drawn up in executive directors salaries each year.
for a maximum payment of 80% accordance with Schedule B of the In doing so it takes into account market of salary.
The actual awards are shown Combined Code and has been movement in the salaries for equivalent in the table on page 21. approved by both the Remuneration positions in the comparator group, the Committee and the board.
level of salary awards to the companys The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees UK employees as a whole and the approved the targets that were set membership and terms of reference performance of individual executives.
at the beginning of the financial are set out in the Directors Report year and have approved the actual on page 14.
In the light of the effects of bonuses paid.
September 11 on the hotels business, The Remuneration Committee takes the chairman, executive directors and specialist advice from independent other members of the Group Executive consultants Towers Perrin on have elected to defer their 2002 salary the level and structure of executive review for a period of six months.
remuneration both generally in relation to the UK market and specifically in relation to the comparator group companies.
DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION SCHEMES LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PENSION Executive directors and senior THE PLAN SCHEMES managers are granted options over Participation in the Plan is available The executive directors are entitled to shares in the company under two to executive directors and other a pension from the Whitbread Group executive share option schemes, one nominated senior executives.
Pension Fund, which is a defined of which has been approved by the benefit pension scheme.
The share option The Plan aligns the long-term interests scheme is designed to incentivise of participants with those of the On retirement from service at the normal executives to achieve genuine stretch company and its shareholders and pension age of 60 with at least 20 years performance targets.
is designed to deliver superior service, the directors will receive an performance from participants and annual pension of two-thirds of their last Under the scheme a fixed number of to improve shareholder value.
12 monthsbasic salary, subjectto Inland options are granted to directors and Revenue limits.
As a result of his earnings senior managers annually in line with The Plan rewards executives with shares being restricted by the earnings cap, market practice.
Executive options are rather than cash benefits.
Awards are Alan Parker is also a member of the granted at the average market price based on three-year performance periods Whitbread Unapproved Pension Scheme, on the five dealing days preceding and are calculated by taking half of the an unfunded, unapproved pension the date of grant.
executives salary at the start of the scheme.
His total pension from the period and dividing it by the Whitbread Whitbread Group Pension Fund and the Executives may not normally exercise share price averaged over the five Whitbread Unapproved Pension Scheme options earlier than three years nor business days preceding the start of the combined on retirement at age 60 will more than ten years after the grant.
The measure of be two-thirds of his last 12 monthsbasic Options granted since 1995 are performance is Total Shareholder salary.
A director retiring early between performance-related.
The committee Return TSR which is the difference the ages of 50 and 60 may, with has specified that options granted since between the share price at the start of company consent, draw his accrued June 2000 may only be exercised if the the performance period and that at the pension without any actuarial reduction.
growth in the companys adjusted end of the period plus the dividends earnings per share EPS has exceeded paid during the three years of the Plan.
In the event of death in service before the Retail Prices Index by more than normal pension age a lump sum 4% a year measured over any three Awards vest in part or in full where the benefit of four times basic salary is consecutive years out of the ten year company achieves or exceeds the paid, together with a spouses and performance period.
In October 2001 performance of the median comparator childrens pensions.
the Remuneration Committee reviewed group company.
the performance criteria, the level On death after retirement, the of grant and the method of retesting For LTIP awards made prior to 2000, directors spouse will receive a pension for the executive share option schemes TSR performance was measured against equal to 60% of the directors pension.
and decided that no changes should be the FTSE100 group of companies.
The In addition, if death occurs within made to the current arrangements but performance of the LTIP award made 5years after retirement, a lump sum that these would remain under review.
in 1999, and for which the performance equal to the unpaid balance of 5 years period ended on 28 February 2002, pension will be payable.
Executive directors may also measured against the FTSE100 reached participate in the companys sharesave the 68th percentile, which meantthat All pensions are increased annually scheme and share ownership scheme, no shares were allocated to participants in line with the Retail Prices Index up which are open to all employees on under the Plan in respect of that period.
TAXABLE BENEFITS Executive directors do not contribute The last year of operation for the share The taxable benefits provided to to the above pension schemes.
ownership scheme will be 2001 02. executive directors are health care, a Further details of these schemes are fully expensed company car, discount None of the executive directors are given on page 13. on company products and a monthly accruing benefits under any other allocation of Leisure Vouchers the latter company-sponsored pension two are available to all employees.
No elements of Further details of taxable benefits are executive directors pay packages are given on page 21. pensionable other than basic salary.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any of these pension arrangements.
Whitbread PLC 18 19 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT PENSION ENTITLEMENTS The pension entitlements of the executive directors at 2 March 2002 were: Increase in Increase in accrued Accrued accrued Accrued entitlement entitlement entitlement entitlement Years of 2001 02 at 2 3 02 Years of 2001 02 at 2 3 02 Age service pa pa Age service pa pa Stewart Miller 49 21 13,234 114,561 Bill Shannon 52 27 11,103 165,236 Alan Parker 55 9 13,906 82,489 David Thomas 58 17 26,989 298,809 David Richardson 50 19 40,386 135,295 In addition to the above benefit, Alan Parker has an entitlementin respectof a transfer value received from a previous employers pension scheme.
The accrued entitlement at 2 3 02 was 40,833 per annum 37,989 per annum at 3 3 01.
A pension of 11,461 2000 01 10,340 was paid to a former director in excess of his accrued pension entitlement.
As disclosed in lastyears Reportand Accounts, Alan Perelman retired on 30 April 2001 and received approximately 370,500 after tax [gross 617,514] as compensation for the premature termination of his employment.
His pension entitlementincluded an unfunded, unapproved pension arrangement.
His total pension entitlementwill be equivalent to 155,875 per annum, of which 49,500 per annum will be provided through the Whitbread Group Pension Fund.
The balance was provided to Mr Perelman in the form of a lump sum of approximately 1,786,400 after tax [gross 2,994,000] calculated in accordance with the terms of the service agreement entered into when he joined the group in 1989.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES The company believes that executive shareholding is an important tool in aligning the interests of executives and shareholders.
Shareholding guidelines have therefore been developed to ensure that main board directors and members of the Group Executive build up a specified level of personal shareholding.
FEES FROM EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS Subjectto the boards approval, executive directors may acceptnon-executive directorships and other relevant appointments outside the company, provided this would notadversely affecttheir ability to perform their Whitbread duties.
Executive directors may retain up to half the fees received from external appointments.
The balance is donated to charity.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS Directors service contracts for current executive directors include a two years notice period.
In the event that employmentwith the company is terminated withoutnotice, the contracts provide for paymentof a specific sum for breach of contract, which is less than the full two-year payment.
This sum comprises one and a half times each of annual salary, estimated bonus, car benefitand the costof private medical insurance, together with the cost of 18monthslife assurance.
In addition, pension entitlementis enhanced by crediting 18 monthsadditional service.
Following a further review of directorsservice agreements, the Remuneration Committee agreed thatin the future new appointments to the board from within the company should be made on the basis of a service agreement with one years notice.
Greater flexibility would be applied to appointments to the board from outside the company with the potential to award an initial 18 month notice period which would reduce to one years notice.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS None of the non-executive directors has a service contract, with the exception of Sir John Banham, who has entered into a letter of agreement with the company setting out the terms of his appointment as non-executive chairman of Whitbread.
The appointment was for an initial period of two years which commenced on 21 June 2000 and has been terminable on one years notice by either Whitbread or Sir John Banham since 21 June 2001.
DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION FOR THE YEAR TO 2 MARCH 2002 DIRECTORS PAY The table below shows a breakdown of the value of the various elements of pay received by the directors for the period 4 March 2001 to 2 March 2002, exceptas otherwise indicated.
1 Fees salary paid for part year.
2 In addition to these fees, Mr Padovan received 11,375 as chairman of Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES OF WHITBREAD PLC DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS The interests of directors in the ordinary shares of 50 pence each in the company are shown below.
All holdings are beneficial and include shares held in trust under the Whitbread Share Ownership Scheme: Held at Held at Held at Held at Held at Held at 1 1 Name 2 3 02 3 3 01 3 3 01 Name 2 3 02 3 3 01 3 3 01 Sir John Banham 28,500 28,500 47,500 John Padovan 3,000 3,000 5,000 David Thomas 60,026 55,375 92,292 David Turner 2,000 David Richardson 14,110 12,502 20,837 Charles Gurassa 2,798 2,798 4,664 Stewart Miller 31,370 12,513 20,856 Prue Leith 3,706 3,706 6,178 Bill Shannon 25,223 23,625 39,376 Lord Williamson 900 900 1,500 Alan Parker 11,949 8,405 14,009 1 Following the demerger of the Pubs & Bars division on 10 May the shares were consolidated on a 3 for 5 basis.
This column shows shares held at 3 3 01 recalculated on the consolidated basis.
Whitbread PLC 20 21 DIRECTORS REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT SHARE OPTIONS The directors held the following share options under the executive share option schemes and the sharesave scheme.
The earliestdate on which any of the executive options could have been exercised was December 1995, with the latest date being June 2011.
Sharesave options have a six-month exercise period.
The options were granted on 20 December 1991.
Stewart Miller exercised 6,800 options under the executive share option scheme on 5 June 2001 at 537.6 pence per share: the mid-market price on that day was 674 pence.
The options were granted on 20 June 1994.
He retained the shares but had he sold the shares on exercise he would have made a gain of 3,710.
David Richardson exercised 1,181 options under the savings related share option scheme on 1 February 2002 at 584.2 pence per share:the mid-marketprice on thatday was 600 pence, the notional gain being 186.
The options were granted on 9 December 1996.
A former director of the company, Alan Perelman, exercised 77,000 options under the executive share option scheme on 25 June 2001 as follows: 9,600 shares at 537.6 pence per share and 67,400 shares at 594.2 pence per share.
He made a gain of 73,810 on the sale of the shares at 683 pence per share.
NOTES The company funds an employee share ownership plan trust ESOP to enable it to acquire and hold shares for the LTIP and executive share option schemes.
The ESOP currently holds 1,415,307 shares: the executive directors each have a technical interest in these shares.
All dividends payable on shares in the ESOP are waived by the Trustees.
During the period 2 March 2002 to 30 April 2002 no director has exercised his option to call for the transfer of his shares out of the plan.
The mid-market price of Whitbread ordinary shares on the last business day before 2 March 2002 was 633 pence 2 March 2001 628 pence.
The highest and lowest price paid between those dates was 687 pence and 455 pence respectively.
CHANGES SINCE 2 MARCH 2002 As a result of the reinvestment of income arising from a personal equity plan David Thomas acquired 15 shares, David Richardson acquired 6 shares and Stewart Miller acquired 2 shares.
There have been no other changes in directors interests in ordinary shares since 2 March 2002.
No director had an interest at any time during the year in the secured or unsecured loan stock or the loan notes of the company, or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
By order of the board Registered office S CBarratt, Company Secretary CityPoint One Ropemaker Street 30 April 2002 London EC2Y 9HX Registered in England No.
