Wilson Bowden plc Product Portfolio 2002 In 2002, our product portfolio has continued to grow as our operations have expanded into new regions and projects.
This six bedroom, three-storey Nicholson home is situated at our flagship Stretton Hall development.
Features include a separate dressing room in the Product portfolio 15 master bedroom and two ensuite bathrooms.
A street scene from the exclusive Highfields development in Totley.
Pictured in the 01 foreground is the spacious five bedroom Hampton design.
The homes, which are located on a former site of the Sheffield Hallam University, benefit from fantastic views across Derbyshire and the Peak District.
The lounge and adjoining When we saw what the conservatory in the five bedroom Ablington housetype had to offer, detached Cricklade home at the we were sure it was the home for Victoria Park development in Stokeus.
Geoff is a sales director and often on-Trent.
This family home features works from home, so buying this two ensuite bathrooms and a study.
style of home, with its separate study, It also incorporates the Companys meant that we would not have to lose versatile open living concept by the space upstairs in creating a study creation of a striking and highly area, and we could still have both flexible open area right at the heart a nursery and a guestroom.
It also of the home, where the kitchen flows means that Geoff can spend time into a large family room.
with the children before bedtime and still meet his deadlines.
The three bedroom Mill View at Melbourne Grange in Ibstock townhouses at the unique Quorn Mill development in the village of Quorn, Leicestershire.
The homes are set in the grounds of the old mill, which was originally built in the 1880s.
Enterprise Inns, Solihull Business Park.
01 The first corporate headquarters building to be constructed at Solihull Business Park is now occupied by Enterprise Inns.
The 18 acre park is being developed by Wilson Bowden Developments as the lead partner.
A further 5 phases will transform the site into more than 400,000 sq ft of high quality office space.
Nottingham Business Park provides 850,000 sq ft of offices in a 120 acre parkland setting and is conveniently situated at junction 26 of The NWDA selected Wilson the M1.
Units will range from 6,000 sq Bowden Developments to be our ft through to a large headquarters of development partner on the 450 acre up to 300,000 sq ft.
Phase 1 was mixed use Kingsway Business Park completed in July 2002 and the units at Rochdale as a result of their proven were rapidly let to Inter-Alliance track record in the delivery of large and Group plc and Medical Solutions and complex sites.
We have been impressed have been subsequently sold.
by the professionalism, dedication and 03.
Due to its strategic location at the commitment that they have shown to M1 M69 motorway junction, Meridian the project, and have every confidence Business Park has continued its that the Wilson Bowden team will successful expansion in 2002.
Units B, create a high quality development C and D, which total 67,500 sq ft of to enhance this strategic site.
clear span warehousing including first Mike Shields floor offices, have all been sold to a Chief Executive, range of occupiers and investors.
North West Development Agency 03 Product portfolio 19 01.
Junction One Retail and Leisure Park, 01 Rugby.
Completion of the Esporta Health Club at Junction One of the M6 motorway further enhances the quality of Wilson Bowdens Retail and Leisure Park development.
The current line up includes the Cineworld Multiplex, Frankie & Bennys, Boots, JJB Sports and Currys, soon to be joined by Laura Ashley and The Carphone Warehouse.
Wilson Bowden City Homes Weekday 02 Cross development is a major focal point for Nottingham, surrounded by the citys most celebrated restaurants and bars.
The development comprises 121 apartments encompassing an elegant listed refurbished building providing a dynamic blend of contemporary and traditional design.
Wilson Bowden Developments are on 03 site with the construction of the 365,000 sq ft Retail and Leisure development, which includes the provision of new civic offices for Harlow District Council.
Phase 1 opens summer 2003 and Phase 2 autumn 2004 and pre-lets are already secured with a number of national retailers including Asda, Next, Matalan, and Esporta.
The development is an excellent example of partnership working, in this instance with Harlow District Council and English Partnerships.
Wilson Bowden Developments have carefully relocated and protected these important historic elements of Harlows development.
It is great to see how my original work has been incorporated into the new and enhanced environment in such a sensitive manner.
It is a credit to Wilson Bowden and will undoubtedly give a new lease of life to the area.
William Mitchell Original Sculptor, The Water Gardens, Harlow Product portfolio 21 01.
Dukesbury House at The Goffs, 01 Eastbourne.
Fifteen purpose built two bedroom apartments and three luxury top floor penthouses, with impressive frontages and an eye-catching facade.
