How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board continued agreed to extend the period during which the 1993 Special arrangements on appointment of a director phantom options may otherwise be exercised until Following her appointment as Group chief talent 31 December 2003. officer but prior to her appointment as an executive Details of the phantom options granted to JMS are director, the Compensation committee approved special set out on page 80.
No further phantom options have arrangements for Beth Axelrod, which permitted her been or will be granted to JMS or to Sir Martin Sorrell.
to become eligible to receive certain awards over WPP Following the enactment of the personal service shares.
These arrangements may only be satisfied company legislation in the Finance Act 2000, using shares acquired by the WPP ESOP in the market.
the Company has agreed to reimburse JMS with the They are arrangements specifically established for the additional employer National Insurance contribution sole purpose of dealing with the circumstances of her liability which JMS incurs because of the personal recruitment, including the need to hold WPP shares service company legislation on the basis that 63% to participate in other incentive arrangements.
of the annual fee, bonus and pension contribution They included: nis drawn by Sir Martin Sorrell from JMS.
A special award of restricted stock in respect The CIP provided the Group chief executive with of 42,500 WPP shares referred to on page 82: na capital incentive initially over a five-year period with An award in lieu of an award under LEAP, on similar effect from 4 September 1994 and which matured terms as LEAP referred to on page 82. in September 1999.
Neither of these awards can be altered to Beth Axelrods Sir Martin Sorrell agreed to defer entitlement to advantage without the prior approval of share owners.
the 4,691,392 Performance Shares which he would Beth Axelrods contract does not provide for any form otherwise have been able to acquire in September 1999, of payment on a termination of employment.
However, subject to good leaver, change of control and other in order to facilitate her recruitment the Company did specified provisions, so as to correspond with the guarantee a minimum STIP payment of $150,000 for investment period under LEAP.
Accordingly, subject each of 2002 pro-rated from her commencement in to the provisions of the CIP, the rights to acquire the May 2002 and 2003.
Performance Shares may be exercised in the period 30 September 2004 to 31 December 2004.
These Non-executive directors Performance Shares were acquired by an ESOP in Each of the following non-executive directors have been 1994 at a total cost of approximately 5.5 million.
appointed for terms of three years respectively: Philip JMS has agreed, subject as referred to above, to defer Lader: Jeremy Bullmore: Esther Dyson: John Jackson: its interest under the NSAP on a similar basis to that David Komansky: Christopher Mackenzie: Bud Morten: on which the Group chief executive has agreed to defer John Quelch and Masao Inagaki.
Michael Jordan has his interest under the CIP.
Accordingly, subject to the been appointed for a term of two years.
provisions of the NSAP, JMSs right to receive a sum under the NSAP may be exercised in the period 30 September 2004 to 31 December 2004 and will be calculated by reference to the average price of a WPP share for the five dealing days before JMSs right under the NSAP is exercised.
The NSAP relates to 1,754,520 notional WPP shares.
Awards made to the Group chief executive or JMS under the CIP: the NSAP and the phantom options, become immediately exercisable on a change of control.
Under these plans, change of control is defined as the acquisition by a person or persons of more than 20% of the issued share capital of WPP where this is followed within 12 months by the appointment of a director with neither the Group chief executives nor JMSs approval.
The rights of the Group chief executive and JMS respectively under the CIP and the NSAP are dependent on Sir Martin Sorrell remaining interested until September 2004 in 747,252 shares acquired in September 1994.
