How we behave Directors report continued The Board meets at least six times a year and more out their reasons for this recommendation in the frequently as necessary.
With the exception of Masao Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Inagaki, the two non-executive directors who have now Details of directors remuneration and service retired and, in respect of one meeting each, John Quelch contracts form part of the report of the Compensation and Christopher Mackenzie, there was full attendance committee which commences on page 83. at all meetings of the Board during 2002.
The executive directors held one meeting with senior Board committees executives of the Groups operating companies to discuss The Board has long-established Audit, Compensation the development of the Companys strategy and this was and Nomination committees.
reported to and debated by the Board.
In addition to the chairman, the Board consists Audit committee of 13 directors of whom four are executive and nine are The committee currently comprises non-executive non-executive.
As explained above the Board considers directors, whom the Company considers to be that six of the nine non-executive directors are independent.
independent, namely: John Jackson chairman of the The shareholdings of non-executive directors are set committee, Michael Jordan and Bud Morten.
out on page 80 and details of their fees on page 79.
The Company also considers that all members of the Non-executive directors do not participate in the committee are independent within the meaning of Rule Companys pension plans, share option or other 4200 a 15 of NASDAQs rules and the Company also incentive plans.
Non-executive directors may receive a meets the requirements of Rule 4350 d 2 of NASDAQs part of their fees in ordinary shares of the Company.
rules relating to its qualitative listing requirements.
In For technical reasons, these may be delivered in the particular, each current member of the committee is form of options exercisable, at par value, on completion considered to be independent under NASDAQs rules of the non-executive directors services.
In these and has both the experience and background resulting respects, the Board considers that non-executive in their respective financial sophistication.
However, in directors remuneration conforms to the principles of relation to the report submitted by Sir Robert Smiths the Higgs Review and the Combined Code.
Group, whilst all three members of the committee are The fees represent compensation in connection with experienced and financially literate, none has acted as Board and Board committee meetings, and where an auditor or finance director of a listed company.
appropriate for devoting additional time and expertise In 2002 the committee met four times and all the for the benefit of the Group in a wider capacity.
In this then members attended the meetings.
Michael Jordan respect the Company regrets that under the Higgs Review, was appointed to the committee in place of Jeremy if a non-executive director receives any fees for giving Bullmore in January 2003.
The meetings are also additional time for the benefit of the Company, then attended at the invitation of the chairman of the they cease to be considered to be independent.
The Board committee, in whole or in part, by the auditors, the considers the approach under the NASDAQ Corporate Group finance director, the director of internal audit, Governance Proposals to be more realistic and beneficial the Company secretary and the Group general counsel.
to the Company in permitting a non-executive director The role of the committee includes: nwho is not a member of the Audit committee to receive monitoring the integrity of the Companys up to $60,000 per annum for additional duties before financial statements, reviewing significant he or she is considered to have ceased to be independent.
financial reporting judgements: nThe following directors will retire from office but reviewing internal financial control and risk management shall be eligible for re-election at the forthcoming systems, as well as the internal audit function: nAnnual General Meeting: the review and appointment of the external nAppointed since the last Annual General Meeting auditors and approval of their remuneration Beth Axelrod, Howard Paster and David H Komansky.
and terms of engagement: nnNow aged 70 or over Masao Inagaki, Jeremy monitoring the review of the external auditors Bullmore also on the Board for 15 years and John independence, objectivity and effectiveness, Jackson also on the Board for 10 years.
taking into account relevant global professional nDirectors for more than nine years Bud Morten and regulatory requirements: n 12 years and John Quelch 15 years.
the approval in advance of the engagement of nRetiring by rotation Esther Dyson, Paul Richardson, the external auditors in relation to the supply Christopher Mackenzie and Michael Jordan.
of permissible non-audit services, taking into The Board recommends that share owners vote account relevant ethical and regulatory guidance: nin favour of the Resolutions to re-elect the directors monitoring accounting and legal reporting to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and set requirements, including all relevant regulations of 70 WPP 2002
