How were rewarded No current member of the committee has any Compensation personal financial interest, other than as a share owner, in the matters to be decided by the committee, committee report on no potential conflicts of interest arising from crossdirectorships and no day-to-day involvement in running behalf of the Board the Groups businesses.
The Compensation committee regularly consults Introduction with Group executives, particularly the Group chief This report is made by the Board, prepared on its behalf executive Sir Martin Sorrell and the Group chief talent and for its approval by the Compensation committee.
The committee appointed It sets out the Companys statement of how it has Deloitte & Touche as advisors and received material applied the principles of good governance set out in the assistance from that firms Executive Compensation Combined Code in respect of Compensation matters Consulting Practice.
Deloitte & Touche are also engaged and explains any areas of non-compliance.
As in previous as the external auditors to the Company.
As such the years, additional information on executive remuneration, appointment as remuneration advisors is also subject based on a US-proxy style disclosure is also included to, and has received, pre-approval by the Audit in this report.
Information on other services provided by The report of the auditors on the financial statements Deloitte & Touche is given in note 2 to the accounts.
set out on page 133 confirms that the scope of their Arthur Andersen provided the same services to the report covers, where required, the disclosures contained committee during part of the year.
Advice on the in or referred to in this report that are specified for remuneration of the chairman and the non-executive their audit by the UK Listing Authority and under the directors was provided by the same advisors to the Companies Act.
Board and not to the committee.
Advice is received by Details of each individual directors remuneration and the committee on a wide range of relevant issues including: nof their beneficial holdings of the Companys shares and assessment of competitive compensation practices share options are set out on pages 79 to 82.
These and determination of competitive positioning: ndetails form part of this report.
base salary levels: nThe Company has for several years now, sought the annual and long-term incentive awards: napproval of its share owners for its remuneration policy, policy and grants relating to WPP share ownership which this year is set out on page 84.
Legislation now in this report referred to as WPP stock : nrequires companies to put the Compensation committee pensions and executive benefits: nreport to the vote at their Annual General Meetings and contract terms for executives: nthe appropriate resolution is set out as resolution 8 in governance issues relating to compensation the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
or the role of the committee.
In this report references to total shareholder return The Compensation committee determines awards under TSR mean the percentage change in the share price annual and long-term incentive plans and awards of WPP over the performance period, taking into account stock under a number of plans for Group employees.
dividends reinvested, and is calculated using external The Compensation committee determines the data sources, such as Datastream or Bloomberg and remuneration of the Group chief executive, a summary using an appropriate and recognised methodology.
of which is set out on pages 88 and 89, on the basis of a comparison with the chief executives of other global, Remit of the Compensation committee multi-agency communications companies, including During the year, the Compensation committee the Omnicom Group Omnicom and The Interpublic comprised the chairman of the Company Philip Lader Group IPG.
The remuneration, stock incentive and non-executive directors considered by the Board arrangements and benefits of the other executive directors, to be independent, other than John Quelch who ceased are based on comparable positions in multinational to be a member in the course of the year.
The following companies of a similar size and complexity.
The criteria directors served on the committee during the year and established for each element of total remuneration are took decisions in respect of the year: set out on the following pages.
nS W Morten chairman of the committee : The Compensation committee is also responsible nC Mackenzie: for reviewing the terms of employment of executive nP Lader appointed April 2002 : directors and senior executives of the operating nJ A Quelch retired April 2002. companies including the terms of any termination arrangements of any of these people.
