Operating & financial review Review of operations continued Headcount Treasury activities Actual people numbers averaged 50,417 against 50,487 Treasury activity is managed centrally, from the parent in 2001, down marginally.
On a like-for-like basis, companys London, New York and Hong Kong offices, average headcount was down to 50,417 from 55,109, and is principally concerned with the monitoring a decrease of over 8%.
At the end of 2002 staff numbers of working capital, managing external and internal were 49,439 compared with 52,670 at the end of 2001 funding requirements and the monitoring and on a pro-forma basis, a reduction of over 6%.
Headcount management of financial market risks, in particular numbers have been falling by approximately half of 1% interest rate and foreign exchange exposures.
The treasury operation is not a profit centre and its activities are carried out in accordance with policies Acquisitions and start-ups approved by the Board of Directors and subject In 2002 the Group increased its equity interests, to regular review and audit.
at a combined initial cost of 105 million in cash, The Groups interest rate management policy in Advertising and Media investment management in recognises that fixing rates on all its debt eliminates the UK, France, Germany, Spain, The Netherlands, the possibility of benefiting from rate reductions and Switzerland, Sweden, Finland, the Czech Republic, similarly, having all its debt at floating rates unduly Slovakia, Australia, New Zealand, China, India, exposes the Group to increases in rates.
Taiwan, Brazil and the Middle East: in Information, Its principal borrowing currencies are US dollars, insight & consultancy in the US, Ireland, France, Poland pounds sterling and euro.
Borrowings in these currencies, and Thailand: in Public relations & public affairs in including amounts drawn under the working capital the US, Norway, China, Australia, Japan and Taiwan: facility, represented 97% of the Groups gross in direct and promotion in the US: and in sports indebtedness at 31 December 2002 at $1,248 million, marketing in Germany.
155 million and 1,005 million and 98% of the Groups average gross debt during the course of 2002 Parent company initiatives at $1,407 million, 171 million and 1,043 million.
Increasingly, WPP is concentrating on its mission of the 62% of the year-end dollar debt is at fixed rates management of the imagination, and ensuring it is averaging 5.23% for an average period of 26 months.
a big company with the heart and mind of a small one.
100% of the GBP debt is at a fixed rate of 3% including To aid the achievement of this objective and to develop the effect of the redemption premium on the 450 million the benefits of membership of the Group for both 2% convertible bonds for an average period of 52 months.
clients and our people, the parent company continues 55% of the euro debt is at fixed rates averaging 5.45% to develop its activities in the areas of human resources, for an average period of 36 months.
property, procurement, information technology and In April 2002 the Group issued 450 million of practice development.
Ten practice areas which span convertible bonds carrying a coupon of 2%.
The bonds all our brands have been developed initially in media are convertible into 41.9 million WPP ordinary shares.
investment management, healthcare, privatisation, Proceeds from the issue were used to repay drawings new technologies, new faster-growing markets, internal under the 360 million bank facility arranged to acquire communications, retailing, entertainment and media, Tempus Group plc in 2001 and for general corporate financial services and hi-tech and telecommunications.
The bonds are redeemable in April 2007 at a premium of 5.35% over par which, together with Executive options the 2% annual coupon, has the effect of providing WPP intends to expense the cost of executive options bondholders with an all-in return of 3% over the fivein its income statement.
Under UK GAAP, there is no year life of the bonds.
The additional 1% per annum definitive guidance on how this is to be implemented.
associated with the redemption premium is accrued However, page 132 details the impact of expensing and charged as interest in the profit and loss account.
executive options using a Black-Scholes valuation model 295 million of the 440 million of proceeds net of and applying US transitional guidelines contained in expenses were converted into US dollars, Euro and FAS 148.
On this basis, only executive options issued Japanese Yen through cross-currency swap agreements in 2002 would be expensed in that year.
As options with the Groups bankers.
These cross-currency swaps granted are weighted towards the second half of the are shown in the tables in note 5 on page 112. year, the resulting reduction in headline earnings per Other than fixed rate debt, the Groups other fixed share would have been only 0.4p.
Fully expensing all rates are achieved principally through interest rate swaps executive options granted over the last three years with the Groups bankers.
The Group also uses forward on a consistent basis would reduce headline earnings rate agreements and interest rate caps to manage exposure per share by approximately 7%.
