How we behave Directors report The Company has recently adopted new terms of continuity during the change of auditors from Arthur reference for each of the Audit, Compensation and Andersen to Deloitte & Touche and during the Nomination committees and these terms of reference introduction of an increased number of regulations will be available for inspection as referred to in the in the US as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this in addition to the Smith Report.
The Board will review Mr Jacksons role as chairman of the Audit committee prior to the end Independence of non-executive directors of the current year.
nOf critical importance to the Company is the definition David H Komansky is also considered by the Board of independence contained in the Higgs Review, which to be independent.
This is notwithstanding his former provides that a non-executive director is considered appointments with Merrill Lynch, one of the Companys independent when the board determines that the director principal investment bankers.
Mr Komansky has retired is independent in character and judgement and there from Merrill Lynch and has no residual business interests are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, which are considered to prejudice his independence.
or appear to affect, the directors judgement.
The Review All of the above directors are independent under lists a number of differing types of relationships.
NASDAQs existing rules and will remain so under such The Board considers that the following non-executive rules as they are proposed to be changed.
directors are independent: The chairman, Philip Lader was independent on his nEsther Dyson: appointment in 2001. nMichael Jordan member of the Audit committee : Masao Inagaki is not considered to be independent nChristopher Mackenzie member of the Compensation by the Company, given the substantial crossand Nomination committees : shareholdings between the Company and Asatsu-DK.
nBud Morten Chairman of the Compensation Jeremy Bullmore and John Quelch are not considered committee, member of the Nomination and independent in view of the level of consultancy fees Audit committees and the senior independent which they have received in addition to their respective non-executive director.
Notwithstanding his presence on the Board for a period in excess of nine years, the Board considers Board responsibilities that Bud Morten remains independent and also has The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for a critical role to play, particularly as chairman of the promoting the success of the Company by directing Compensation committee.
His detailed knowledge and supervising the Companys affairs including policy in his capacity as chairman of this committee of the and strategy and is responsible to share owners for Companys compensation framework, including the Groups financial and operational performance.
overseeing the Companys incentive programs such Responsibility for the development and implementation as the Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan LEAP : of Group policy and strategy, and for day-to-day the Capital Investment Plan CIP and the Notional management issues is delegated by the Board to the Share Award Plan NSAP is vital given that all these Group chief executive and the other executive directors.
For the year under review, Philip Lader was chairman During 2003, as part of a planned transition process, of the Board, responsible for the leadership of the it is intended that Bud Morten will step down as a Board.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the Group chief executive, member of the Audit committee.
In December 2004 is responsible for the development and implementation the Company will review his appointments to the of policy and strategy and for the day-to-day operations Compensation and Nomination committees.
The biographies of the Board members nJohn Jackson Chairman of the Audit committee.
Similarly, the Board does not accept that a person of All directors are kept fully informed of important the experience and stature of John Jackson, ceases to be developments in the various sectors in which the Group independent solely by reason of having served on the operates worldwide and regularly receive full information Board for a period in excess of nine years.
in relation to the Group operations, finances, risk Mr Jacksons wide business experience makes him a factors and its people, enabling them to fulfil their well qualified chairman of the Audit committee.
The directors are also advised expertise and knowledge of relevant legislation in both as necessary on regulatory and best practice the UK and the US has been of great importance in requirements which affect the Groups businesses overseeing the Companys interests in providing on a global basis particularly in the US and the UK.
