OPERATIONAL REVIEW SUPPORT SERVICES The last year has been one of strong growth in the support services division, with an increase in turnover of over 50%.
Support services now contribute 60% of group operating profits and turnover.
In line with our planned expansion, growth is being achieved through both strategic acquisitions and organic growth and is balanced between the military and civil sectors.
1 It has been a particularly busy year in terms of acquisitions.
Our strategy has been designed to broaden our offering both geographically and technically, in both the military and civil areas.
On the military side we acquired in December the US company Griffin Services, Inc whose main business is the provision of facilities management to the US Department of Defense.
Griffin provides access to the very large market for the support of US forces world-wide and offers an important platform for seeking new business in this area.
There has been a thorough review by VT of Griffins operations since acquisition.
Bid teams from relevant VT divisions have agreed areas for collaboration with Griffin.
There is also significant bid activity on Griffins existing core business.
The company was recently named preferred bidder for one of three substantial contracts it was pursuing.
This contract once concluded will increase Griffins annual turnover by around 20%.
The assets of the German owned facilities management specialist TUV FM were purchased in December 2001.
This acquisition complements the services already provided by other parts of the group and gives increased access to key opportunities within the Ministry of Defence in the UK.
TUV is currently bidding jointly with other parts of the group for a number of projects including Bowman Training, the Royal School of Signals and the Royal School of Military Engineering.
VT Aerospace, the result of an earlier acquisition, has performed strongly.
The logistics business has been enhanced by winning a significant contract to provide aircraft spares for the Kuwait authorities, and by the re-awarding of a three year contract to 2 provide Hawk and Tucano Aircraft maintenance to the Kuwait Airforce.
The re-winning and expansion of the Tucano Total Facilities Partnering contract has increased VT Aerospaces existing business at Linton on Ouse.
In Marine Services our contract for the work for the MoD on small craft maintenance in the South and South West has been renewed, and we will also now provide new facilities in the North.
In addition we are providing a full range of ship management services for the MoD in terms of the Island Class vessels and preparing the way for the support roles on the new Survey Vessels and River Class Offshore Patrol Vessels.
We are building on our existing UK Army Training contracts at Bordon and Arborfield to develop a service to other countries, providing training in the UK to officers from the Kuwait Army.
Our two support services joint ventures with BAE Systems both continue to perform strongly.
Flagship Training has secured contracts for two phases of the Astute Class submarine training contract.
The first phase is underway and the second phase will start in 2004 for a thirty year period.
In addition, Flagship Training 06 Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc 3 1 VT provides a wide and increasing range of training services.
2 A Hawk Jet Trainer of the Kuwait Airforce being maintained by VT in-country.
3 Rampisham in Dorset is one of Merlin Communications main establishments in the UK.
4 The Griffin Services team at Dobbins Air Reserve Base in Georgia USA where they provide base operations and facilities support.
has won a contract to provide a Navigational Training Facility for We are currently short-listed for the outsourcing of Surrey County the Royal Navy, including the provision of new simulators.
Councils education support services, for the building and operating of a Defence Sixth Form College and for the operation of a The Secretary of State for Defence has now approved the technical college in Bahrain.
extension of the Fleet Support Ltd contract for eleven years.
This includes expanding the scope of services conducted by FSL The purchase in December 2001 of Merlin Communications at HM Naval Base, Portsmouth, as a long term strategic partner.
complements the existing work of Vosper-ManTech.
This FSL continues to provide a timely service: in fourteen recent combination provides the company with a strong technical services contracts for ship repair refit all have been delivered on time or capability in the communications field, and a firm base from which early and to budget.
to expand in to new areas with the BBC, the Defence Communications Agency and the European Space Agency.
Our involvement on the Type 45 project extends to support The integration of Merlin into the group has been progressing well.
activities following the signing of an agreement with the prime Merlin has won its first contract under VT ownership, a contract for contractor BAE Systems.
It is hoped that a large proportion of the QuinetiQ at Defford.
Cross-selling opportunities are being platform support will be performed at Portsmouth.
exploited, for example in the United States through Griffin.
Our civil support services business has consolidated its position We have started construction on the fire training school for over the last year in all sectors that it serves.
Somerset, Avon and Gloucester Fire Brigades under our PFI contract and are bidding for further work in this area.
Following the acquisition of Hospitality Plus in April 2001 we are now the second largest vocational training provider in the UK and Overall our support services business continues to grow strongly business in this area has grown by around 30% in the last year.
and we are on course to hit by a comfortable margin our revenue We will continue to look for opportunities to expand the range of target of 400m by 2004. services we provide and the geographical areas we serve.
In August we acquired Westminster Education Consultants.
This has widened our access to a range of consulting skills and puts us in a solid position to bid for future contracts in the education field.
