OPERATIONAL REVIEW MARINE PRODUCTS The last year has been one for consolidation within the Marine Products Group.
Previous acquisitions have integrated well, but difficult market conditions have limited the opportunity for further growth within new markets.
1 The performance within naval markets of VT Controls Naval, Marine and Aero Division has been strong with a number of notable successes.
We secured against stiff competition a contract to supply to BAE Systems low voltage electrical distribution systems for the Type 45 destroyer programme.
We are supplying to VT Shipbuilding the platform management system, 440 volt switchboards, bow thruster motors and starters and provided the ships electrical design for the Future Offshore Patrol Vessels.
We are also supplying the high voltage switch boards and bow thruster motors and starters for the Alternative Landing Ship Logistic vessels that are being constructed by Swan Hunter and BAE.
In the electric ship market we have secured orders from Appledore Shipbuilders for the supply of the platform management system and 690 volt switchboards for UK survey vessels and are supplying the diesel electric propulsion system to Ferguson Shipbuilders on UK Fisheries protection vessels.
The Naval, Marine and Aero Division has also benefited from the increase in US military spending resulting from the events of 11 September.
It has secured additional orders on a US military aero program and has had to accelerate production to meet current demand.
Our UK Oil Gas Industrial Division has had its most successful year to date.
We have successfully executed projects for electro hydraulic sub-sea systems and direct hydraulic systems to time and to cost.
Demand for services also out performed all targets for the year and as a result of this we are establishing a service division in Aberdeen to maximise the opportunities in this sector.
In the US, the recent downturn in the economy, volatility in the South American markets and the flat demand for power over the past year has depressed the performance of the US Oil and Gas Division.
These factors have contributed to our decision to curtail our planned expansion into the provision of the small-scale power plant to US generators.
Prospects for the coming year are brighter in the gas turbine retrofit market with export potential in China and a new niche opening up in the pipeline market.
In our Motion Control Division, the year has been mixed.
The fast ferry market is currently depressed due to high fuel prices, the surplus of second hand boats and the cessation of duty free on European routes, which has led to a steadying of demand.
This has limited opportunities for growth in the current year 10 Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc 2 1 Sub-sea Accumulator Module produced by VTC Brisco for incorporation into an electro hydraulic sub-sea control system.
2 Cable Detection System produced by TSS and fitted to a Remotely Operated Vehicle.
3 The first installation of the new Datum Digital Stabiliser Controller produced by Naiad-Koop for use on luxury yachts.
although the US military is currently trialling fast ferries as an TSS has also had an excellent year benefiting from rising oil prices.
Maritime Dynamics, Inc is in a strong There has been a shift in its market for tracking systems from position to benefit if the US military select this option or there is an telecommunications cable detection to offshore pipe detection.
All upswing in the ferry market.
Furthermore, this year saw the launch three product-lines within TSS - detection, motion sensors and of new products with a range of new interceptors and the fitting of gyros - have significantly outperformed budget with the only a hydrofoil system to a trimaran in Australia, which we believe will limiting factor on gyros being the ability to supply demand.
open up new markets in the coming year.
Overall, it has been a difficult year but we are optimistic across all On the positive side the division has enjoyed a very successful sectors for the future.
year with a strong performance in spares and service work particularly in military, leisure and water jet sectors.
The Yachts Division has had a good year maintaining market dominance in the yacht stabiliser market despite heavy competition at both the high and low ends of the market and continues to be the premier provider of stabilisers to the pleasure boat market.
