OPERATIONAL REVIEW SHIPBUILDING The Shipbuilding Division can look forward with more certainty than for a very long time.
A year ago the shortterm future of our shipbuilding business was secured by the contract to supply three Future Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Royal Navy.
This year the longer-term future has been secured by the signing in February of a legally binding agreement with BAE Systems, the Type 45 Prime Contractor, covering VTs role in the production of the first six Type 45s.
1 VT is already part of the joint design team with the Prime Contractor and BAE Systems Marine.
In the production phase VT will construct and outfit major blocks for each ship for transport and assembly in BAE Systems Marines yards.
VTs workshare will include the bow sections, funnel and masts.
This will represent about 20% of the production hours on each ship.
The contract is worth in excess of 200m and provides a baseload of work for the next five years.
Production on VTs sections of the first ship is due to start in 2003.
The MoD plans to order up to a further six Type 45s, which could extend the base work-load for a further three years.
VT will undertake the same workshare on any subsequent ships, up to a planned class of twelve, subject to the need to demonstrate acceptable performance on the first batch of six ships.
The Type 45 contract has cleared the way for VT to invest in new shipbuilding facilities in Portsmouth.
Initial site preparation work started in March.
The new facilities will be ready by April 2003, and the relocation will be complete by December 2003.
The investment in Portsmouth will create one of the most modern and efficient shipyards in the world, allowing the company to compete more effectively for a larger range of vessels.
In future we will be able to offer a more comprehensive package embracing shipbuilding and long-term support.
We will also be able to take advantage of working in close proximity to Fleet Support Limited, our Joint Venture with BAE Systems that is responsible for the maintenance of RN ships.
Looking forward, the MoD expects to place a prime contract in 2004 for the construction of two new aircraft carriers for the Royal Navy.
These are expected to be amongst the largest vessels ever built in the UK for the Royal Navy, and to utilise most of the skilled shipbuilding resources in the UK.
VT is in discussion with both of the companies bidding for the prime contract, Thales and BAE Systems, about the role VT could play in the programme.
Work on existing contracts is maintaining VTs high standards of delivery.
We are on target to deliver the first Future Offshore Patrol Vessel for the Royal Navy in November 2002, with the other two vessels following in May 2003 and November 2003.
The vessels will be chartered to the Royal Navy for five years, together with a complete integrated logistics support package.
Under the groundbreaking lease arrangement we have invested additional revenue in the construction of these vessels in order to offset support costs in coming years.
The Future Offshore Patrol Vessel project is one of five programmes chosen to receive the Minister for Defence Procurements award for SMART acquisition.
We hope to generate further export orders for this type of vessel.
08 Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc 2 3 1 This computer-generated image of a London bus placed inside the hull of Mirabella V gives an impression of its size.
2 Computer-generated image of the progressive development of the new facilities at Portsmouth Naval Base.
3 Halmatic continue to secure orders for Rigid Inflatable Boats RIBs from both the UK and overseas.
VT is acting in the role of prime contractor to supply two Survey sold to the Marine Coastguard Agency, and further orders have Vessels to the MoD.
Construction of the ships is sub-contracted to been exported to commercial interests.
We are anticipating further Appledore Shipbuilders Limited.
The programme is progressing growth in this area.
well and the ships will enter service with the Royal Navy in 2002 and 2003.
The technology transfer deal that VT signed with the Greek shipyard Elefsis is progressing successfully.
Under the contract VT is providing the design of the vessel, combat systems integration and material procurement for the Super Vita Fast Attack Craft for the Greek Navy.
A contract for a further two Super Vitas is currently being finalised.
Signs in our more traditional shipbuilding export markets are looking more encouraging and we are actively pursuing prospects in the Middle East.
The Shipbuilding Division in common with the rest of the group is looking to broaden its business base.
We are working with Ron Holland Design and High Modulus on the Mirabella V Project, the worlds largest composite sloop rigged super yacht.
The yacht will be delivered in the summer of 2003 and this may lead on to further work in the luxury yacht market.
Our Halmatic subsidiary has had a highly successful year and has now doubled its turnover since being purchased by Vosper Thornycroft three years ago.
The business has been boosted by the acquisition of the Poole based boat builder RTK, and now employs around 300 people.
The first RTK products have been Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc 09
