7 8 9 10 11 12 7 David Rough, aged 52, was Group Director Investments of Legal & General Group Plc from 1 June 1991 until 31 December 2001 when he stepped down prior to retiring from Legal & General in June 2002.
As Group Director Investments, Mr Rough headed all aspects of fund management within Legal & General Investments.
Mr Rough joined Legal & General Investments as UK Equities Director in January 1989.
Prior to this he worked as Investment Manager for Royal Insurance, which he joined in 1972.
Mr Rough was appointed to the Board of Xstrata plc in April 2002.
8 David Issroff, aged 37, joined the Board of Xstrata AG in May 2000, and was appointed to the Board of Xstrata plc in February 2002.
Mr Issroff joined Glencore South Africa in 1989.
In 1992, he transferred to Glencores head office in Switzerland with responsibility for the marketing of ferroalloys.
In 1997, he was appointed Head of the Ferroalloys Division at Glencore International AG.
9 Santiago Zaldumbide, aged 60, Executive Director, Chief Executive of the Zinc Business and Executive Chairman of Asturiana fide Zinc.
Mr Zaldumbide was appointed to the Board of Xstrata plc in February 2002.
He is a previous Chief Executive Officer and Director of Union Explosivos Rio Tinto and of Petroleos del Norte.
In 1990, Petroleos del Norte became part of the Repsol Oil Group where Mr Zaldumbide was responsible for establishing the international structure of the enlarged Repsol Oil Group.
In 1994 he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Corporacion Industrial fide Banesto and in December 1997 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Asturiana fide Zinc.
10 Robert MacDonnell, aged 65, joined the Board of Xstrata AG in May 1997, and was appointed to the Board of Xstrata plc in February 2002.
Prior to joining Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. in 1976, Mr MacDonnell was a Management Consultant at Arthur Andersen & Co.
He subsequently formed his own rm, which specialised in small management buyouts.
Mr MacDonnell became the first non-founding partner of KKR in 1982.
As such, he participated in virtually all investment decisions until the rm expanded in the late 1980s.
Mr MacDonnell is also currently a Director of Safeway, Inc.
US Natural Resources, Inc, and Pacic Realty.
11 Dr Fred Roux, aged 55, joined Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Company Limited in 1976, where he held positions in the Finance, Base Metals, Gold and Platinum divisions.
In 1990, he joined Gencor Limited where he became Chairman of Alusaf and Executive Director responsible for Base Metals and Heavy Minerals.
Since 1997, he has pursued private business interests in game ranching and safaris in South Africa.
Dr Roux was appointed to the Board of Xstrata plc in February 2002.
12 Ivan Glasenberg, aged 46, is Chief Executive Officer of Glencore International, which he joined in 1984.
Mr Glasenberg was appointed to the Board of Xstrata plc in February 2002.
He worked in the coal department of Glencore in South Africa for three years and in Australia for two years.
From 1989 to 1990, he managed Glencore Internationals Hong Kong and Beijing offices.
In 1991 he became Head of the Coal Department and in 2002 Chief Executive Officer of Glencore International.
He is also currently a Director of Anaconda Nickel Limited.
Xstrata plc 55 executive committee Mick Davis Chief Executive Trevor Reid Chief Financial Officer Peter Coates Chief Executive Xstrata Coal Peet Nienaber Chief Executive Xstrata Alloys Santiago Zaldumbide Chief Executive Xstrata Zinc Peter Coates Peet Nienaber executive management Xstrata Alloys Xstrata Coal Neil Crafford-Lazarus Financial Director Garry Beck General Manager Marketing, Australia Deon du Preez Managing Director, Chrome Division Mick Buffier Chief Operating Officer, Australia Wynand Meyjes Managing Director, Vanadium Division Peter Freyberg Chief Operating Officer, South Africa Eric Ratshikohpha Executive Director, Corporate Development Murray Houston General Manager Marketing, South Africa Paul Jones General Manager Health, Safety and Environment Earl Melamed Chief Financial Officer Xstrata Zinc Corporate Angel Abajo Manager Mining Operations Brian Azzopardi Group Controller Iigo Abarca Secretary General and Legal Counsel Gavin Carroll Head Internal Audit Manuel Alvarez General Manager Marc Gonsalves General Manager Corporate Affairs Jaime Arias Manager of Smelting Operations, Spain Andrew Latham General Manager Corporate Development Jos Gomez Arnau Manager Commercial Benny Levene Chief Legal Counsel Javier Herrero International Marketing Shaun Usmar General Manager Corporate Development Juan Len Manager Finance, Administration and Reporting Ian Wall Group Treasurer Rainer Menge Manager of Smelting Operations, Germany Emilio Tamargo Manager Business Development 56 Xstrata plc directors report The Directors present their first Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial period from incorporation on 31 December 2001 to 31 December 2002 for Xstrata plc the Company.
Results and Dividends The Group profit for the first financial period, attributable to the members of Xstrata plc, amounted to US$142.3 million.
The Directors have declared a dividend of 20 cents per share, amounting to a total of US$50.3 million.
The dividend will be presented for shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2003 and will be paid on 23 May 2003 to ordinary shareholders whose names were on the register on 2 May 2003.
Principal Activities and Review of the Business The Company was incorporated as a private company limited by shares with the name Glassdesk Limited on 31 December 2001.
On 18 February 2002, the Company changed its name to Xstrata Limited and on 20 February 2002 the Company re-registered as a public company and changed its name to Xstrata plc.
In March 2002, the Company acquired all of the assets and assumed all of the liabilities of Xstrata AG under a merger in compliance with the Swiss Code of Obligations.
As a result of this merger, the Company issued shares to the former shareholders of Xstrata AG on the basis of 10 shares in the Company for every 1 share in Xstrata AG.
On 25 March 2002, the Companys ordinary shares were admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and trading commenced on the London Stock Exchange and the Swiss Stock Exchange.
The Company was admitted to the FTSE 100 Index in June 2002 and to the SPI Index in Switzerland simultaneously with the listing.
Xstrata plc is an international metals and mining company comprising three global businesses: Xstrata alloys, Xstrata Coal and Xstrata Zinc.
The principal activities and performance of these and other Group businesses in the year ended 31 December 2002, together with an indication of likely future developments of the Company and its subsidiaries, are set out in the Chief Executives, Financial and Operating Reviews on pages 5 to 52.
Research and Development The Group business units carry out exploration and research and development activities that are necessary to support their operations.
Health, Safety and the Environment HSE The Group recognises that the health and safety of its employees and the maintenance of high environmental performance standards are significant responsibilities involved in the conduct of its operations.
The Groups aim is to be recognised as a leader in health, safety and environmental management.
Following its creation in March 2002, Xstrata plc established a new Health & Safety Policy and appointed a new Global Health, Safety and Environment Coordinator in March 2003, whose role is to implement the Policy across the Groups businesses and to manage the Companys interface with stakeholders in the areas of HSE.
Further details of the Groups health, safety and environmental performance can be found in the appropriate Health & Safety sections of the Operating Reviews set out on pages 28 to 52.
Additional information on the Xstrata Groups current HSE management and performance, and on its labour relations and corporate social involvement CSI, is set out in a separate report which is available on the Xstrata website www.
Post Balance Sheet Events In January 2003, the Group acquired a further 11.5% interest in a Coal Australia subsidiary company, Oakbridge Pty Ltd, for US$58 million from Tomen Corporation, increasing the percentage ownership in the subsidiary to 78%.
Xstrata plc 57 directors report Political and Charitable Donations Xstratas corporate social involvement policy specifically excludes political donations.
During the year, the Company made no political donations and the Group made charitable donations totalling US$634,000 worldwide.
Employee Policies and Involvement The Groups policy is to communicate honestly with employees and encourage consultation between employees and management.
In keeping with the Groups Statement of Business Principles, which is published separately and available on the website, no form of workplace discrimination is tolerated.
Disabled employees The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Labour relations The majority of the Groups approximate 11,500 employees worldwide are members of trade unions.
In South Africa, the Group has a policy of recognising a trade union if its members make up more than half of the mine or plants respective workforce.
In addition, at each of the Groups South African operations, there is an annual collective bargaining process to determine the following years rates of pay and general conditions.
The Group believes that all of the Groups operations have, in general, good relations with their employees and unions.
Employee share schemes Following the transfer of the entire undertaking of Xstrata AG to the Company, the Company has continued to pursue Xstrata AGs policy of encouraging employees to acquire Xstrata plc shares and linking a significant element of employees variable reward to the performance of the Xstrata plc Group.
Further details of the Companys share schemes are set out in Note 33 to the Financial Statements.
Corporate Governance A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code is set out on pages 61 to 65.
Directors and their Interests The Directors as at 31 December 2002 were: Executive Non executive Michael Davis Willy Strothotte Trevor Reid David Rough appointed 1 April 2002 Santiago Zaldumbide Ivan Glasenberg Paul Hazen David Issroff Robert MacDonnell Sir Steve Robson Dr Fred Roux Unless otherwise stated, all the Directors were appointed on 25 February 2002.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, all of the Directors listed above will retire at the forthcoming first Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the resolutions that will be put to the Annual General Meeting are given in the Notice to the Annual General Meeting.
Further details about the Directors and their roles within the Group are given in the Directors biographies on pages 54 and 55.
