Balfour Beatty plc Board of Directors Annual report and accounts 2002 28 05 Jim Cohen Managing Director, Rail Engineering and Services, Investments and Developments Age 61.
A Director since 2000 having joined the Group in 1993.
Previously, held senior management positions with 10 Richard Delbridge GTE and GEC and prior to that was a senior Age 60.
Appointed a Director in October 2002. civil servant at the Department of Energy.
Previously Group In July 2001, he was appointed a trustee Chief Financial Officer of National Westminster of The CIRAS Charitable Trust, which is Bank PLC and Group Finance Director of responsible for the Confidential Incident HSBC Holdings plc.
A non-executive director of Reporting and Analysis System for all UK Egg plc, Tate and Lyle PLC, Cazenove Group plc railway participant companies.
and Gallaher Group plc and treasurer of the Open University.
06 Malcolm Eckersall Managing Director, Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services 11Christopher Reeves 01 Viscount Weir Chairman Age 57.
A chartered civil engineer and Age 67.
A Director since 1977 and Chairman a Fellow of both the Institution of Civil adviser to Merrill Lynch Holdings Limited, since 1996.
A director of St. James Place Engineers and the Institution of Highways and chairman of Marine and General Life Capital and Canadian Pacific Railway Transportation.
Joined the Group in early 2000 Assurance Society, a director of Allianz Cornhill Company and chairman of CP Ships Ltd. and appointed a Director later the same year.
Insurance and a number of other companies.
Formerly chairman of the Weir Group, and Previously an executive director of AMEC plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
a director of the Bank of England and British 07 Alistair Wivell CBE Managing Director, 12 Udo Stark Steel.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Building Management and Services.
He is Academy of Engineering.
A civil engineer and a Fellow of the chairman of the Shareholder Committee Compensation and Appointments Committee.
Appointed a of Messer Griesheim GmbH and Bartec 02 Michael Welton Chief Executive Director in July 2002.
He is senior adviser to, and formerly Age 56.
A chartered civil engineer and director of Balfour Beatty Construction Ltd, Chief Executive Officer of, AGIV, the Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers.
the Groups regional UK building and civil international engineering group.
He was A Director since January 1996 and Group engineering business.
Joined the Group previously chief financial officer of ENKA and Chief Executive since 1999.
He has been in 1966. chief executive of AKZO-ENKA.
He is senior with the Group in a range of increasingly adviser to Charterhouse Development Capital 08 Peter Zinkin Planning and senior positions since 1978. and a member of the Advisory Board of Development Director Barmenia Insurance Group.
03 Ian Tyler Chief Operating Officer Age 49.
Joined the Group in 1981 and Age 42.
Appointed became Planning and Development Director 13 Robert Walvis Chief Operating Officer in August 2002. in 1991 after a series of senior positions in Age 56.
Previously Previously Finance Director and a Director the finance function.
Previously, he worked with the Shell Group, most recently as since 1999.
Joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 from at the London Business School and UMIST.
chairman of the Corporate Centre of the the Hanson Group where he was Financial Royal Dutch Shell Group of Companies.
09 Sir David John KCMG Comptroller of Hanson and Finance Director He is a non-executive director of Johnson Age 64.
He is chairman of ARC Ltd, one of its principal subsidiaries.
Matthey plc and a member of council of of Premier Oil Group, the BSI Group, a nonthe Royal Institute of International Affairs.
04 Anthony Rabin Finance Director executive director of The St Paul Companies Age 47.
A chartered accountant and Inc and immediate past chairman of The BOC 14 Sir David Wright GCMG, LVO barrister.
Formerly a director of Inchcape plc, Age 58.
Appointed a Director in January Previously Managing Director of Balfour he is a member of the CBI Presidents 2003.
Vice chairman of Barclays Capital.
Beatty Capital Projects responsible for the Committee and of the CBI International Retired as group chief executive of British development and management of its privately Advisory Board.
He is a director and trustee Trade International in 2002.
Previously a of Asia House and a governor of the School British Ambassador to Japan for three years.
partner at Coopers and Lybrand and senior of Oriental and African Studies.
Chairman of Chairman and Managing Trustee of the assistant director at Morgan Grenfell.
Non-executive Director and member of the Audit Committee, the Business Practices Committee and the Compensation and Appointments Committee.
