2 We have around 300 employees based at locations in the UK and the US Acambis is one of the worlds leading vaccines companies and is recognised internationally as the foremost producer of smallpox vaccines.
We have around 300 employees based at locations in the UK and the US who provide not only research and development expertise but also all the key disciplines that are essential to a successful vaccines business clinical operations, regulatory affairs, quality control, quality assurance, development, manufacturing, sales and marketing.
Our two major contracts with the US Government have established us as the world leader in the field of smallpox vaccines.
Under these contracts, which date from September 2000 and November 2001, we have developed a new, second-generation smallpox vaccine and are contributing to a stockpile of smallpox vaccine sufficient to provide a dose of vaccine for every man, woman and child in the US.
The stockpile, intended for emergency use, gives the US the ability rapidly to protect its population against this terrible disease if smallpox virus were used as a bioterrorist weapon.
Other governments have also recognised the need to establish a stockpile of smallpox vaccine, and 10 have already placed orders with us for the vaccine.
Unusually, this product is being sold to governments even while the clinical trials are being conducted.
We plan to submit the vaccine to the regulators for licensure in 2004.
We have added to our smallpox vaccine two related products, Modified Vaccinia Ankara MVA for the immunocompromised and vaccinia immune globulin VIG for treatment of reactions to the vaccine, to create a smallpox vaccine franchise.
Together, these three products represent those required by governments looking to protect all their citizens against the threat of smallpox virus being used as a bioterrorist weapon.
PRODUCTS IN CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT Anti-viral vaccines PRE-CLINICAL PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III Arilvax yellow fever - ChimeriVax-JE ChimeriVax Dengue - ChimeriVax West Nile - Smallpox ACAM1000 - Smallpox-ACAM2000 Smallpox MVA - Anti-bacterial vaccines HolaVax-Typhoid H. pylori HolaVax-ETEC C. difficile Research and development Our smallpox vaccine is just one product in a broad pipeline of vaccines that we are currently taking through clinical development.
We have a total of nine anti viral and anti - - bacterial vaccines that are undergoing clinical trials.
These vaccines either target diseases for which no vaccine currently exists or offer improvements over those vaccines currently available.
3 4 Clinical trials, quality control and the regulatory environment When a new vaccine is developed, it needs to undergo rigorous testing to establish whether it is safe and how effective it is in generating the right response in the bodys natural immune system.
As these products are intended for human use, the testing and licensure processes are highly regulated.
It is critical to our success that we employ people with the right knowledge and experience to enable us to meet the requirements of the regulators.
In recent times, both in response to the requirements of our smallpox vaccine project and as our other vaccines have progressed into latter stage clinical trials, we have increased our clinical operations and regulatory affairs teams, and also the quality assurance and quality control functions that oversee the processes and procedures involved in the development and manufacture of vaccines.
Control of manufacture Manufacturing In the world of biological products such as vaccines, is critical to our success developing the manufacturing process is as important as the scientific research.
Currently, there is a worldwide shortage of manufacturing capacity for biological products, which can impact timelines and product availability.
Control of manufacture is, therefore, critical to our success.
We have been putting in place this strategically important manufacturing capability.
We started to reactivate our US based manufacturing facility early in 2001 and will - complete the programme in 2003.
Parts of the facility are already fully up and running, in particular the suites producing smallpox vaccine.
Once complete, the facility will be capable of producing both anti viral and anti bacterial vaccines and - - will meet the manufacturing needs of many of our products.
Recognising how critical this capability is to our business, we regularly review our requirements for manufacturing and the potential for expansion.
For instance, we have recently started to put in place a small-scale manufacturing capability for our C. difficile project.
Our first product is being submitted for licensure in 2003 Commercialisation The next important step for us is to increase our ability to successfully commercialise the products we develop and manufacture.
Historically, biotechnology companies have tended to out license the rights to - sell the products they develop to pharmaceutical companies in return for the pharmaceutical company funding the costs of development.
For this, the biotechnology company typically received a small royalty on the sales.
Acambis is in the fortunate position that we have the in-house capability and resources, including sufficient funds, to enable us to develop the products ourselves, thereby retaining greater value within the company.
In some cases, we might look to partner a product if we believe a partner can target areas of the world or specific distribution channels more effectively than we can.
In other areas, though, we are looking to establish our own sales teams and have recently put in place a sales and marketing function to manage this new stage in our development.
With our first product being submitted for licensure in 2003, we are building on the significant strengths we have already established to turn Acambis from a development company into one that is capable of both developing and selling vaccines.
