50 6a BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alan Smith, Chairman Mr Smith, 58, a member of the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy, joined the board of Acambis on 3 November 1995 as a Directors information The Directors who served during the Non-executive Director and was appointed non-executive Chairman on 20 May 1999.
He was Group Managing Director of Anglian Water plc until year were: December 1997 and is currently Chairman of Avlar Bioventures Limited.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
The Board considers Mr Smith to be an independent Non-executive Director.
Executive: Dr John Brown Dr John Brown, Chief Executive Officer Gordon Cameron Dr Brown, 48, was appointed to the Board of Acambis on 28 April 1995 as Finance Director and was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 March Nicolas Higgins 1997.
He holds a PhD in Pharmacology and an MBA.
Prior to joining Acambis, he worked at Glaxo plc, PA Consulting Group, Bell Lawrie White and Dr Thomas Monath Sutherland and Partners.
Dr Brown is Chairman of the Roslin Institute Edinburgh.
appointed 12 March 2002 Non-executive: Gordon Cameron, Chief Financial Officer and President of Acambis Inc. Alan Smith Mr Cameron, 36, is a Chartered Accountant.
He joined Acambis in 1996 from the corporate finance department at N M Rothschild where he had Alan Dalby advised Acambis on its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Prior to that, he worked for Hill Samuel Bank and Ernst & Young.
He was appointed Michael Lytton to the Board as Finance Director on 1 March 1997 and was additionally appointed as President of Acambis Inc. on 31 March 2001.
Mr Cameron Dr Geoffrey Porges served as Company Secretary for the Group from 28 February 1998 until 1 July 2002. resigned 22 January 2003 Sir Brian Richards retired 30 May 2002 Nicolas Higgins, Chief Business Officer Victor Schmitt Mr Higgins, 46, has a BSc in Biochemistry, an MSc in Biochemical Engineering and an MSc in Management of Intellectual Property.
He joined Acambis in 1994 with responsibility for managing its intellectual property, became Licensing Director in 1996 and was appointed to the Board as During 2002, of the six Board meetings Chief Business Officer formerly Commercial Director on 3 October 1996.
He previously worked for Unilever, PA Consulting Group and Porton held, full attendance by all Board Directors International.
Mr Higgins is a Non-executive Director of Intercytex Limited.
was achieved at four of these meetings.
The usual business address of all of the Dr Thomas Monath, Chief Scientific Officer Directors is the registered office of the Company, except Gordon Cameron and Dr Dr Monath, 62, joined the Group in 1992, prior to which he worked at the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and was Colonel-in-Chief Thomas Monath whose usual business of the Virology Division of the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases.
He is a qualified medical doctor.
Dr Monath was address is that of Acambis Inc. at 38 appointed to the Board as Chief Scientific Officer on 12 March 2002.
Sidney Street, Cambridge, MA in the US.
Alan Dalby, Non-executive Director In accordance with the Companys Articles Mr Dalby, 66, became a Non-executive Director of Acambis on 1 May 1998.
He was an executive director of SmithKline, a predecessor company to of Association, Nicolas Higgins will retire GlaxoSmithKline plc, and retired from the role of Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser plc in 2001.
He is a director of Alteon, Inc. a US-based by rotation at this years Annual General biotechnology company.
He is the senior independent Non-executive Director.
The Board considers Mr Dalby to be an independent Non-executive Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself Director.
Mr Dalby is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Company Secretary information Michael Lytton, Non-executive Director On 1 July 2002, Gordon Cameron stepped down from his role as Company Secretary Mr Lytton, 45, was appointed to the Board of Acambis as a Non-executive Director on 12 March 2001.
He is a General Partner of Oxford Bioscience with Elizabeth Brown filling the position Partners, a US-based life sciences venture capital fund.
Prior to this, he was a Partner of the Boston-based law firm of Palmer & Dodge LLP, from this date.
Miss Brown, a certified where he had a particular emphasis on biotechnology and healthcare.
He holds a JD and an MSc in Epidemiology and Medical Statistics.
He is a accountant, joined Acambis in 1996.
In member of the Board of GPC Biotech AG, ActivX, Inc. AnaVios Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Descartes Therapeutics, Inc. Graffinity Pharmaceuticals AG, addition to her role as Company Secretary, Psychiatric Genomics, Inc. Rib-X Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Therascope Pharmaceuticals AG.
The Board considers Mr Lytton to be an independent she is Director of Finance & Planning Non-executive Director.
Mr Lytton is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
responsible for the UK finance function.
Victor Schmitt, Non-executive Director Mr Schmitt, 54, is President, Venture Management at Baxter Healthcare Corporation, where he is responsible for the creation and management of its interests in development stage biotechnology companies, and for business development for its biosciences division, which contains Baxters vaccines business.
He joined the Board of Acambis on 4 December 2000.
The Board does not consider Mr Schmitt to be an independent Non-executive Director given that he represents Baxters interest on the Acambis Board.
Member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee Member of the Group Executive Committee
