6 Smallpox vaccine sales made us a profitable company in 2002.
This was principally driven by the major $428m c. 270m contract we have with the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC, under which revenues are expected to be recognised between 2002 and 2005, with the majority between $240m c. 150m and $280m c. 175m under United Kingdom generally accepted accounting principles expected in 2003.
This is an exceptional contract as it is of a size that is unlikely to be matched anywhere in the world for smallpox vaccine.
The result is that shareholders can expect to see an exceptional spike in revenues and profits in 2003.
1 the opportunities surrounding our smallpox vaccine franchise To grow revenues and profits from 2004 onwards, our focus is on maximising our near term revenue - - which can generate additional revenues from 2003 onwards: generating opportunities whilst maintaining a broad research and development R&D pipeline for the medium and longer term.
We see four main value drivers for Acambis going forward: 2 the establishment of a travel vaccines franchise, initially in the US through the planned launch of Arilvax in 2004 and followed by ChimeriVax-JE during 2006: 3 near-term revenue-generating opportunities both from within our existing pipeline, such as ChimeriVax-West Nile, and new opportunities: and 4 sustained long-term growth from the continued progression of products in our development pipeline.
We are already recognised as the worlds leading producer of smallpox vaccine Smallpox vaccine franchise We are already recognised as the worlds leading producer of That represents around 290 million doses.
It is envisaged smallpox vaccine through our contracts with the US and other that Acambis will maintain the US stockpile through the governments and have been working to leverage this position replacement of expired doses, thereby providing a steady by establishing a strong smallpox vaccine franchise.
This will revenue stream to Acambis over the medium to long-term.
enable us to offer governments a portfolio of three related products required to protect their citizens against the threat Following completion of the US Government orders to create of smallpox: the initial stockpile, we will be in a position to supply other governments.
With a number of governments, we are seeing a smallpox vaccine for the majority: interest in agreeing placeholder orders that enable them b Modified Vaccinia Ankara MVA for the immunocompromised: to order a relatively small number of doses in the short-term and to provide an instant emergency stockpile, with a view to c vaccinia immune globulin VIG, which is a treatment placing additional, larger orders when supply and budgets available for use in the rare event of severe reactions to allow.
In addition to the US, we have signed contracts with the vaccine.
Smallpox vaccine Day by day, the strength of our position in supplying We see a number of additional opportunities for our governments increases both as additional production capability smallpox vaccine.
becomes available with the fulfilment of the USs requirements and as new clinical data on the vaccine is produced from The US Governments strategy is to have a stockpile of smallpox our clinical trial programme.
Having already secured several vaccines for every member of the US population.
contracts, we are aggressively pursuing further orders in conjunction with our marketing partner, Baxter.
7 8 We plan to submit our vaccine to both the US and European We intend to tender for the contract to supply the US regulatory authorities in 2004.
If approved, we would then Government with 30 million doses of MVA for an emergency have the worlds only licensed second generation smallpox stockpile.
This represents a significant opportunity for us - vaccine.
This would strengthen our competitive position with and, as with the smallpox vaccine, we also intend to market governments and also open up the opportunity for sales to MVA vaccine to other governments.
private individuals, for which we have seen considerable interest.
The latter is another opportunity for us and we are VIG currently exploring how best to maximise our position.
VIG can be used to treat adverse reactions that may arise as a result of vaccination against smallpox.
It is produced by MVA our partner, Cangene Corporation Cangene, by vaccinating There is a proportion of the population that is more at risk professional plasma donors with smallpox vaccine and of suffering adverse reactions to the smallpox vaccine collecting the antibodies they generate.
Acambis has an because they have compromised immune system disorders exclusive marketing partnership with Cangene to sell such as HIV, eczema or other allergies.
MVA is a more Cangenes VIG in markets outside North America and Israel.
attenuated form of the current generation of smallpox vaccines and, as such, should reduce the risk of side effects Today, we are the only company with all three smallpoxin at risk people who would otherwise be unable to be related products.
This puts us in a uniquely strong position vaccinated against smallpox.
In addition to being used as for selling to governments around the world that are a vaccine in its own right, MVA could also be used as a pre implementing bio defence programmes.
- - vaccine to prime the immune systems of these at risk individuals ahead of receiving the regular vaccine.
Travel vaccines The adult vaccine market, of which travel vaccines are a part, is expected to be one of the fastest growing segments of the - vaccines sector over the next decade.
In many cases in this market, there is either no licensed vaccine available or, where a vaccine is already licensed, ours is differentiated by potential improvements in safety, efficacy or routes of administration.
In the US, travel vaccines represent a strong market that is well served through travel clinics.
We are in the process of completing a paediatric trial on Today, we are the Arilvax, a yellow fever vaccine to which we have US marketing rights, with results expected to be available in April 2003.
We plan to submit a Biologics License Application to the US Food and Drug Administration around the middle of this year.
If only company Arilvax is approved, we can begin to establish a presence in this field and capitalise on it with the other travel vaccines in our development pipeline.
with all three smallpox-related products Our next travel vaccine is ChimeriVax-JE, which could be available during 2006.
Process development and manufacturing scale-up for ChimeriVax-JE is almost complete and we will be conducting a bridging trial with this new material during 2003 to confirm that it produces clinical results equivalent to those seen with the material used in previous trials.
We plan to begin the Phase III trial in the first quarter of 2004.
The other travel vaccines we have in development would follow thereafter.
These include oral vaccines against typhoid fever and travellers diarrhoea caused by enterotoxigenic E. coli ETEC.
A bridging study will be carried out for HolaVaxTyphoid during 2003, and a challenge study of HolaVax ETEC - is underway.
Other near-term revenue-generating opportunities We are also focusing on near-term revenue-generating opportunities, both those within our existing portfolio and also some new opportunities.
Internally, we are already directing significant resources to our programme to develop a vaccine against West Nile virus.
This virus has become a major problem since it arrived in the US in 1999.
In 2002, the virus spread to a total of 41 US States, where 3,873 cases of West Nile infection were diagnosed and there were 246 deaths.
We have been developing a vaccine for three years and, in the first half of this year, we plan to become the first company to take a West Nile vaccine into human clinical trials.
Results from these trials should be available in the second half of this year.
The scale of this problem and the need to provide an effective counter-measure means that there is considerable demand to make available a safe, efficacious vaccine as quickly as possible.
This level of demand and the impetus for rapid progression of the vaccines development have encouraged us to take steps to accelerate the clinical testing and manufacture of the vaccine.
R&D pipeline We are also actively exploring other revenue-generating Sustained growth of the Company in the medium to long term will come from the new opportunities - opportunities that could contribute to near-term revenue and offered by our broad R&D pipeline of products.
In addition to those referred to above, we continue profits growth.
We are focusing our efforts on opportunities to progress our dengue project with our partner Aventis Pasteur, and our H. pylori and C. difficile that complement our areas of expertise and strategic focus.
We also have a number of other opportunities currently at the research stage that could contribute to our strong development pipeline.
A Al lt to og ge et th he er r, t th hi is s a ad dd ds s u up p t to o a a s si ig gn ni if fi ic ca an nt t n nu um mb be er r o of f o op pp po or rt tu un ni it ti ie es s t th ha at t w we e a ar re e c cu ur rr re en nt tl ly y p pu ur rs su ui in ng g, a an ny y o of f w wh hi ic ch h c ca an n m ma ak ke e a an n i im mp po or rt ta an nt t c co on nt tr ri ib bu ut ti io on n t to o o ou ur r p pl la an ns s f fo or r c co on nt ti in nu ui in ng g a as s a a p pr ro of fi it ta ab bl le e c co om mp pa an ny y a an nd d a ac ch hi ie ev vi in ng g g gr ro ow wt th h i in n r re ev five en nu ue es s a an nd d p pr ro of fi it ts s f fr ro om m t th he e 2 20 00 04 4 b ba as se el li in ne e o on nw wa ar rd ds s.. T Th he es se e a ar re e e ex xc ci it ti in ng g t ti im me es s f fo or r A Ac ca am mb bi is s.. H Ha av vi in ng g e es st ta ab bl li is sh he ed d f fi ir rm m f fo ou un nd da at ti io on ns s i in n t th he e e el le em me en nt ts s o of f o ou ur r b bu us si in ne es ss s t th ha at t w we e c co on ns si id fide er r t to o b be e k ke ey y t to o o ou ur r s su uc cc ce es ss s, w we e a ar re e i id fide ea al ll ly y p pl la ac ce ed d t to o e ex xp pl lo oi it t t th he e o op pp po or rt tu un ni it ti ie es s b be ef fo or re e u us s a an nd d m ma ax xi im mi is se e t th he e v va al lu ue e w we e g ge en ne er ra at te e f fo or r s sh ha ar re eh ho ol ld fide er rs s.. 9
