Directors biographies Executive directors Elliott Bernerd, aged 57, has been active in the UK property industry for approximately 40 years and became chairman of Chelseld plc in October 1987.
He was senior partner of Michael Laurie & Partners, property surveyors, and then chairman and chief executive prior to the rm becoming part of the Morgan Grenfell Group in 1985.
He has previously been a director of Stockley plc, chairman of the London Philharmonic Trust and chairman of the South Bank Board.
He is an honorary Fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects and an honorary Fellow of Trinity College of Music.
Nigel Hugill, aged 45, holds degrees from Oxford University and The London School of Economics.
Previously at Mobil Oil Company and Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited, where he was a corporate finance director, he joined Chelseld as a director in August 1989.
He was appointed managing director in 1992.
He is a member of the advisory group to the Bartlett School of Planning at University College London and a trustee of the Architecture Foundation.
Robin Butler, aged 43, was educated at Cambridge University and qualied as a chartered surveyor with Richard Ellis.
He has been a director of Chelseld since its inception in July 1986 and has specic responsibility for the companys UK retail portfolio and retail development activities.
David Phillips, aged 43, is a chartered surveyor and began his career at Rugby Securities Limited, the property investment and trading arm of Hillsdown Holdings plc, where he was appointed a director in 1985.
He has been with Chelseld since its inception and was appointed to the board in 1987.
He is responsible for property acquisitions and disposals.
Non-executive directors Michael Broke, aged 67, was an executive director of the company until April 1996, having joined the board in 1987.
Previously he was an executive director of J Rothschild & Co Limited and of Stockley plc.
He is chairman of Stockley Park Consortium Limited and a non-executive director of Electra Kingsway VCT plc.
Michael Grabiner, aged 52, joined the board in August 2002.
He is a director of Apax Partners Limited and was previously the chief executive of Energis Plc.
He is also chairman of Spectrum Strategy Consultants.
Nina Kung Wang, aged 65, joined the board in 1996 and is chairlady, principal shareholder and co-founder of the Chinachem group, one of the largest property developers in Hong Kong.
She holds a number of other executive and non-executive directorships, is honorary chairlady of the China Red Cross Foundation and honorary Professor of Economics at Beijing University.
Dr David KP Li, aged 64, joined the board in 1992.
He is chairman and chief executive of The Bank of East Asia Limited and is a member of the Hong Kong Legislative Council and a Hong Kong Affairs Adviser to The Peoples Republic of China.
He holds a number of non-executive directorships with companies such as PCCW Limited, SCMP Group, The Hong Kong & China Gas Company, Dow Jones & Company, Campbell Soup Company and Atlas Air Inc. Sir Bruce MacPhail, aged 63, joined the board in 1999 and has been the managing director of The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company since 1985.
He is also chairman of the Business Advisory Forum of the Said Business School at Oxford University.
Lubna Olayan, aged 47, joined the board in 1996.
She is president and chief executive officer of Olayan Financing Company, the Riyadh based holding company for the Olayan Groups operations in Saudi Arabia and the broader Middle East.
She is on the board of the Olayan Group and president of the Suliman S Olayan Foundation.
She also serves on the International Council of INSEAD.
Barrie Webb, aged 66, joined the board in 1993 and has extensive interests and experience in property and construction.
Through ownership of a number of private companies, he has been involved in construction and property for over 40 years, carrying out civil engineering, development and associated works in the UK, Bahrain, Australia and the US.
Having sold his construction interests during the late 1980s, he maintains property interests in the United Kingdom.
