Operating review continued The 197,000 sq ft mixed Retail and leisure use development at Fulham Broadway... is expected to open in the Autumn of this year 10 11 Pillar Property PLC Fulham Broadway The 197,000 sq ft mixed use development at Fulham Broadway is close to completion and is expected to open in the autumn of this year.
Omni Omni is 93% let or in solicitors hands and the interest for the remaining two 5,000 sq ft units is strong.
Warner Village and Holmes Place are both fitting out their accommodation and are scheduled for launch dates at the beginning of September.
The principal new lettings achieved in the last 12 months have been to Slug & Lettuce, La Tasca, Mood and NCP in respect of the 1,021 space car park.
Calton Square Calton Square is scheduled for completion in July.
Baillie Gifford are scheduled to commence the fitting out of their 100,000 sq ft of accommodation in June.
There remains 44,000 sq ft of space to let and although interest has been thin following the events of 11 September our agents report that occupational interest does appear to be showing signs of coming out of the doldrums of the last six months.
14 Banbury Whilst retailer margins in-town continue to come under pressure, we are still making good progress on letting the remaining units at Castle Quay Shopping Centre.
The centre is now 95% let and the majority of vacant units are under offer to Barratts, Rubicon, Birthdays and Vodafone.
Retailers are generally reporting excellent sales, particularly HMV, Debenhams and BHS.
On the back of the increased letting activity over the last 12 months, the car parks continue to trade well and are now operating at 50% above last years figures.
Proposals have therefore been submitted to build an additional 15 14,15 Omni, Edinburgh 16 Fulham Broadway, London SW6 17 Christopher Newns left and Nick Heath, Pillar project managers 18 Calton Square, Edinburgh Annual report and accounts 2002 120 spaces which is expected to receive a favourable response from the local planning authority.
16 The head-lease negotiations with the local authority are proceeding well and are expected to be concluded by the end of July.
Cricklewood At Cricklewood, our joint venture scheme with Railtrack, an outline planning application was submitted in June for a scheme comprising almost 10 million sq ft of mixed use development including retail, leisure, offices and residential.
This major project has the enthusiastic support of the Greater London Authority and Barnet Council and although it will take a number of years to finally resolve, it represents an excellent long term development opportunity.
Woking At the end of last year, Pillar purchased a prime office development site adjacent to Woking Station.
However, due to a shift in Pillars focus, the company has decided not to proceed with this development on a speculative basis.
Therefore, this site was placed on the open market in December and is now currently under offer to a residential developer at a price in excess of current book value.
18 Capability Green At Capability Green, our business park joint venture development near Luton, it has been another successful year.
In February, contracts were exchanged with British Aerospace to acquire almost 10 acres of land for a new research and development facility.
The land already has outline consent and the transaction is subject only to their obtaining detailed planning consent.
A further tranche of land has been sold to AstraZeneca, leaving the joint venture with only four acres of land that has full planning consent for approximately 60,000 sq ft of offices.
