Pillar will provide seed corn capital in new opportunities and fund new development Annual report and accounts 2002 Allied London Properties.
The development which is 60% under way and we would hope that a positive result will be incentive schemes which will reflect the new emphasis prelet comprises 221,000 sq ft of open A1 space and will be achieved within the next year or so.
completed in two phases over the next two years.
The A change in strategy As mentioned above, income from our Europe Over the last year we have been exploring with development will be sold to Hercules nearer completion.
management and advisory activities through base and FPD Savills the retail warehouse market in Europe, with City offices Pillars investment in City of London offices was performance fees is an increasingly important facet of Pillars particular focus on France, Spain and Italy.
It is our joint belief represented at the year-end by our holding in CLOUT and business.
The gross investment portfolio of both unit trusts, that we can utilise our experience of the out-of-town retail our office properties at Cannon Bridge and Cheapside.
to which we are sole property advisers, totalled 2.1 billion at market in the UK and apply it to continental Europe, as we We hope that both these properties will have been sold by 31 March 2002.
Allowing for asset sales in the trusts during believe that the conditions in the out-of-town retail market are the end of this year, leaving our sole investment in this sector the forthcoming year, we expect to see the value of the similar to conditions in the UK ten years ago.
We have increased our holding in this trust during portfolio under management showing an increase over the significant opportunities for exploiting the immaturity of that the year to 36%, although we anticipate that in time this will next few years.
Accordingly, we are currently considering a be diluted through the introduction of new investors and sale We believe that it is more appropriate that the focus of number of opportunities for a limited initial investment.
Since the year-end, CLOUT has acquired Plumtree Pillars activities be concentrated on assets under Management During the course of the year the team at Court, a 200,000 sq ft freehold office building in the City.
management and that the emphasis should be on long-term Pillar concluded 150 leasing transactions of 1.3 million sq ft earnings growth and for the company to be less capital Other retail Construction of the two retail and leisure involving rents totalling 37 million.
This volume of transactions intensive than it is now.
As a result, we are proposing to developments at Fulham, London and in the centre of and the expansion of both Hercules and CLOUT required a reduce the capital base by returning 100p per share to Edinburgh will be completed by the autumn 2002.
Of the tremendous amount of hard work by the team and I would like shareholders, totalling 143 million, later in the summer space available, lettings of 81% and 93% respectively have to thank them for all that they have achieved over the past year.
It is our intention to reduce further been achieved to date.
Outlook Having achieved our primary objectives last year for the capital base to a level which will be sufficient to finance The Castle Quay Shopping Centre, Banbury, owned Hercules and, to a lesser degree, for CLOUT our objective for key holdings in the Trusts to which we are advisers, fund new by the PillarCaisse joint venture, is 95% let or under offer.
the current year is to focus on the marketing of units in both development which when complete will be offered to the The Centre is trading well and is attracting increasing footfall.
This will enhance the liquidity of the units for all Trusts and provide seed corn capital in new opportunities.
Development Of our three remaining development investors.
It is Pillars intention to reduce its holdings in both With this in mind, it is our intention to review the position next properties, we have sold a further ten acres at Capability Hercules 48% and CLOUT 36% during this process.
year when we will consider a possible further return of capital.
Green for offices, which leaves four acres remaining.
In addition, we will continue to look for suitable investment Such further return of capital would be dependent on and Our site adjoining Woking Station is under offer, subject opportunities for both Trusts and for development projects for primarily funded by the sales of units in the two trusts, to planning.
The planning process on our joint venture Pillar itself.
development at Cricklewood continues, although we have A circular will be sent to shareholders in due course which experienced delays arising from the requirement for us to will contain full details of these proposals involving a court co-ordinate our application with that of adjoining landowners.
approved scheme of arrangement and a reduction of capital The consultation process with all the relevant authorities is together with details of a restructuring of the management HR Mould, Chairman 11 June 2002
