Directors report 18 19 Pillar Property PLC The directors present their report and the audited 4 Investment properties Investment properties with a book Basic salary and benefits Basic annual salaries of executive financial statements of the group for the year ended value of 150.8 million at 31 March 2002 were professionally directors and employees are reviewed annually and are 31 March 2002. valued by external valuers.
The directors have valued certain assessed having regard to group and individual performance, properties which are undergoing significant development and salary levels in comparable organisations, particularly 1 Principal activities and business review The group which was not completed at the year end, at 202.9 million, within the listed property sector.
Basic salary is the only is engaged in property investment: directly and through based on formal assessments of gross development value element of remuneration which attracts pension contributions.
specialist unit trusts and joint venture arrangements, given to the directors by the groups valuers.
Taxable benefits are provided at levels similar to those for development and management through its subsidiaries and comparable positions.
During the year, the 5 Directors The directors of the company who held group acquired three and sold two investment properties.
office during the year and as at the date of this report are Annual performance-related bonus Annual discretionary A further five investment properties were transferred from shown on page 16.
Mr H R Mould and Mr A J M Huntley bonuses are awarded to executive directors and employees group ownership into joint venture arrangements.
It is retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of on the basis of individual contribution and the groups intended that the group will continue to pursue further Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for comparative performance within the property sector.
Sir Derek Hornby, being aged 72 and The Committee considers the performance of the group of the activities and prospects of the company and its Mr M C Stoddart, being aged 70, offer themselves for relative to the All Property Annual Capital Value Index subsidiaries is contained in the Chairmans statement and in re-election.
The company supports the re-election of both the index published by Investment Property Databank.
the Operating and Financial review on pages 2 to 13 and Sir Derek Hornby and Mr M C Stoddart because their CRISP CRISP increases the focus of remuneration on net should be read as part of this report.
considerable experience is believed to be an asset to the asset per share growth.
The interests of the directors and their families in 2 Results and dividends The financial statements deal with Payments are made into the CRISP if the companys net shares of the company and in share options are set out in the results of the group for the year ended 31 March 2002 asset value per share outperforms the index by 25% or more, note 7 to the financial statements.
The loss on ordinary to a maximum of 15% of such out-performance.
There has been no change in the beneficial and activities before taxation amounted to 11.7 million 80% of this payment is used to acquire Pillar shares which non-beneficial shareholdings of the directors between 2001 24.2 million profit restated.
The directors will vest over a three year period.
The remaining 20% is paid 31 March 2002 and the date of this report except for a recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.1p, as a cash bonus.
non-beneficial holding of 640 shares by Mr H J M Price.
which together with the interim dividend of 2.2p paid on Participation in the scheme is at the discretion of the All service contracts are for a period of less than one year.
4 January 2002 makes a total of 7.3p per ordinary share.
Remuneration Committee, and is intended that only executive The recommended dividend, if approved at the Annual 6 Directors remuneration directors and key employees will be invited to participate.
General Meeting, will be paid on 26 July 2002 to Remuneration policy of executive directors Pension The company makes payments to individual pension shareholders registered on 12 July 2002.
The Remuneration Committee establishes policy on the schemes on behalf of executive directors and certain remuneration of executive directors.
In determining the policy 3 Share capital Details of changes in the share capital during employees on a fixed percentage contribution basis.
it considers a number of factors, including the importance of the year are explained in note 21. attracting, retaining and motivating executives of appropriate Non-executive directors remuneration The remuneration of calibre and experience and the remuneration of the executive the non-executive directors is determined by the board as directors relative to that of the employees.
In setting the remuneration policies full consideration has been given to the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code.
The remuneration policy for executive directors has been designed to address the interests of both directors and shareholders, and currently comprises four main elements: basic salary and benefits, annual performance-related bonus, the Pillar Capital Reward Incentive Share Plan CRISP and pension.
Annual report and accounts 2002 7 Statement of directors responsibilities Company law 9 Going concern The following statement is made solely in 15 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each order to comply with paragraph 12.43v of the Listing Rules of Resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of the UK Listing Authority.
After making enquiries, the directors authorise the directors to allot up to 13,156,458 nominal affairs of the company and group and of the profit or loss for have a reasonable expectation that the company and group value of share capital representing approximately 31% that period.
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence of the existing issued share capital.
Unless renewed this In preparing those financial statements, the directors are for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to authority would expire on 22 July 2007.
The directors have required to: adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
no present intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution select suitable accounting policies and then apply 10 Environment The board recognises the importance of to enable the directors to allot shares for cash for the them consistently: maintaining and improving the environment.
All acquisitions purpose of a rights issue to shareholders, an employee share make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and are subject to assessment to identify the presence of any scheme and otherwise up to 2,109,677 nominal value of prudent: potential environmentally harmful materials or contaminants.
share capital representing approximately 5% of the existing state whether applicable accounting standards have been A remediation strategy is then put in place to treat any issued share capital without giving effect to statutory followed, subject to any material departures disclosed in the contamination as appropriate.
Unless renewed, this authority shall financial statements: and The board has established policy on the environment and a expire on 22 July 2007. prepare the financial statements on the going concern framework for ensuring compliance with all relevant laws and Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group regulations.
Consultants are used to advise on and undertake to renew the companys existing authority to purchase its will continue in business.
the compliance on a property by property basis.
All contracts own shares in the market.
This authority shall be limited are reviewed to ensure they fully bind third party contractors to to 14,345,804 shares representing approximately 10% The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting comply with environmental regulations.
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any of the shares in issue at the date of passing of the resolution.
There is a regular Environmental Report to the board.
Any shares purchased under this authority would be time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the 11 Health and safety The group is committed to achieving a cancelled.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of authority would not exceed 105% of the average of the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility high standard of health and safety.
The group operates and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to regularly reviews its health and safety policies and practices middle market quotations for the companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect to ensure that appropriate standards are maintained.
The directors would only exercise the 12 Suppliers The group aims to settle supplier accounts in power to purchase any shares when satisfied that such 8 Substantial shareholdings The directors have been accordance with their individual terms of business.
At 31 March purchase would have a beneficial effect on net assets per notified that the following shareholders have a disclosable 2002 there were 27 days 2001 27 days purchases share and generally that it would be in the shareholders interest of 3% or more in the ordinary shares of the company outstanding in respect of the companys creditors.
interests to exercise that power.
The directors have no at the date of this report: immediate plans to exercise this power and propose to 13 Donations During the year the group made charitable Shares % keep the matter under review.
There were no political donations.
General Electric Pension Trust 31,026,499 21.63 14 Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual By order of the board Fidelity Investments 15,857,224 11.05 General Meeting for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc Prudential Corporation 10,180,901 7.10 as auditors of the company.
