l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report of Bellway p. l. c. to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 July 2002.
Principal activities The Company is a holding company owning subsidiary undertakings which continue to be engaged principally in housebuilding in the United Kingdom.
Performance and prospects A review of the Group's performance and prospects is given in the Chairman's Statement on pages 2 to 5, the Chief Executive's Operating Review on pages 8 to 15 and in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 27.
Profits and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the year amounts to 87,901,000 of which 1,900,000 relates to preference shareholders and the balance of 86,001,000 relates to ordinary shareholders, which the directors recommend be dealt with as follows: Ordinary dividends 000 Interim dividend paid, 4.55 pence per ordinary share 5,018 Final dividend proposed, 11.20 pence per ordinary share 12,354 Total ordinary dividends, 15.75 pence per ordinary share 17,372 Retained profit for year 68,629 86,001 The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on Monday 13 January 2003 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on Friday 13 December 2002.
Directors All the directors of the Company, who are shown on pages 6 & 7, were directors throughout the year with the exception of Mr A M Leitch who was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2002.
Four directors retire from the Board in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Mr P J Stoker and Mr D G Perry retire by rotation.
Mr D S Bramley retires because he is over 70 years of age and Mr A M Leitch retires at the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment on 1 August 2002.
Being eligible, all four offer themselves for re-election.
Mr P J Stoker and Mr A M Leitch have service contracts which expire when they attain their normal retirement age of 60.
Their contracts are terminable at any time by the Company on 24 months' notice in respect of Mr P J Stoker and 12 months notice in respect of Mr A M Leitch.
Mr D S Bramley and Mr D G Perry do not have service contracts.
They both have a letter of appointment with a fixed term of two years which terminates on 31 July 2003 in respect of Mr D S Bramley and 31 October 2003 in respect of Mr D G Perry.
Both letters of appointment are subject to termination by either party giving the other not less than three months' notice.
Directors' interests The directors' interests in the share capital of the Company and directors' share options are given in the Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration on pages 34 to 39.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Notifiable shareholders' interests As at 14 October 2002, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Aviva plc holding of 5,461,606 shares, representing 4.96%.
Prudential plc holding of 5,437,060 shares, representing 4.93%.
HBOS plc holding of 4,515,464 shares, representing 4.10%.
Standard Life Investments holding of 4,330,875 shares, representing 3.93%.
Corporate governance The Company acknowledges the importance of, and is committed to, the principle of achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
Following the publication and subsequent adoption by the UK Listing Authority in its Listing Rules of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the 'Combined Code' the Company has continued to review its procedures.
An explanation of how it has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and whether it complies with those principles is detailed below under the four headings contained in the Combined Code.
Directors At the date of this report, the Board comprises four executive and three non-executive directors.
All the non-executive directors are considered to be independent and are led by a senior non-executive, Mr D S Bramley.
One third of the directors retire by rotation each year at the Annual General Meeting.
All directors have access to independent professional advice, as required, in furtherance of their duties at the Company's expense.
In addition, all directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Appropriate training is available to new and existing directors as and when necessary.
The primary responsibility of the Board is to the Company's shareholders while at the same time having regard to its employees, customers, the community and the environment.
The Board meets regularly, ten times last year, to review group strategy and performance and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its consideration and decision.
The executive directors meet on a more frequent basis and are in continual discussion with operational management.
To facilitate the effective administration of the Group's affairs, certain functions and responsibilities are delegated by the Board to Board Committees.
Board committees There are four permanent committees of the Board: 1.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr L P Finn.
He and the other members, Mr D S Bramley and Mr D G Perry, are all non-executive directors.
It meets at least twice a year and its written terms of reference include the review of the Annual and Interim Reports issued to shareholders, the accounting policies of the Group, compliance with financial reporting standards, internal controls and the planning, scope and conclusions of the external auditors' programme.
The Board Committee on Executive Directors' Remuneration is chaired by Mr D S Bramley.
He and the other members, Mr L P Finn and Mr D G Perry, are all non-executive directors.
Its duties are to review and recommend the basic salary, benefits in kind, terms and conditions of employment, including performance related payments, share options and pension benefits of executive directors.
The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors' Remuneration consists of all the executive directors and is chaired by Mr H C Dawe.
It meets at least once a year to review and recommend the terms and conditions and the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr D G Perry and comprises Mr H C Dawe and the two other non-executive directors.
Its role is to make recommendations regarding appointments to the Board.
Other committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specific functions as required from time to time.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Directors' remuneration The principles and details of directors' remuneration are contained in the Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration on pages 34 to 39.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Meetings are held with both existing and prospective institutional shareholders on a regular basis and as requested.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with company affairs through the Annual and Interim Reports.
The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with institutional and private investors and their participation is encouraged by the taking of questions by the Board during the meeting.
Further information for shareholders is also available on the Company's web site at www.
co. uk Accountability and audit The Going Concern statement and the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities in Respect of Preparation of the Accounts are shown on pages 31 and 40 respectively.
The Company has an Audit Committee which has meetings at least twice a year with the Company's auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
Its role is detailed above.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed on an ongoing basis the effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
"The system is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report ""Internal Control Guidance for Directors of Listed Companies Incorporated in the United Kingdom""."
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to establish, maintain and monitor a system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management to safeguard the shareholders' interests and the Company's assets.
This system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Group's particular requirements and reduce the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
Management are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their particular areas of the business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are regularly assessed and cover all aspects of the business, but in particular, land acquisition, planning, construction, health and safety, information and reporting systems, asset protection, treasury management and legal and regulatory compliance.
In addition there is a responsibility to mitigate risk by the provision of adequate insurance cover and by management reporting on material changes in the business or external environment affecting the risk profile.
The Board has a system of regular reporting to the Board which provides for appropriate details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic basis, to review the key risks inherent in the business, the operation of the system of control necessary to manage such risks and its effectiveness and satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key areas of control are as follows: The Board has agreed on a list of key risks which affect the Group and has considered the extent to which the measures taken by the Group affect those risks An established management structure is in place which provides short lines of communication and easy access to members of the Board Delegation of clearly defined responsibilities to divisional boards with clear procedures and authority limits in place to provide and maintain effective controls across the Group 30 BELLWAYp.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued A comprehensive reporting system entailing annual budgets, regular forecasting and financial reporting A central treasury function operates at Head Office Regular meetings with management attended by members of the Board to review divisional performance The acquisition of land and land interests is subject to checking by management and approval by the Board to ensure purchasing criteria are met Regular reviews of site costs and revenues Regular visits to sites by management and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance A number of the Group's key functions are dealt with centrally.
These include finance, banking, taxation, financial services, pensions, insurance, information technology, legal and secretarial Compliance The Company considers that it has complied with the detailed provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year except for the following: B.
1.7 Length of contractual notice period Mr H C Dawe and Mr P J Stoker have service contracts which are terminable by the Company on twenty four months' notice, subject to retirement provisions, but with a condition that, on early termination, a payment equivalent to two years' salary, benefits and bonus is payable.
They would also be entitled to exercise any outstanding share options and be credited with two years' pensionable service.
Justification for this is contained in the Report of the Board on Directors' Remuneration on page 34.
Mr J K Watson and Mr A M Leitch have service contracts terminable by the Company on 12 months' notice.
It would be the Company's intention to engage any future executive director on a service contract with a notice period of not more than 12 months, unless prevailing market conditions make this difficult.
Going concern After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer and the importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors.
Each division maintains employee relations appropriate to its own particular needs and a Group magazine is published at periodic intervals.
New employees, when eligible, are invited to join the Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
In accordance with statutory requirements, the Company also has a designated stakeholder pension arrangement.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Environmental issues The Board recognises the importance of environmental issues and when carrying out its business, endeavours to make a positive contribution to the quality of life both for the present and the future.
An environmental policy statement approved by the Board has been adopted by all trading entities within the Group.
Environmental issues are addressed in the Chief Executive's Operating Review on page 15 and in the Environmental Policy Statement on page 16 and in the Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Report on page 18.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Health and safety at work The Group promotes all aspects of safety throughout its operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors and visitors to its sites and premises and the general public.
Donations During the year the Group made no political contributions but donated 80,096 2001 - 40,179 for charitable purposes.
Suppliers The Group agrees terms and conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
The policy is that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier is also complying with the terms and conditions.
The Group follows the CBI Code of Practice 'Prompt payers: in good company' and its current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its materials suppliers and sub-contractors is for payment to be made at the month end following the month of the invoice.
For other supplies, particularly land, the terms are many and varied.
Trade creditors due within one year at 31 July 2002 of 62,980,000 2001 - 53,790,000 gave a creditor payment period of 33 days 2001 - 28 days.
Including land creditors, the creditor payment period was 92 days 2001 - 78 days.
The parent company had no land or trade creditors at 31 July 2002 2001 - Nil.
Annual General Meeting - Special Business Five resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 8 Authority to Increase Authorised Share Capital This resolution increases the authorised share capital of the Company to 38,250,000 by the creation of an additional 14,000,000 ordinary shares of 12.5p.
This amounts to a 10.6% increase in the authorised share capital.
As the directors existing authority to allot shares is due to be renewed see in relation to resolution number 9 below the directors believe it is appropriate to increase the authorised share capital at the same time in order to retain their flexibility to act in the best interests of the shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares, although the directors have no present intention of doing so.
Resolution 9 Authority to Allot Relevant Securities The existing authority the directors have to allot shares in the Company is due to expire on 16 January 2003.
This resolution renews the directors authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,474,770 representing approximately 32.5% of the issued ordinary share capital.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the allotment authority proposed by this resolution.
The authority will lapse not later than 10 January 2008 except insofar as commitments to allot shares have been entered into before that date.
Resolution 10 Introduction of a new Savings Related Share Option Schceme The existing Savings Related Share Option Scheme has been in place since 1991 and expires in January 2003.
The directors have concluded that it would be in the best interests of the Group and its employees to continue to provide employees with the opportunity to acquire shares in Bellway p. l. c. and, thereby, to secure a community of interest between them and shareholders.
The directors propose that a new Savings Related Share Option Scheme, to be approved by the Board of Inland Revenue under the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, should be established for the purpose of granting options to subscribe for shares to employees who enter into Save-As-You-Earn contracts.
The principal features of the Scheme are set out on pages 65 to 66.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Special Resolutions Resolution 11 - Disapplication of pre-emption rights This resolution is the customary annual request that the shareholders empower the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them pro rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power allows the directors to allot equity securities for cash only a up to an aggregate nominal value of 688,745, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: or b in a rights issue or other offer of securities pro rata to shareholders up to the maximum unused amount of the general authority to allot conferred on the directors by Resolution number 8.
Resolution 12 - Company's purchase of its own shares The Company's authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last Annual General Meeting, expires on the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors propose that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in the light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the financing of the Group, its assets and earnings per ordinary share for the remaining shareholders.
By order of the Board G K Wrightson Company Secretary 14 October 2002 33
