R&A2002 Final Finance 23 07 2002 5:26 PM Page 38 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to attaining high standards of corporate governance in accordance with the principles of the Share Option Plans Committee The Share Option Plans Committee comprises the same membership as the Remuneration Combined Code published in June 1998 and the supplementary guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors The Turnbull Committee.
This Committee is responsible for the operation of the share option plans, details of which are set out in Note 19 to Report published in September 1999. the accounts.
No member of the Committee is participating in these plans.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The principles of the Combined Code and how the Company has complied with them are set out below.
Directors remuneration The Board membership and operation The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 33.
The Board currently comprises a Chairman, a Managing Director, five Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
Shareholder relations Their biographies appear on pages 24 and 25.
The roles of Chairman and Managing Director are split and it is anticipated that this The Company encourages active dialogue with its current and prospective shareholders through ongoing meetings between will continue to be the case.
No Director has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or with provisions for preinstitutional investors and senior management, and ad hoc presentations to institutional investors.
One third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
All the Directors being proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual Shareholders are also kept up-to-date with the Companys activities through the Annual and Interim Reports.
General Meeting have a 364 day notice period.
The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with private investors and their participation is encouraged by holding question and answer sessions during the meeting.
The Board meetings are held four times a year and scheduled with the agreement of the Directors before the start of the year.
Board papers and agendas are sent out in advance of each meeting.
All Directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary Accountability and audit and independent professional advisers at the Companys expense.
Training is available for new Directors and existing Directors as and when required.
The statement of Directors responsibilities and the going concern statement are shown on page 36.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board as a whole.
However, various matters have been The Company has an Audit Committee to which , the Companys auditors, report.
delegated to Committees as follows: Internal control Executive Committee This Committee is chaired by the Group Managing Director and other members comprise the Group Chairman, Mr A Carey, Mr G J Fry and Mr R C Perrins.
The Committee reviews the financial and operating performance of all The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control which is designed to provide reasonable but not Group companies and divisions.
The Committee meets on a monthly basis.
absolute assurance against mis-statement or loss.
The Directors have reviewed the operation and effectiveness of this system of internal control during the year.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises the four Non-executive Directors with Mr F Wellings as Chairman.
The Committee reviews the annual and interim financial statements prior to publication, considers the scope and nature of The Group has the following established framework of internal controls: external and internal audits and matters arising from the audits, and reviews the Companys proposed statement on internal Financial reporting There is a comprehensive budgeting and ongoing forecasting system which is constantly reviewed by the control.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year and will normally request the attendance of the Group Finance Directors.
The results of all operating units are reported monthly and compared to budget and forecast.
Director and representatives of the auditors.
The auditors have open recourse to the Non-executive Directors, should they consider it necessary.
Copies of the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are distributed to Board members.
Operating unit controls Controls and procedures, including information systems controls, are detailed in policies and procedure manuals.
Operating units have completed self-certification questionnaires confirming compliance with these Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the four Non-executive Directors with procedures.
The Board has had regard to the principles of good governance, Section B: Directors Remuneration, annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These provisions state that the Remuneration Committee should Risk identification The Company assesses the risks facing the business on an ongoing basis.
As part of this continuous consist exclusively of Non-executive Directors and should consult with the Group Chairman and or Group Managing Director.
process, operating units produce quarterly Risk Reports which identify significant risks, the potential impact and the actions The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the Companys broad policy for executive remuneration and the being taken to manage these risks.
These Risk Reports are reviewed quarterly by the Board.
terms of employment and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 29 to 33.
The Investment control The Company has clearly-defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
Committee meets at least twice a year.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises the four Non-executive Directors and two Executive Compliance Directors, Mr A W Pidgley and Mr R St J H Lewis who acts as Chairman.
The Committee was established to propose new The Company has complied with the principles of the Combined Code throughout the year except for the following: appointments to the Board, whether the appointment is of an Executive or Non-executive Director.
The Committee meets as and when required.
Non-executive Directors The Company had only three Non-executive Directors during the year and the Board did not, therefore, consist of one third Non-executive Directors.
On 1 May 2002, a fourth Non-executive Director was appointed and the Board now Long Term Executive Incentive Scheme Committee The Long Term Executive Incentive Scheme Committee currently comprises consists of more than one third Non-executive Directors.
the same membership as the Remuneration Committee, save that the Group Managing Director is a member.
This Committee is responsible for the operation of the long term executive incentive schemes, further details of which are set out on page 32.
No member of the Committee is participating in these schemes.
The Committee meets at least once a year.
Long Term Incentive Plan Committee The Long Term Incentive Plan Committee comprises the same membership as the Remuneration Committee.
This Committee is responsible for the operation of the long term incentive plan, further details of which are set out on page 33.
No member of the Committee is participating in this plan.
34 35 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 R&A2002 Final Finance 23 07 2002 5:26 PM Page 40 Corporate Governance Independent Auditors Report Going concern To the members of The Berkeley Group plc After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources to We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, and the related notes.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United that period.
Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and and transactions is not disclosed.
explained in the financial statements: We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and its of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only subsidiary undertakings will continue in business.
the Chairmans Statement, the Managing Directors Operational Review, the Directors Report, the Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Company and Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The maintenance and integrity of The Berkeley Group plc website is the responsibility of the Company: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes Basis of audit opinion that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 April 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 8 July 2002 36 37 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
