14 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Operating review: United States Operational review We have achieved our initial three objectives of: extending our technology business to the US market, gaining a Introduction Our strategy for developing our business in the US window on technology developments, and accessing high quality has been confirmed by our experience in the last year.
We are now regularly co-investing with top tier local maintain our focus on continued growth and delivering value to venture capital groups on the east and west coasts and we have our portfolio companies, both locally and internationally.
a growing list of companies in Europe, the US and Asia that have Our objective is to grow the assets held in the US to at least benefited from our network.
10% of the Group portfolio by 2006 and we are progressing well We have invested 119 million this year in 47 companies.
We continue to develop our business in the technology sectors of software and communications, leveraging The portfolio now includes 81 companies across a range of our expertise and experience and our east and west coast development stages, with more than half of these companies locations to our advantage.
being added to the portfolio in the last 12 months.
In addition, we have successfully achieved our first realisation, Torrent Systems, Market The US is the largest and most active venture capital Inc which is featured as a case study below, and expect further market.
As a result of the economic downturn, investors realisations over the next two years.
In the interim, we are actively throughout the market have become more selective.
We have managing the risk inherent in young portfolio companies.
seen a return to business fundamentals in early stage deals and The recent investment made in PlaceWare Inc see case study on many of our competitors are focusing more of their resources on page 15 is part of the successful implementation of our later stage their portfolios.
This initiative places an equal focus on both early stage and later stage investments as part of our wider strategy to build a balanced portfolio.
Since opening our offices in Menlo Park, California and in Boston, Massachusetts in late 1999, we have recruited locally and now have 31 US based employees.
To add value to our portfolio companies, we offer strategic advice, support and sector expertise as well as access to our international network.
PhotonEx 3i led the latest round of funding for PhotonEx, investing US$15 million in a total round of US$93 million.
PhotonEx systems will deliver uncompromising speed, distance and capacity in a single optical system, enabling service providers to efficiently deliver services faster, further, and with greater flexibility than ever before.
The management team, comprising seasoned technology and business executives from MIT Lincoln Laboratory and MIT, enlisted 3is expertise to expand the business internationally and hope to use 3is extensive list of contacts in the telecoms world to generate opportunities and relationships for the business.
Featured: Kristen Rauschenbach, CEO of PhotonEx.
Torrent 3i realised its first investment in the US as a result of the sale of Torrent Systems, Inc to Ascential Software Corporation.
Founded in 1993 to enable leading enterprises to extract value from massive amounts of data, Torrents unique software utilises the power of parallel computing while hiding its complexity in order to allow customers to solve business problems once considered impossible.
3i brought significant strategic guidance and insight to the business, as well as US$6 million of finance, after leading the investment round.
Eight months later, 3i was heavily involved with the sale negotiations and refining the final deal structure that would enable Ascential Software to acquire Torrent.
The business was sold for US$46 million and this generated proceeds of US$8 million to 3i in a very short space of time.
Operating review: United States 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 15 3i gets it.
They understand software development, they understand todays challenging business environment and they understand teamwork.
Working together, were building a company that leverages the strength and experience of our two teams.
Dale Hecht CEO, Intelliden provider of network management software PlaceWare 3i provided US$7 million of growth capital to PlaceWare, Inc. the California based leader in web conferencing services for internetbased business communications and collaboration.
With PlaceWares hosted meeting services or high touch event services, business professionals can meet with more people in less time through sharing and exchanging information in realtime with anyone around the world using only a web browser and a phone.
3i, as lead investor, has also utilised its worldwide contacts to add value to the company as it continues to expand globally.
The company will use the funding and 3is market knowledge to expand its infrastructure, enhance its current service offerings, and provide global coverage to both domestic and international customers, allowing them to better fulfil their communications and collaboration needs in the easiest and most intuitive way possible.
In 2001, PlaceWare nearly doubled revenue, doubled the customer base, was cash flow positive, and grew its seat-share lead to 160% over its nearest competitor.
Featured from left to right: Pavel Curtis, original inventor and founder of PlaceWare, and Barry James Folsom, CEO of PlaceWare.
