16 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Operating review: Asia Pacific Our Asia Pacific business is performing in line with initial expectations, despite continued economic difficulties throughout Introduction Our strategy to develop a long term business in the the region.
Asia Pacific region remains unchanged.
While there was a severe We invested 31 million in eight companies during the year.
economic downturn last year, we are now seeing recovery and an The Asia Pacific portfolio now includes investments in increase in business confidence.
24 companies and has a value of 101 million including The market The venture capital industry is in the early stages of co-investment funds.
However, long term growth continues and fundamentals remain solid.
Market infrastructure continues This represents 1.7% of 3is total investment portfolio good to improve in our favour, mirroring a greater awareness and progress towards the Groups objective of having 5% of 3is understanding of the industry.
Companies in the region are investment portfolio in Asia by 2006. returning to basics and looking for partners who can really We continue to deliver support to our portfolio companies both add value.
within the region and throughout the 3i network.
The recent 3i Technology conference in Singapore is a good example of how Operational review With the opening of our third Asian office in 3is international network can provide real benefit to the companies Hong Kong in August 2001, we have a strong base from which to in which we are invested.
We brought together more than 40 of maximise opportunities in the north Asia market.
Our Singapore our international investee companies in the communications and team has established a leadership position in the technology semiconductor sectors.
This three day event provided key insights sector reflecting Singapores position as a high growth into the region, and established valuable connections between technology hub.
We are now focusing on extending 3is reach those businesses and some of Asias leading corporations.
from Singapore into the south Asia market, broadening our mix of investments and using 3is buy-out expertise to benefit from the growing buy-out market in south east Asia.
The Japanese buy-out market is continuing to develop.
We are seeing an increase in the number of deals being completed, however the market is still immature.
Asia Renal Care Featured: Jichinsai traditional Japanese Asia Renal Care is a leading provider of ground breaking ceremony for Yokkaichi dialysis services in Asia.
Founded in 1997, Central Clinic in November 2001, the first Trustcopy Pte with a view to leverage consolidation in Asias Asia Renal Care clinic in Japan, which 3i has committed US$4 million to Trustcopy, dialysis services sector, ARC now operates commenced operation on 1 May 2002. producers of a suite of world class antiin Singapore, The Philippines, Malaysia, Back row from left to right: Ishii-san, ARC forgery, anti-copy technologies and software Taiwan and Japan.
Japan Country Manager: Shinto Priest: products that enables authentic originals After strong initial growth, ARCs strategy Katayose-san, Project Consultant.
of electronic and paper documents to was to expand into Asias largest healthcare be securely delivered and protected.
Front row from left to right: Dr Takeshige, market Japan.
An independent director of The company is a recent technology spin Medical Director of Yokkaichi Central Clinic: one of 3is European investee companies off from Singapores leading university Okada-san, Managing Director of Kaikokai, introduced ARC to 3is Japan and Singapore research laboratories, Kent Ridge Digital a leading Medical Corporation and Joint teams.
Against strong competition from US Labs.
Trustcopy is the brainchild of Venture partner of ARC in Japan: CB Lim, investors, 3i mobilised members of its Asian, Dr Wu Jian Kang, founder and now CEO ARC: Charles Wang, CFO ARC: US and UK healthcare teams, and won a CEO of the company.
Sakuda-san, board director of ARC.
mandate to invest Singapore $11 million in Besides committing US$4 million, 3is the company.
extensive network has enabled this world 3is Japanese team then introduced a strong class research team to be paired up with a Japanese non-executive director with very experienced and investing nonindustry experience to help the company in executive chairman, Victor Ang, to build a its expansion.
With this resource and with strong sales and marketing team.
3is ongoing support, the company has Early adopters and supporters of the successfully expanded into Japan and is technology include MNCs such as Hewlett continuing to achieve strong growth in its Packard, PIL Shipping, PSA Portnet, SISTIC other regional businesses.
Featured from left to right: Victor Ang and Dr Wu Jian Kang.
