10 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Operating review: Europe The growth capital market includes a wide range of investments, from those in smaller companies through to larger companies Introduction 3i is Europes leading venture capital company.
seeking funds for expansion as an alternative to listing on quoted Our objectives are to maintain and develop our leadership position markets.
The growth capital market for new investment was less in the UK and grow our continental European business to at least active as a result of lower levels of business confidence during the 30% of the portfolio by 2006.
We are making good progress last 12 months.
towards delivering both of these objectives.
Operational review Market The market conditions in Europe this year have been Investment activity We invested 889 million in Europe during challenging.
The overall market fell significantly in terms of the the year, compared with 1,776 million in the previous year, with number of deals completed in both the buy-out and early stage an equal amount being invested in the UK and continental Europe.
The fall in amount invested has been less Investment in early stage technology fell by more than the marked due to a few very large transactions in the buy-out market.
investment in buy-outs and growth capital.
The market for buy-outs between 5 million and 500 million Our share of the overall buy-out market has remained stable by reduced by 20%, from 35 billion to 28 billion in calendar year number and value over the year.
We have sought to strengthen 2001.
This overall picture masks considerable differences in the our position in the larger buy-out market and this has been national markets.
The amount invested increased in the Nordic and achieved.
The largest investment made in the year was Go Fly Ltd, Benelux regions, while significant decreases were seen in both the low cost airline buy-out.
This investment originated through our number and value in Germany, France, Italy and Spain.
transport team, which has significant experience in the airline The European early stage technology market in 2001 has reflected industry, and was completed using the resources of our London the sharp fall in quoted markets and the difficult conditions for buy-outs team.
This has reduced the appetite of many investing Notwithstanding the market downturn, we have made institutions as well as the number of entrepreneurs seeking substantial investments in our European market this year.
By number and value, the European market has halved in Malmberg Investments BV, a c195 million buy-out from VNU the year, although it still remains substantially larger than in 1999. in The Netherlands, is a good example and is featured below.
In Germany, we were able to complete the buy-out of a division of Deutsche Telecom, which provides services for businesses satellite communication needs.
Malmberg 3i led the buy-out of VNUs Educational Information Group.
The company is a leading publisher of educational materials such as school books, youth magazines and CDRom and internet applications.
This investment involved a team of specialists drawn from our offices in Amsterdam and London.
The total amount invested in this transaction is approximately c195 million.
3i believes that the group has great potential in the expanding educational publishing market.
Operating review: Europe 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 11 Completing the transaction required us to pool the sector knowledge of our technology teams with the deal execution We have a clearly knowledge of our buy-out team in Frankfurt.
Our technology business in Europe has had to cope with difficult market conditions, with both the performance of the portfolio segmented companies and with reduced opportunities for exits and IPOs.
The key to succeeding in these conditions is our ability to use our network knowledge to attract and choose the best investment approach to the opportunities and add value to them.
In the early stage technology market, we have adopted a highly management of selective investment strategy.
This has resulted in a lower market share but we have maintained our clear market leadership position.
We have strongly supported those companies in our our portfolio.
portfolio that we believe will succeed and have also invested in new opportunities where we see considerable potential.
In the growth capital market, we have continued to source good opportunities in more traditional sectors using our local network in the key business regions around Europe.
Portfolio management For several years we have been focusing on the organisation of our resources in order to add value to our investee companies.
Floramedia In 1992, 3i backed the buy-out of Floramedia.
Liechtenstein based Floramedia has the largest photo directory for the green-market with licensees in more than 35 countries.
3i supported and guided the management team in making the significant transition from a printing to a media company.
3i also made available its international network to provide opportunities to the operating business and to smooth the subsequent acquisitions Floramedia undertook.
The initial equity investment of c0.6 million Plenexis turned into a healthy profit of c7.8 million Kai Lauterjung, managing director of after a trade sale in 2001.
Plenexis, thought it would be a good match to team up with 3i, which has the world is yours as its philosophy.
Originally called DeTeSat when the company was acquired from Deutsche Telekom AG, Plenexis, which operates in more than 100 countries around the globe, is today a leading provider of services for corporate networks via satellites.
3is German team drew on our extensive telecommunications knowledge, notably from industry group and the teams in the Nordic region, to secure the deal.
3i was immediately able to add value to the business through contacts with international top talent, in the form of a non-executive director sourced from 3is Independent Directors Programme, and a range of industry partners, including some existing portfolio companies, interested in teaming up with Plenexis.
The 3i connection, together with the c21 million investment, has boosted the plan to grow the company both organically and through acquisitions.
12 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 We have a clearly segmented approach to the management of our portfolio, with teams managing smaller investments, During the year, we larger buy-outs and early stage technology investments.
This approach allows us to share best practice and add value have carried out to our investee companies.
During the year, we have carried out rigorous reviews of our rigorous reviews of technology portfolio by sector, in order to identify those companies we should strongly support in difficult conditions and also to work our technology with management to recover value from those investments less likely to succeed.
portfolio by sector, in Realisations Conditions for realisations have been difficult during the year.
The mergers and acquisitions market has been order to identify those depressed and stock markets have not been receptive to new issues.
companies we should Notwithstanding these conditions, we achieved a good level of realisations, both from companies which had previously achieved strongly support.
an IPO and from companies in more traditional sectors less affected by the economic downturn.
We had seven flotations during the year, including Marlborough Stirling plc, a software business, and Pulsion Medical Systems AG, together with 104 trade sales.
As our continental European portfolio matures, we are devoting increasing resources to managing investments through to profitable exit.
AC Hoteles 3i invested c13.5 million in 1999 in AC Hoteles to fund their aggressive growth strategy.
We were impressed by the founder, Antonio Catalan, a serial entrepreneur with more than 20 years experience in the urban hotel sector.
AC Hoteles is an innovative hotel concept based upon customer satisfaction and attention to detail.
In 1999, the company had four operating hotels.
One year later, 3i provided an additional investment of c15.2 million.
By the end of 2001, AC Hoteles had 26 Sonera Info Communications operating hotels 2,551 rooms, and this is 3is first major buy-out in Finland was envisaged to increase to 50 by the end of Sonera Info Communications, now 2002. International expansion has already rebranded as Fonecta.
Fonectas directory started, focusing on Italy and Portugal, with services include GSM, WAP, internet-based 3i providing contacts and local knowledge directory services, operator-assisted and for the expansion into Italy.
automatic directory services as well as printed directories.
AC Hoteles is preparing for flotation in 2004, when the company expects to have 100 The c111.5 million MBO of Soneras operating hotels and 10,000 rooms.
directory services was executed using the combined expertise of 3is media team, cross-border transaction specialists in London, and the local investment specialists in Helsinki.
3is global network will allow 3i to support Fonecta in its strategy for further international expansion.
Operating review: Europe 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 13 Regional network Our European office network now comprises 10 UK offices and 20 offices across continental Europe, which gives us an excellent reach across all the main commercial centres of Europe.
In April 2001, we completed the acquisition of a leading Swedish venture capitalist, Atle AB.
The integration of this acquisition to create a Nordic business unit covering Denmark, Finland and Sweden, has been successfully completed during the year, giving us a substantial presence in this market.
We also opened an office in Dublin and our European network is now substantially complete.
Sector focus We have sought to build on our specialist skills in early stage technology and buy-outs, while originating investment opportunities through our geographic network and sector teams.
This approach requires offices with critical mass to allow specialisation.
Our offices have developed particular expertise appropriate to their local market, such as Aberdeen for oil and gas and Helsinki for communications.
People Our teams are organised so as to work across national borders to maximise the benefits of our network.
This allows us to deploy the most appropriate executives to any opportunity, wherever located, and to share knowledge at all stages of our investment.
The oil and gas sector The benefits of sector focus, investing through market cycles and using our industry network, was evident over the last 12 months with 3is oil and gas team completing a number of highly profitable exits.
The trade sale of Stirling Shipping Limited confirmed 3is belief in managements ability to grow value and provided an excellent conclusion to this 1996 growth capital investment.
A founding investment in Sensor Highway Limited, driven by 3is understanding of enabling oil field technologies, reaped rewards through the ultimate trade sale of the business to Schlumberger.
3i also recognised early the importance of the Marlborough Stirling developing niche of new generation oil and 3i first invested in UK based Marlborough gas production companies.
Seed capital Stirling in 1996, providing 1.5 million growth investments in this niche were rewarded with capital funding.
Marlborough Stirling provides the profitable trade sale of Highland Energy software and outsourcing services to the Holdings Limited and the successful IPO of retail financial services industry.
By 2000, Venture Production plc in March 2002.
3i had invested 15 million in four further rounds of financing to fund the companys strong growth, and to enable directors to realise part of their holdings prior to the companys flotation in April 2001.
3i was not only able to invest at all stages of the companys growth, but also introduced a high quality independent director with specific flotation experience.
We were also able to draw on our extensive knowledge of the IPO market to make a significant contribution to the IPO positioning and the selection and management of the sponsor at flotation.
Since flotation in April 2001, shares in Marlborough Stirling have outperformed the techMARK 100 by over 75%.
The company has continued to win excellent new business, including its largest ever contract, and has made an important acquisition.
