3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 17 Operating review: Fund management Assets managed include the Groups own pension fund and three quoted specialist investment companies which are separate Unquoted funds 3i manages and advises third party unquoted quoted investment companies in their own right.
These investment funds totalling 2.0 billion of invested and committed funds on companies are 3i Smaller Quoted Companies Trust plc, which behalf of external investors.
The majority of these funds are for invests in smaller UK companies: 3i Bioscience Investment Trust investment in European mid-market buy-outs.
The fund investors plc which invests internationally in life science and healthcare invest in these funds as they present an opportunity to benefit from companies: and 3i European Technology Trust plc which invests in 3is market leadership in this sector.
quoted companies across Europe whose focus is on technology, Our unquoted funds are typically invested on a 50:50 basis excluding life sciences and healthcare.
This enables us to make larger Our management of 3i UK Select was discontinued shortly after investments than we would otherwise be able to do and, in the year end as the larger company focus of the portfolio does not particular, enables us to manage investments in underlying portfolio fit with the smaller company expertise of the team.
companies where we have a majority economic interest.
Unquoted fund management generated fee income of 35 million for the 3i Asset Managements objectives are to optimise the value of the year.
The fee income and profit share from these funds enhances Groups quoted portfolio and to utilise their specialist skill base in our own investment returns.
managing external funds that are of direct relevance to 3is core business.
Asset Management generated fee income of 6 million We have recently completed the pre-marketing phase for a new this year.
c3 billion fund focusing on mid-market buy-outs across Europe.
Overall, we are committed to building our fund management This fund will be Europes largest mid-market buy-out fund and business in areas that enhance 3is financial returns and add reflects the development of this part of our business and the value to our core investment business.
benefits of our international network.
We are encouraged by the response we have had to date.
Quoted funds 3i Asset Management is a team dedicated to managing the Groups own portfolio of quoted assets which originates mainly from venture capital investments that are now quoted companies as well as 0.8 billion of third party quoted funds.
This teams expertise is in smaller quoted companies and also has specialist expertise in bioscience and wider technology companies, increasingly on a pan European basis.
Third party unquoted co-investment funds under management bn at 31 March 2002 Unquoted funds team The unquoted funds team is responsible for 1998 1.3 the raising of funds and the monitoring and reporting of performance for the 2.0 billion 1999 1.5 of unquoted funds under management.
The team is currently raising a new European 2000 2.3 mid-market buy-out fund, which will be the largest in Europe.
2001 2.1 Featured from left to right: Paul Waller 2002 2.0 Executive Director, Janet Dunne, Mark Coppin, Patrick Cook and Chad Murrin.
Third party quoted funds under management bn at 31 March 2002 1998 0.5 1999 0.5 2000 0.8 2001 0.9 2002 0.8 As of April 2002 3i no longer manages 3i UK Select which was valued at 69 million at 31 March 2002.
