qxd 5 3 03 3:34 pm Page 7 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW 7 This section contains forward-looking statements that involve The main components of the new organisation will be: inherent risks and uncertainties.
Actual results may differ materially Customer Sales responsible for all channel delivery from those contained in such forward-looking statements.
See branches, telephone, internet banking to both direct and Forward-looking statements above.
intermediary customers, with a particular focus on increasing contact with customers who no longer visit branches or contact General us.
This will be headed by Mark Pain formerly Managing Director, Abbey National and its subsidiaries constitute a major financial Wholesale Bank.
services group in the United Kingdom.
It is the UKs second largest Customer Propositions operating around five competencies: residential mortgage lender.
segment management, economic insights, branding, product The principal executive ofces and the registered ofce of strategy and marketing operations.
This will develop detailed Abbey National and Abbey National Treasury Services ANTS and unique customer insights and execute responsive marketing is Abbey National House, 2 Triton Square, Regents Place, strategies.
This division will be headed by an external appointment London NW1 3AN.
The telephone number of Abbey National that has yet to be made.
The telephone number of ANTS is Customer Operations responsible for all operations activity 44- 0 20-7612-4000.
The designated agent for service of process including service centres built around five product service units of Abbey National in the United States is CT Corporation System, including banking and savings, payment processing, investment, with ofces at 111 Eight SystemCT, New York, NY 10011.
Please asset management, lending and general insurance.
This will be see Operating and financial review Tangible xed assets for headed by Mac Millington formerly Managing Director, WMLTS.
further information regarding the Groups properties.
Supporting the customer-facing divisions will be a number of Summary history of Abbey National business support functions: The Abbey National Building Society the Society was formed Central Division consisting of Finance, Communications, in 1944 with the merger of two long-standing building societies.
Corporate Development, Programme Management, Risk, Audit, In 1988, Abbey National was incorporated as a bank and in 1989 Legal Services and ongoing Treasury business.
This will be headed the Society transferred business to Abbey National as part of the by Stephen Hester who will assume the role of Chief Operating conversion and listing on the London Stock Exchange.
officer reecting his increased responsibilities, which include the PBU.
Corporate purpose and strategy IT responsible for providing the organisation with all its Abbey National is focusing on the provision of personal IT needs, as well as procurement, property and security, and financial services in the UK.
The Group is already a leading will be headed by Yasmin Jetha formerly Group IT and player in its core mortgage and savings markets and Infrastructure Director.
management continues to target growth in personal banking, insurance and long term savings.
Human Resources responsible for all human resources strategy and personnel support and will be headed by Jim Smart Organisational structure not a Board Director pending an external appointment.
Through 2002, Abbey National was managed via three Portfolio Business Unit consisting of those businesses customer facing divisions.
These are Retail Banking, Wholesale earmarked for exit in coming years.
This together with the Banking and Wealth Management & Long Term Savings, which ongoing Treasury business will be headed by Nathan Bostock, are supported by a Group Infrastructure division.
Ownership reporting to Stephen Hester.
interests in each significant subsidiary of the Group are detailed in note 22 to the financial statements.
The new organisational structure is effective from 26 February 2003.
As part of the Groups strategic review, a new functional Competition organisational structure has been implemented.
This has the Competitive environment and future trends effect of changing the roles and responsibilities of a number Abbey Nationals main competitors have historically been UK based of full Board members.
providers of personal financial services.
Competitive pressures and The new structure will lead to an increased focus on the consolidation have led to a blurring of the boundaries between UK customer, and is expected to deliver enhanced performance banks, building societies and insurance companies, in addition to through a streamlining of operations, and much greater which a range of new entrants has emerged including supermarket emphasis on the economics of distribution and production.
qxd 5 3 03 3:34 pm Page 8 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 8 BUSINESS OVERVIEW continued In recent years, customer access, customer choice and customer Retail Banking mobility have all increased.
Channel development, particularly the The Retail Banking segment includes Abbey Nationals UK retail use of e-commerce technology, has moved hand in hand with this banking network, Abbey National Life plc, Retail Insurance and process as both new and traditional competitors seek new ways of Abbey National business.
These trends are expected to continue.
The Retail Bank manages the design, pricing, sales, marketing, A changing regulatory environment has been a key feature of the and servicing of the majority of the Groups retail products.
This has had a particular impact on Retail Bankings distribution comprises a national branch network the savings and investment market, with the debate on the UKs including innovative link ups in selected locations with Safeway personal financial advice structure set to continue.
Steps are also supermarkets a major UK food retailer, Homebase a major being taken towards the simplication and greater transparency UK home improvements retailer and Costa coffee.
The branch of products, including the development of a suite of stakeholder network is organised into 73 local markets.
These distribution products, reforms to with-profits policies, and a rationalisation of platforms are combined with automated teller machines ATMs, the tax regime.
telephone sales and servicing, and e-commerce channels Internet The personal and small and medium sized business current account and digital TV.
market has also attracted the attention of the competition authorities.
Residential mortgages Moves to increase customer choice and open up these markets are Abbey National is the second largest provider of residential favourable as Abbey National seeks to extend its UK personal financial mortgages in the UK, providing mortgage loans for house services business.
purchases as well as home improvement loans and secured Competition outlook personal loans to new and existing mortgage customers.
Mortgage Against this backdrop, management is confident of the loans are offered in two payment types, repayment and interest Abbey National Groups strength and potential in its core personal only.
Repayment mortgages require both principal and interest financial services markets.
The Group has had a difficult year and is to be repaid in monthly instalments over the life of the mortgage.
undergoing a significant and substantive strategic change to address Interest only mortgages require monthly interest payments and the challenges that it faces.
It will increasingly focus on its UK the repayment of principal at the end of the mortgage term personal financial services operations, where it has extensive which can be arranged via a number of investment products distribution and customer reach.
including Individual Savings Accounts ISAs and pension policies, or by the sale of the property.
Abbey Nationals mortgage loans are usually secured by a first mortgage over property and are typically arranged for a 25 year term, with no minimum term and a normal maximum term of 35 years.
Interest on mortgage loans is charged predominantly at oating rates, determined at the discretion of Abbey National by reference to the general level of market interest rates and competitive forces in the UK mortgage market.
Fixed-rate products offer a pre-determined interest rate, generally for between two and five years, after which they bear interest at oating rates.
In common with the market, a large proportion of new business in recent years has been through discounted mortgage products, which reduce the relevant interest rate for a limited period of time, typically for between one and three years.
After the discount period ends, the loan reverts to the full oating rate.
More recently, an increasing proportion of new loans are exible mortgages, allowing the customer to vary their monthly payments, or take payment holidays, within predetermined criteria.
In the event of early redemption of the mortgage during a specified period, a redemption penalty may be payable by the customer.
UK Retail savings Abbey National provides a wide range of retail savings accounts, including demand deposit accounts, notice accounts, investment 2a-Biz overview AW.
qxd 5 3 03 3:34 pm Page 9 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW continued 9 accounts and ISAs.
Interest rates on savings in the United Kingdom In October 2002 Abbey National and Prudential signed an are primarily set with reference to the general level of market agreement for Abbey National to distribute Prudentials with-profits interest rates and the level of competition for such funds.
bond for an initial four year period.
This agreement is dependant on the implementation of the proposals to liberalise the Personal banking services polarisation regime envisaged in the FSAs Consultation Paper 121.
Abbey National offers a range of personal banking services including Pre liberalisation of the polarisation regime Abbey National will current accounts, credit cards and unsecured loans.
Credit scoring is distribute a new Abbey National branded with-profits bond used for initial lending decisions on these products and behavioural provided by Prudential AN Limited.
scoring is used for certain products for further lending.
ANUTM manages a range of Unit Trusts and ANPIM manages the Abbey Nationals credit card offering is delivered through its PEP and ISA businesses of Abbey National.
The trustees of the unit strategic alliance with MBNA Europe Bank Limited MBNA, who trusts are either Citicorp or HSBC and the investment manager is are responsible for taking the credit risk and managing the credit Abbey National Asset Managers Ltd. card base on an ongoing basis.
Retail insurance Abbey National Life plc The range of non-life insurance products sold by Abbey National The UK life insurance industry consists of three principal segments: includes property buildings and contents, motor, payment protection, investment & savings and pensions.
Residential home insurance remains the primary type of policy sold and is offered to customers Protection.
The traditional form of protection policy, known as through the branch network and over the telephone, often at the term insurance, provides a lump sum benefit payable on death same time that a mortgage is being taken out.
Policies are also available to provide protection against critical illness and disability.
Since 2001, a number of changes to the retail insurance business have been implemented.
This includes using a panel of competing Investment & savings.
Investment bonds, With-profit bonds, insurers, including ongoing relationships with Aviva plc, a leading Structured products, Unit Trusts, ISAs and endowment life UK insurer, to offer a wider choice of products and more competitive insurance policies are included in this category.
In addition, Capita Eastgate and Cap Gemini are Pensions.
In the United Kingdom pensions are a tax-efficient responsible for the management and development of new systems way of saving to provide benets on retirement.
This is a result to support the retail insurance business, using its new Consumer of the tax deductibility of contributions made and the generally Direct platform, whilst the servicing of policies was outsourced to tax-free growth granted to pension funds.
Capita Eastgate and claims administration to Aviva plc.
Under the terms of the United Kingdom Financial Services and In 2001 an Internet service using the panel of insurers was Markets Act 2000, financial advisers who give advice on packaged launched for property insurance including on-line quotes, on-line products life assurance, pensions and unit trusts are required applications and on-line sales.
In 2002 motor insurance involving either to sell the products of one provider or related group of the panel of insurers has been made available for sale through the providers tied advice or the products of all providers in the Internet and telesales.
This is known as Polarisation.
Abbey National business Following a review by the Financial Services Authority, Polarisation Abbey National business provides a range of banking and finance is expected to change in 2003. services to small and medium sized enterprises SMEs in the UK.
Abbey National Life and its subsidiary companies Abbey National These services include banking and investments, commercial Unit Trust Managers Ltd ANUTM and Abbey National PEP and mortgages, asset finance, invoice finance and insurance.
ISA Managers Ltd ANPIM currently distribute via the marketing associate route whereby the associate is required to recommend the most suitable products from the product range of the companies for which it acts as associate.
Abbey National Life provides a wide range of products including pension, protection, investment and savings products.
These products are sold through Abbey Nationals retail distribution network, under the marketing associate route.
Advisers examine the financial circumstances and needs of customers identifying pension, protection, investment and savings requirements and recommend to them the appropriate products from the Abbey National brands.
qxd 5 3 03 3:34 pm Page 10 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 10 BUSINESS OVERVIEW continued The Wholesale Bank will continue to provide the Group Treasury Wholesale Banking support function.
Abbey National Treasury Services plc ANTS is the wholesale bank of the Group.
The strategic focus for the business, as highlighted Treasury in June 2002, involved increased emphasis on customer business Within the Wholesale Bank, Group Treasury supports the Groups within Structured Corporate Banking.
As part of Group strategy liquidity management, funding and capital management activities.
this emphasis was revised in November 2002, with the focus now Group Treasury manages the Groups liquidity through a range being towards business activities aligned with Personal Financial of instruments.
The opening of the US branch in October 2001 Services.
The following section focuses on the business activities provided new funding sources, primarily access to the Yankee undertaken during the year, with the refocused business direction Certicate of Deposit CD market, and has proved to be an being covered by a later section.
important source of liquidity, with 79% of the Groups short term During 2002, ANTS comprised a Structured Corporate Banking US dollar funding raised by the branch.
Securities nancing business including its asset nancing, commercial lending continued to contribute to liquidity management through its repo, operations, a risk management business and securities nancing securities lending and borrowing operations.
In continental Europe, activities, an Asset Management and Risk Transfer business and ANTS Paris branch facilitated predominantly Government repo the Groups Treasury.
As the Groups Treasury, ANTS provided transactions with the European Central Bank.
liquidity, funding, capital management and risk management ANTS, as an issuer of debt securities in the international capital services to the Group.
markets, regularly accesses funds through private and public Structured Corporate Banking issuance.
Funding was raised across the maturity spectrum ANTS had a presence in the international financial markets, where and in a diverse range of currencies and instruments, including it structured tailored nancing for internal and external customers.
The performance throughout the year ANTS lent to well-rated banks and financial institutions, corporates illustrated its capacity to attract investors at funding levels and sovereign borrowers, through debt securities, bilateral and favourable to the Group, despite the difficult issuance conditions syndicated loans.
ANTS established a reputation in the lending during the year.
As at 31 December 2002, ANTS total debt markets, working as a co-arranger with other banks to provide issuance outstanding was 47 billion, compared with 49 billion the best-t nancing package for its customers.
ANTS saw a contribution during the year from a number of Abbey National plc has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the business areas, including asset, infrastructure and project nancing.
obligations of ANTS that have been or will be incurred before 31 July 2004.
The guarantee is reviewed from time to time by ANTS risk management arm continued to offer structuring Abbey National with a view to extending it.
The last time this services to the Groups Retail Banking, Life Assurance and Wealth occurred was on 9 February 1998 when the guarantee was Management divisions, ANTS businesses and external wholesale extended by five years from 31 July 1999 to 31 July 2004.
The business established itself in this market and effect of this guarantee is that creditors of ANTS would rank pari was known for its expertise and structuring capabilities.
Financial passu with Abbey Nationals direct creditors in the event of the products comprised xed income and equity derivative solutions.
Each guarantee is of any obligation issued ANTS UK securities nancing operation remained a player in the or incurred before its expiration, and covers payments through UK repo and securities lending sector in 2002, with the majority of maturity, even if the guarantee is no longer in effect for subsequent the business stemming from the sterling xed income, equities and obligations.
As a result of the guarantee from Abbey National, convertibles markets.
In the international securities markets, the ANTS has the same short and long term credit ratings as business traded total return swaps, corporate bonds and convertibles.
In turn, under the terms of a guarantee dated 28 January 1998, ANTS agreed to guarantee the unsecured and Asset management and risk transfer unsubordinated obligations of Abbey National that have been The investment portfolio business was combined with the or will be incurred before 31 July 2004. credit structuring capabilities during the year as part of the focus on reducing the risk prole and enhancing the risk Short term funding was accessed through money market management framework.
instruments, including time deposits, CDs and commercial paper.
Issuance activity in the US continued with the US Branch Refocus of Wholesale Banking activities expanding its counterparty base by 36% in 2002, reaching clients During 2002 the Group reassessed its risk appetite and took unable to deal with non-US domiciled entities.
The business raised the decision to refocus the business towards activities supporting over 13 billion of funding from the US time zone.
Medium to Personal Financial Services, with related core strategies being long term funding was accessed through the Groups Euro and, aligned as appropriate.
This decision has resulted in a reduction in separately, SEC-registered medium term note programs.
During the activities in a number of business areas within the Wholesale bank.
qxd 5 3 03 3:34 pm Page 11 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW continued 11 year, ANTS issued securities totalling 2 billion from these and through an issue under Abbey Nationals Holmes Financing other debt funding programs.
Master Trust, bringing the total issuance under the program to more than 15 billion, 18% of the Groups residential mortgage 1 Major debt issuance programs managed by Group Treasury : portfolio.
The terms and conditions of the underlying mortgages Outstanding as at remain unaffected by the securitisation process.
The Group Program 31 December 2002 Comments continues to be Europes largest securitiser and has regularly been $15 billion medium $10 billion Issued into term notes European markets acknowledged by financial press as a leader in the eld.
$7 billion U. S. medium $0.25 billion senior debt Registered with The Wholesale Bank managed a number of additional initiatives, term notes the SEC $4 billion commercial $1.5 billion Issued into which increased the Groups exibility in managing its balance paper European markets sheet.
During 2002, such initiatives included a $500m perpetual $20 billion U. S. $20m Issued Into the subordinated debt issue, a 175m preferred income capital issue 2 commercial paper United States and a 500m euro undated subordinated debt issue, launched on 1 Securities issued by ANTS unless otherwise stated.
2 Managed for Abbey National North America LLC, a guaranteed subsidiary of Abbey National.
Wholesale Banking sponsors a $10 billion asset-backed commercial paper CP program, which provides the Group with an additional Abbey National first registered with the SEC in October 1994. and exible source of funding.
Secured by highly rated assetAbbey National, ANTS and Abbey National First Capital B. V. have backed securities, the CP is issued by Moriarty Limited and registered various shelf facilities with the SEC, the most recent Moriarty LLC, and is rated P-I, A-I and FI by Moodys, Standard being in February 2001, permitting preference shares and debt & Poors and Fitch respectively.
Moriarty is a bankruptcy remote securities, including medium term notes and other subordinated funding vehicle.
securities, to be issued from the date of registration in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $7 billion.
Wealth Management & Long Term Savings Under the shelf facility registered with the SEC, ANTS may issue The Wealth Management & Long Term Savings segment senior debt securities, and Abbey National and Abbey National First principally comprises Scottish Mutual Assurance, Scottish Mutual Capital B. V. may issue subordinated debt securities.
Abbey National International, Scottish Provident, First National, Continental acts as guarantor on a senior basis of the debt securities issued European operations, Abbey National Offshore, Cater Allen Limited, by ANTS, and as guarantor on a subordinated basis of the debt James Hay and cahoot.
It was formed as a single division early securities issued by Abbey National First Capital B. V. Various Groupin 2002 and brings together many of the businesses within related entities may issue other subordinated securities under the Abbey National which operate through intermediaries rather shelf facility.
than dealing directly with the customer.
This has been followed As at 31 December 2002, the aggregate amount of outstanding by integration of the sales and marketing functions of the claims of creditors senior to the holders of subordinated debt of UK-based businesses except First National and cahoot under the following entities and, in the case of Abbey National, senior the Abbey National for Intermediaries brand.
Abbey National for to the holders of subordinated debt guaranteed by Abbey Intermediaries is designed to offer intermediaries a wider range National was as follows: of products and services from a single point of contact.
Abbey National and its subsidiaries 194,828m The fund management activities of the Division were also Abbey National First Capital B. V. 15m restructured in 2002 under a new identity, Abbey National Abbey National 72,382m Investments.
Abbey National Investments encompasses the As at 31 December 2002, the aggregate amount of outstanding activities of Abbey National Asset Managers, Talorcan and Inscape.
claims of creditors of the following entities that will rank pari passu Scottish Mutual Assurance plc with the subordinated debt issued by those entities and, in the The UK life assurance industry has been described within case of Abbey National, with the subordinated debt guaranteed by Abbey National Life above.
Abbey National was as follows: The Scottish Mutual Group of companies distribute principally Abbey National First Capital B. V. 476m via the IFA route in the UK.
IFAs must provide suitable advice Abbey National 6,959m on the complete product range that exists in the marketplace.
Capital management Scottish Mutual and its predecessors have been in the insurance efficient management of capital remains a key objective for business since 1883.
Scottish Mutual markets a broad range of Abbey National where the Wholesale Bank, acting on behalf of products including personal pensions, conventional and unit-linked the Group, has established itself as a market leader.
In 2002, the protection plans, regular investment plans, single premium products Wholesale Bank assisted the Group in raising 2 billion in funding 2a-Biz overview AW.
qxd 5 3 03 3:34 pm Page 12 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 12 BUSINESS OVERVIEW continued such as investment bonds, annuities, products linked to mortgages James Hay and products to cover critical illness, disability and income protection.
James Hay Pension Trustees JHPT offers specialist administrative advice and a range of services in connection with the administration Scottish Mutual International sells both single and regular premium of self-invested personal pension schemes and small selfpolicies and focuses on the expatriate and international markets.
Its services are provided to end On 1 August 2001 Abbey National completed the acquisition of customers mainly via IFA and branded financial service providers.
The Scottish Provident brand has been retained, cahoot and its operations have been combined with Abbey Nationals other cahoot is Abbey Nationals separately-branded, multi channel life assurance operations, realising cost synergies.
New business sold e-commerce retail banking and financial services provider.
cahoot under the Scottish Provident brand in the UK is written into Scottish targets new customers who are ready to embrace e-commerce, Mutual Assurance plc.
giving customers access through their PCs and telephones.
cahoot First National focuses on customer self-service, using new systems based on First National offers consumer finance at the point of sale through straight-through processing technology.
Its business comprises three product lines: Group Infrastructure Secured lending includes the provision of first and second Group Infrastructure comprises Central Services, Financial Holdings mortgages secured on residential property.
which contains the earnings on the difference between the Motor finance includes the provision of hire purchase, conditional Groups statutory capital and the target regulatory capital allocated sale and unsecured loans to consumers for the purchase of motor to segments and the results of certain small non-core businesses.
vehicles, and loans to motor dealers for the purposes of vehicle stocking and other business purposes: and Unsecured lending includes the provision of unsecured personal loans for the purchase of consumer products and services at the point of sale through a range of intermediary channels.
These include major high street retailers, home improvement and timeshare providers.
In addition, First National offers finance to consumers through claims management companies for the customers purchase of after the event insurance in order to proceed with legal claims.
Continental European operations This consists of Abbey Nationals businesses in France and Italy whose principal activity is the provision of residential mortgages, through intermediaries.
Abbey National Offshore Abbey National Treasury International Limited ANTIL, the principal offshore company, uses the Abbey National Offshore brand.
ANTILs head ofce is in Jersey.
It has an operational centre in the Isle of Man and representative ofces in a number of locations worldwide.
ANTILs focus is on attracting deposits by offering a range of savings accounts denominated in sterling, US dollars and Euros.
Cater Allen Limited Cater Allen Limited offers banking services under the trading name Cater Allen Private Bank and aims to provide a personal banking service to high net worth individuals and small corporate clients.
The bank attracts clients by marketing to introducers, including IFAs.
During the year, by way of a business transfer under The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, Cater Allen Limited acquired the business of its subsidiary bank, CA Premier Banking Limited which had traded under the name of Fleming Premier Banking.
