qxd 5 3 03 3:08 pm Page 3 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP BUSINESS REVIEW AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 3 opening of almost half a million bank accounts and issuing Overview over a quarter of a million new credit cards: Following an intensive strategic review initiated in November, the ongoing businesses will be focused solely on providing the full sales of general insurance up 20%: and range of personal financial services in the UK through direct and sustained growth of protection sales, up 38% boosted by the intermediary channels.
All businesses outside this remit other than progress of Scottish Provident.
treasury activities supporting Personal Financial Services PFS are to be managed for value and exit in the Portfolio Business Unit PBU.
Abbey National has also made substantial strides in terms of risk management.
Actions taken include: In taking these and other actions, we will be removing the majority of the risk inherent in current operations outside PFS a review of the Wholesale Bank with assistance from external whilst also substantially reducing risk in the ongoing business as market specialists: well.
Abbey National remains well capitalised, offering stability a 23% reduction in risk weighted assets in the Wholesale Bank, and security to our 16 million customers in the UK, who will with assets allocated to the portfolio business unit further increasingly be our focus in the future.
reduced by 7.7 billion in the first six weeks of 2003. significant This is a radical shift in strategy.
It will allow us to channel progress in reducing concentration risk is also being made: our energies on our core markets where we have demonstrable major steps taken to reduce other risks in our life assurance strengths and where we have the greatest opportunity to business from exposure to downward movements in equity succeed and distinguish ourselves.
markets, including hedging programmes for product guarantee risks and substantial reductions in the effective equity backing Financial and business highlights ratios of the with profits funds 25% as at market levels on Included in the loss before tax of 984m are a number of material 19 February 2003 : charges and accounting policy changes, including: ceasing the manufacture of with-profits bonds and subsequently embedded value re-basing and other related adjustments, of reducing bonus rates in the light of the third successive year of 632m pre-tax in 2002, with total pre-tax prior year restatements market falls: of 480m: improved lending quality in the Retail Bank: and goodwill impairments of 1,138m, which have not affected capital ratios : and a range of activities to reduce risk including addressing interest rate risk and pension fund risks.
This includes the closure of the provisioning and losses on asset disposals in the Wholesale Bank dened benets pension scheme to new starters in 2002 and totalling 902m.
a reduction in the schemes equity exposures in early 2003.
The core ongoing personal financial services businesses remain sound and generated trading profit before tax of 1,219m and Capital and dividends earnings per share of 50.6 pence in 2002: although PFS earnings The Board is proposing a final dividend of 7.35 pence, to give in 2003 will be adversely affected by a lower stock of embedded a full year dividend in respect of 2002 of 25 pence per share.
value following its re-basing to year-end market values, the The 25 pence level represents an appropriate starting point based probability of some additional spread decline in the Retail Bank on the trading potential of the ongoing PFS businesses, whilst and additional pension costs as a result of stock market declines.
having regard for the non-cash elements of Life Assurance reported earnings.
It is Abbey Nationals intention to rebalance the dividend In terms of new business ows, the PFS business ended the year in 2003 in order to maintain its historical target split of payments with reasonable momentum, with highlights including: between the interim and final dividend of one-third two thirds a 10.6% share of mortgage net lending in the second half and for future years.
full year deposit inows of 1.9 billion: For the future, we are targeting progressive dividend payouts.
ISA and unit trust sales almost doubling: However, until the re-structuring is further progressed and
