qxd 5 3 03 3:49 pm Page 70 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 70 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their report for Abbey Meeting, when it is intended that resolutions will be put to National plc for the year ended 31 December 2002. shareholders to renew them.
Principal activities Payment policy and practice The principal activity of Abbey National plc and its subsidiaries Abbey National deals with a large number of suppliers operating continues to be the provision of an extensive range of personal in a diverse range of industries and accordingly does not operate financial services.
The Operating and financial review for the year, a single payment policy in respect of all classes of suppliers.
Each including a review of non-banking activities, is set out on pages 7 individual operating area is responsible for agreeing terms and 67 of this document.
Note 22 to the financial statements provides conditions under which business is to be transacted and for making a list of the principal subsidiaries and the nature of each companys the supplier aware of these beforehand.
It is, and will continue business as well as details of overseas branches.
Details of to be, the Companys policy to ensure payments are made in important events which have occurred since the end of the accordance with the terms and conditions agreed, except where financial year and prospects for 2003 are included in the Business the supplier fails to comply with those terms and conditions.
review and the Operating and financial review sections.
The Companys practice on payment of creditors has been quantified under the terms of the Companies Act 1985 Directors Results and dividends Report Statement of Payment Practice Regulations 1997.
Based The loss on ordinary activities before tax for the year ended on the ratio of amounts invoiced by trade creditors during the year 31 December 2002 was 984m 2001: profit of 1,470m.
to amounts of Company trade creditors at 31 December 2002, An interim net dividend of 17.65 pence per ordinary share was trade creditor days for the Company were 24 2001: 26 days.
paid on 7 October 2002 2001: 16.80 pence per ordinary share.
The equivalent period calculated for the UK Group is 26 days 2001: 28 days.
The directors propose a final dividend for the year of 7.35 pence per ordinary share 2001: 33.20 pence per ordinary share to be Market value of land and buildings paid on 6 May 2003.
On the basis of a periodic review process, the estimated aggregate Share capital market value of the Groups land and buildings was below the The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are fixed asset net book value of 37m, as disclosed in note 25 to the detailed in note 41 to the financial statements.
consolidated financial statements, by approximately 19m.
It is considered that, except where specific provisions have been made, During the year, 2,502,602 ordinary shares were issued on the the land and buildings have a value in use to the Group which exercise of options under the Sharesave scheme, 113,100 ordinary exceeds the estimated market value, and that the net book value shares were issued on the exercise of options under the terms of is not impaired.
the Employee Share Option Scheme and 454,919 ordinary shares were issued under the terms of the Executive Share Option Directors and directors interests Scheme.
In addition, 6,642,713 ordinary shares were issued in lieu Details of all the current directors are included on pages 68 of cash for the final dividend for 2001 and 2,192,553 ordinary and 69. shares were issued in lieu of cash for the interim dividend in 2002, in accordance with the terms of the Alternative Dividend Plan.
All of the directors have served on the Board for the whole of the During 2002, shares to meet grants under the Executive Share period 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2002, with the exception Option Scheme and Share Matching Scheme were purchased of Luqman Arnold and Stephen Hester who were appointed to in the market by the Abbey National ESOP Trust and the Abbey the Board on 21 October and 13 May respectively.
Having been National Employee Trust.
Shares, which are intended to be used in appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, respect of the conditional rights under the Abbey National Employee Luqman Arnold and Stephen Hester will retire and, being eligible, Share Ownership Scheme partnership shares were purchased in the offer themselves for election at the forthcoming Annual General market and held in the Abbey National ESOP Trust.
Timothy Ingram, John King and Ian Treacy all resigned as executive directors on 28 February 2002.
Ian Harley resigned as At the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2002, shareholders Chief Executive Officer on 19 July 2002, Lord Currie resigned as authorised the Company to make market purchases of its own non-executive director on 31 July 2002 and Andrew Pople resigned shares, to a maximum of 144,623,599 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, 125 million 8 5 8% preference shares of 1.00 each and 200 as executive director on 28 November 2002.
Richard Hayden, million 10 3 8% preference shares of 1.00 each.
No purchases Lord Shuttleworth and Keith Woodley will retire by rotation at the have been made during the year under these authorities.
These Annual General Meeting and, all being eligible, offer themselves authorities remain valid until the forthcoming Annual General for re-election.
qxd 5 3 03 3:49 pm Page 71 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REPORT continued 71 No director had a material interest in any contract of significance, Management of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR In March 2002, the Board formed a Steering Group to oversee all other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Disclosures required by corporate social responsibility matters.
This committee is chaired FRS 8, Related Party Disclosures, are set out in note 55 to the by the Corporate Resources Director, demonstrating the financial statements.
significance the Board attaches to these issues.
The CSR Steering Group reports to the Board twice a year covering Directors interests in the shares of the Company, awards under the strategic and reporting updates.
The identification and assessment Long Term Incentive Plan and options to acquire shares are set out of significant risks is embedded in the risk management decision in the Remuneration report on pages 78 to 86. making process and reported to the Board.
Group Risk oversees Substantial shareholdings risk management processes, with Internal Audit providing assurance that these processes are effective.
However, there is As at 25 February 2003, the company has received notification no specific account taken of CSR issues in the training of directors.
of three disclosable interests in the issued ordinary share capital, Key CSR risks specifically, human resources, environmental and in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act reputational risks are also considered by the Group Operational 1985.
Fidelity Management & Research Company has disclosed Risk Committee and are reported to the Board through Operational an interest in 57,023,515 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, Risk Reports.
representing 3.91% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Franklin Resources Inc. has disclosed an interest in 44,239,862 Abbey National participates in a number of indices FTSE4Good ordinary shares of 10 pence each, representing 3.04% of the and Dow Jones Sustainability indices and benchmarking exercises issued share capital of the Company.
Legal & General Investment focusing on CSR issues.
In April 2002, Abbey National, as a member Management Limited has disclosed an interest in 43,777,126 of the FORGE Group, formalised a structured approach for the ordinary shares of 10 pence each, representing 3.01% of the management and reporting of CSR issues for the financial sector.
issued share capital of the Company.
Employees Abbey National treats its employees as partners in the business.
Corporate governance A report on corporate governance is set out on pages 74 to 77 Abbey National has a Partnership Agreement with ANGU, of this Annual Report.
The remuneration policy contained in the the Trade Union it recognises for employee representation.
Remuneration report on pages 78 to 86 of this Annual Report Consultation takes place at both national and local levels.
will be proposed for approval at the Companys Annual General Regular relationship management meetings are held to ensure Meeting on 24 April 2003. communication is open and two-way.
Details of the number of staff employed by Abbey National Corporate citizenship are included in note 1 to the financial statements.
Abbey National is committed to good corporate citizenship and to treating all those who come into contact with the Company Communication and Consultation.
The Company considers in a fair and ethical manner.
Abbey National aims to comply with employee involvement and effective communication are vital to the Association of British Insurers disclosure guidelines on social Abbey Nationals success.
The Company publishes a quarterly responsibility.
These guidelines call for companies to provide employee magazine Abbeyview combining work-related issues and information on social, environmental and ethical matters in their information with articles of general interest.
Almost all employees annual reports.
Abbey National provides such information in the have access to Abbey Nationals internal web sites.
with traditional methods of communication, such as team meetings, aim to ensure that employees are fully informed.
Abbey National Abbey National also produces a Corporate Citizenship Report CCR continues to seek employees views and opinions.
The results of which is approved annually by the Board, that sets out the policies quarterly opinion surveys are made available to all staff.
and procedures in place within the Abbey National Group to manage social, environmental and ethical risk.
The CCR includes Diversity information about: Abbey Nationals ethical principles, corporate Abbey Nationals long term commitment to diversity governance, social impact of the business, treatment of employees, is set out in the Companys policy statement: Valuing People community involvement and charitable donations, and its as Individuals.
Regular progress reviews show that the Group is environmental policy, objectives, targets and performance.
The CCR reaching its diversity goals.
Abbey National has recently completed can be found on the Companys web site: www.
The Company has embraced the spirit of the A hard copy can be obtained by writing to Community Relations at Disability Discrimination Act and is a committed user of the the registered office address on page 169 of this Annual Report.
Employment Services Positive about Disabled People symbol.
qxd 5 3 03 3:49 pm Page 72 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 72 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Company has formed a Disability Employment Action Team the Consumer Credit Counselling Service and Money Advice Trust to to ensure it recruits, retains and develops disabled people, and assist people who have fallen into financial difficulties.
is a Gold Card member of the Employers Forum on Disability, the Disabled customers.
Measures have been put into place to help Companys goal is to make Abbey National an employer of choice ensure that all of Abbey Nationals services are equally accessible to for disabled people.
Those employees who become disabled during customers with disabilities.
For example, communication aids such their employment are provided support where possible to enable as induction loops for hearing-impaired customers exist in most them to remain in their existing roles.
Amongst other support branches and textphones are in operation across head office sites.
services, the Company operates an Enabling Suite which allows Customer and shareholder information remains available in employees to test out and gain training in using IT systems alternative formats including Braille and large print.
specially designed for disabled people.
Abbey National is one of the UKs largest lenders Work life balance.
Abbey National is committed to supporting to Housing Associations and has funded a number of projects that individuals in achieving a reasonable balance between their provide community services in addition to housing.
To this end, the Company offers Ethical employees a comprehensive range of flexible working options, The Companys ethical policies are articulated in How we do including part-time working, job sharing, career breaks and business a statement of ethical principles.
This document, extended maternity provisions.
Home working allows eligible which was reviewed and updated by the Board in 2002, includes employees to use their home as their work base.
Compressed commitments to behave ethically towards all stakeholder groups Working Arrangements allows employees to work their contractual and to consider ethical concerns in the investment of Company working hours over a reduced number of extended working days.
The Ethical Investment Guidelines are an integral part of Abbey National frequently reviews and develops these flexible the risk management processes for investment decision making.
working options to ensure it retains competitive advantage and Reputational risk issues are generally monitored by the Group to support its reputation as an employer of choice.
Chief Executive and the Group Executive Committee.
Health, safety and welfare Abbey National has in place a Procurement Policy that explicitly The directors are committed to developing and maintaining a promotes competitive tendering and dealing with suppliers in management culture that ensures the health, safety and welfare of a fair and open manner.
The policy requires Abbey National to employees on company premises.
Abbey National also recognises take into account the ethical record of a company, among other the health and safety of other people when they come into contact factors, when vetting potential suppliers, and requires a record with our business operations.
Abbey National has an Occupational of hospitality received to be maintained by each department and Health and Safety Unit which works closely with management, staff made available for review.
and union to ensure that the Health and Safety policy is effectively implemented and maintained.
To emphasise the importance the There is also a framework in place for staff to follow if they feel Board attaches to Health and Safety issues, the Corporate a breach of ethical or environmental principles has taken place.
Resources Director is responsible for ensuring that Health and Employees are urged to follow these procedures if they have Safety issues remain on the corporate agenda.
evidence of any breaches of the ethical principles addressed in How We Do Business.
Customers Environmental Abbey National is dedicated to maintaining good relationships Abbey National recognises its responsibility to consider with its customers based on fairness, honesty, openness and environmental issues associated with its business activities.
Abbey National aims to understand the consequences The Board approved the Companys updated environmental of its actions on all its customers, and to take into consideration policy in December 2002.
This policy applies to all business units, their unique circumstances, especially when they find themselves covers all significant environmental impacts and risks, and provides in financial difficulties.
the basis for the Companys environmental management system.
The Company has operated an Instant Plus Environmental management is integrated into the Operational Account offered to people who do not meet the criteria for a Risk framework and overseen by Group Risk.
Senior managers standard bank account since 1996 and is actively working with the are responsible for ensuring compliance with the policy and risk government and the Post Office on development of Universal management procedures, and Environmental working groups Banking Services.
This work has included the development and launch are responsible for progress in line with the environmental in February 2003 of a new basic bank account, appropriate for management strategy.
Strategy and performance are monitored state benefit recipients who wish to access their money either at cash by the Corporate Social Responsibility Steering Group, the Group machines or Post Office counters.
The Company actively supported Operational Risk Committee and on a biannual basis by the Board.
qxd 5 3 03 3:49 pm Page 73 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REPORT continued 73 The Companys environmental performance is subject to internal state whether applicable United Kingdom accounting standards audit on a rolling basis and our disclosures in the Corporate have been followed and to disclose and explain any material Citizenship Report are externally verified.
departures in the financial statements.
The environmental policy and more detailed information Annual general meeting on risk and performance are published in the Corporate Details of the business of the Annual General Meeting can be Citizenship Report.
found in the accompanying booklet Notice of Annual General Meeting 2003.
Political contributions No contributions were made for political purposes.
By Order of the Board Community The Company has continued to support a wide range of charitable projects, primarily through the Abbey National Community Partnership Programme and Abbey National Charitable Trust Norman Wilkes Limited the Trust.
Total cash donations of 1,892,635 2001: Acting Company Secretary 2,358,464 were made to charities through the Trust and by 25 February 2003 other Abbey National Group companies in 2002.
The total value of support to charities and the voluntary sector amounted to 2,762,360 in 2002 2001: 3,961,077.
This comprised cash donations and other support given in kind, including the value of staff time which is matched on an hour for hour basis through the Companys Volunteering Scheme.
The Trust also supported the fund-raising efforts of Abbey National staff, giving 621,510 2001: 600,370 to match amounts they raised during the year.
Further details on Abbey Nationals involvement with the Community can be found in the Corporate Citizenship Report.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors of Abbey National plc are required by United Kingdom company law to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year, and of the loss for the Group for the year.
They are also responsible for ensuring that proper and adequate accounting records have been maintained and that reasonable procedures have been followed for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
In respect of the financial statements the directors are required to: ensure that suitable accounting policies, which follow generally accepted accounting practice, have been applied consistently: ensure that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been used in the preparation of the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business: and
