Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2002.
Principal activity and business review The principal activity of the Group is the provision of investment management and property asset management services.
Further details of the Groups performance during the year are given in the Chairmans Statement on page 5, the Chief Executives Review on page 9 and the Financial Review on page 22.
Financial The results for the year are shown in the profit and loss account on page 34.
An interim dividend of 3.85p net share was paid on 19 June 2002.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 2.15p net per share, making a total of 6.0p net per ordinary share for the year to 30 September 2002.
The total distribution of ordinary dividends for the year to 30 September 2002 is 10,500,000.
Preference dividends totaling 1,132,000 were paid and provided during the year.
Directors Details of the present Directors of the Company are given on pages 19 and 20.
Mrs K L Garrett-Cox was appointed on 3 December 2001 and resigned on 1 November 2002.
Mr I A Reid was appointed on 5 August 2002 and resigned on 1 November 2002.
Mr C D Fishwick resigned on 14 October 2002 and Mr A A Laing, Mr B Hendry, Mr G R Marshall and Mr H Young each resigned on 1 November 2002.
Mrs S E Murray resigned on 29 November 2002.
Mr C M Gilchrist, Mr P McLoughlin and Mr R Scott Brown have intimated their intention to resign on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr A F Bushell and Mr J Plumpton resigned on 18 January 2002.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Mr C L A Irby retires by rotation and being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Mr Gilbert will hold 3,677,998 ordinary shares and Mr Rattray 753,772 ordinary shares.
24 Aberdeen Asset Management Substantial interests At 20 December 2002 the Company had been notified of the following interests, other than Directors, of 3% or more in the ordinary shares: Number % of Class The Phoenix Companies, Inc 38,100,000 21.70 Life Assurance Holding Corporation 15,000,000 8.54 Schroder Investment Management Limited 14,344,266 8.17 Legal and General Investment Management Limited 5,273,654 3.00 Fixed intangible assets The costs of acquiring the management contracts of additional unit trusts are treated as intangible assets and are stated at the lower of cost and Directors valuation, and are subject to an annual impairment review.
The Directors are of the opinion that this treatment fairly represents the long-term nature of these assets.
No cost is attributed to management contracts resulting from the launch of new trusts by the Group.
The Directors are of the opinion that the value of these contracts is in excess of cost.
Corporate governance The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require all listed companies to disclose how they have complied with the Combined Code issued by the Committee on Corporate Governance.
The Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year to 30 September 2002.
Board responsibilities The Board currently comprises ten Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and two Executive Directors and the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
The Board considers four of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
Following the AGM, the number of Non-Executive Directors will reduce to eight, of whom four are considered to be independent.
Biographical details of Directors can be found on pages 19 and 20.
The Board meets eight times each year to review financial performance and strategy and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
Board papers, comprising an Agenda and formal Board reports and briefing papers, are sent to the Directors in advance of each meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and external professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense.
Any new Director appointed by the Board will be provided with appropriate training having regard to any previous experience as a Director of a public company.
All Directors have submitted themselves for re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, one Non-Executive Director has appointed an Alternate Director to attend and vote at meetings which he is unable to attend personally.
The appointment of an Alternate Director is subject to approval by the Board and the appointment ceases on the resignation or retirement of the Director who appointed him.
Directors appointed during the year are required to seek election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Board Committees The Board has set up the following four Committees to assist in the execution of its duties.
All of these Committees operate on written terms of reference and the Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board.
Membership of the Committees is shown in the Directors biographies on pages 19 and 20.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets on a regular basis and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
This Committee is responsible for the operational management of the Group and receives reports from a number of subsidiary committees covering, inter alia, Operational Risk Management, Compliance and investment management and performance.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet three times each year and can meet more frequently where business needs require.
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, corporate governance, internal control and the appointment and remuneration of independent auditors.
The Committees duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit work and its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The Committee also monitors the volume and nature of non-audit services provided by the auditors to ensure that a balance is maintained between objectivity and value added.
The Committee is chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director, Mr D Waters, and is supported by three other Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the external and internal auditors of the Group and can and does request supplementary reports from management to meet the terms of reference of the Committee.
Aberdeen Asset Management 25 Directors Report continued Nominations Committee The Board as a whole is responsible for the appointment of new Directors and for nominating them for election by shareholders at their first opportunity after the appointment.
The Nominations Committee, comprising a majority of NonExecutive Directors, is chaired by Mr R Scott Brown.
The Committee is responsible for recommending new members to the Board for appointment.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are independent and is chaired by Mr C M Gilchrist.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to monitor, review and recommend the Groups remuneration policy, as set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 30, and to recommend to the Board the remuneration packages of the executives and other senior employees of the Group.
Relationships with shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its shareholders and aims to keep shareholders informed by making regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual Reports and Interim Reports are widely distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance and these documents are also made available on the Companys website.
Private investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which an opportunity is provided to ask questions and the Chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are available to answer any questions from shareholders.
The Group will continue its policy of announcing the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal controls are designed to cover all risks to achieving the Companys objectives including all business, operational, financial and compliance risks.
The internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to meet business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control is embedded within the day to day operations of the Group and a strong control culture is combined with clear management responsibility and accountabilities for individual controls.
An automated risk management framework is operated by the Group that requires the executive and management of the Group to record and make regular self assessments of the risks and the effectiveness of internal controls for which they are responsible and report their findings to the Board.
The risk management framework also provides a continuous improvement process for the Groups internal controls.
An operational risk management committee has been established to monitor the effectiveness of the risk management framework and is scheduled to meet six times annually and can meet more regularly where business needs require.
The Head of Operational Risk Management reports to the Chief Executive.
The risk management committee includes members of the Executive Committee and operates under terms of reference agreed by the Board.
The risk management framework has been extended to cover businesses acquired during the year in a planned approach as part of integrating the new operations.
At the date of approval of these accounts the risk management framework covers all material parts of the Group.
The Group has three separate functions which monitor the effectiveness of internal control independently.
The Performance Monitoring Department reports on the performance of funds managed by the Group to generally accepted industry standards and also monitors the investment risk profile of funds.
The Head of Performance Monitoring reports to the Chief Investment Officer and provides regular reports to the Board.
The Compliance Department reviews the effectiveness of controls that ensure compliance with regulatory requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates.
The Head of Compliance reports to the Chief Executive and attends and reports at Board meetings.
The Internal Audit Department reviews the effectiveness of all significant controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of the other independent monitoring functions, or by directly auditing the controls operated by management.
The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee and has unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A summary of significant risks, key internal controls and findings arising from the risk management framework and the work of the monitoring functions is reported by the Executive annually in a formal annual internal control report to the Board.
The Group has complied with the Turnbull Committees guidance for directors.
Identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks is an ongoing process which is regularly reviewed by the Board and has been in place for the year ended 30 September 2002 and up to the date of the approval of these financial statements.
Going concern After making enquiries and taking into account, inter alia, the covenants which operate in relation to bank and other borrowings, the likelihood of the crystallisation of contingent liabilities disclosed in note 29 to the accounts and the level of 26 Aberdeen Asset Management regulatory capital required to be maintained by operating subsidiaries regulated by the Financial Services Authority and other regulatory bodies, the Board considers that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Employees The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued its practice of keeping them fully informed on matters affecting them as employees.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings and staff bulletins.
The Groups policy is to offer equal opportunities to all persons applying for employment having due regard to their aptitudes and abilities in relation to the jobs available.
It is the Groups policy to provide employment opportunities to people who are disabled.
They are given the same opportunities as other employees to progress within the Group, due allowance being given to their disability, but subject to their having the necessary skills.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Group recognises the importance of its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR incorporating transparency, fairness, accountability and integrity.
The Executive Committee has established a working party to formulate and implement a policy on CSR, guiding corporate conduct and the way in which we deal with the community and the environment.
The policy will apply to all our offices and employees.
The objective of the policy is to document the economic, social and environmental impacts of the Group and to develop a programme to meet the key challenges which arise from them.
In formulating the policy the Group will be guided by sources such as Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull, the Company Law Review, the Pensions Act, ABI disclosure guidelines on socially responsible investment and by FSA regulations.
As part of this policy the Group encourages efficient energy and material consumption and the minimisation of waste, through re-cycling and the efficient use of energy and automation.
The Group also values the contribution of its staff, promoting high standards of health and safety in the office as well as recognising the need for a work life balance and the commitment staff have to families and outside interests.
We also recognise that we have obligations to stakeholders, including suppliers and competitors with whom we deal, in addition to clients, shareholders and employees.
We understand that our activities will impact the environment and the broader society in which we operate.
Regular reviews are recognised as a key control in the management of all aspects of the companys operations to understand and improve our efforts in this area.
Progress on these issues will be reported in the next annual report and will be posted periodically to the Group website.
Charitable contributions During the year, the Group made various charitable contributions totalling 38,000 2001 85,000.
It is the Groups policy not to make contributions for political purposes.
Policy on payment of creditors As required by the Financial Services Act, all unit trust repurchase settlements are paid within four working days of receipt of properly renounced certificates.
Unless otherwise agreed, payments to other creditors are made within thirty days.
At the year-end, the Group and Company had an average of 17 days purchases outstanding in respect of trade creditors and an average of 3 days outstanding in respect of approved unit trust repurchase settlements.
Auditors In accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board John Brett Secretary One Albyn Place, Aberdeen AB10 1YG 20 December 2002 Aberdeen Asset Management 27
