Board of Directors 1,2, 3,4 1,5 Charles Irby FCA Martin Gilbert MA LLB LLD CA Chairman Chief Executive Mr Irby 57 was appointed to the Board in August A founding Director and shareholder of the 1999, and became Chairman on 14 January 2000.
Company, Mr Gilbert 47 is Chief Executive of A chartered accountant, he is a non-executive Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
He sits on director of QBE Insurance Group Limited, North several investment trust boards as well as being Atlantic Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc chairman of FirstGroup PLC and a director of and of EC Harris.
He is a member of Council of Lombard International Assurance SA.
King Edward VII Hospital, Sister Agnes and was formerly a managing director of ING Barings.
5 Bill Rattray MA CA Finance Director 1 Ronald Scott Brown MA LLB LLD Mr Rattray 44 joined the Group in 1985 as Deputy Chairman Company Secretary and subsequently became Mr Scott Brown 65 is a founding Director and Group Financial Controller.
He was appointed shareholder of the Company.
Currently a Deputy Finance Director of Aberdeen Asset Management Chairman, he is also Chairman of the Groups PLC in January 1991.
He is chairman of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC and a director of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust PLC.
1,4 David Woods MA MSC FIA Deputy Chairman Mr Woods 54 was appointed to the Board in September 1997.
He was managing director of The Scottish Provident Institution for 14 years until 2002 and is also a non-executive director of Capital Opportunities Trust PLC and The Moller Centre for Continuing Education Limited.
Aberdeen Asset Management 19 Board of Directors continued 3 2,4 Clive Gilchrist BSC ECON ASIP FSI Donald Waters OBE CA Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr Gilchrist 52 was appointed to the Board in Mr Waters 65 was appointed to the Board on May 1991.
He is managing director of BESTrustees 1 February 2000 and is Chairman of the Groups PLC, an independent pension fund trustee company Audit Committee.
He is a director of Scottish and holds a number of non-executive directorships.
Media Group plc, James Johnston and Co of Elgin Mr Gilchrist is the Chairman of the Groups Ltd and sits on the Scottish board of Royal Mail Remuneration Committee.
Philip McLoughlin Giles Weaver FCA Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr McLoughlin 56 is a former director, executive Mr Weaver 56 was appointed to the Board in vice president and chief investment officer for The December 2000.
He is a director of Atrium Phoenix Companies, Inc.
He was appointed to the Underwriting PLC, Helical Bar PLC, James Finlay Board in September 1997.
He is also former Limited and several investment trusts.
chairman and chief executive officer of Phoenix 2 John Wybrew FIA ASA FBIM Investment Partners, Ltd.
He currently serves as Non-Executive Director chairman or director of several investment Mr Wybrew 59 was appointed to the Board in companies.
He is chairman and managing 3,4 The Rt.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind KCMG QC director of Windsor Life Assurance Company Ltd Non-Executive Director and director of a number of associated financial Sir Malcolm 56 joined the Board in August 2000. services companies.
He is a non-executive director of British Assets Norman Reid LLB CA Trust plc, Foreign and Colonial Emerging Markets Alternate Director to Mr Wybrew Investment Trust plc and Ramco Energy plc and a Mr Reid 54 was nominated as an Alternate consultant to BHP and .
Director to John Wybrew in October 2001.
He is 2 John Solan CPA group finance director and company secretary of Non-Executive Director Life Assurance Holding Corporation Limited and Mr Solan 63 joined the Board in August 1999 as director of a number of associated financial services an Alternate Director and subsequently became a companies.
He was formerly senior vice president of The Phoenix Companies, Inc. 1 Member of the Nominations Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Independent Director 5 Member of the Executive Committee 20 Aberdeen Asset Management Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Directors Report & Accounts Year ended 30 September 2002
