54 BG GROUP PLC 2002 group executive committee BG GROUP PLC 2002 55 The Group Executive Committee has primary 6 Martin Houston 45 10 Sean Sutcliffe 39 authority for the day-to-day management of the Executive Vice President & Managing Director Executive Vice President & Managing Director Groups operations within limits set by the Board Atlantic, Europe and Mediterranean Basin New Businesses of Directors.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive Martin Houston joined British Gas plc in 1983 and Sean Sutcliffe joined British Gas plc in 1990 and and membership comprises the other Executive was appointed Executive Vice President upon was appointed Executive Vice President upon Directors and those senior managers whose demerger in October 2000.
Prior to that he held demerger in October 2000.
In addition to his details are set out below.
a number of technical and commercial posts responsibility for new businesses, he is also predominantly with an international focus.
He responsible for strategic development, mergers and 1 Frank Chapman played a leading role in the development of the acquisitions, technology and exploration activity.
Chief Executive LNG industry in Trinidad and was chairman of Previously, he worked in strategic and operational Atlantic LNG from 1996 to 2000.
His most recent roles across the gas chain, both in the UK and See page 53 for biographical details.
positions have included President and General internationally.
Before joining BG, he worked for Manager of BG Trinidad and Tobago, Director of VSEL Consortium plc, primarily in engineering 2 Ashley Almanza LNG and Vice President of Strategy and Portfolio consultancy.
He is a fellow of the Geological See page 53 for biographical details.
11 Rick Waddell 43 Executive Vice President & Managing Director 3 William Friedrich 7 David McManus 49 South America Deputy Chief Executive and General Counsel Executive Vice President Rick Waddell joined BG Group plc in March 2002 Skill Centres See page 53 for biographical details.
when he was appointed to his current position.
David McManus joined BG Group plc in 2000 Based in So Paulo, he is responsible for all and was appointed Executive Vice President upon upstream and downstream activities in the 4 Charles Bland 53 demerger in October 2000 with responsibility for Southern Cone, including Comgas in So Paulo and Executive Vice President Policy & Corporate Affairs the Eastern Hemisphere.
He was appointed to his MetroGAS in Buenos Aires.
He is a former senior Charles Bland joined BG plc in 1999.
He is current position in January 2003 and is now vice president of Enron Corporation for Latin responsible for government and public affairs, responsible for all matters relating to petroleum America and was regional logistics manager for brand and marketing, communications and engineering, project engineering management, South America with Wal-Mart International.
He was appointed to his current procurement and commercial and operational position in September 2002 having previously been functions.
He was previously president of ARCO 12 Jon Wormley 54 President, BG Kazakhstan, and Vice President, Europe and managing director of ARCO UK Limited.
Executive Vice President & Managing Director Government Affairs.
Before joining BG he worked Prior to working at ARCO, he acquired extensive UK Region in UK government, holding various posts in the technical and commercial experience in various Ministry of Defence.
Jon Wormley joined British Gas plc in 1992 and roles with Ultramar, Lasmo and Shell.
was appointed to his current position upon demerger in October 2000.
Prior to that he was 5 Peter Duffy 41 8 Emma Nichol 38 Finance Director, BG International, and held Executive Vice President Human Resources Company Secretary executive responsibility for Comgas in So Paulo.
Peter Duffy joined BG Group plc in 2001, when Emma Nichol joined BG plc in 1997 and has He is a Certified Public Accountant Texas, USA.
he was appointed to his current position with responsibility for all matters relating to the Board, He received his BSBA degree from the University responsibility for all matters relating to human its committees and governance and risk of Tulsa, Oklahoma in 1970.
He has worked in the resources strategy and policy.
She was appointed Company oil and gas industry since 1971, beginning his career international human resource management Secretary upon demerger in October 2000.
Her with Phillips Petroleum Company in the USA.
He experience, particularly in the area of organisation previous role was as Deputy General Counsel.
held various senior level financial positions with development, performance and change She formerly worked at Clifford Chance and Phillips both in and outside the USA.
He previously worked for TRW Inc. National Power plc.
LucasVarity plc, and British Aerospace plc.
9 Dave Roberts 42 Executive Vice President & Managing Director Eastern Hemisphere Dave Roberts joined BG Group plc in January 2003 when he was appointed to his current position, with responsibility for the Groups activities in India, South East Asia, the Middle East and Kazakhstan.
He was previously adviser to Chevron Texacos vice chairman and director of strategy management for Texacos worldwide upstream business.
He has extensive experience in surface and sub-surface engineering and technical leadership, operations and general management.
4 1 3 7 5 12 11 10 8 9 2 6 CONTENTS 57 Directors Report 79 Consolidated Cash Flow 128 Historical Production Statement 60 Remuneration Report 129 Shareholder Information 79 Reconciliation of Net 70 Auditors Report 130 Additional Shareholder Borrowings Information 71 Principal Accounting Policies 80 Analysis of Cash Flow 137 Cross-Reference to Form 20-F 74 Consolidated Profit and Movement Loss Account 138 Index 81 Notes to the Accounts 76 Consolidated Statement 139 Glossary 117 Supplementary Information of Total Recognised Gains 140 Definitions Gas and Oil and Losses 122 Five Year Financial Summary 77 Balance Sheets 126 Five Year Financial Summary 78 Movement in BG continuing operations only Shareholders Funds
