26 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Board of Directors John Windeler Aged 59 Peter Barton Aged 65 Richard Pym Aged 53 Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Group Board on 27 April and Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Group Board on 1995, John Windeler is Chairman.
He Appointed to the Group Board on 13 May 1 September 1993, Richard Pym is Group has extensive experience in international 1998, Peter Barton is Chairman of the Chief Executive.
He is a member of the money and securities markets, formerly Remuneration Committee and of the Group Group Credit Policy Committee and a as Executive Vice President of Irving Trust Audit & Risk Committee.
He is also a non-executive director of Selfridges plc.
Bank, Group Chief Financial officer at the member of the Group Credit Policy and His previous career was with Thomson National Australia Bank and Chief Executive Nomination Committees.
His other McLintock & Co, British Gas plc, BAT of that banks UK insurance division.
He is directorships include Foreign & Colonial Industries plc and The Burton Group plc.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee US Smaller Companies plc and the Guinness and a member of the Remuneration Trust Group, and he is Chairman of Howard Committee.
He is also a non-executive fide Walden Estates Limited.
He is a solicitor, director of BMS Associates Limited and investment banker and a Deputy Lieutenant RM plc.
His previous career in the financial services industry included 9 years with Lehman Brothers International and 4 years with Robert Fleming & Co.
The Honourable David Brougham Aged 62 Frances Cairncross Aged 58 Chris Rhodes Aged 39 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Operations Director Appointed to the Group Board on 8 May Appointed to the Group Board on Appointed to the Group Board on 1 June 2000, David Brougham is Chairman of 1 January 1992, Frances Cairncross 2002, Chris Rhodes is Operations Director, the Group Credit Policy Committee and is a member of the Remuneration and whose responsibilities include Group a member of the Group Audit & Risk and Nomination Committees.
Currently Information Systems and Retail Credit & Remuneration Committees.
He has served Management Editor of The Economist, Risk.
He was previously Deputy Managing as Chairman of Chartered Trust plc and she is also chair of the Economic and Director and Finance Director of Girobank, as an executive director at Standard Social Research Council and an honorary having held a number of senior positions Chartered where he was on the Board fellow of St Annes College, Oxford.
with Alliance & Leicester since he joined from 1993 until 1998.
He is a director the Company in 1988. of Hampden Holdings Limited.
27 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Michael Allen Aged 65 Richard Banks Aged 51 David Bennett Aged 40 Non-Executive Director Wholesale Banking Director Group Finance Director Appointed to the Group Board on Appointed to the Group Board on Appointed to the Group Board on 1 January 2000, Michael Allen is a member 1 February 1998, Richard Banks is 1 January 2000, David Bennett is Group of the Remuneration and Nomination Wholesale Banking Director with Finance Director with responsibility for Committees.
He was Group Vice responsibility for the Commercial Banking financial planning and reporting, strategic President in Procter & Gambles and Treasury businesses.
He was previously planning and market risk.
He has many European operations, having held a Distribution Director having held a number years experience in the financial sector, number of senior management positions of senior positions in Girobank since he as Finance Director of Cheltenham & in the Group.
He is a non-executive joined the Company in 1987.
Gloucester plc and then as an Executive director of Safeway plc and Fiske plc.
Director of the National Bank of New Zealand Ltd. Mike McTighe Aged 49 Jonathan Watts Aged 48 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Group Board on Appointed to the Group Board on 1 June 2000, Mike McTighe is a member 8 May 2000, Jonathan Watts is a member of the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
of the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
He is currently Chairman of Red M For the past 5 years he was Managing Communications Ltd and a Director of Via Director of COLT Telecommunications, Networks, Inc.
Formerly Chairman & CEO Europes largest business telephony, data of Carrier1 International SA, and before and internet company.
Previously he held that Executive Director & Chief Executive, senior positions in the UK and overseas in Global Operations of Cable & Wireless a number of telecommunications and plc.
Prior to these appointments, he spent technology companies, including 5 years with Philips of the Netherlands, National Band Three Ltd, Aircall Holdings, 5 years with Motorola, and 10 years Sintrom Plc, Datapoint Corp and Control with GE.
He is a member of the Telegraph Hill Partners advisory board.
