CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Base Metals Results During the year, we completed the transfer of the Companys Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional equity in the Ok Tedi copper mine in Papua New Guinea to an items were US$200 million, compared with US$462 million in independent company established to deliver sustainable 2001, a decrease of US$262 million or 57 per cent.
The reduction was mainly due to a significant decline in the Development activities average realised copper price to US$0.69 lb compared to We continued to focus on development projects to meet medium US$0.78 lb in the corresponding period, together with lower and longer-term demand growth.
The Tintaya Oxide project, a 34 000-tonnes-per-annum producer of low-cost copper cathode, volumes at Escondida and Tintaya following the decision to temporarily reduce production in response to the global was commissioned in April 2002.
The Escondida Phase IV project, deterioration of base metals markets.
a 400 000-tonnes-per-annum producer of copper in concentrate, is scheduled to commence commissioning in September 2002.
These factors were partly offset by a full years contribution from the Rio Algom operations Cerro Colorado, Antamina and We progressed Spence, a greenfield development project in Chile, Highland Valley, which were acquired in October 2000, as well to final feasibility.
This project will produce over 200 000 tonnes as higher silver and lead volumes shipped from our Cannington per annum of low-cost SXEW copper cathode.
We made further mine, resulting from a revision of the mines production strategy.
progress during the year towards the development of the Escondida Norte and Sulphide Leach projects.
Our Alliance Copper Joint Markets and operations Venture with Codelco commenced construction of a concentrate The year proved to be a challenging one for base metals bioleaching demonstration plant at Chuquicamata, Chile.
Consolidation in the industry and a shift to demandbased production management will form the foundation for HSEC improved shareholder returns in the future.
Operations achieved solid gains in all areas of HSEC performance, although three tragic fatalities occurred.
Towards zero harm We entered the year with falling global industrial production that was initiated to help achieve a step change in safety performance impacted negatively on the demand for base metals.
In November, and a cardinal rules program initiated.
Over 230 employees and prices hit historic lows in real terms.
Warehouse stocks continued contractors were trained in incident investigations to improve to rise, peaking at 1.52 million tonnes of copper in May 2002. our competency in identifying and preventing root causes.
In response to these unprecedented events, we adopted a We achieved a significant reduction in our injury frequency rate.
demand-based production approach, temporarily reducing our Progress was made in implementing local community relations production at Escondida and Tintaya by 170 000 tonnes of copper.
plans, and annual reports on HSEC performance are in progress.
In May, we decided to extend these cuts until the end of calendar Receiving 16 awards from external organisations 2002.
We believe that moving production from periods of lower Sustainability & Community 5, Environment 3, and Safety 8 demand to periods of higher demand will maximise the longerendorses the path we are taking to improve our HSEC performance.
term value of our operations.
Outlook Considering the self-imposed production discipline, our operations Our key operating objectives are the successful start of the did well in maintaining unit operating costs.
A total of 824 300 Escondida Phase IV project and the ramp-up of our Tintaya Oxide tonnes of copper were produced at a cash C1 cost of project.
We will be monitoring the state of global copper demand approximately 41 US cents per pound.
Cannington operated well and will restart normal operations at Tintaya and Escondida when throughout the year, setting record silver production of 35.96 market conditions allow.
US$ million Turnover 1 821 EBIT, excluding exceptional items 200 Capital and investment expenditure 630 Net operating assets 4 077 Brad Mills, President 3 1 Pering South Africa 4 2 Cannington Australia 3 Highland Valley Copper Canada 4 Selbaie Canada 5 Escondida Chile 6 Antamina Peru 7 Cerro Colorado Chile 6 9 8 Alumbrera Argentina 7 2 5 1 9 Tintaya Peru 8 16 While tempering production, we are progressing our development projects.
Antofagasta, Escondida, Chile Carlos Rivera, Technical Leader, Escondida, Chile Georgena Shepherd, Charger, Cannington, Australia Glen Campbell, Underground Jumbo Operator, Cannington, Australia 17
