directors report investment background Our investment approach emphasises the selection of Global recession loomed for individual stocks but the decisions we make must take the first time in many years account of prevailing economic, business and financial market conditions.
We comment below on the conditions faced during our last financial year and describe our position as at 31st January 2002.
The portfolio is then reviewed on pages 13 to 20. economies Last year was particularly difficult for the global economy.
The US continued to slow significantly following its previous investment-led boom, and this downturn was soon replicated in both Japan and Germany.
With the worlds three largest economies contracting simultaneously for the first time since 1974, it became almost impossible for production in any region to escape unscathed, and global recession loomed for the first time in many years.
industrial production Policy makers across the world took action to alleviate the slowdown, using a combination of lower interest rates, 160 higher government spending and significant tax cuts but, 150 before this policy had time to become effective, the world- 140 wide shock stemming from events on September 11th 130 US brought further risks to the prospect of returning to growth.
120 UK This additional threat to economic activity encouraged 110 central banks to accelerate the easing of monetary policy, Europe 100 Japan and US short term interest rates were eventually cut to 90 1.75%, their lowest level in 40 years.
Although monetary 80 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 stimulus of this scale would normally raise fears of inflation, this threat was mitigated by the significant drop in energy source: Thomson Financial Datastream prices which took place over the year, and by the continued strength of the US dollar throughout these turbulent times.
Whilst central banks were generally united in their willingness to ease monetary policy, some faced restrictions on their ability to be as aggressive as the US Federal Reserve.
This was certainly the case in Europe where the lingering effects of Euro weakness, and a previous spike in energy prices, had pushed inflation above the European Central Banks target levels, causing it to act more cautiously.
In the UK, manufacturing continued to suffer from the relatively high level of sterling, and global overcapacity in many industries, but overall economic growth held up remarkably well due to the ongoing robustness of domestic demand.
Rising house prices, stable employment conditions, real earnings growth and falling interest rates all added to the resilience of the consumer sector and encouraged a significant increase in the level of household debt.
This may prove to be a problem in the longer term but it enabled the UK to achieve the best short-term growth prospects of all its G7 peers.
9 directors report investment background Unfortunately, the converse was true in Japan which fell companies once more into recession over the course of the year, The weak economic background described above has had despite two supplementary budgets and interest rates serious consequences for the corporate sector.
Although falling back close to zero.
An apparent reluctance to tackle the economic downturn itself may prove, with hindsight, to its prolonged structural problems, especially that of bad be relatively shallow, its impact on company profits has debt in the banking sector, has pushed the Japanese been much more severe.
The inventory correction which economy into a worsening deflationary situation, with became so apparent in the US technology sector proved to almost no prospect for genuine improvement until the be a much more broadly-based problem, and brought with it global economy recovers.
Japans problems, and the a general squeeze on corporate margins which we had resulting weakness of the Yen, also had a negative impact anticipated but which still surprised us by its severity.
As on the rest of Asia, exacerbating the problems this region can be seen from the chart on this page, inventories have was already facing through its close links with the US now been run down significantly and it is hoped that the technology industry.
China, however, has benefited from necessary rebuilding of these will boost economic growth joining the World Trade Organisation, the strong level of in the months ahead.
direct foreign investment associated with this accession, and the resultant buoyancy of domestic consumption.
Overcapacity still remains a problem in many sectors of manufacturing and the ability to raise or even hold prices could remain absent for some time.
In such an environment cost control and productive efficiency are vital.
Falling energy prices can provide a one-off boost to margins but productivity, which has stayed encouragingly high during the recent economic slowdown, will remain of paramount US manufacturing inventories importance.
Cost cutting and restructuring are already evident and must continue if the corporate sector is to lift 130 130 itself out of the margin slump which prevails at present.
125 125 Progress is most visible in the US, but it is also occurring in 120 120 US Inventories Europe, although at a much slower pace due to legal 115 115 constraints.
Even in Japan, where the macro-economic trend line 110 110 environment remains intensely challenging, some of the 105 105 large international companies are making considerable 100 100 progress in terms of restructuring.
However all companies 95 95 now face the additional burden of an ongoing increase in 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 operational costs associated with changing working source: Thomson Financial Datastream practices, and providing additional security, in response to the increased threat of terrorism.
equity markets The chart on page 11 clearly illustrates the disappointing performance of equity markets over the last year.
Markets declined sharply in reaction to the slowdown in the major economies, the resulting squeeze on company margins and increasing uncertainty about future corporate profitability.
Investors became more risk-averse following the events of September 11th and markets bottomed soon afterwards.
Some recovery has taken place in all markets since then and, at the end of our financial year, the US market was down 17.3% while the European and Japanese markets were down 22.6% and 25.3% respectively, with the 10 Japanese market hitting 15 year lows as a result.
In sterling equity markets - sterling adjusted adjusted terms the relative weakness of both the euro and the yen contributed to even greater falls, 26% in Europe 110 110 105 105 and 33% in Japan.
The strength of the US Dollar, which Japan 100 100 appreciated a further 3% over our financial year reduced 95 95 US the fall in US markets to 14.5%.
The UK market also 90 90 85 85 suffered from the general adjustment to lower growth UK 80 Europe 80 prospects and a preponderance of profit warnings, and fell 75 75 17.6% over the year in capital terms although, on a total 70 70 return basis, this fall was reduced to 15.5%.
Technology- 65 65 60 60 related stocks remained out of favour throughout most of jan feb mar apr may june july aug sept oct nov dec jan the year as investors preferred to search for companies and source: Thomson Financial Datastream sectors which offered not only reasonable quality of earnings but also the ability to grow these while simultaneously providing at least stability in dividends.
As a result, defensive sectors and stocks were generally While economic and market conditions deteriorated last favoured, with healthcare and pharmaceuticals doing year, we took the opportunity to raise some cash and add especially well.
to our fixed interest holdings, increasing this section of our portfolio to 5% of our total net assets.
On a geographic basis, we reduced our exposure to the UK by more than 24m, to the US by 9m and to Europe by 7m.
We cautiously invested 5m into Japanese companies, where asset distribution we saw convincing signs of necessary restructuring, and GLOBAL GEOGRAPHICAL Technology 6% more than 5m into other Asian markets.
In sectoral terms we added more than 11m to resources and an equivalent Pharmaceuticals & UK & Europe 24% Health 13% amount to investment companies, with the bulk of this being focused on investment in unlisted companies.
These purchases were financed by net sales of almost 25m in Financials USA 12% the pharmaceutical sector, following good performance 24% there, and almost 13m in the software sector.
We have Rest of World 6% also reduced our exposure to the consumer services Resources 10% sectors, especially in the UK.
Cash & Fixed Interest 5% source: internal investment strategy We began to manage some parts of our portfolio as global sectors over three years ago and remain convinced that this is the most appropriate strategy.
Despite fears raised in the immediate aftermath of September 11th, companies are continuing to broaden their operations on a geographical basis with almost no indication of the retrenchment which was initially feared.
The pie chart of our asset distribution illustrates that our strategy remains intact, with over half of our assets managed on a global basis, and we expect to extend this further.
