portfolio review In the tables opposite we show the portfolio by industry top ten holdings classification and geographic region as at 31 January 2002, company value % of m fund together with a summary of changes made over the last GlaxoSmithKline UK 59.7 3.7 year.
Below we review themes, events and our activity BP Amoco UK 59.3 3.7 within each industry sector, and we list our principal Shell Transport & Trading UK 51.1 3.2 holdings in each area.
The 174 companies listed in this Royal Bank of Scotland UK 49.2 3.0 review represent 81% by value of our investment portfolio.
Vodafone UK 40.4 2.5 The top ten holdings comprise 24% of the total Johnson & Johnson US 32.7 2.0 investments by value.
HBOS UK 31.6 1.9 Wal-Mart US 26.4 1.6 Abbot Laboratories US 22.0 1.4 oil, chemicals and resources CGNU UK 21.7 1.3 Revenues for oil producers declined substantially during the year as the oil price fell and natural gas prices in the US more than halved.
OPEC responded, cutting production and abandoning unworkable price targets.
In the US, security issues have now replaced environmental problems as a particular concern.
Imports currently satisfy half of US needs and energy policy is being re-appraised in the light of resources Middle East tensions, which should benefit US domestic production.
& basic Our activity in the oil sector during the year focused on strengthening our oil and gas exposure to North America.
industries In particular we sold our Repsol YPF holding which was exposed to Argentina and added to BP which has strengthened its US hydrocarbon reserves and operations.
We also purchased Burlington Resources and Alberta Energy.
We added to our position in PetroChina, the recently privatised company which produces two-thirds of Chinas oil and gas.
The mining industry moved more quickly than the energy sector to reduce levels of extraction, and thereby managed to restrict falls in mineral prices.
Industry consolidation assisted this process, including completion of the BHP and source: Air Liquide Billiton merger during the year.
Our mining stocks produced a positive return in a falling market and investment in this oil, chemicals & resources m area was strengthened through additions to BHP and Anglo BP Amoco UK 59.3 American.
Our exposure to chemical companies remains Shell Transport & Trading UK 51.1 small and highly selective.
The largest holding is Air Liquide Exxon Mobil US 13.9 which we increased due to its defensive attractions within Rio Tinto UK 13.6 the  global gases market.
Total Fina France 7.5 BHP Billiton UK Australia 6.8 John Wood Group UK 5.0 Air Liquide France 4.1 Schlumberger US 3.9 RPM US 2.9 Shin-etsu Chemical Japan 2.2 WMC Australia 2.1 13 directors report portfolio review utilities resources Utility companies were overshadowed by events in the US & basic electricity trading sub-sector.
Dubious accounting practices and complex business structures have not been associated industries with the usually conservative utilities, until Enron.
This was the worlds largest energy trader, formed in the wake of further deregulation, which collapsed abruptly.
The full extent of the damage is not yet clear but it has set back utility deregulation globally and energy policies are being re-examined everywhere.
Despite Enron, which we have never owned, traditional utility companies continued to show defensive qualities in an uncertain economic environment.
Many individual share prices did well, in all equity regions, and absolute gains were recorded by a number of our US holdings.
Constellation Energy was the exception, flirting briefly with the idea of becoming an source: Wolseley independent power producer, before the collapse in that sectors valuation persuaded it otherwise, and the price has utilities m since shown a measure of recovery.
We increased Scottish & Southern Energy UK 6.0 holdings in Australian Gas Light and in National Grid, which Consolidated Edison US 5.5 is strengthening its electricity network in the eastern US Scottish Power UK 5.1 through acquisition.
Our investment in the German company United Utilities UK 3.9 E. on was sold after it paid up for Powergen in the UK.
Kelda Group UK 3.8 Constellation Energy US 3.5 construction & building Suez Lyonnaise Des Eaux France 3.0 materials Hawaiian Electric US 2.5 WPS Resources US 2.4 The UK housebuilder, Persimmon, remains our core National Grid UK 2.4 holding in the sector, with solid operations buoyed by Australian Gas Light Australia 2.2 strong house price inflation, record low lending rates and the integration of Beazer Group.
However, specific construction & building materials m concerns over the London property market led us to move Persimmon UK 10.4 out of Berkeley Group, and we began a new holding in Lafarge France 4.7 Crest Nicholson, a more geographically diverse Aggregate Industries UK 4.5 housebuilder.
Further significant reductions in lending rates Wolseley UK 3.5 now appear unlikely but the housing market appears well Marshalls UK 1.2 supported by current affordability ratios.
Matsushita Japan 1.2 Lafarge remains our core position in building materials, Crest Nicholson UK 0.7 underpinned by expected synergy gains from the Blue Circle acquisition and longer-term exposure to emerging markets.
We reduced our position in Aggregate Industries during the year as US fiscal plans played down spending on infrastructure.
Through the year we added to our position in Wolseley Group, the building materials distributor, which offers exposure to economic recovery and has a good track record in self-financed consolidation.
14 general industrial capital The downturn in manufacturing started eighteen months goods ago, much earlier than the general economic slowdown, and it forced many companies to revise their plans.
The good news, however, is that global manufacturing output has largely readjusted to lower levels of demand, and the general industrial m ratio of inventory to sales has declined significantly.
Some BAE Systems UK 6.2 share prices responded positively to these developments, Pentair US 5.3 but in the aftermath of the Enron collapse and in an area Tyco International US 5.1 where acquisitions are prevalent, investors are currently Hutchison Whampoa Hong Kong 4.9 wary of companies with anything other than Honda Japan 3.7 straightforward accounts.
Delphi Automotive We added to Toyota and started a holding in Honda.
These Systems US 2.5 Snap-on US 1.9 are the worlds two most profitable car companies, and Swire Pacific Hong Kong 1.9 both should be strong beneficiaries of the weaker Yen.
In Toyota Japan 1.4 addition we acquired new holdings in Hyundai and in Tower Automotive US 1.3 Denway Motor, which assembles Honda cars in China.
We also added to the US automotive supplier Delphi which has electronics and restructured and is developing new products.
engineering m General Electric US 20.9 We sold Rolls Royce, which faces a difficult market, and, in Canon Japan 8.6 Hong Kong, part of the Hutchison Whampoa holding was Illinois Tool Works US 5.7 switched into its better-valued parent, Cheung Kong.
Grainger US 5.3 Keyence Japan 5.0 electronics and engineering Matsushita Electric Industries Japan 3.7 This area is very diverse and highly stock specific.
We Hoya Japan 3.5 reduced our exposure following partial sales of US holdings Renishaw UK 3.5 General Electric and Illinois Tool Works and disposed of Spirax-Sarco UK 2.8 Federal Signal, which was expensive for slower times.
Sony Japan 2.9 Emerson Electric US 2.5 Despite the return of recession in Japan, we added Mabuchi Motor Japan 2.1 selectively to holdings in Sony, Keyence, the sensor company, and Hoya, the specialist glass company, all of which have good new product lines.
In Europe we added to our holding in Heidelberger Druckmaschinen, a world-leading commercial printing machine company, but sold AGA Foodservice after it sold its pipes business, leaving it with less attractive prospects.
We also added to our holding in Kidde, the fire and safety equipment producer and initiated a holding in Swedish tooling and mining equipment maker Sandvik.
Both have strong market positions and opportunities for growth.
source: Sony source: Honda 15 directors report portfolio review hardware technology Global demand for computer hardware continued to deteriorate.
However, in the second half of the year an improvement in inventory levels was accompanied by a slowing pace of decline.
Despite tentative signs of more stable activity, capacity utilisation remains a problem, particularly for the semiconductor industry.
Greater stability is helpful, but doubts about recovery in business investment cloud the near-term demand outlook.
This may be offset by new products in mobile handsets and PCs, although these are consumer-focused and the outlook for spending at this stage is fairly subdued, and so demand may be more muted than in previous cycles.
Purchases, made predominantly in the second half of the year, were targeted at companies with not only strong source: Scientific Atlanta balance sheets but also an ability to gain market share in the new products.
Positions in Nokia, Motorola and hardware m Flextronics were increased, with new positions established Intel US 8.3 in ASML, Texas Instruments and Thomson Multimedia.
We Cisco US 7.3 reduced our exposure to the telecom equipment sector Nokia Finland 5.4 with the disposal of Ericsson, Lucent and Marconi.
Texas Instruments US 4.1 Motorola US 3.7 software Dell US 3.0 Scientific Atlanta US 2.9 Software and service companies experienced difficult Alcatel France 2.5 operating conditions throughout the year.
With pressure on Jabil Circuit US 2.1 corporate IT budgets, spending was focused on critical Murata Japan 2.0 business areas and on those demonstrating a clear, early Thomson Multimedia France 1.9 return on investment.
Poorer profits, valued more harshly, Sun Microsystems US 1.7 compounded to produce weak share prices.
Flextronics US 1.7 Discretionary corporate spending on consultancy services software m was cut dramatically, and software spending patterns Microsoft US 11.5 changed as clients moved to favour market leaders rather First Data US 11.4 than niche providers.
We maintained our focus on proven EDS US 5.5 companies with established customers and we are SAP Germany 4.6 encouraged by their prospects for gaining further market Oracle US 3.2 share as new products are sold to these customers.
With Sage UK 3.0 this in mind we increased positions in Microsoft, Oracle Equifax UK 1.7 and Sage.
Holdings exposed to the financial services, telecom and consulting sectors, where high valuations and deteriorating fundamentals posed the greatest risk, were pruned significantly.
Disposals included Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, Logica and Misys.
16 beverages, foods & consumer household products goods & These consumer-related areas benefited from reasonable demand, some pricing power and good cost control.
Large products integrations appear to be proceeding to plan and profits are providing positive surprises.
Mars agreed the US$1.3bn beverages, foods purchase of Royal Canin, a premier petfood manufacturer.
& household products m This deal follows the acquisition by Nestl of the Ralston Diageo UK 16.5 petfood company for US$11.2bn.
Diageos joint deal with Unilever UK 14.9 Pernod Ricard to purchase the Seagram spirits business Reckitt & Benckiser UK 13.4 also received clearance, consolidating its position as a PepsiCo US 9.4 global spirits leader.
Nestl Switzerland 8.0 Philip Morris US 6.5 Proceeds from our sale of Tate and Lyle and reductions of BAT UK 4.7 Reckitt Benckiser and Pepsico were partially offset by Geest UK 3.8 investment in Kraft Foods, which has attractive margin BRL Hardy Australia 3.4 expansion potential as it integrates the acquisition of Nabisco.
Fosters Australia 2.9 Kraft US 2.6 pharmaceuticals & healthcare Scottish & Newcastle UK 2.6 Despite their profits reliability, pharmaceutical stock prices pharmaceuticals experienced a volatile year.
Negative factors weighing on & healthcare m share prices included imminent patent expiries for some GlaxoSmithKline UK 59.7 major drugs, and swift generic substitution.
The high price Johnson & Johnson US 32.7 of patented drugs, particularly in the US, and access to Abbot Laboratories US 22.0 them in less developed countries have become increasingly Bristol-Myers Squibb US 16.2 political issues but drug companies have responded with Merck US 14.7 Aventis France 11.9 discount schemes and access programmes.
A slowdown in UCB Belgium 8.7 new drug development has, in the short term, affected Novartis Switzerland 7.3 companies growth.
Amersham UK 6.6 However, valuations of large drug companies in the US, Takeda Japan 6.3 traditionally at a premium, are now in line with the general Celltech UK 5.8 market.
The industry continues to consolidate and to Fresenius Germany 4.2 acquire the rights to new drugs, particularly from biotech companies.
Although we retain a substantial position in the sector, we sold our AstraZeneca holding because we felt the valuation more than fully reflected its prospects.
We also reduced our exposure to Novartis, following disappointing drug launches, and switched into Aventis.
Healthcare companies have generally fared better, with a good flow of new medical devices.
Johnson & Johnson, our largest healthcare holding, hopes to introduce new drug-coated stents, which will give them a lead in this significant expansion of the market for treatment of blocked arteries.
We added to new medical device source: GlaxoSmithKline companies Gyrus and Profile Therapeutics.
Our sizeable exposure to this industry is based on our belief in the longterm growth in healthcare demand, together with the proven ability of companies in this area to innovate.
17 directors report portfolio review retail services The lowest UK interest rates since the early 1960s influenced consumers behaviour.
Clothing retailers benefited from reduced High Street competition, and food retailers saw better volumes.
US consumers also enjoyed low interest rates which combined with tax cuts and discounts to sustain confidence.
Trading conditions in Europe and Japan, however, remained testing.
Further ratecutting potential is now limited, while increasing unemployment would weigh on consumers.
Retail volumes are unlikely to maintain momentum in that environment.
We trimmed our retail exposure in Japan, and cut back our sizeable holding in Wal-Mart, which is now on a very demanding valuation.
We sold our holding in Boots, switching part into Debenhams as it offers good expansion potential, and we started a new position in Sundrug, the source: Debenhams Japanese chemist.
retail m brewers, hotels & leisure Wal-Mart US 26.4 Home Depot US 17.7 Consolidation, take-over speculation and strong consumer Tesco UK 12.4 demand helped the performance of brewing shares.
Great Universal Stores UK 8.2 Wolverhampton & Dudley successfully defended a hostile Ahold Netherlands 5.7 bid from Pubmaster and we subsequently added to our Walgreen US 5.6 holding based on the potential for its revitalised strategy.
Sysco US 5.0 Interbrew gained from not being forced to sell all the Sainsbury UK 4.7 brewing assets acquired from Bass.
Compass continued to Marks & Spencer UK 4.2 benefit from the outsourcing of catering.
However, slower Castorama Dubois France 3.9 Kingfisher UK 3.5 economic growth meant difficult trading for hoteliers, and CVS US 2.4 the situation worsened post September 11th.
We reduced Debenhams UK 2.4 Hilton and P&O Princess, but added to Six Continents whose balance sheet and public house assets provide brewers, hotels & leisure m some protection should hotel trading deteriorate further.
Compass UK 10.9 Hilton UK 6.0 media Six Continents UK 4.7 Wolverhampton Last year was one of the worst for advertising in the past & Dudley UK 3.3 decade.
Weak economies, the unwinding of the technology Airtours UK 2.5 and telecom boom and September 11th all affected revenues.
The high fixed costs of many media companies media m made the impact on profits worse.
A recovery in EMAP UK 11.7 advertising is hoped for later in the year but evidence is AOL Time Warner US 5.4 awaited.
We have adopted a defensive stance, retaining Reed International UK 5.1 investments in companies that are relatively less reliant on Gannett US 4.6 advertising revenues.
We sold Carlton and Seat and Pearson UK 4.3 VNU Netherlands 3.4 reduced Vivendi Universal and Pearson.
Purchases of AOL Singapore Press Singapore 3.2 Time Warner, Reed International and, latterly, Publicis offset Granada UK 2.6 these sales.
With Asian economies starting to recover we added to our holding in Thai broadcaster BEC World.
18 transport The combination of terrorist fears, economic slowdown and transport m UK rail chaos produced a difficult operating environment Deutsche Post Germany 2.2 United Parcel Service US 2.1 across the transport industry.
Forth Ports continued to Forth Ports UK 1.6 trade well, and First Group coped with a difficult UK rail P&O UK 1.4 situation, generating strong cash flow.
It also has interests First Group UK 1.3 in the UK and US bus markets, both having solid prospects.
EasyJet UK 0.4 We added to EasyJet which is in a potentially high growth BAA UK 0.4 area as it looks to secure access to attractive new routes.
We hold no European or US incumbent airlines, with our support services m exposure to growth in air travel being via BAA, the airport Electrocomponents UK 16.9 operator, which has strong retailing skills and which faces a Hays UK 8.7 potentially more benign regulatory environment.
Brambles Industries Australia 7.3 Securitas Sweden 5.8 Serco UK 4.6 support services Waste Management US 3.7 Outsourcing encompasses an increasing breadth of SECOM Japan 3.6 applications and as such there were few broad themes Macfarlane UK 2.8 driving company performance.
Deteriorating economies Premier Farnell UK 2.6 undermined the staffing and logistics companies, although, Chubb Security UK 2.3 looking forward, they should be early beneficiaries of an Michael Page UK 2.2 improvement in economic activity.
New investments were telecommunications made in Michael Page, the professional staffing company, services m and Techem, a German energy manager.
The US and global Vodafone UK 40.4 security industries are changing significantly and through British Telecom UK 12.2 Securitas we have exposure to that theme.
GKN demerged Verizon its operations, giving Brambles Industries full control of the Communications US 12.1 CHEP pallets business in the US.
We reduced our exposure SBC Communications US 8.6 to Electrocomponents, Landauer, Securicor and Galileo.. BellSouth US 6.7 Telefonica Spain 5.7 MM02 UK 4.3 telecommunications services Telephonos fide Mexico Mexico 3.1 The sectors difficulties included concerns about subscriber growth, pricing and the take-up of data services, along with too much debt in the companies.
We committed more capital to BT through its rights issue, but balance sheet concerns led us to reduce our stake in France Telecom.
We also aggressively reduced our exposure to European alternative carriers.
In the US, pricing pressures undermined all operators and drove some new entrants into bankruptcy.
Long-distance pricing was particularly weak and so we sold our holding in Qwest Communications.
Mobile operators experienced a disappointing slowdown in subscriber additions late in the year and we accordingly reduced our direct exposure to the wireless area.
source: Securitas 19 directors report portfolio review banks financials Investors worries about credit deterioration were fuelled by the economic downturn but lower interest rates, declining bond yields and modest valuations acted as a prop to those banks with defensive characteristics.
UK banks performed very well, helped by relatively better domestic economic conditions and their low investment banking exposure.
We used the associated share price strength to reduce slightly our large holding in Royal Bank of Scotland.
Corporate credit quality concerns were most pronounced in US investment banks, to which we are not exposed, with the largest write-off arising from the collapse of Enron.
In the US we added to Wells Fargo and Fleetboston Financial, financed by sales of Comerica.
In Europe, we initiated a new, and at this stage modest, source: Royal Bank of Scotland source: UBS holding in UBS, which is the leading bank in Switzerland and is aiming to be the pre-eminent investment services banks m firm globally.
Royal Bank of Scotland UK 49.2 The Japanese banking system, where we have little exposure, HBOS UK 31.6 may be technically insolvent.
Prolonged deflation and an Barclays UK 21.3 increase in bankruptcies have raised bad debts but banks Lloyds TSB UK 20.0 will ultimately be recapitalised, either by shareholders or by HSBC UK Hong Kong 12.0 Standard Chartered UK 11.0 the government.
Meantime we sold our small remaining TCF US 6.3 holdings in UFJ and Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial.
Abbey National UK 5.8 Wells Fargo US 4.9 insurance Commonwealth Bank The non-life insurance sector was hit by heavy claims, of Australia Australia 4.9 ABN Amro Netherlands 4.5 reserving for asbestos and by weaker equity markets.
The Banca Nazionale Lavoro Italy 4.3 collapse of Independent Insurance highlighted the dangers Bank of America US 4.3 of complex reinsurance contracts, and the costs associated Bank One US 4.1 with September 11th removed an estimated $30-50bn of BNP Paribas France 4.0 capacity.
Since then, some US$15bn of new capital has Northern Trust US 3.7 been raised, which has not halted a dramatic turnaround in the rating environment but may have an impact on its insurance m durability.
We sold our Royal & Sun Alliance holding, and CGNU UK 21.7 reduced Zurich Financial Services but initiated a new Marsh & McLennan US 15.3 position in Converium, the reinsurer spun out of ZFS.
We Prudential UK 9.9 added to American Insurance Group in the US and to American International Group US 9.6 Sampo of Finland.
Legal & General UK 5.0 A weaker solvency position, increased competition and CNP Assurances France 4.7 several ongoing regulatory reviews overshadowed the UK Allianz Germany 3.2 life assurance sector, leading us to reduce our holding in Protective Life US 2.8 Legal and General.
The favourable backdrop of an ageing Banca Fideuram Italy 2.5 Aegon Netherlands 2.3 population and an increased need to save for retirement, because of the reduced role of the state, continued to support the long-term investment case for European and US sectors where we maintained our positions.
