Marketing and Financial Risk Management Marketing Financial Risk Management In order to deliver customer value, we are implementing a Managing financial risk is critical to our business strategy.
marketing strategy that we believe is unique in the global A Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC has been resources sector.
Rather than manage our marketing effort on established to monitor the financial risk management policies a project-by-project, site-by-site basis, we approach our total of the Group.
The FRMC operates under powers delegated by product and services offering on a global basis.
For example, the Executive Committee and is chaired by the Chief Financial we can source products from different geographical regions Officer.
This allows us to provide a more complete The FRMC reviews financial risks including Group funding and product offering.
cash flow at risk, interest rates, foreign currencies, risk, credit, Marketing hubs in The Hague and Singapore spearhead our marketing, country and insurance risk arrangements.
efforts, and these are augmented by customer solutions teams One of the key distinguishing features of BHP Billiton is our in all our major market areas across the globe.
While the diversification across commodities, geographic locations and marketing teams are broadly aligned with the Customer Sector markets.
An important consequence of this diversification is Groups, the use of common systems, philosophies and operating materially reduced market risk.
This has been recognised by the platforms facilitates cross-sector product offerings.
major rating agencies, with the Companys credit rating being Our equity product, in combination with our sourcing capabilities upgraded by Standard and Poors almost immediately after and supply chain management tools, gives us the ability to the merger.
manage the complete raw materials supply function on behalf The benefit of risk reduction has been quantified by our Finance of our customers.
This capability is complemented by our team, using their own Cash Flow at Risk model, which applies position as one of the worlds largest transporters of products leading financial markets analysis to a portfolio of natural by sea.
In 2002, the team undertook a comprehensive We recognise the changing nature of a number of our markets, review of the Companys cash flows in relation to market price and the associated change in the requirements of our customers.
The analysis demonstrated the benefits of the Groups In response, we have strongly aligned our product structuring diversified portfolio, with the ratio of cash flow at risk to cash and risk management skills in order to meet the physical product flow dropping considerably since the merger.
needs of our customers and to help them manage their related The significance of this for shareholders lies in the resulting market and financial exposures.
enhanced stability of the Groups cash flow.
This enables us For example, by combining these skills with our equity positions to consistently meet dividend expectations and fund growth in oil, gas and coal, we are able to tailor fuel packages for our activities without the short-term cash flow concerns that lessenergy generation customers that give them the ability to better diversified businesses may face.
It also allows us to develop our serve increasingly deregulated electricity markets.
investment opportunities constantly in pursuit of shareholder growth and value.
Meeting the changing needs of customers with appropriate new solutions will continue to be the focus of our marketing activities.
Our investment approval processes are managed by the Investment Review Committee IRC.
Identification and evaluation of risks associated with investment proposals, and the development of appropriate risk management strategies are key Our approach to marketing combines the skills elements of our investment review processes.
The IRC operates of an equity producer and merchant with risk under powers delegated by the Executive Committee and is management expertise in order to create tailored chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
solutions for our customers that best fit their individual requirements.
10 Benjamin Quek, Distribution Administrator and Alison Gilbert, Investor Relations, London, UK Wayne Aitken, Scheduler, Singapore Mark Lidiard, Vice President, Julie Jumar, Receptionist, Singapore Investor Relations & Communications, London, UK Rob Jellis, Senior Petroleum Engineer, and Renske Vijverberg, Scheduler Aluminium, and Mark Jackson, Adviser Production Management, Petroleum Engineering, Esther van Ulden, Distribution Administrator Carbon Steel, The Hague Melbourne, Australia
