CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Petroleum Results We increased our exploration acreage portfolio in the Gulf of Mexico Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional and Trinidad, and added new deepwater acreage offshore items were US$1073 million, compared with US$1407 million South Africa, Brunei and Brazil.
Exploration drilling consolidated in 2001, a decrease of US$334 million or 24 per cent.
the reserves base in the greater Angostura area offshore Trinidad, and we moved into development planning studies for the field.
Major factors driving the decrease were lower average realised oil and LPG prices.
The current period was also impacted by Construction of the fourth train facilities at the North West Shelf lower LPG volumes in Bass Strait and reduced crude oil volumes, progressed on schedule and we brought several LNG contracts primarily due to natural field decline in the Laminaria, Bass Strait to a conclusion, which constitute the underpinning volumes of and Griffin oil fields.
These factors were partly offset by infill the expansion.
programs in Bass Strait and Griffin.
In August 2002, the North West Shelf Venture was selected as Earnings in the corresponding period benefited from the sale the preferred LNG supplier to Phase One of the Guangdong LNG of the Buffalo oil field in March 2001.
Terminal and Trunkline Project, to supply 3 million tonnes per annum over a 25-year period.
A positive aspect of this years earnings was the inclusion of profits from the Zamzama gas field and the Typhoon oilfield, which We approved or executed several brownfield projects, including commenced operations in March 2001 and July 2001 respectively.
the Bream gas pipeline and the second phases of the Keith and Markets and operations the Laminaria developments.
The execution of the ROD and With the volatility in oil prices, the average realised oil price Ohanet projects in Algeria is continuing.
was US$22.58 per barrel, compared to US$28.04 per barrel HSEC in the corresponding period.
The average realised LPG price Our injury frequency rate reduced and we had no significant was US$214.62 per tonne, compared to US$299.18 per tonne.
Two major initiatives were introduced Total production for the year was 133.8 million barrels of oil to assist with identifying issues and planning for improvement: equivalent, comprising 65 per cent liquids crude oil, condensate a series of HSEC Leadership Workshops were held with the and LPG and 35 per cent gas.
Our three major producing assets leadership team and HSE personnel: and an HSE Perception are Bass Strait, the North West Shelf and Liverpool Bay.
Survey was initiated, designed to obtain the views of our employees and contractors as to our strengths and opportunities Oil and condensate production was 78.5 million bbl, a decrease for improvement.
A highlight of the year was the Australian of 1 per cent.
During the year, production commenced from Operated Asset Team achieving ISO 14001 certification for its the Typhoon oilfield, which has substantially increased our environmental management and systems.
production levels in the Gulf of Mexico.
Gas production excluding LNG was 223.9 billion cubic feet bcf, an increase Outlook of 9 per cent, mainly due to higher volumes from Liverpool Bay, Our key objectives are to progress the Atlantis field to full and the commencement of production at Zamzama and Typhoon.
sanction and execution, and to advance the execution of those LNG production from the North West Shelf was 59.6 bcf, an projects currently under development.
We intend to complete increase of 5 per cent.
engineering studies and sanction the Greater Angostura field, Development activities and we will continue our Gulf of Mexico exploration drilling During the year we achieved considerable success with our program.
We also aim to finalise the remaining gas sales growth objectives.
Projects sanctioned or part sanctioned for contracts for the North West Shelf fourth train LNG expansion, development included the Mad Dog and Atlantis oil discoveries and pursue other potential LNG markets in countries outside and the Zamzama and Minerva gas projects.
Japan in order to support a fifth train.
US$ million Turnover 2 815 EBIT, excluding exceptional items 1 073 Capital and investment expenditure 711 Net operating assets 2 865 Philip Aiken, President 9 8 1 7 ROD and Ohanet Algeria Laminaria Corallina Australia 2 Zamzama Pakistan 8 Liverpool Bay Europe 1 10 2 3 North West Shelf Australia 9 Bruce Keith Europe 12 4 Bass Strait Australia 10 Gulf of Mexico North America 5 Griffin Australia 11 Bolivia South America 7 6 12 11 Minerva Australia Trinidad South America 5 3 6 4 22 Our priority is to progress our exploration and development activities.
Nourredine Baibeche, Safety Officer, Algeria Bream B platform in Bass Strait, Australia Lennox Platform and Offshore Drilling Unit, Liverpool Bay, UK 23
