CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Energy Coal Results Development activities Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional We focused on upgrading the quality of the portfolio by divesting items were US$536 million, compared with US$382 million in under-performing and non-strategic assets and pursuing 2001, an increase of US$154 million or 40 per cent.
development opportunities that reinforce our low-cost supply position and extend our multi-sourcing capabilities.
Major reasons for the increase were higher export market prices, the weaker South African rand exchange rate, and cost In Indonesia, we sold our 80 per cent interest in PT Arutmin improvement initiatives.
However, these were partially offset by while retaining the marketing rights to 75 per cent of production.
the inflationary impact of the weaker exchange rate on operating We also strengthened our position in Colombia through the costs, lower export volumes due to an unseasonably warm winter acquisition of Intercor.
With our consortium partners we now and lower natural gas prices in Europe, as well as reduced own 100 per cent of the high-quality Cerrejon coal resource domestic demand, mainly in the US.
and have established an independent management structure to complete the integration of the previously separate operations.
Markets and operations There was a significant increase in export market prices, despite We continued to progress the new San Juan underground mine in weaknesses in spot prices over the last quarter of the financial New Mexico, the Mount Arthur North open-cut mine in Australia, year.
At 30 June 2002, Free On Board FOB prices for sales from and the Boschmanskrans and Kwagga projects in South Africa.
South Africa were between US$22 and US$23 per tonne, a HSEC 33 per cent decrease over the course of the year.
Tragically five lives were lost in mine accidents.
We have further The evolution of the European coal market towards full intensified our safety efforts and implemented a 10-point liberalisation continued, and we enhanced the capability of our strategy focused on fatality prevention, safety behaviour and marketing group in The Hague to deal more effectively in this safety leadership development across all assets.
Our marketing team in Singapore was also working on critical health issues, including HIV AIDS in our strengthened with the aim of increasing our share of the growing South African operations, and managing our relationship with Asian market in line with the start-up of the Mount Arthur North communities around the assets to deliver positive outcomes project in Australia.
No significant environmental incidents occurred during the year.
Production was 82.8 million tonnes, a decrease of 11 per cent.
The divestment of the Matla and Glisa mines and PT Arutmin, Outlook in addition to production difficulties at the Optimum mine, The longer-term outlook for export energy coal markets remains accounted for 8 million tonnes of the shortfall.
Modest positive, with the current unfavourable price environment production cutbacks were also implemented in South Africa, expected to improve over the coming year.
New Mexico and Colombia in response to reduced market Our focus will be on progressing approved capital projects and demand.
sustaining business improvement initiatives across our assets.
A substantial improvement in business performance was We will also continue to build our marketing capabilities in order achieved through continued emphasis on cost reduction, to deliver enhanced service to our customers and extract greaterproductivity improvement and capital efficiency.
than-commodity value from our products.
US$ million Turnover 1 919 EBIT, excluding exceptional items 536 Capital and investment expenditure 295 Net operating assets 2 092 Mike Oppenheimer, President Alex Cooke, Environmental Coordinator Johan Coetzee and Bafana Thabethe, Douglas Colliery, South Africa Mt Arthur Coal, Hunter Valley, Australia 20 We are moving forward with growth projects to reinforce our low-cost supply position.
Dragline, Douglas Colliery, South Africa 4 1 Ingwe South Africa 2 Hunter Valley Coal Australia 5 3 3 PT Kendilo Indonesia 4 New Mexico Coal USA 5 Cerrejon Coal Colombia 1 2 21
