CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Stainless Steel Materials Results Development activities Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional The Ravensthorpe Yabulu Extension feasibility study progressed, items were US$3 million, compared with US$72 million in 2001, with positive results from extensive pilot plant test work and a reduction of US$69 million or 96 per cent.
finalisation of the process flow sheet incorporating the atmospheric leach technology developed by BHP Billiton.
Nickel earnings of US$24 million were offset by a US$18 million loss This project will provide high-grade feed to Yabulu at low cost in Chrome and a US$3 million loss associated with other activities.
and significantly improve the competitiveness of QNIs operations.
The EBIT reduction was driven by lower realised prices for nickel and The refinerys Optimisation Initiative is also achieving increased cobalt by-product, down 17 per cent and 33 per cent respectively, metal recoveries and reduced energy consumption.
Two new together with ferrochrome prices being at historic lows.
85 ktpa capacity ferrochrome furnaces were commissioned at the Ferrochrome prices were driven by large stock overhangs, reduced Wonderkop Joint Venture Samancor Chrome 50 per cent.
A new stainless steel volumes, and by the devaluation of the South pelletising plant was completed, which will significantly improve African rand against the US dollar.
productivity at Samancor Chromes Tubatse site.
These factors were partly offset by the effects of the lower HSEC rand US$ exchange rate on related operating costs in Chrome, All operations are fully committed to a safety first culture, and increased nickel production from Cerro Matoso Line II, which and considerable improvements in overall safety performance commenced production on 1 January 2001. were achieved.
In particular, our injury frequency rate reduced Markets and operations significantly.
Despite this, two people lost their lives in tragic Stainless steel demand suffered a major downturn as the global accidents at our Samancor Chrome operations.
Nickel and ferrochrome demand was severely were completed and corrective actions implemented.
Our nickel depressed, with prices approaching historic lows.
With the fragile operations further progressed their community and sustainable recovery in industrial production in early 2002, stainless steel development programs.
melting increased, leading to an upturn in the nickel price from a cyclical low in November 2001.
Ferrochrome demand also Outlook increased, but price improvement lagged nickel because of strong Significant expansions in stainless steel melting capacity producer competition and excess stocks worldwide.
currently being commissioned are resulting in increased demand and strengthening prices for nickel and chrome.
Looking forward, Ramp-up of the Cerro Matoso Line II expansion continued to meet expectations and remains on schedule.
The plant rehabilitation the focus will be on enhancing our position as a supplier of quality program at the QNI Yabulu Refinery is near completion, with raw materials to the rapidly expanding stainless steel industry.
production stabilising at historically high levels and consequent We will do this by reducing production costs at our existing nickel cost reductions.
Yabulu operating costs also benefited from a operations, and progressing the operational improvement project lower Australian dollar exchange rate for the early part of the at Yabulu.
Our aim is to finalise the Ravensthorpe Yabulu Extension year, although this was offset by higher prices for fuel oil and low project studies and implement development if feasibility is cobalt by-product credits.
At Cerro Matoso, the ramp-up of Line II will be followed by a new program of operational improvements.
We also aim to At Samancor Chrome, a major restructuring program was initiated, further reduce ferrochrome production costs through continuation the benefits of which were seen in lower production costs in the of the restructuring program at Samancor Chrome.
second half of the financial year, despite reduced volumes.
This program included the closure of the Palmiet Ferrochrome facility.
US$ million Turnover 868 EBIT, excluding exceptional items 3 Capital and investment expenditure 84 Net operating assets 1 663 Chris Pointon, President 3 1 Samancor Chrome South Africa 2 Yabulu Australia 2 1 3 Cerro Matoso Colombia 24
