directors report board of directors non-executive 1 Bruce W M Johnston CA 63 Joined the board 1991 Appointed Chairman 1996 Bruce Johnston was a partner in the chartered accountancy firm, Arthur Young now Ernst & Young, between 1970 and 1986, where he concentrated on audit and advisory work for companies and private clients.
He then moved to the commercial sector and was Executive Chairman of City Centre Restaurants plc, where he combined general management with responsibility for finance and investor relations.
Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC and Mid Wynd International Investment Trust PLC.
5 William Berry MA LLB WS 62 Joined the board 1994 Senior Independent Director Chairman of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee William Berry is a solicitor and chairman of Murray Beith Murray, an Edinburgh Law firm which has an important investment presence, managing and administering funds for many private clients.
He was formerly chairman of Scottish Life Assurance Company.
Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC, Fleming Continental European Investment Trust PLC and The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
executive W Nelson Robertson CBE MA FCII 68 6 Gavin R Suggett MA MSc FCA 57 2 Joined the board 1996 Joined the Company 1973 Member of the audit and the remuneration committees Appointed to the board 1987 Appointed Chief Executive 1995 Nelson Robertsons career was spent at General Accident Fire & Gavin Suggett trained as a chartered accountant before reading Assurance Company where he became a director in 1984 and Chief economics at Cambridge and studying business administration at the Executive in 1990.
He was a director of Morrisons Construction Group London Business School.
He worked in industry and commerce before PLC until January 2001 joining the Alliance Trusts, where he was secretary before becoming a director.
He started the IT capability in the organisation and the deposit Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC, Edinburgh taking and savings business and has, over the years, experience in the Leveraged Income Trust PLC and ELIT Zeroes 2008 PLC.
investment, treasury, oil and mineral rights, financial, administrative and investor relations aspects of the business.
William H Jack 57 7 Joined the board 2000 Alan M W Young MA LLB 55 3 Chairman of the audit committee Joined the Company 1986 Appointed to the board 1992 Member of the remuneration committee Alan Young read law at Edinburgh and worked in London at Buckmaster Bill Jack became managing director of GA Life in 1991, having joined the & Moore, stockbrokers, before joining the investment department at General Accident Fire & Assurance Company in 1973.
He became Gartmore as an analyst and fund manager, He became a director of managing director of CGU Life in 1998 with responsibility for the UK life Gartmores pension and investment trust management arm in 1983.
On and unit trust business.
joining the Alliance Trusts he managed the UK and European portfolios before becoming the director responsible for investment policy.
Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC and Skipton Building Society.
Sheila M Ruckley MA LLB DLP 52 4 Joined the Company 1988 Appointed to the board 2000 Lesley Knox MA 48 8 Joined the board 2001 Sheila Ruckley studied history and philosophy in the UK and USA before Member of the audit and the remuneration committees qualifying as a solicitor.
After joining the Alliance Trusts she became secretary and compliance officer of the savings business before Lesley Knox qualified as a solicitor and worked in the UK and USA becoming responsible for the introduction and development of the before joining Kleinwort Benson Limited where she became Head of Alliance Select Pension.
She now has responsibility for investor relations Institutional Asset Management in 1991 and a group director in 1996.
1997 she joined the British Linen Bank where she was Governor before becoming a founder investor and director of British Linen Advisers.
Other directorships include The Second Alliance Trust PLC, MFI Furniture The executive directors are also directors of the Companys subsidiary Group PLC, Dawson International PLC, Glenmorangie PLC and New and the companies in the Alliance Trust group.
22 how the company works directors directors and officers board matters and delegation The Board consists of five independent non-executive Strategy is considered and determined by the Board.
In directors and three executive directors.
The non-executives are addition, certain other matters are reserved for decision by Bruce Johnston who is the Chairman of the Board, William the Board on the basis of their importance to the Group.
Berry who is the senior independent director, Bill Jack, Lesley What these reserved matters are is reviewed by the Board Knox and Nelson Robertson.
The executive directors are from time to time.
Specific authority is given to Board Gavin Suggett, chief executive, Sheila Ruckley, investor committees to carry out identified tasks, and day-to-day relations director, and Alan Young, investment director.
management is delegated to the executive directors.
Lesley Knox has joined the Board since the last Annual committees of the board General Meeting and her appointment is subject to the approval of stockholders at this years Annual General Details of the audit committee and its responsibilities are Meeting.
given on page 28 in the section on accountability and audit.
The Chairman plays an important role, along with the other No separate nomination committee has been constituted.
non-executives, in bringing an independent and objective Given the relatively small size of the Board, the nonview to the activities of the Group.
These directors are executive majority of its members and the regularity and chosen for the relevance of their particular expertise and frequency of its proceedings, the Board as a whole is able experience to the business and direction of the Group.
to fulfil the formal procedures required before a director is appointed.
Details of directors retirals and proposed appointments at the annual general meeting are contained in the notice of The chairman of the remuneration committee is William meeting which accompanies this report.
The other members are Bill Jack, Lesley Knox and Nelson Robertson.
how directors are appointed executive committee Nominations of directors are considered by the Board which also makes the initial appointment.
Such appointments are The chief executive has, with the Boards approval, submitted for approval by the stockholders at the next annual appointed an executive committee to which major general meeting.
By the Articles of Association non-executive management issues arising within the Group are referred directors retire by rotation but may stand for re-election.
fact, the Board has resolved that all the directors, executive The executive committee comprises the three executive and non-executive, should submit themselves in turn for directors Gavin Suggett, Sheila Ruckley and Alan Young re-election by the stockholders at least every three years.
and Neil Anderson, Colin Beveridge and Kevin Dann.
Neil Anderson is the investment operations manager meetings of directors responsible for managing systems, procedures and the The directors meet regularly for Board meetings of the team of analysts in the investment department.
Colin Company monthly, and of ATS quarterly.
With the Beveridge is chief investment officer and Kevin Dann is the exception of the Chairman, the non-executive directors also managing director of ATS.
serve on the audit and remuneration committees.
For all these meetings the directors are provided, in advance, with financial reports and supporting papers which enable them to monitor operational and corporate issues as well as decide on policy.
