Directors Report The information presented in this Report is information At the Annual General Meeting of BHP Billiton Plc held on pertaining to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and 19 October 2001, shareholders renewed the authority given to their subsidiaries.
the Directors at the Annual General Meeting in 2000 approving the terms of the contingent purchase contract between BHP Principal activities and business review Billiton Plc and MSI Investments BVI Limited, an indirect For part of the period, BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited wholly-owned subsidiary of BHP Billiton Plc.
This authority operated solely as holding companies for the BHP Billiton Plc allowed BHP Billiton to put in place a structure intended to have Group and BHP Billiton Limited Group respectively.
In November an effect similar to market repurchase by BHP Billiton Plc of its 2001, BHP Billiton Plcs activities were extended to the provision own shares, while giving the BHP Billiton Group greater flexibility of services to certain BHP Billiton Plc Group companies.
in terms of management of its capital structure.
Under the The principal activities of the BHP Billiton Group during the structure, appointed brokers are able to purchase up to financial period were minerals exploration, production and 231 million ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Plc in the market on processing particularly alumina, aluminium, copper, iron ore, behalf of a special purpose vehicle Nelson Investment Ltd metallurgical coal, ferroalloys, energy coal, nickel, diamonds Nelson.
This represents 9.36 per cent of the issued capital of and titanium minerals, oil and gas exploration and development, BHP Billiton Plc as at 28 August 2002.
The authority was not, and steel production and processing.
however, used during the year.
Shortly after the end of the financial year, BHP Billiton withdrew The contingent purchase contract, if entered into, will give BHP from steel production and processing through the demerger of Billiton Plc the right, but not the obligation, to repurchase and BHP Steel Limited, which is discussed on pages 5, 26 and 92. cancel at any time prior to the expiry of the contingent purchase Apart from this, there were no significant changes in the nature contract up to 231 million of its shares purchased and held by of the Groups principal activities during the financial period.
Alternatively, Nelson can place the shares in the market for the benefit of the BHP Billiton Group.
It is not intended that A review of the development of the business of the BHP Billiton the shares would be placed in the market unless this is Group during the financial period and an indication of likely appropriate for the capital requirements of the BHP Billiton future developments in the business of the Group appear in the Group.
Shareholders will be requested to renew the existing Chairmans Review, the Chief Executives Report, the Customer authority at the Annual General Meetings on 4 November 2002.
Sector Group Reviews, the Financial Review and other material in the Annual Report that includes information on the Groups Directorate business and future development.
The Directors of BHP Billiton at the date of this Report are set out on pages 32 and 34.
Directors who retired during the Results financial year are set out in the table below.
The consolidated profit and loss account set out on pages 72 and 73 shows an attributable profit of US$1690 million compared FORMER DIRECTORS to US$1529 million in 2001.
Director Date of retirement Share buy-back scheme and contingent purchase contract The BHP Billiton Group has in place a share buy-back program, B C Alberts 30 June 2002 under which up to 186 million shares in BHP Billiton Limited can J C Conde 30 June 2002 be purchased on market and cancelled between 1 July 2001 and D L Keys 30 June 2002 1 October 2002, taking into account shares in BHP Billiton Plc R J McNeilly 16 October 2001 purchased and cancelled pursuant to a contingent purchase B D Romeril 30 June 2002 contract see below.
The level of share purchases undertaken will remain subject to prevailing market conditions and The table below sets out details of each Directors relevant alternative capital investment opportunities available to the interests in shares of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Group.
At the date of this Report, a total of 4 134 622 at the beginning and the end of the financial year and at the shares in BHP Billiton Limited have been acquired under the buydate of this Annual Report.
Their rights or options over shares in back program for capital maintenance purposes.
The aggregate BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited are set out on pages amount of consideration paid for these shares was US$19 million.
3 Includes shares held in name of spouse.
4 Held in the form of 41 302 American Depository Shares.
5 Appointed to Board on 29 November 2001, at which date he held 82 604 shares.
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2002 Board RM&AC Nomination Remuneration HSE AB AB AB AB AB D R Argus 7 7 6 6 P M Anderson 7 7 B C Alberts 7 7 13 13 D C Brink 7 6 6 4 3 3 M A Chaney 7 7 J C Conde 7 7 6 6 D A Crawford 7 7 13 13 B P Gilbertson 7 7 32 C W Goodyear 5 5 C A Herkstrter 7 4 13 8 J B Jackson 7 7 6 6 D A Jenkins 7 7 33 D L Keys 7 6 6 5 # R J McNeilly 22 J T Ralph 7 7 6 6 Lord Renwick 7 6 6 5 B D Romeril 7 5 13 12 J M Schubert 7 7 6 5 Appointed to Board 29 November 2001.
Column A Indicates the number of meetings held during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
Column B Indicates the number of meetings attended during the period the Director was a member of the Board and or Committee.
Retired as at 30 June 2002 Mr B C Alberts, Mr J C Conde, Mr D L Keys, Mr B D Romeril.
61 Directors Report continued Value of land Creditor payment policy Much of the BHP Billiton Groups interest in land consists of When BHP Billiton enters into a binding contract with a supplier, leases and other rights, which permit the working of such land payment terms will be agreed when the contract begins and the and the erection of buildings and equipment thereon for the supplier will be made aware of these terms.
BHP Billiton does purpose of extracting and treating minerals.
Such land is mainly not have a specific policy towards its suppliers and does not carried in the accounts at cost, and it is not possible to estimate follow any code or standard practice.
However, BHP Billiton the market value as this depends on product prices settles terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing overall over the long term, which will vary with market conditions.
terms of business and seeks to abide by the terms of the contracts to which it is bound.
BHP Billiton had no trade Political and charitable donations creditors at 30 June 2002.
During the year, the BHP Billiton Group made UK charitable donations of US$482 064 and charitable donations worldwide Auditors totalling US$40 339 528.
No political contributions were made.
A resolution to reappoint the joint auditors, KPMG Audit Plc and , will be proposed at the Annual General Exploration, research and development Meeting in accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act Companies within the Group carry out exploration and research 1985. and development necessary to support their activities.
Annual General Meeting Employee policies and involvement The 2002 Annual General Meeting will be held on 4 November The Groups policy is to encourage effective communication and 2002.
The notice convening the meeting is sent to shareholders consultation between employees and management.
To facilitate separately with this Report, together with an explanation of the the Group's global communications policy, BHP Billiton has a items of special business to be considered at the meeting.
dedicated internal communications division, which manages the release of information to staff across the world.
In addition to By order of the Board the regular production and release of operational and global newsletters and bulletins, employees are also regularly invited to briefings by senior management on important issues such as company strategy and results, and health and safety matters.
BHP Billiton also provides information about issues of D R Argus importance to employees via its intranet and email facilities.
Chairman of Directors These are important tools for inviting employee feedback and increasing awareness of corporate and financial performance.
In addition, all BHP Billiton employees can access the Company's Annual Reports and other key publications via the intranet.
BHP Billiton seeks to encourage the involvement of employees Brian Gilbertson in the Groups performance by involving nominated employees in Chief Executive employee share schemes.
These schemes are described on pages 123 to 126.
9 September 2002 The BHP Billiton Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled people, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
Should employees become disabled during employment, they would be considered for any necessary retraining and available work within their capabilities.
For the purpose of training, career development and promotion, disabled employees are treated in the same way as other employees.
