Steel Results for the Steel segment BHP Steel also operates the only integrated flat products Excluding exceptional items, the Steel segment contributed steelworks in New Zealand and has a 50 per cent share in the earnings before interest and tax EBIT of US$101 million in the North Star BHP Steel mini mill in Ohio, in the US.
Steel rolling, year ended 30 June 2002, down from US$270 million, a decrease coating and painting plants are located in Australia, New of 62.6 per cent compared with the corresponding period.
The Zealand, Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia.
These facilities are reduction was mainly due to lower international prices for steel complemented by a network of roll-forming facilities across the products and the exclusion of operating profits from disposed Asia Pacific region that are unmatched by any steel company.
businesses primarily OneSteel Limited which were included in Leading market positions the corresponding period.
Historically, BHP Steel has held leading market positions in flat These factors were partly offset by stronger Australian domestic steel products, supplying approximately 80 per cent of the total demand for value-added coated products, and the profit from the tonnes of product sold into the Australian and New Zealand sale of the Australian and US strapping businesses.
Approximately half of BHP Steels Australian and New Zealand sales in tonnes were export sales in the year ended Raw steel production for the year of 5.3 million tonnes was 30 June 2002.
2 per cent less than 2001, reflecting production down-time associated with industrial action, planned maintenance and the BHP Steel is well-known for its value-added brands including re-line of the New Zealand Steel melter.
COLORBOND steel known as COLORSTEEL in New Zealand, ZINCALUME metallic coated steel, GALVABOND and Overview GALVASPAN steel all leaders in their markets in Australia and On 15 July 2002, BHP Steel Ltd commenced trading on the New Zealand.
In Asian markets, BHP Steel is continuing to Australian Stock Exchange as a separate listed company.
develop branded products tailored to meet specific regional The demerger of BHP Steel was approved by shareholders on needs, such as Clean COLORBOND steel which is resistant to 26 June 2002 and by the Court on 1 July 2002.
Other successful brands include will enable the entity to grow as an independent company and PrimaDesa steel in Malaysia, and TRUZINC galvanised steel pursue its own business strategy without having to compete in Thailand.
for capital with other businesses in the BHP Billiton portfolio.
It also allows BHP Billiton to focus on its minerals and petroleum Performance and management businesses.
The Steel segments earnings before depreciation, amortisation, interest and tax EBITDA were US$238 million in the year ended BHP Steel is the largest steel business in Australia and 30 June 2002.
Led by Mr Kirby Adams as Chief Executive Officer New Zealand, serving customers in the building and construction, since March 2000, a strong and experienced management team manufacturing, automotive and packaging industries.
The maintained a strong focus on costs, productivity and working business specialises in the production of flat steel products, capital.
The team offered a well-balanced mix of financial, including slab, hot rolled coil, cold rolled coil, plate, tin plate and technical, marketing, operational and strategic management value-added metallic coated and painted steel products.
In 2002, capabilities that proved invaluable in a year when global steel it held leading market positions in Australia and New Zealand for prices were at, or about, historic lows.
most of its products and continued to build on its established presence in Asia.
BHP Steel also had significant export sales, The demerger of BHP Steel supplying a core group of customers in the US, Asia, Europe, the The demerger of BHP Steel from BHP Billiton was implemented by Middle East, Africa and the Pacific through its international sales way of a capital reduction and a distribution of BHP Steel shares network.
BHP Steel comprised the majority of the BHP Billiton to eligible BHP Billiton Limited shareholders who held fully paid Steel segment.
While BHP Billiton Plc shareholders did not receive shares, to ensure equality of treatment they received a bonus issue of Markets and operations BHP Billiton Plc shares to reflect the value of BHP Steel shares BHP Steels Port Kembla operation in New South Wales is the being distributed to BHP Billiton Limited shareholders.
largest steel production facility in Australia and one of the worlds lowest-cost producers of steel products.
The Port Kembla Steel segment to 30 June 2002 US$ million Steelworks operates in the lowest quartile of the world steel Turnover 2 785 production cost curve, at an annual production capacity of EBIT, excluding exceptional items 101 5.0 million tonnes.
Capital and investment expenditure 100 Net operating assets 2 133 26 BHP Steel has a proud history and an exciting future.
Kirby Adams, Managing Director and CEO Steel provides inspired product solutions in a wide range of applications 27 Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC Review The merger between BHP and Billiton has provided significant advantages in terms of the new Companys ability to deliver improved HSEC performance and contribute to sustainable development outcomes for all our stakeholders.
One of the key advantages of the Companys diversified portfolio On 1 July 2002, we formally committed to the United Nations is that it provides the stability of cash flow required to take Global Compact and its associated principles.
The Compact a longer-term view on all aspects of our business, including was developed by the United Nations to help realise UN Secretary environmental and community issues.
It also gives us increased General Kofi Annans vision of making globalisation more access to expertise and best practices that can be shared across inclusive, stable and equitable giving a human face to the the organisation, creating a faster rate of improvement.
The Compact principles address the three key areas of human rights, labour standards and the environment.
Our approach to sustainable development is underpinned by our Charter, which values, an overriding commitment to In terms of our HSEC performance for the period, safety is an health, safety, environmental responsibility and sustainable area in which our focus has intensified.
The Charter is supported by an integrated performance indicators have improved and we are pleased HSEC Policy that outlines our principles in relation to these to report a 9 per cent reduction in our injury frequency rate.
issues, under the goal of zero harm.
The Charter and Policy It is, however, with great regret that we report the deaths of are implemented via detailed Management Standards, the 13 employees or contractors.
We will relentlessly pursue requirements of which must be met at all operations.
any opportunity to achieve our goal of zero fatalities.
An auditing process has been established to monitor Environmental performance across the Company continued implementation of the Management Standards and ensure to improve: however, one significant incident occurred at Port improvement plans are in place.
The results from this program Kembla Steelworks.
In relation to greenhouse gas emissions, are very encouraging, with solid progress across the organisation.
we aim to achieve an improvement in the greenhouse intensity Fifty-five per cent of our operations have now also achieved of our operations emissions and have set ourselves a target of certification to the international environmental management a 5 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas intensity for the period standard ISO 14001.
The work of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee Relationships with our community stakeholders continued of the Board continued during the year, with several members to develop.
In line with our Charter values, we are committed participating in site reviews.
The Committee also provided to contributing 1 per cent of our pre-tax profit to community guidance in relation to the development and implementation programs, based on a three-year rolling average.
Our of the Companys health and safety programs.
contributions during the year represented 1.4 per cent of our pre-tax profit, significantly exceeding our target.
Many of the In addition to our internal HSEC endeavours, we have been active programs focus on helping communities to maximise and sustain members of the Global Mining Initiative GMI.
Established in the benefits of our activities through employment opportunities, 1998 by 10 of the worlds largest mining companies, the purpose training, education and health care.
During the period, we of the GMI has been to develop the industrys role and completed our withdrawal from the Ok Tedi copper mine in responsibilities in the transition to sustainable development.
Papua New Guinea through the transfer of the Companys The core components of the GMI were an independently equity to an independent company established to deliver managed Mining, Minerals and Sustainable Development study sustainable community development programs.
of the global industrys current and potential contribution to Further details of our HSEC activities are presented in our sustainable development: the International Council on Mining separate dedicated HSEC Report, which includes specific targets and Metals ICMM, which was established in 2001 to provide set by the Company together with a scorecard and an expanded a global leadership body for the industry on sustainable summary of our performance.
The HSEC Report has been prepared development: and the GMI conference, which was held in in accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines.
We are now working with Having made progress overall in our HSEC performance through the ICMM to develop work plans to address the key the year, future efforts will be reinforced by the incorporation of recommendations arising from the GMI process.
HSEC initiatives into the Companys Strategic Framework.
Colin Bloomfield Graham Evans Vice President, Health, Safety and Environment Vice President, Government and Community Relations 28 Nursery, West Coast Fossil Park, Western Cape Province Ilembe Primary School near Hillside, South Africa West Cliff Colliery, Illawarra, Australia Corporate Community Leadership Program, Koraput District, India Trainee Program, Newman, Western Australia Vegetated bund wall, Port Hedland, Australia
