Board of Directors Paul Anderson David Brink MSc Engineering Mining, D Com hc, 63 BS Mech Eng, MBA, 57 As Chief Executive Officer, Paul Anderson brought to BHP Billiton a Dave Brink brings considerable mining and finance experience to proven track record in creating shareholder value through an extensive the Group.
He has over 20 years experience in the mining industry, executive career in the United States.
His contribution to the Board in particular, shaft sinking, tunnelling and exploration contracting, continues to be enjoyed, pending his retirement at the conclusion of followed by 12 years as the Chief Executive Officer of a major listed the 2002 Annual General Meeting.
construction, engineering and manufacturing conglomerate.
A Director since December 1998 and retired as Chief Executive Officer A Director of Billiton Plc since July 1997 and a Director of BHP Billiton and Managing Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Chairman of the Health, 1 July 2002.
Former Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Safety and Environment Committee and a member of the Nomination BHP Limited since 1998 and of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Committee and Risk Management & Audit Committee.
He is Chairman since June 2001.
He was previously President and Chief Operating of Murray & Roberts Holdings Limited and Unitrans Limited and Deputy Officer of Duke Energy Corporation, President, Chairman and Chief Chairman of ABSA Bank Limited and ABSA Group Limited.
He is also a Executive Officer of PanEnergy Corporation and a Director of Kerr-McGee Director of Sanlam Limited and Sappi Limited and Vice President of the Corporation, Baker Hughes Incorporated and TEPPCO Partners, LP.
South Africa Foundation and the South African Institute of Directors.
He is currently a Director of Qantas Airways Limited, Temple-Inland Inc, Michael Chaney the Stanford University Graduate School of Business and a Global BSc, MBA, FAIM, FAICD, 52 Counsellor for The Conference Board.
Mike Chaney brings commercial expertise to the Board, developed Don Argus over many years as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director AO, FAIB, FCPA, FAICD, 64 of Wesfarmers Limited.
Don Argus brings to the Chairmanship of BHP Billiton considerable A Director of BHP Limited since May 1995 and a Director of BHP Billiton experience in international business and a strong management Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
He is a Director of Gresham background.
Partners Group Limited, a trustee of the Committee for the Economic Appointed a Director of BHP Limited in November 1996 and Chairman Development of Australia, a member of the Business Council of in April 1999.
Chairman of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc Australia and the Council of the National Gallery of Australia, a Director since June 2001.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Former of the Centre for Independent Studies and Chairman of the Australian Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Australia Research Alliance for Children and Youth.
He is Chairman of the Brambles Group and a Director of Southcorp Holdings Limited and the Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited.
He is also a member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft.
Paul Anderson Don Argus David Brink Michael Chaney David Crawford Brian Gilbertson 32 David Crawford Cornelius Herkstrter B Comm, LLB, FCA, FCPA, FAICD, 58 CA, 65 David Crawford has extensive experience in risk management and Cor Herkstrter has broad international business experience with special business reorganisation, having acted either as a consultant, scheme interests in human resources and the environment.
He has held various manager, receiver and manager or liquidator to very large and executive appointments throughout Europe and South East Asia with complex groups of companies.
He has significantly contributed to the Billiton and Shell.
restructuring of the Groups Risk Management & Audit Committee A Director of Billiton Plc since July 1998 and a Director of BHP Billiton of which he is Chairman, and as Chairman of the BHP Superannuation Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
A member of the Risk Fund has overseen the restructuring of that fund to an outsourced Management & Audit Committee.
He is Professor of International managed fund.
Management at Amsterdam University, Chairman of the Supervisory A Director of BHP Limited since May 1994 and a Director of BHP Billiton Board of the ING Group, trustee to the Board of the International Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
A Director of Lend Lease Accounting Standards Committee and Chairman of Supervisory Board Corporation Limited, Fosters Group Limited, National Foods Limited and of DSM.
Former President of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and Westpac Corporation Limited, he is former Australian National Chairman Chairman of the Committee of Managing Directors of the Royal Dutch of KPMG, Chartered Accountants.
Brian Gilbertson John Jackson MSc, MBL, 59 BA, LLB, 73 Brian Gilbertson has more than 30 years experience in the mining industry.
A lawyer, John Jackson has business experience in a wide range of industries including electronics, engineering, pharmaceuticals and Formerly Executive Chairman and Chief Executive of Billiton Plc, he fine chemicals, biotechnology, hotels, property, retailing and printing.
became Deputy Chief Executive Officer on the merger and assumed the role of Chief Executive on 1 July 2002.
With Paul Anderson, Brian A Director of Billiton Plc since July 1997 and Senior Independent Director Gilbertson oversaw the merger.
He is a member of the Health, Safety of that company.
A Director and Deputy Chairman of BHP Billiton and Environment Committee and a Director of the South African Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
He will retire from the Reserve Bank.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Celltech Group Plc, Oxford Technology Venture Capital Charles Goodyear Trust Plc, Wyndeham Press Group Plc and Xenova Group Plc, a Director BSc, MBA, FCPA, 44 of WPP Group Plc, Arkios Ltd and Brown & Jackson Plc and is nonBefore joining the BHP Group as Chief Financial Officer in 1999, solicitor Chairman of Mishcon fide Reya.
Charles Goodyear had extensive financial, corporate restructuring and merger and acquisition experience in the United States.
A Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since November 2001.
Appointed Chief Development Officer in June 2001.
Former President of Goodyear Capital Corporation and former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Freeport-McMoRan Inc. Charles Goodyear Cornelius Herkstrter John Jackson 33 Board of Directors continued David Jenkins Lord Renwick of Clifton BA, PhD Geology, 63 KCMG, MA, 64 David Jenkins executive career at British Petroleum makes him Lord Renwick has wide international and financial expertise.
He served a recognised authority on all facets of oil and gas technology.
as British Ambassador to South Africa from 1987 to 1991 and as British Ambassador to the US from 1991 to 1995.
He is currently Vice Chairman, A Director of BHP Limited since March 2000 and a Director of BHP Investment Banking, JP Morgan Plc.
Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
A member of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee and the Risk A Director of Billiton Plc since July 1997 and a Director of BHP Billiton Management & Audit Committee.
A Director of Chartwood Resources Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
A member of the Ltd, a private company providing consultancy services and business Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is and technology advice to the oil industry.
Former Chief Geologist and Chairman of Fluor Limited, Director of British Airways Plc, Compagnie Chief Technology Advisor to the British Petroleum Company.
He is a Financiere Richemont, Fluor Corporation, SAB Miller Plc and Harmony member of the Technology Advisory Committee of the Halliburton Gold Mining Co Ltd. Company, the Technology Advisory Board of Landmark Graphics and John Schubert the Advisory Council of Consort Resources.
He also chairs the Energy BC Eng, PhD Chem Eng, FIEAust, FTSE, 59 Advisory Panel of Science Applications International Corporation.
John Schuberts contribution to the deliberations of the Board comes John Ralph from his 23 years experience in the oil industry where he also had AC, FCPA, FAIM, FAICD, FAusIMM, 69 mining and financial responsibilities.
He has experience in mergers, John Ralph has extensive experience in the mining industry, having acquisitions and divestments, project analysis and management.
had a 45-year career with CRA Ltd now part of the Rio Tinto Group A Director of BHP Limited since June 2000 and a Director of before retiring as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Deputy A Director of BHP Limited since November 1997 and a Director of Chairman of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, a Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
He will retire Qantas Airways Limited, Hanson Plc, the Australian Graduate School from the Board in November 2002.
A member of the Remuneration of Management and the Great Barrier Reef Research Foundation.
Chairman of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and He is also non-executive Chairman of G2 Therapies Limited and of the Deputy Chairman of Telstra Corporation Limited.
Former Chairman Advisory Board of Worley Limited and President of the Business Council of Pacific Dunlop Limited and Fosters Group Limited, and a former of Australia.
Former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Director of Pioneer International Limited.
He is also a former President Pioneer International Limited and former Chairman and Managing of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and the Business Director of Esso Australia Limited.
Company Secretary Karen Wood BEd, LLB Hons, FCIS, 46 Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc since 2001.
She is a member of the Takeovers Panel Australia, a member of the Law Institute of Victoria and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
David Jenkins John Ralph Lord Renwick of Clifton John Schubert 34
