Excellence at the asset level is the foundation of our business BHP Billiton is the largest diversified resources company in the world We are distinguished from other resources companies by 5.
Portfolio management the quality of our outstanding assets: our deep inventory 6.
Funding and capital management of growth projects: our customer-focused marketing: our 7.
Value-adding growth diversification across countries, commodities, markets and 8.
Creative thinking, commercial judgement and shareholders: our Petroleum business: and our innovation.
transaction execution Our vision is to earn superior returns for shareholders as the Excellence at the asset level is the foundation of our worlds premier supplier of natural resources and related business.
Our assets are organised into Customer Sector products and services.
To this end, the Companys Strategic Groups CSGs based on natural customer-oriented Framework sets out eight imperatives.
Marketing is conducted through our two hubs 1.
Zero harm to people and the environment in The Hague and Singapore.
This structure allows us to 2.
Operating excellence focus on the needs of our customers.
The Annual Report presents our 2002 results, strategic direction, and 3.
Project evaluation and execution operational reviews of the CSGs.
Serving customers best Aluminium Energy Coal By delivering expansion projects in line We are moving forward with growth with approved milestones, we will projects to reinforce our low-cost supply strengthen our position as one of the position, while building on our capabilities worlds leading low-cost producers to deliver enhanced customer service.
14 20 Base Metals Petroleum While tempering production to reflect Following considerable success in meeting todays lower demand, we are progressing our growth objectives, we are progressing our development projects in readiness for our exploration and development activities future recovery in the market.
to underpin future production capability.
16 22 Carbon Steel Materials Stainless Steel Materials As well as pushing ahead with our Our focus is on reducing production costs growth projects, we are determined to and optimising productivity in order to protect the competitive position and enhance our position as a leading supplier attractive margins we maintain in our of quality raw materials to the stainless key markets.
