directors report how the company works accountability and audit The Compliance Surveillance and Internal Audit Manager, financial reporting the external consultants and the statutory auditor have the The Chairmans Statement, and the Business Performance opportunity to talk to the committee alone, outwith the and Business Outlook reviews on pages 2 to 11 give the presence of all members of the executive.
They also have directors assessment of the Groups position and the opportunity to approach the chairman or other prospects.
The auditors statement is found on page 43. members of the audit committee directly at any time, or call for a meeting of the committee to be convened.
directors responsibility for the accounts internal control and risk The directors are required by law to prepare financial management statements which give a true and fair view of the state of It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is in affairs of the Group and the Company at the end of the place a sound system of internal control and to review the financial year and of the revenue and cash flows for the effectiveness of this system.
In addition, the directors are responsible for ensuring The Board carries out an annual review of significant that adequate accounting records are maintained, for business risks and considers the scope and effectiveness of safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking the Companys system of internal control.
The Companys reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud risk control procedures seek to identify both financial and or other irregularities.
non-financial risks which the businesses face in their The Company and the Group have, in the opinion of the markets and operations.
The review takes into account the directors, adequate resources to continue operation as a nature and extent of risks inherent in the Companys going concern for the foreseeable future, and the financial activities, including any changes identified during the statements of the Company and the Group for the year course of the year, the extent and frequency of reporting ended 31 January 2002 have been prepared on that basis.
to, and matters discussed by, the Board and its committees The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, during the year, including those issues identified in reports consistently applied and supported by reasonable and received from the audit committee.
In addition to this prudent judgements and estimates, have been used in their annual review, the Board keeps risk issues under scrutiny preparation and that applicable accounting standards have during the year and seeks to satisfy itself that awareness of been followed.
risk is embedded into the Groups operations and that risks identified are being actively monitored.
The Board confirms audit committee and auditors that procedures, which accord with published guidance for directors on compliance with the Combined Code, have Non-executive directors William Berry, Lesley Knox and been in place for the year under review and continue to be Nelson Robertson together with Bill Jack as Chairman form in place.
These procedures ensure that, at both Board and the audit committee.
The committee operates under management levels, consideration is regularly given to the specific terms of reference and meets at least three times a nature and extent of risks faced, or likely to be faced.
They year, including prior to the publication of the Groups interim also provide mechanisms to assess whether further action is and final results.
required to manage the risks identified.
One meeting is dedicated to examining issues of internal The Company seeks to manage the balance between risk control.
At this meeting the committee considers reports and return in a prudent manner.
The balance achieved need by the Compliance Surveillance and Internal Audit Manager, not compromise rigorous compliance with statutory and the annual internal audit and compliance plans and a report regulatory provisions, or adherence to principles of good by external consultants on the internal audit and business management.
Although no system of internal compliance function.
The committee keeps under review control can give an absolute assurance against both the scope, authority and resources of the internal misstatement or loss, the system should prevent or detect audit function and the provision, cost effectiveness and areas of shortcoming and minimise the risk of loss through objectivity of external audit services.
incompetence, neglect of duty, mistake or fraud.
28 The most important aspect of the Companys system of short term borrowing or hedging through financial internal control is the creation of a culture which promotes instruments and derivatives.
Longer term returns and risks honesty and integrity and favours compliance as a positive may be increased by long term borrowing, but the Board aid to business.
The main control mechanism at Board level presently considers that the risk of income and capital loss is the division of powers, with separation of the roles of outweighs the potential for increased returns.
Past chairman and chief executive.
There is commitment to a borrowings are now small and there are no other contractual non-executive majority on the Board and a strong audit commitments which are likely to lead to any conflict between committee.
short term liquidity requirements and long term policy.
The Board reviews the disposition of the portfolio and the Departmental structures with clear lines of managerial economic and valuation risks each month with the executive, responsibility, backed up by interdepartmental support and any change to the above approach to risk and return functions, such as IT, financial control, legal and personnel, would require Board approval.
Details of the activity during ensure that no one person controls all aspects of any the year, the investment strategy and the spread of the function.
Procedures define responsibilities, and the rolling portfolio are given in the business and portfolio reviews internal audit programme provides independent reassurance commencing on page 6.
Further required information is that systems are robust.
given in the notes to the accounts on page 36.
All aspects of the Groups businesses are managed and administered entirely from our Registered office and this is a significant factor in ensuring both an open culture and effective surveillance and control procedures.
The Group has within ATS a business which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The FSA requires that responsibility for certain key control functions within the regulated business are identified, allocated and documented.
Meeting the FSA requirements reinforces the Groups existing risk control process.
investment risk and financial instruments An element of risk is inherent in investing in equities.
This risk is managed through a judicious choice of investments in enterprises diversified across different business sectors and economies.
Notwithstanding diversification, in the short term the aggregate valuation of these investments is subject to considerable fluctuation in response to changes in interest rates, currencies and market sentiment.
However, over the longer term, the cyclical nature of economic factors and the ability of the enterprises in which the Group chooses to invest to adapt to the changing environment should ensure that, for most of the investments, the compounding effects of long term growth exceed the most extreme short term fluctuations in value.
The Group does not aim to enhance returns by any trading activity itself and there is therefore little requirement for 29 directors report how the company works other policies voting policy and practice on payment of creditors The Company owns investments in many listed companies and its policy is to vote its shares wherever practical, All dealings in investments are settled in accordance with usually by arranging for a proxy to be lodged.
Votes are cast the terms of the relevant investment exchange.
Investment with a view to the development or defence of shareholders apart, the Company either accepts suppliers payment interests consistent with the long-term aims for this terms or settles terms of payment with each supplier Company.
Any proposal to vote against the recommendations individually when agreeing a transaction, and so the of the management of the company in which stock is held supplier is always aware of the terms of payment and requires the approval of an executive director, and any payment is made in accordance with these terms.
decision so to vote is reported to the Board.
At 31 January 2002 the Company had no trade creditors.
ATS, its principal operating subsidiary, had trade creditors of data protection 7 6 days purchases.
The Company and ATS are both data controllers as defined under the Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received environment from or about stockholders or investors for example from a The Group seeks to conduct its own affairs responsibly and stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or environmental factors are, where appropriate, taken into by any other electronic or digital means of communication consideration with regard to investment decisions.
For security and compliance monitoring Using reporting guidelines issued by the Department of the purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
Environment, Transport and the Regions, UK greenhouse Information held on the Companys Register of Members gas emissions during the year by reason of the Groups is, by law, public information and the Company cannot activities office heat and power requirements and prevent any person inspecting it or having copies of it, on employee travel are calculated to be approximately 118 payment of the statutory fee.
ATS records about its clients are confidential and are only disclosed on the clients authority or where ATS is obliged donations to do so by law or regulation.
ATS does not sell or The Company is a member of ProShare which promotes otherwise make its client list available to third parties.
individual share ownership and which has charitable status.
6,494 6,494 was subscribed during the year as a membership fee.
No political or charitable donations have been made.
By order of the Board Ian Goddard, Secretary Dundee, 18 March 2002 30
