how the company works structure of the company constitution alliance trust savings The Alliance Trust is an investment company incorporated One of these companies is Alliance Trust Savings ATS under the Companies Acts.
Its constitution is set out in its which is an authorised deposit-taker regulated by the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
It is an Inland Financial Services Authority.
It is owned 75% by the Revenue approved investment trust, which enables it to Company and 25% by the Second Alliance Trust.
ATS realise its investments free from taxation on capital gains.
provides stockholders of both companies with a means of Acceptance of investment trust status by the Inland purchasing and holding their stock in the most convenient, Revenue is retrospective.
Acceptance has been confirmed flexible, cost and tax efficient way appropriate to their own in respect of the financial year to 31 January 2001.
This is achieved by providing a number of Company has subsequently conducted its affairs to enable wrapper products ISAs, PEPs, Investment Plans and it to continue to seek approval.
Pensions which enable stockholders to choose their own portfolios from a wide range of securities having first made an initial investment in the Company and or the Second management Alliance Trust.
These wrappers are all administered in-house Most investment trusts today employ an investment using ATS own systems and staff to ensure a consistent management company to manage the portfolio of the and coherent design, a single point of contact and integrated investment trust and carry out secretarial and administrative reporting where investors use more than one product.
No staff are employed and there is no executive function within the investment trust itself.
stockholders The Alliance Trust is different: it employs its own staff to At 31 January 2002 the Company had 28,090 stockholders manage its portfolio and carry out all secretarial and on its register of members.
These include many individuals, administrative functions.
Consequently it is not exposed to trusts, charities, pension funds and insurance companies.
the potential conflicts of interest involved in employing an The register also includes an increasing number of nominee external investment manager.
holdings which are used by professional advisers and Since the 1920s, the Company has conducted its custodians to simplify administration of clients assets.
One operations alongside those of the Second Alliance Trust, of these is the nominee holding operated by ATS which, at another, smaller, self-managed investment trust.
Staffing the same date, held 12.6% of the Alliance Trust ordinary costs and the expenses of operating from Meadow House, stock for 25,535 investors.
Dundee, where both companies have their office, are shared.
The interests of both companies are aligned since they have the same investment objectives, substantially the same investments in their respective portfolios and the same individuals hold office as directors.
Should any potential conflict of interest arise, independent advice is taken by each company.
This arrangement works well for stockholders, who are also the Companys customers, as the management function is under their control, effectively ensuring the mutuality of interest essential for any long term relationship.
The benefits are evidenced in the exceptionally low expense ratio, the good long term performance and the successful development of value-enhancing activities through companies jointly owned by the two investment trusts.
