directors report outlook We invest and work in a business whose value is Although we cater for a measured on a minute by minute basis but whose predominantly UK investor objectives are long term, measured in years, if not decades.
In this section of the Report we look beyond last years base, we face a world results to the position of the Company going forward.
where the best investment principles opportunities are not Following a year of stock market falls and at a time of major necessarily domestic changes in many aspects of investment, from regulation to the provision for long term pension liabilities, the outlook is particularly uncertain.
We have no crystal ball and reproduce our 100 year performance chart not as a signpost to the future but as a means of putting the present into perspective and to illustrate some of the key principles lying behind our investment process.
The first principle is the importance of income and the fact that growth of capital and of income are inseparable over the long term.
The second is that over long periods disasters are bound to occur, and diversification is the only way to mitigate their damage.
Third, there is no golden long term investment formula - the asset types in which the Alliance Trust has invested have changed gradually over the century, and without the process of constant revitalisation, the sustained long term growth would not have been achieved.
investment process To address our objective we employ a dedicated team of 19 investment staff, assessing opportunities, monitoring and managing our portfolio of over 400 companies.
Our alliance return and inflation preference is for equity investments, where earning a good over 100 years return on capital over the long term is effectively delegated 000 to those best able to achieve it.
We seek well managed 1,000,000 companies which, ideally, offer the prospect of income 100,000 growth and we expect to be long term investors in them.
10,000 We diversify the overall risk to the portfolio from mishaps income reinvested 1,000 and from changes in the business climate by investing in capital only many companies across many sectors and economies.
Our 100 portfolio does not mirror any specific index.
Although we inflation 10 cater for a predominantly UK investor base, we face a 1 world where the best opportunities are not necessarily 1901 1911 1921 1931 1941 1951 1961 1971 1981 1991 2001 domestic and investment prospects everywhere are source: internal strongly influenced by global factors.
4 current investment outlook savings strategy The influence of the US economy has never been as strong A transformation is taking place in the savings industry as at present and its recovery holds the key to the next which will have significant effects over the coming year, global upswing.
Following the cuts in US interest rates and particularly in the areas of pension provision and financial the relaxation of fiscal policy, there are now some encouraging product marketing.
ATS is in a strong position to benefit signs of recovery there.
This will be driven initially by from these changes.
It has a portfolio of cost-efficient government spending and a gradual rebuilding of inventories, products, a flexible self-select model for the investor, an inbut the maintenance of consumer confidence will also be house service capability, and a distribution system which is essential.
A broader base is unlikely to develop until the not dependent on commission based advisors.
ATS is corporate sector becomes more profitable and has confidence financially self-supporting, and we expect to see significant to increase investment spending.
Should the US recovery further expansion, whilst being mindful of the challenges progress, it would soon benefit both Europe and Asia, which change brings.
although problems are more likely to linger in Japan.
Companies face strong global competition and there is still ten year growth only limited scope for price increases.
Markets are likely to value be volatile and preoccupied by capital raising exercises, pension ISA PEP investment plan in m with changes in pension provision and by further accounting 1200 1200 concerns after the Enron collapse.
Investors have become 1000 1000 more risk-averse as they continue to adjust down their 800 800 expectations of returns in a low inflation environment.
Given this scenario we believe equities will offer good 600 600 opportunities and would expect to invest further cash on a 400 400 highly selective basis over the coming year.
200 200 0 0 returns to investors 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 Our investment efforts are concentrated on growing the source: internal income and assets of the Company with investors receiving the benefits through dividends and the eventual disposal of To achieve this growth we have started to raise both our their stock.
To investors, short term returns will depend mainly on market prices but longer term returns are more public profile and our marketing efforts in areas where a likely to at least mirror those earned by the Company.
little expenditure and effort can go a long way and where new customers quickly contribute to the business through Most of our stockholders have long term objectives and economies of scale.
Our main investment however, is this is illustrated by the relatively low levels of turnover on directed towards improving systems, service and products the stock market.
Last year, trading across the Stock which benefit existing investors directly.
Exchange amounted to less than 10% of the stock issued, and in ATS the turnover equated to an average holding Over the last two years we have invested in the first phase period of over 25 years.
Our size and the activities of the of ATS On Line, our Internet access facility and in the London market makers ensure that there is good liquidity development of the Alliance Select Pension products.
ATS and, with one of the lowest bid-offer spreads, averaging On Line has the potential not only to enhance services to less than 1%, dealing in our stock is relatively inexpensive.
investors but also to save costs and improve efficiency as we develop it over the coming years.
The investment in our The price of the stock is determined by the interaction of self-invested personal pension will also continue, as we see supply and demand at any one time, and we take no part in this as a key component in our savings business strategy this process - indeed to do so would introduce conflicts of going forward, giving investors a flexible, tax efficient interest between the Company and its stockholders.
We do means of providing for their long term pension needs in a however recognise the need for a large and growing stockholder base and we are encouraging this through the highly cost-efficient manner.
For the Company it has huge Companys savings business and its investor relations potential as a means of growing and developing its natural activities.
These initiatives are of growing significance.
