208bn Worldwide assets under management Operating review: Fund management Overview Investing in equity markets was a frustrating business last year.
Building a Investors in major stock markets typically experienced losses of between 15% and 40% by the end of 2002.
Although we anticipate a gentle recovery in the global economy in 2003, we world-class fund expect the impact of difficult investment conditions to persist in the short term.
management In such conditions, Avivas in-house fund management expertise is even more crucial to our business.
We continuously strive to business.
generate superior investment performance on behalf of our shareholders, policyholders and institutional clients.
To that end, we continue to develop our presence as a leading international fund manager by making increased use of shared systems, investment processes and research expertise across our operations.
Worldwide assets under management were maintained at 208 billion 2001: 209 billion as flows of new business compensated for the impact of falling investment values.
However, the effect of lower markets on fee income saw operating profit fall to 5 million 2001: 29 million.
UK Morley Fund Management is our institutional fund management operation, with assets of over 100 billion.
We cover all the major asset classes and specialise in actively managed funds.
As a major shareholder in many organisations we are actively involved in issues of corporate governance.
This includes talking directly with companies in which we invest.
We introduced several new socially responsible investment SRI products during 2002 to help institutional investors apply more social and environmental investment criteria.
We also launched our first US mutual funds from our Boston office, which represents a step towards building capability in the North American market.
The volatile markets during 2002 saw new business volumes in the industry drop sharply, but we succeeded in securing 7.5 billion of new external mandates 2001: 3.8 billion.
In the circumstances, and taking into account the impact of lower equity markets on fee income, Morleys operating profit of 4 million 2001: 25 million was a good result.
14 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 Worldwide assets under management billion 1998 185 1999 208 2000 220 2001 209 2002 208 Restated for the effect of Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax.
Our biggest asset is the combined experience and talent of our team of over 190 investment professionals.
We continue to use this experience to create better ways to manage our business, including improved investment processes, restructured funds, changes in asset allocation and managing appropriate levels of risk.
Morley won a number of external accolades during the year, including fund manager of the year in the Pensions Week Awards, and achieved top ratings from Standard & Poors for our emerging markets fund management team.
We were also awarded specialist manager of the year in the UK Pension Awards, Ireland in recognition of our SRI expertise.
Hibernian is Irelands fourth-largest fund manager, with 5.9 billion Our retail products, such as unit trusts and individual savings of assets under management and a market share of nearly 10%.
accounts Isas, are marketed under our Norwich Union brand.
During the year, in association with Morley, we launched Irelands Sales of 556 million 2001: 816 million reflected caution among first SRI funds.
Continuing investment in our retail business Australia resulted in an operating loss of 16 million 2001: 32 million.
Portfolio Partners, which manages 3.3 billion of assets for retail Norwich Union was named best UK insurance fund manager in and institutional investors through a range of unit trusts and Standard & Poors UK Investment Funds Performance Awards for individual mandates, reported new sales of 267 million 2001: the second consecutive year.
Navigator, our online investment portfolio service, France is among the top five master trusts in Australia, with 2.8 billion Aviva Gestion dActifs formerly Victoire Asset Management has a in funds under administration 2001: 2.8 billion.
New sales, reputation for strong investment performance, with around 70% affected by consumer caution in the light of poor stock market of our funds in the top quartile for returns over three years.
We have 58 billion of assets under management, most of which Singapore are invested on behalf of our own operations.
Despite the difficult We launched Navigator Asia in Singapore in October 2002 and markets, we recorded an operating profit of 11 million 2001: plan to roll out our online Navigator platform more widely across 12 million.
We are pleased with our selection as the first investment administrator to be given access to Singapores Awards won in 2002 included best insurance asset manager for 20 billion Central Provident Fund Investment Scheme.
This means the third time in four years from monthly financial magazine Mieux we can provide our services to a comprehensive social security Vivre Votre Argent, and best performance awards over one and savings scheme with a pool of three million investors.
three years from La Tribune Standard & Poors.
Netherlands and Belgium The Delta Lloyd group is among the leading fund managers in the Netherlands, with assets under management of 27 billion 2001: 29 billion.
We offer our clients a broad spread of investment products: Delta Lloyd focuses on lower-risk stock selection to provide less volatile returns, while OHRA adopts a themed approach to industry sectors considered to offer the best long-term growth potential.
Investment sales rose to 119 million 2001: 85 million, partly owing to the introduction of products with a fixed return to offset the unpredictable markets.
Our Belgian operation Nagelmackers was voted Belgiums best fund manager for the second successive year by Belgiums leading financial daily, fide  Tijd.
15 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 959m Operating profit before tax Operating review: General insurance UK Norwich Union Insurance is the largest general insurer in the UK and produces 61% of the groups general insurance business.
Our overall UK market share is around 16%, although higher in our chosen sectors, such as private motor and targeted business cover.
We are committed to delivering consistent and sustainable performance, and high-quality products and service, while building on our market leadership.
Competition in the personal lines market is intense, with new entrants, high street retailers and other major brands increasing the pressure on insurers to provide low prices.
In contrast, the Overview commercial market has seen increasing opportunities as insurers Our general insurance strategy is to create strong market positions reassess their risk strategies and tighten underwriting standards focused on personal lines and selected commercial insurance.
following the demise of Independent Insurance Group and the By targeting these sectors, we have a lower-risk business capable World Trade Center disaster.
of producing a steadier stream of profits which we can use to We produce sustainable returns through disciplined underwriting, support growth in our long-term savings operations.
efficient claims handling and rigorous management of costs.
The success of our strategy is reflected in an excellent We believe that the skills of our insurance professionals are operating profit of 959 million 2001: 924 million.
Operating fundamental to running an efficient and effective business.
profit from continuing operations was 881 million 2001: Following the launch of our Underwriting Academy in 2001 to 876 million.
Worldwide net premiums written from continuing develop our skills and improve our risk selection, we created a operations were maintained at 7.8 billion 2001: 7.9 billion.
Claims Academy in 2002 to provide our staff with the training support they need to deliver excellent customer service.
One of our key performance measures is the groups combined operating ratio COR, which broadly expresses the total of claims Our expense ratio in 2002 broadly a measure of costs excluding costs, commission and expenses as a percentage of premiums.
commission as a percentage of premiums was 10.4% 2001: We have one of the best CORs among our European peer group.
10.5%, one of the lowest among major UK insurers.
The key to We produced a better-than-target COR of 101.4% as a result our expense management is balancing low costs with high levels of our disciplined underwriting and efficient claims handling.
of service, while allowing us to invest in new technology to Our COR from continuing operations was 101.7%, and this maintain our leading position in the market.
For example, we excellent result gives us confidence that we are capable of announced in early 2003 our plans to develop a call and claims sustaining our target COR of 102% over the underwriting cycle.
This investment will help us maintain a leadership position in our markets and high levels of customer Market conditions across our businesses are becoming more service 24 hours a day.
This is particularly true in personal lines, as rating competition intensifies.
However, we will not chase sales volume at Customers increasingly look for individually tailored products and the expense of profit.
Our clear strategy, combined with scale and services.
We are developing a number of initiatives to meet this presence in our chosen markets, positions us to continue to growing demand to give customers an even fairer price based on produce excellent returns for our shareholders.
We continue to lobby the Government for improved flood defences in the UK, and our unique digital map covering most of mainland Britain will help us to calculate flood risks more accurately for individual policies.
Other examples of market-leading initiatives include our pioneering Pay As You Drive motor insurance project and the launch of Norwich Union Rescue as a branded vehicle breakdown service.
We have also launched a series of business products that are more straightforward and relevant to the needs of our customers.
The success of our approach is reflected in an improved operating profit of 611 million 2001: 590 million, on net premiums written of 4.7 billion 2001: 4.8 billion.
Behind this result is a change in mix between personal lines premiums of 2.8 billion 2001: 3.1 billion and commercial lines premiums of 1.9 billion 2001: 1.7 billion.
This reflects how we manage our business as a balanced portfolio in response to changing market conditions.
16 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 From continuing and discontinued operations.
