Directors Andrew Barker, Chairman Richard Brewster, FCA James Morley Michael Moule Age 57 was formerly a Age 57 is Chief Age 53 is Group Age 56 is a director of director of F&C Executive of Interbrandpro Finance Director of Cox Lowland Investment Management Limited.
He is Holding GmbH and a nonInsurance Holdings plc Company plc and Old Chairman of International executive director of 3i and a non-executive Mutual South Africa Trust Biotechnology Trust plc and Smaller Quoted director of W. S. Atkins.
He joined the Board of British Portfolio Trust plc.
Formerly Group Finance the Company as a nonHe also is a director of F&C He joined the Board of the Director of Arjo Wiggins executive director in 1982 Smaller Companies PLC Company in March 1991.
Appleton plc and Group and has been the manager and Special Utilities Finance Director at since 1977.
He Guardian Royal Exchange joined the Board of the plc.
He joined the Board Company in 1979 and of the Company in became Chairman in 1983.
Francis Sumner David Thomas, BSc FIA Age 60 is a former Age 58 was Director partner of Norton Rose, and General Manager a leading firm of Investments of The solicitors.
He is a director Equitable Life Assurance of several companies Society until April 2001. and the deputy Chairman He sits on the pension Independent director and Member of the Management Engagement Committee of the Crown Agents.
He fund trustee boards or and Nominations Committee joined the Board of the investment committees of Member of the Audit Committee Company in April 1997. various charities.
He joined the Board of the Company in April 2000.
Management Michael Moule Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Michael Wood-Martin Nicole Monir The portfolio is managed by Michael Moule who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Alex Crooke, the deputy manager, and by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Nicole Monir acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
