Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Investment Managers Review During the year British Empire outperformed the MSCI World index by 19% and the FTSE All Share by 16%.
In the language of relative performance, it was an excellent year, our second best ever.
However, private shareholders, for whom absolute returns are paramount, will be less happy.
Following an initial period to May 2002, when our net asset value hit a new high, the last five months of the year were volatile and quite ugly.
While in the earlier phase it was possible to identify sectors such as gold, where we were able to realise profits of 50% or so, the latter months of the financial year were characterised by massive falls in markets generally as confidence in the profits environment, not to mention the integrity of earnings statements, fell to a new low.
Our own universe, not immune to falling stock prices, also saw underlying discounts widen.
As a result NAV fell by 7% during the year while the MSCI World fell 26%.
Over 3 years net asset value was up 9% while the MSCI and the FTSE All-Share fell by 37% and 36% respectively.
Since the rights issue in 1985 British Empire is first among conventional Global Growth trusts showing a total return percentage gain of 672% compared to an average of 393%, while the MSCI rose 310%.
Our policy remains the same.
In 1997 and 1998 we stuck to our then unfashionable philosophy during an uncomfortable 18 months of underperformance, finding very cheap stocks which subsequently passed on the way up the Ciscos and Vodafones on the way down.
There was then good reason to take some excellent profits.
We tried to preserve capital and the gains we had achieved over many years by moving to a heavily liquid position.
At its peak, liquidity was nearly 50%.
This went against the euphoria of the time and the dread historic experience that liquid trusts, if wrong-footed, are taken over.
After an 18 year nirvana we tried to anticipate less pleasant days.
During the latter phases of the bull market the cry its far too expensive, but I have to own it was heard repeatedly.
Shrewd investors, who knew full well the fearful risks GBL Groupe Bruxelles when markets are selling on 30 or 40 times earnings, were held to ransom by the Lambert owns 25.1% of tyranny of business risk, the possible loss of a valuable account because the numbers Bertelsmann which, in looked wrong over the medium, or even possibly short term.
The conformist turn, owns the media content businesses RTL, tendencies within the industry, in which armies of people are employed to monitor the Gruner Jahr, Random potential for risky deviation from an index, failed to spot that it was the index itself that House and BMG.
BMG was risky, in the sense of the potential to lose a great deal of money.
owns more than 200 record labels including RCA Records and its The huge enthusiasm for hedge funds and funds of hedge funds was a natural reaction valuable Elvis Presley to the slavish devotion to overvalued indices.
Here was the obvious opportunity to back catalogue.
The benefit from falling stock prices in pools of capital run by managers incentivised to discount of ca.
39% to NAV on GBL means make absolute gains for their clients and themselves, which might be so rewarding as that the Bertelsmann to offset the alternative tendency to boost funds under management and risk diluting holding is effectively in performance.
However, following the broad halving of markets, it may need real talent for nothing.
for hedge fund managers to beat the indices from now on.
Arguably we may have been premature in re-investing some of our liquidity.
As reported last year, we bought a number of wide discount stocks in the aftermath of the 9 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued September 11th atrocity.
Panic gave liquidity in some of our favoured investments and we were able to re-invest about 50 million often in securities we had sold much higher up.
This worked well until such stocks succumbed in the summer to the general despondency caused by a litany of worries: accounting scandals, spectacular corporate collapses, weakening earnings and the prospect of war.
Investor psychology has turned full circle, and this should now give us further opportunities to invest the rest of our cash.
It is almost impossible to obtain a consensus fix on the valuation basis of markets, a fact that gives pause for thought when one considers the apparent certainties of the bull market.
In so many cases, corporate earnings were inflated and this appeared to justify higher and higher multiples.
Traditional measures, p e, dividend yield, multiples of cash flow were dropped if deemed implausible, to be replaced by a substitute ratio.
Prospect Japan has once again been amongst the top Nothing is now taken on trust.
Auditors and non-executives have carte blanche to ask performing Japanese awkward questions, earnings are restated, writedowns are made and multiples trusts.
Yet the calculation of earnings remains tricky in the extreme, especially in made good returns exploiting niche retailers relation to option and pension costs and certain exceptional items.
Two current such as Nishimatsuya measures give multiples of earnings for the constituents of the S & P 500 index ranging Chain, a childrens between a p e of 48 Standard and Poors core earnings and 33 reported earnings clothing retailer, and Ks Denki, an electrical and this is post a 40% fall in the index.
Outrageously expensive then, and hardly cheap goods retail group.
Clearly investors should expect to pay higher multiples of depressed earnings just as p es should have contracted sharply the higher the bull market escalated but it is difficult to put hand on heart and declare stock markets undervalued, even though bond yields are near generation lows.
This much vaunted relationship has been useless for the past 5 years and in Japan seemingly for well over a decade.
There is also the bogey of deflation to consider.
Profits, always the small difference between two very large numbers, could yet succumb to a long period of subdued volume growth and pricing pressure.
Cost cutting may put pressure on hitherto buoyant consumer spending and residential asset prices.
In such circumstances monetary policy may be impotent.
These are worries enough without the added unease of possible war.
However, markets anticipate and discount a multiplicity of future hopes in bull markets and, by contrast, concomitant worries in bear phases.
The rational valuation of a business should not swing anything like as much as occurs in volatile stock markets.
Danubius Hotels As an example, Cap Gemini, an important asset of Wendel Investissement, acquired is using its cash flow Ernst & Young Consulting with shares valued at A11.5 billion to put a value on the to buy into privatised merged business of around A25 billion.
Recently the capitalisation fell to nearly 95% spa resorts in Eastern less than at the peak, and yet the company has no net debt and its future has never been European markets such as the Czech Republic.
Danubius owns a number of hotels in Bear markets are savage, unforgiving and often terminal for borrowers.
Yet they present Marienbad, Czech Republic pictured.
Although the present duration at 30 months seems short in 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 span by comparison with 18 years of upswing, the amplitude of falls is not that far off that of the fearsome experiences of 1973 74.
And if one generation of investors was scarred by that trauma, it also has memories of the markets broadly doubling in a six week period in early 1975.
P es were then in modest single figures, but profits were calculated before inflation accounting adjustments which gave much lower earnings: on the whole most survivors prospered.
Now the test seems to be one that we have tried to pass in the past.
Providing one can access growing corporate earnings on a p e of around 10 a pre-tax 15% starting return on investment then, barring Armageddon, the investor should do well.
Wendel Investissement Discounts of say 30 or 40% via holding company structures can also give access on The major part of such a valuation basis: a very satisfactory risk reward relationship in a low inflation Wendels asset base is environment.
The welcome return of focus on yield is also helpful and companies may now invested in unlisted companies.
This is respond to this by increasing pay-out ratios.
Some of our stocks are now yielding well expected to be the over 5%.
Selectivity will be necessary against a market background which will strategic focus in the probably see sharp rallies but no strong bull trend until the many excesses of the 90s future and is likely to have a beneficial impact have been worked out.
BioMerieux illustrated We also feel more comfortable where management has a large shareholding interest.
specialises in medical As we said in our Interim Report, it has been more rewarding for us to be invested diagnostics for infectious diseases.
alongside owners rather than alongside holders of share options.
Moreover, long term Among its other unlisted owners do not need to beat the drum of insistent publicity in promoting share price investments, Wendel performance, one of the reasons for which often obscure investment holding also owns 100% of Orange Nassau which companies sell on wide discounts.
They should give additional scope for rewards: first holds oil and gas the majority make sensible decisions based on long term objectives, rarely reckless ones interests in the Dutch based on short-term focus.
Second, there is additional value for outlay with a larger sector of the North Sea quantum of assets working for the shareholder.
Third, there is scope for additional and property interests in Holland: 33% of Bureau gains from annual buy backs, well worth having in a low inflation environment.
Fourth, Veritas, a leading the increasing focus on shareholder value often supported by increasingly disparate verification company, family owners can give one-off exceptional gains as the share price moves closer to and 100% of Wheelabrator Allevard, underlying asset value.
world leader in abrasive pellets.
The closed end fund sector is more difficult to call.
When markets were high and discounts relatively low we reduced our exposure, while continuing to hold special situation trusts such as Law Debenture and contrarian investments in emerging markets and Japan.
Markets are now much lower and in some cases there are attractive discounts, often with wind up opportunities in the relatively near-term.
It is often sensible to buy investment trusts where there is potential for corporate activity.
We continue to believe that there is an overwhelming argument for consolidation within the sector in view of the massive duplication of effort and costs.
There is too little differentiation: the investment trust discount is applied to all and sundry.
Following the over supply of recent years, a multi-year period of restructuring is necessary.
John Walton and John Pennink Asset Value Investors 21 November 2002 11 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued 1 I have run British Empire for 18 2 years, for the past year jointly with John Pennink.
It is a tribute to John that the three years of his contribution to management have been our best period of all relative to the markets.
His reading of the likely course of the world economy and its probable impact on stocks has been outstanding.
He believes strongly in the philosophy we follow and shareholders can be sure that, now as sole manager of the Company, he will implement our style with discipline and rigour.
Highlights of the past 18 years have included our corporate actions, examples being the take-over offers for three other investment trusts, of which two were completed Worms & Cie and successfully integrated within British Empire, the other unitised to the benefit of is part of the Agnelli shareholders.
We have also had the good fortune to be able to build positions in obscure group.
The companys companies owning quality assets often ignored by other investors and, for this reason paper subsidiary Arjo very undervalued.
Examples that come to mind: companies within the Lazard group, Wiggins has performed extremely well, allowing the Arnault sphere, Ciga Hotels, Wendel and others.
We have had constructive discusWorms to show sions with many of them about shareholder value.
In the investment trust sector we excellent results and have often taken up a contrarian stance, one example being a large and very rewarding mount a 10% buy back at a premium of 40% to position in Japanese smaller company trusts during the middle of a vicious bear market.
John Pennink will now take British Empire into a further phase in its development.
The Company, 6 million at the start of 1985, was ranked 296 in the UK by market capitalisation in September 2002, and should have good future opportunities to exploit its focus on investments selling on wide discounts to asset value.
I will continue working within Asset Value Investors for the foreseeable future and will continue to sit on the Board of the Company to support the philosophy and its implementation.
This report would not be complete without a tribute to the contribution William Fossick has made to the counsels of the Board over nearly 35 years as a Director, the latter 14 years as Chairman.
William has always been vigorously supportive of our strategic development, and prepared to devote as much time as has been needed to ensure that implementation has been achieved successfully.
He has always believed strongly in the Companys investment philosophy and has been prepared to back it even in difficult times.
Both Shareholders and the investment management team have good cause to be grateful.
John Walton FCC has recently made an offer for the remaining 21 November 2002 equity in 48% owned Portland Valderrivas.
The company has diversified interests in construction, services, cement and property.
The photo shows the Portland Valderrivas Torre Picasso building in Madrid.
12 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Portfolio Review Investment Holding Companies 25.1% of assets We increased our exposure to mainly European investment holding companies during the year.
The discounts to NAV have widened and the underlying holdings are rated much more cheaply than they were one or two years ago.
Rue Impriale A successful holding in the past, it has re-emerged as our largest equity holding following the takeover of Immobilire Marseillaise by Rue Impriale.
There are now just two quoted companies in the Lazard group, Rue Impriale and Eurazeo.
We like the stability of the property interests and believe the investment bank is picking up business under Bruce Wassersteins leadership.
The share price is a little over one-third of the price paid by Credit Agricole for Vincent Bollors stake and at this level we have a small The photograph unrealised profit to add to the gains of 32m in Lazard companies in past years.
shows the mainly pedestrianised rue fide la Rpublique at Wendel Investissement the heart of Following very profitable disposals in the past, we had a small remaining position in Rue Impriales Marine Wendel.
Post September 11th, we bought sister company CGIP.
Later the two property estate in Lyon.
13 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued companies merged and a buyback took place.
Post the collapse in Cap Geminis share price recently down over 90% from its peak the shares, selling on a wide discount, are again very interesting.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Compagnie Nationale Portfeuille We have built up our positions in these Belgian holding companies within the Albert Frere group.
There is no capital gains tax in Belgium so the discount on both companies of ca.
Major holdings include TotalFinaElf and the unquoted Bertelsmann.
GBL has an option to take Bertelsmann public in 2005 which may reveal the value of the holding.
In the meantime, GBL is receiving a preferential dividend from Bertelsmann.
Orkla Orkla has interests in branded consumer goods, beverages 40% of Carlsberg Breweries, specialist chemicals and media.
It also has an investment portfolio worth almost 25% of its total capitalisation.
Orkla trades at a conglomerate discount of approximately 30% to its sum-of-the-parts valuation.
This may narrow as the company divests itself of non-core businesses chemicals and media and uses funds from the investment portfolio to invest in core activities.
Investment Trusts excluding Emerging Markets 23.2% of assets Rue Impriale Govett Strategic Investment Trust A major new During the year we bought and sold a 4.3% position in Govett Strategic.
We bought underground car park the shares on a ca.
18% discount and benefited from reconstruction proposals which has been built in the were announced on June 18th.
The proposals had the effect of allowing shareholders central section of rue fide la Rpublique above.
out at an 8% discount after costs relating to termination of the debt, management fees In addition to ownership and liquidation of the holdings.
Thus, we were able to break even on the position of one million sq.
ft. of during a period when markets were very weak.
property in Lyon, Rue Impriale owns 3 million sq.
ft. in Marseilles, Law Debenture mainly between the The trustee business continues to demonstrate strong growth and our valuation Vieux Port and the new port.
We expect values backed up by external estimates suggests that the shares sell on an attractive discount in both cities to do well to the aggregate value of the investment trust and trustee business.
from current modest levels, but particularly in Hansa Trust Marseilles where the Euromditerrane Following a successful period since we took a substantial ownership position, this year project and the TGV are has seen an outperformance of the indices but unfortunately a recent widening of having a positive impact.
Property represents about 35% of asset value.
The 45% holding Private Equity Investor in Eurazeo Lazard, The fund is trading at close to a 50% discount to its NAV, which approximates the Danone, private equity and many other value of cash and fixed income securities in the portfolio.
The rest of the portfolio is interests accounts for invested in venture capital funds focused on the information technology sector.
While the remainder this market sector is clearly in difficulty, we are effectively paying nothing for the existing investments and future investments will be made at depressed valuations.
14 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Hansa Trust currently sells on a discount as wide as 28%.
In addition its largest asset, a 26.5% stake in Ocean Wilsons sells on a discount of around 40%.
Ocean Wilsons share price of 82p as at 30 June, 2002 compared to nonBrazilian financial assets of 77p per share as at the same date leaving the extensive tug-boat operations pictured and container port facilities in Brazil cheaply valued.
RIT Capital Partners RIT continued to maintain a defensive approach during the year and was rewarded with a very impressive outperformance of the indices adding to the excellent long term record.
At 30th September 34% of the portfolio was held in quoted securities, 17% in funds mainly hedge funds, 26% was invested in private equity and 19% in Government securities.
We believe the discount is too wide at 13%.
Beni Stabili The photograph shows Beni Stabilis head office Property-related, Hotels and Leisure 10.0% on the Via del Corso, AMP Diversified Property Trust Rome see portfolio An Australian Property Trust with 48% exposure to office, 43% exposure to retail and review.
Growth may come from increase in office occupancy, rent reviews and acquisitions.
Beni Stabili Beni Stabili is one of the 3 largest quoted property companies in Italy.
Its assets are valued at less than $100 per sq.
The entrepreneurial management is exploiting the arbitrage in buying property portfolios disposed of by major industrial companies and selling them on.
The company is controlled by the Benetton and Del Vecchio Luxottica families.
The company has recently announced an extraordinary dividend of A0.047 on a share price of A0.50.
European Asset Value Fund The fund has continued to perform well over the year as European property and 15 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Investment Managers Review continued property-related shares in Europe have been strong.
Strong cashflows and high dividend yields have helped as investors turned away from overvalued growth stocks.
Danubius Hotels Danubius trades at 8x 2002 earnings and a discount of 50% to its NAV.
The company is currently increasing its stakes in privatised Czech, Slovakian and Romanian spa resorts to add to its core Hungarian operation.
Recent acquisitions have taken place at valuations of $20,000 per room.
Japan 8.3% Vietnam Enterprise Prospect Japan Investments Despite the economic uncertainty in Japan, there continues to be opportunities in the Hanoi Lake View is the small cap arena.
Entrepreneurial companies with reasonable valuations and strong second largest equity growth can be found.
Prospect Japan has outperformed the markets by finding such investment in the Vietnam Enterprise Fund overlooked value stocks.
Hanoi Lake View owns a Atlantis Japan residential building comprising 31 The trust owns a highly diversified portfolio of Japanese stocks with 90% in stocks apartments and one below 200bn market cap where, it is judged, that most of the value resides.
The fund floor of office space in a is a consistently strong performer.
prime residential area of Hanoi targeting an expatriate clientele.
Encana Following the break-up of conglomerate Canadian Pacific, we received shares in Pan Canadian which has merged with Alberta Energy to form Encana.
We believe Encana is cheap relative to its peers and its growth profile and we have bought more shares.
Com 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Emerging Markets 6.6% Eastern European Trust Eastern Europe has been a strong performer this year on the back of converging Central European markets and political stability in Russia.
We crystallised good gains in Baring Emerging Europe earlier in the year and have more recently been buying Eastern European Trust on a discount of ca.
Vietnam Enterprise Investments Limited This fund is the largest investor, after the State, in the tiny Vietnamese stock market.
The stockmarket trades at a PER of 10x and a dividend yield of 4.8%.
There are many pre-IPO holdings in the fund which may experience uplifts upon listing.
Commodity Other 8.9% Encana Encanas production is 62% natural gas and 38% liquids.
It is one of the few North American natural gas plays with strong organic production growth of close to 10% per annum at a time when production is declining due to the maturity of natural gas assets.
ARM Gold ARM Gold has been a very good performer since its IPO in May 2002.
The stock was arguably cheap relative to the gold mining sector on going public and has We bought ARM Gold in an IPO in May outperformed the sector markedly since.
We took a position in ARM Gold following 2002.
ARM Gold is a our disposal, at a substantial profit, of a position in gold mining fund ASA.
South African gold mining company that has performed very well Liquidity 17.9% on the back of higher Liquidity, which began the year at 37% of total assets, was reduced to 18% by the end gold prices.
Approximately half of this reduction in liquidity was attributable to the buy-back of 15 million shares.
Geographical Profile Gross assets of 310 million were distributed on a look-through basis as follows: UK 23%: Continental Europe 36%: North America 4%: Japan 8%: Other Pacific 5%: Other Markets 6%: liquidity 18%.
Net Asset Value Total Returns: % Change Since 30 06 85 10 years 5 years 3years 1 year British Empire 672 219 34 11 -6 AITC Global Growth 393 108 -12 -26 -19 MSCI World 310 101 -15 -34 -24 Source: AITC and Datastream 17
