British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2002. Review of the Business A review of the Companys activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the Investment Managers Review on page 9.
On 1 February 2002 the Company sold one of its subsidiary companies, St. Andrews Park, Norwich Limited for a consideration of 8.2 million.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Results and Dividends The income of the Group for the year amounted to 10,241,000.
After expenses, interest and taxation, there remains a balance of 3,868,000 which the Directors have appropriated as follows: Company Group 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 3,641 3,868 Interim dividend of 0.40p per Ordinary Share paid on 12 June 2002 674 674 Prior year adjustment 16 16 Recommended final dividend of 1.10p per Ordinary Share to be paid on 9 January 2003 to shareholders on the register on 29 November 2002 1,761 1,761 Recommended special dividend of 0.40p per Ordinary Share to be paid on 9 January 2003 to shareholders on the register on 29 November 2002 640 640 Transferred to revenue reserve 582 809 Principal Activity and Status The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
Status The Company is an investment trust company and a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
The Company has been approved as an investment trust company for the years ended 30 September 2000 and 30 September 2001.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 30 September 2002 so as to be able to obtain approval as an investment trust for that year.
The Company is a qualifying investment for the purposes of Personal Equity Plans and Individual Savings Accounts.
Subsidiary Companies The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2002, BEST Securities Limited made a profit before taxation of 50,111 2001 - 1,676,719.
During the year, through its subsidiary, St Andrews Park, Norwich Limited, the Group received rental income which amounted to 239,086 2001 - 654,650 before the Company was sold on 1 February 2002.
24 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors The present members of the Board are listed on page 23.
Mr W. G. Fossick, Sir David Kinloch, Mr I. S. Robertson and Mr C. M. Gilchrist retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr I. S. Robertson and Sir David Kinloch, being eligible, will be offering themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr W. G. Fossick and Mr C. M. Gilchrist will not be standing for re-election and will retire at the conclusion of the Meeting.
Immediately following the Companys Annual General Meeting, Mr P. Allen, Mrs R. Blomfield-Smith and Mr S. Macpherson will be appointed to the Board as non-executive independent Directors.
Peter Allen 59 Mr Allen has spent the last eight years as Finance Director of Royal Bank of Scotlands Corporate Banking and Financial Markets business, retiring earlier this year.
He is a Director of Lombard and a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Greenwich Capital.
His earlier career included positions at Peat Marwick, National Bank of Detroit, First National Bank of Dallas and Westpac.
Rosamund Blomfield-Smith 53 Mrs Blomfield-Smith is currently a Director with Arbuthnot Latham focusing on corporate finance activities.
She was previously an Executive Director of N M Rothschild and Sons and a Non-Executive Director of the National Rivers Authority.
Her earlier banking career included positions at Morgan Grenfell, Schroders and ING Barings.
Strone Macpherson 54 After gaining an MBA from INSEAD, Mr Macpherson joined Flemings in 1975.
He became a Director in 1979 and worked in London and New York till 1989 when he joined the Board of Misys plc.
He became Executive Deputy Chairman in 1991 and stepped down from this role earlier this summer.
He remains Chairman of the Misys Charitable Foundation, is Chairman of the Fleming Smaller Companies Trust plc, a non-executive Director of AXA UK plc and on the Investment Committee and General Council of the Kings Fund.
The interests of the current Directors and their families in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2002 are set out below: Equities Index Equities Index Ordinary Ordinary Unsecured Unsecured Shares Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 02 1 10 01 30 9 02 1 10 01 W. G. Fossick 110,000 110,000 50,000 C. M. Gilchrist 33,003 30,182 Sir David Kinloch I. S. Robertson 25,000 25,000 J. C. Walton 354,241 347,067 Held as trustee non-beneficial Mr J C Waltons holding includes 200,000 Ordinary Shares held for his benefit in the Asset Value Investors Limited Pension Scheme 25 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors continued Mr W. G. Fossick is a consultant with Watson, Farley & Williams who act as the Companys solicitors.
The firm received payments from the Company during the year amounting to 2,879 2001-3,200.
Mr C. M. Gilchrist is a director of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, the Secretary of the Company and the holding company of Asset Value Investors Limited.
Asset Value Investors Limited is entitled to receive fees under the Management Agreement as described below.
Sir David Kinloch is Deputy Chief Executive of Caledonia Investments plc which owns 19.9 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Mr J. C. Walton is Managing Director of Asset Value Investors Limited with a service contract subject to twelve months written notice of termination given by either party.
Save as aforesaid, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company.
There have been no changes in the holdings of the Directors between 30 September and 19 November 2002, apart from Mr Gilchrists regular contribution of 583 per month to the Savings Scheme for the purchase of ordinary shares in the Company.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital At 19 November 2002 the following holdings representing more than 3 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital had been reported: Number of Percentage Shares held Held Caledonia Investment plc 31,856,530 19.90 Scottish Widows 16,481,174 10.30 Funds under the management of Axa Investment Management 14,276,207 8.92 Funds under the management of ISIS Asset Management 7,494,002 4.68 Millenium Partners LP 6,166,000 3.85 Henderson Global Investors 5,966,835 3.73 Legal and General 5,444,771 3.40 Cornhill Insurance plc 5,330,000 3.33 The Cayzer Trust Company Limited is deemed to be interested in a total of 33,424,280 Ordinary Shares representing 20.88 per cent.
of the issued Ordinary Share capital, in consequence of its interest in Caledonia Investments plc.
Management Agreement and Management Fees Asset Value Investors Limited acts as investment manager under the terms of an agreement dated 21 June 1991.
Its remuneration is performance related and is measured by the increase or decrease in the net asset value per Ordinary Share of the Company compared to the increase or decrease in the net asset index of investment trusts as published by Datastream International Limited.
The resultant figure of such calculation determined the percentage rate which ranges from 0.4 per cent.
which is applied to the value of net assets of the Group attributable to the Shareholders plus long-term loan capital as shown by the audited Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Company as at the accounting reference date immediately preceding the period of management, but excluding the value of the Companys investment 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 in funds managed by the Aberdeen Group.
The performance element of management costs deemed to be the amount payable at a fee rate in excess of 0.4 per cent.
is wholly charged to capital reserves.
The agreement will continue in force unless terminated by either party giving not less than one years prior notice of termination to the other party.
Corporate Governance The Board consists of non-executive Directors the majority of whom are independent of the Companys Managers.
Arrangements to ensure the appropriate level of corporate governance have been put in place by the Board which it believes are appropriate to an investment trust and, taking account of the matters referred to below, enable the Company to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
Since all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to comply with the principles of the Code in respect of executive Directors remuneration.
The Board receives full details of the Companys assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference and this year comprised three non-executive Directors: Mr W. G. Fossick Chairman, Sir David Kinloch and Mr I. S. Robertson.
The Audit Committee provides a forum through which the Groups external Auditors are required to report to the Board of Directors.
The Management Engagement Committee comprises three non-executive Directors independent of the Investment Manager and this year comprised Mr W. G. Fossick Chairman, Sir David Kinloch and Mr I. S. Robertson.
It is responsible for reviewing the terms of the Investment Managers contract.
The Nomination Committee comprises the full Board and is convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of additional Directors.
Full details of the duties of new Directors are provided to them at the time of appointment.
A management agreement between the Company and its Manager, Asset Value Investors Limited, sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority and the limits above which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Investment Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Board considers that, in view of its non-executive nature, it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term of no more than three years as recommended by the Code.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and the Board intend to abide by the spirit of the Code and ensure that each Director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
After making enquiries and bearing in mind the nature of the Companys business and assets, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
27 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Report of the Directors continued The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The significant risks faced by the Company are as follows: financial: operational: compliance: and risk management.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control are outlined below: The Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: The Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: As a matter of course the compliance department of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC continually reviews the the Investment Managers operations.
Written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the internal control systems in place at Aberdeen, has decided to place reliance on Aberdeens systems and internal audit procedures: and At its November Board meeting, the Board carried out an annual assessment of internal controls for the year ended 30 September 2002 by considering documentation from the Manager, including their internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since 30 September 2002.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement and loss.
28 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Relations with Shareholders The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communications with shareholders.
The Board and Manager meet with institutional shareholders throughout the year and the Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Manager of the Company.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Manager makes a presentation to shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company.
Creditor Payment Policy The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Special Business Resolution 8 - Directors Authority to issue Shares The Directors are seeking a limited authority to allot Shares.
This authority will be limited to issues of new Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 800,400, being 5 per cent.
of the total capital in issue on 21 November 2002.
The Directors would only issue new Shares pursuant to this authority if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys Shareholders to do so and in no circumstances would result in a dilution of net asset value per Share.
Resolution 9 - Share Buy-Back Facility A resolution will be proposed to renew the Directors authority to make market purchases of the Companys Shares in accordance with the provisions contained in the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Accordingly, the Company will seek authority to purchase up to a maximum of 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares representing 14.99 per cent.
of the current issued Share capital at a minimum price of not less than 10p per Share being the nominal value and a maximum price of not more than 5 per cent.
above the average market values of the Shares for the preceding five business days.
The Directors do not intend to use this authority to purchase the Companys Shares unless to do so would result in an increase in the net assets per Share and would be in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
The authority being sought would last until 31 January 2004 but the Board intends to seek a renewal of the authority at the Annual General Meeting in 2003.
By Order of the Board, For and on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC One Bow Churchyard, London Secretary 21 November 2002 29
