Directors remuneration report Report of the independent auditors We read other information contained in the annual report, and Non-executive directors fees To the members of Candover Investments plc consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial The policy during the year with regard to fees to be paid to non-executive directors serving on the board was for the level of these fees We have audited the financial statements of Candover Investments statements.
This other information comprises only the directors to be formally recommended by the Chairman.
These recommended fees were then put to a meeting of the board for approval with plc for the year ended 31st December, 2002 which comprise the report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors abstaining from any vote.
An increase in non-executive directors fees was approved by the board on 2nd July, 2002. principal accounting policies, the Group statement of total return, the Chairmans statement, operational review, the valuation policy, the balance sheets, the Group cash flow statement and notes 1 to 28. the review of the 20 largest investments and other information as The policy in respect of non-executive directors fees payable by investee companies of Candover for the services of Candover directors These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting listed in the contents page.
We consider the implications for our and executives who sit on these boards as official appointees of either Candover, or of the funds managed by Candover, is that these fees policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or are always paid to Candover for the benefit of Candover or the fund investors, whichever is appropriate.
directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The above policies relating to non-executive directors fees in respect of the Companys non-executive directors and those Candover directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and executives who sit on investee company boards remain the intended policies for the next financial year and subsequent years but will be in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Basis of opinion kept under review by the Companys board.
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Companys members those matters we are required to state to auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Termination payments and payments to third parties them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the No payments were made to a director of the Company for termination of employment.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an Payments to third parties for directors services during the year were made in the cases of Mr D R Wilson, for whom 10,625 was paid to a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Slough Estates, and Mr J G West, for whom 21,836 was paid to Jimmy West Associates Limited.
These amounts are included in the have formed.
directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of directors fees shown in the directors emoluments schedule on page 31. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Audited parts of the directors remuneration report The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, The following sections of the report have been audited: the table of directors remuneration, the table of directors share options, the table of the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the directors pension contributions and the paragraph immediately beneath that table.
accordance with United Kingdom law and accounting standards information and explanations which we considered necessary in are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors remuneration report as set out above will be put to shareholders for approval by ordinary resolution at the Annual General assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors Meeting to be held on 14th May, 2003.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Signed on behalf of the board relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation auditing standards.
of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
G E Grimstone We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Chairman of the remuneration committee give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and Opinion 28th March, 2003 the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have In our opinion: been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not affairs of the Company and the Group at 31st December, 2002 consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept and of the return of the Group for the year then ended: proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information the financial statements and the part of the directors and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Grant Thornton Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Registered Auditors Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Chartered Accountants Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required London to consider whether the boards statements on internal control 28th March, 2003 cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Notes control procedures.
The maintenance and integrity of the Candover Investments plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
36 Candover Report and Accounts 2002 37 Candover Report and Accounts 2002
