Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Associated undertakings Income Liquid resources applicable accounting standards except for the policies relating to An associated undertaking is defined as an entity, not being a Income arises from investment management and other financial Liquid resources comprise listed fixed interest securities repayable accounting for managed funds as described below.
The financial subsidiary undertaking, in which the Group has a substantial and services provided and investment transactions undertaken on demand.
statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except long-term interest and over whose financial and operating policy during the year.
It also includes income from investments and that investments are stated at valuation.
The principal accounting decisions the Group exercises significant influence.
Deferred tax policies of the Group, which have remained unchanged from the entities are an integral part of the Groups investment management Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the previous year except for the accounting policy relating to deferred operations, the Groups share of profits is included in the Group Placement fees transactions or events that give the Group an obligation to pay more tax, are set out below.
revenue account, and the investment is carried in the Group balance Prepaid placement fees incurred in the establishment of managed tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred sheet at an amount equivalent to the Groups share of net assets.
funds are carried as current assets recoverable from future by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when In preparing the financial statements for the current year, the Group The Company balance sheet shows the investment in such management fees receivable and are written off over five years it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is has adopted FRS 18 Accounting Policies and FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
undertakings at cost, and particulars of entities accounted for from the commencement date of the fund to which the placement measured using rates of tax that have been enacted or substantively The adoption of FRS 19 has resulted in a change in accounting policy as associated undertakings are set out in note 11 on page 51. fees relate.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised on a full provision basis in accordance with the accounting policy described on page 39.
The Group has certain other investments in companies which fall Depreciation Foreign currencies Previously, deferred tax was provided for on a partial provision basis, within the definition of associated undertakings contained in the Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less residual value Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated whereby provision was made on all timing differences to the extent Companies Act 1985 as amended but which are not accounted of all tangible fixed assets by equal annual instalments over their into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet that they were expected to reverse in the future without replacement.
for as associated undertakings, and accordingly, the Group does expected useful lives.
The periods generally applicable are: plant date.
Balance sheets and profit and loss accounts of overseas However, there was no unprovided deferred tax liability under the not equity account its share of the net assets and results of such and equipment 2-5 years, motor vehicles 3-4 years and leasehold companies are also translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the previous basis.
investments, as they are held for capital appreciation.
Where exchange differences result from the the Groups share of an investee companys undistributed profits, translation into sterling of foreign currency resources to be used for Consequently, the adoption of FRS 18 and FRS 19 has not had any when those profits cannot be realised as income unless distributed, Investments further investment, they are taken to the realised and unrealised impact on the financial statements of the Group.
has not been included in the consolidated revenue reserves.
Listed fixed asset investments are valued at mid-market quotations capital reserves as appropriate.
All other exchange differences are derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Unlisted dealt with through the revenue reserve.
Investment trust SORP Managed funds fixed asset investments are included at directors valuation, the The Company has continued to comply with the recommendations Where the constitution of a managed fund involves it being principles of which are set out on page 21.
Pension costs of the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial a subsidiary undertaking under the Companies Act 1985 as The Group contributes towards a number of funded defined Statements of Investment Trust Companies 1995. amended but the Group has no substantial beneficial interest in Gains and losses on realisation of fixed asset investments are dealt contribution pension and funded unapproved retirement benefit the income, assets or liabilities, the total net assets of the managed with through the realised capital reserve.
Fixed asset investments are schemes designed to provide retirement benefits for its directors Management expenses fund are consolidated within fixed asset investments and the third not held for immediate resale and any gains on realisations are not and employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately Management expenses have been allocated 80 per cent to capital party interests deducted immediately thereafter.
The income is available for distribution as a dividend.
The difference between the from the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension and 20 per cent to revenue.
consolidated gross in the Group revenue and the third-party market value of fixed asset investments over cost to the Group is cost charge represents contributions payable by the Group to the interests deducted immediately thereafter in accordance with shown as an unrealised gain or loss.
schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Basis of consolidation Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company Accounts Regulations 1993.
The managed fund has not been Investments held as current assets are held at the lower of cost and Operating leases and of its subsidiary undertakings see note 10 on page 50.
The accounted for under the method of full consolidation, since in the net realisable value to the relevant Group undertaking.
Gains and Payments made under operating leases are charged to the revenue financial statements of each undertaking in the Group have been opinion of the directors, it would be misleading to do so and the losses on realisations of current asset investments held by subsidiary account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The results of subsidiary overriding duty to give shareholders a true and fair view of the undertakings are dealt with through the revenue reserve.
Gains and undertakings have been included from the date of acquisition.
income and state of affairs of the Group requires its exclusion.
losses on realisations of current asset investments held by the Details of these managed funds are set out in note 10 on page 50.
Company are dealt with through the realised capital reserve.
Shares in subsidiary undertakings other than managed funds are held at cost.
38 Candover Report and Accounts 2002 39 Candover Report and Accounts 2002
