2 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 Profile of the Group Consumer Division The consumer division comprises Welcome Financial Services, Shopacheck Financial Services, Progressive Insurance Company, Dial4aloan and The Lewis Group serving more than 700,000 customers in their local communities from around The consumer division operates 32 500 branches across the UK.
Local Collection Units, focusing exclusively on collecting arrears across Our product range includes unsecured the country.
and secured personal loans, hire purchase credit facilities and Progressive Insurance Company merchandise related products sold manages the groups insurance through leaflets and catalogues to portfolio.
Dial4aloan brokers consumer consumer credit customers.
credit applications to both external lenders and the consumer division.
The Unsecured personal loans, including Lewis Group provides a full debt hire purchase, typically range from recovery service for external clients and around 250 for weekly products to the consumer division.
4,000 for monthly advances with larger secured loans, typically around 7,500, being available to selected customers, Corporate Division dependent upon their circumstances.
Loans are repayable over typical The corporate division provides working periods ranging from 23 weeks to capital finance to small and medium 3 years, or longer in the case of secured sized enterprises in the business advances.
A variety of repayment methods are Cattles Commercial Finance and available to our customers.
These Cattles Commercial Leasing, based in include our agents visiting customers Hull, provide asset backed leasing, hire homes each week, over the counter purchase and block discounting payments at one of our local branches facilities.
Cattles Invoice Finance, based or through the mainstream banking in Manchester, Leeds, Oxford and system by either a weekly, fortnightly or Glasgow provides invoice factoring and monthly direct debit.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 3 Serving Local Communities in the UK Maintaining close contact with our customers in their local communities is a key ingredient of our success
