Directors S M fide Zoete, Chairman age 61 is a non-executive director of Mallett PLC and was Deputy Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited until June R D C Hubbard OBE M P Nicholls MA Sir Keith Stuart MA H A Weir MA 2001.
He is currently a FCA age 66 was an MBA age 53 is FRSA CIMgt FCIT MBA age 40 is senior adviser to Credit executive director of Deputy Chairman of age 62 was Group Finance Powell Duffryn plc Royal Bank of Chairman of Director of Kingfisher Suisse First Boston and an adviser to BAE Systems from 1976, retiring as Scotland Equity Associated British plc.
She joined the 2000 Pension Plan.
He is also a Ports Holdings PLC board on 26 March investment banker He was Chairman of director of Bovis from 1983 to 2002.
London & Manchester Homes Group PLC.
He is a non-executive specialising in the equity market and was Vice Group plc and Exco He joined the board director of RMC Chairman of Barclays fide plc and resigned as a in 1997.
Group plc and a Zoete Wedd prior to its sale non-executive member of The Gas director of Slough & Electricity Markets to Credit Suisse First Boston in 1998.
He joined the board Estates plc in Authority.
He joined in September 2000, and November 2001.
He the board in 1999. became Chairman at the will retire from the board at the conclusion of the last Annual General Meeting, on conclusion of this 1 November 2001. years Annual General Meeting.
All directors are members of the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee, which are chaired by Mr fide Zoete.
Management Job Curtis age 41 has been the Portfolio Manager since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited and a director of Henderson Geared Income & Growth Trust plc.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Tim Dieppe, Alex Crooke, James Henderson and Michael Moule.
Krista Burwood acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
From left to right: Tim Dieppe, Krista Burwood, Alex Crooke, Job Curtis, James Henderson and Michael Moule.
