Portfolio Managers Report Investment Background During the period under review, the UK equity market, as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index, fell by some 17%.
The horrific attack on the World Trade Centre on 11 September led to a sharp fall.
During the fourth quarter of 2001, UK interest rates were cut to 4% and the market recovered strongly.
The market stayed in a close trading range from January to April.
In May and June, the UK fell against a background of corporate scandals in the USA.
FTSE All-Share Index from 30.06.01 to 30.06.02 rebased to 100 105 100 95 90 85 80 75 J J A S O N DJJ F M A M Source: Datastream For the second year in succession, the weakness in share prices was concentrated in three sectors: Telecommunications, Media and Technology TMT.
The chart below shows that the TMT sectors fell by some 43% whilst, on average, shares in the remainder of the market fell by some 11%.
UK TMT & Non-TMT sectors from 30.06.01 to 30.06.02 rebased to 100 120 110 100 90 80 70 UK-DS DS-Market Ex TMT Price Index UK-DS Telecom.
IT Price Index 60 50 J J A S O N DJJ F M A M Source: Datastream 8 Portfolio Managers Report continued Globally, the TMT sectors continued to suffer from excess capacity as a result of too much investment at the end of the 1990s.
Other sectors to produce notably negative returns included Pharmaceuticals, on concern about the delays to the approval of new medicines and a lack of new products in research and development: and Life Assurance, which came under regulatory review as well as facing pressure from exposure to falling equity markets.
On a more positive note, sectors close to the UK consumer prospered.
Over the year, interest rates were cut from 5.25% to 4% which stimulated consumer spending.
Retailers and Housebuilders were amongst the outperformers.
Investors also favoured companies with steady cash flow, such as those in the Tobacco and Beverages sectors.
Portfolio Activity As the TMT sectors were the swing sectors affecting performance during the year, it is appropriate to consider first the activity in the portfolio in this area.
In Telecommunications, a significantly underweight position was maintained throughout the year.
The problems of excess capacity and disappointing revenues that beset the sector did not appear to be close to resolution.
Valuation levels for stocks became more reasonable but not enticing enough given some of the fundamental problems.
In Media, the portfolio was overweight but the downturn in advertising proved to be more severe than had been anticipated.
The situation for Carlton Communications, the ITV company, was aggravated by its unsuccessful digital television joint venture with Granada.
Carlton was sold but Granada was retained given its programme making capability.
In the newspaper sector, Trinity Mirror was switched into Daily Mail.
Capital expenditure by companies on information technology continued to be weak.
As a result, many technology companies were faced with poor demand for their products and services.
The portfolio remained underweight in the Technology sectors.
In Software and Computer Services, Logica and Sage were sold and replaced with a holding in Misys which supplies software to the banking, healthcare and retail financial services markets.
In Information Technology Hardware, Spirent was sold as was Marconi after its second profit warning.
Turning to more positive themes, the portfolio was significantly overweight in sectors that benefited from the low level of interest rates.
Property yields appeared anomalously high compared with equities, bonds or cash.
Two new holdings were purchased in the sector: Liberty International, the leading owner of regional shopping centres in the UK: and Brixton, which specializes in South East industrial, warehouse and business space.
The retail sectors continued to prosper on rising consumer spending, and a new holding was purchased in DFS, the furniture retailer.
Another theme pursued during the year was to invest in companies that will benefit from outsourcing work from the private or public sector.
Increased government spending on the infrastructure, including schools and hospitals, has regularly been outsourced.
Two new holdings of companies in this field were purchased.
Interserve, in Support Services, maintains and invests in buildings and equipment for a range of clients including the National Health Service, the Ministry of Defence and various local education authorities.
Amec, in Construction, provides essential services for oil companies in the North Sea as well as building hospitals amongst its other activities.
9 Portfolio Managers Report continued Another area of the stock market that seems to offer good prospects constitutes those stocks exposed to the governments proposed deregulation of gaming.
In the Leisure sector, holdings in Rank, the leading UK bingo and casino operator, and William Hill, the bookmaker, were purchased.
Other activity in the Leisure sector included the purchase of Greene King, the regional brewer and pub owner, which has a steady record of growth, whilst Airtours and P&O Princess were sold.
In general, new holdings were purchased in companies that appeared to offer steady growth at a reasonable valuation.
Examples included: Alliance Unichem, the pan European wholesaler of medicines: Lex Service, which owns the RAC and provides a range of motoring services: and South Staffordshire which is both a water utility and provides a nationwide plumbing service.
Pennon, the water utility for South West England, was also purchased in view of its highly attractive dividend yield.
In the Speciality and Other Financial sector, a holding was purchased in Man Group, the manager of absolute return funds.
The Banks sector enjoyed another good year of relative share price performance and was not damaged significantly by the governments regulatory review.
Consolidation continued with the merger of Halifax and Bank of Scotland to form HBOS.
Some profits were taken in those banks such as Lloyds TSB and Abbey National that were considered to face balance sheet strain through ownership of life assurance companies.
The proceeds were partially switched to Barclays.
Given the impact both of global economic downturn and of the attack on the World Trade Centre, exposure to the Transport sector was reduced through sales of Avis Europe, BBA and British Airways.
Other sales in the portfolio during the year included: ICI, the chemical company, ahead of its rights issue: the engineer, Morgan Crucible: and Novar, in the Building sector.
Outlook Given the lack of inflationary pressure in the economy and the weakness of the equity market, it is likely that UK interest rates will remain at relatively low levels, even if the next move is an upward one.
The portfolio, therefore, remains overweight in sectors that will continue to benefit from low interest rates, such as Real Estate and General Retailers.
Housebuilders appear well placed as do those construction companies exposed to the rise in government spending on the infrastructure.
The positive view taken on the Life Assurance sector has been mistaken over the last year but there should be substantial scope for recovery from current levels in what is the growth industry of provision for long-term savings.
Another sector that has disappointed but where an improved performance is expected is Media which should benefit from the upswing in the advertising cycle.
The Telecommunications, Electronic and Technology sectors are still faced with the legacy from the bubble years of the late 1990s of over-investment and excess capacity.
The portfolio remains underweight in these sectors which are expected to continue to underperform.
