Research, development and information technology Research and development Research and development R&D is conducted around the world with key sites located in north America, the UK and Japan.
The Group Technical Centre in Murray Hill, New Jersey, continues to be a primary R&D location for market applications for Process Gas Solutions.
During the year BOC combined its process plants research and development capabilities related to the production of industrial gases, which were based in Murray Hill, with those of Linde Engineering.
The resulting Linde BOC Process Plants operation covers all engineering aspects from initial engineering studies, through construction, to commissioning of a full range of plants: air separation, hydrogen and carbon monoxide generation and purification, helium liquefaction and recovery and other refinery and chemical facilities.
It has access to technology from The BOC Group, Linde AG and third parties.
2 The growing need for H synthesis gas by the chemicals and petroleum industry will be met by production technology from Linde BOC Process Plants.
In addition, BOC is developing various process technologies based on ceramics for the production of H2 and synthesis gas.
Some of these technologies have already been successfully demonstrated in pilot scale and have the potential to reduce the cost of production substantially.
During the past year BOC has arrived at novel and improved ways to dissolve and react gases in liquid, resulting in better ways to freeze food products and options to address the CO sequestration issue.
2 BOC Edwards development efforts are focused on a broad product portfolio of equipment, materials and services for semiconductor, industrial and scientific customers.
Technology investment is based on an understanding of future industry requirements, with the International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors being a key guide for semiconductor development.
Two examples of technology programmes in the semiconductor area which address emerging industry needs are the development of new cleaning technologies using supercritical CO and 2 the use of on-site generated fluorine for applications in process chamber cleaning.
The chemical management division of BOC Edwards has expanded its range of advanced systems for copper technology.
Technology obtained from the recently acquired Semco business enables increased flexibility and accuracy in blending, thereby allowing tool designers and semiconductor process engineers to customise process steps on a wafer-by-wafer basis, increasing wafer yields and device robustness.
The acquisition of Hydromatix Inc has contributed several new, patented metal removals technologies to our semiconductor exhaust management capabilities.
These technologies are being applied to the treatment of chemical mechanical planarisation and metal plating bath waste streams using a patent-pending process which combines ion exchange, catalysed oxidation of organic compounds, electrowinning of metals, and concentration of chemicals using sophisticated membrane techniques.
The electronic materials product division continues development programmes on materials designed to meet the increasing purity requirements for the storage and delivery of gases and liquids.
Low dielectric constant materials that address current applications are available while other programmes address longer term ultra-low dielectric constant materials trends.
Special in situ sensors have been introduced for enhancing productivity in the semiconductor fab manufacturing environment.
A significant programme with a leading lithography tool manufacturer is aimed at solving vacuum problems for EUV extreme ultraviolet lithography tools, projected to be needed in 2006.
In the near term, development is underway to create the ultrapure gas systems needed for 157 nm lithography tools.
Core development in the vacuum products division continues in areas of reduced cost of ownership, noise and vibration as well as pumping capability for next generation process tools for sub 0.1 micron line widths and beyond.
The acquisition of the turbomolecular pumps division of Seiko Instruments brings in-house, turbomolecular pump design capability for advanced blade features and advanced magnetic-levitation.
Technology suitable for large industrial pumping applications, obtained by acquiring the vacuum and pressure business of the Smiths Group, broadens the overall portfolio.
Throughout the last year, semiconductor industry focus has continued on achieving lower cost per bit with reduced environmental emissions.
BOC Edwards technology has focused on ensuring that its range of products and services meet and, where possible, anticipate these requirements to position us for leadership in our areas of activity.
Total R&D expenditure in 2002 was 47.0 million, compared with 59.7 million in 2001 and 59.2 million in 2000.
Information technology Customers continue to benefit from the extension by BOC of so-called portal technology to new market groups.
Targeted customers in the UK, Australia and New Zealand now have on-line access to services tailored to their business needs.
As a customer in its own right, BOC has applied e-commerce techniques such as on-line reverse auctions and horizontal buying groups to help manage its supplier base more effectively.
In 1994 BOC chose SAP to supply its business computing system and last year continued to roll-out the system to more businesses in Asia, north and south America and Europe.
A global data centre was set up in the UK.
This is capable of managing all transactions from BOCs SAP-based systems around the world, passing data over the Internet.
BOC has also established a software development centre in Australia to ensure programs developed for SAP and other applications are supported as cost-effectively as possible.
28 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002
