Board of directors Fabiola Arredondo Rob Margetts CBE 01 Dick Grant 05 Ren Mdori 07 03 56, chairman.
56, chief executive, 45, group finance director.
Appointed chairman in January Process Gas Solutions.
Appointed an executive Appointed in November 2001.
He is chairman of Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined She is the managing partner of Legal & General Group plc, director in July 2000.
He also BOC in 1987 and has held FRA Holdings LLC, a private a non-executive director of has responsibility for Latin several finance appointments in investment firm, and was Anglo American plc, chairman America and technology.
He was appointed previously the managing of the Natural Environment was formerly regional director, finance director of BOCs gases director of Yahoo!
Europe, a Research Council and a south Pacific and south Asia, business in the Americas in director of BBC Worldwide governor of Imperial College, and previously ran divisions in 1997.
Before joining BOC, and held senior executive London.
Previously he was with Ohmeda, Gases Americas and he worked for Accenture positions at BMG ICI PLC for 31 years, becoming Gases Europe.
He holds an and Schlumberger Ltd.
She is a a main board director in 1992 honours degree in engineering a finance graduate of the non-executive director of and vice chairman in 1998. from Leeds University.
Universit fide Paris-Dauphine Bankinter SA and the World He is a fellow of both the and has a doctorate degree Gran Lundberg 06 Wildlife Fund UK and is also a Royal Academy of Engineering in economics.
member of the US Council on and the Institution of Appointed in July 2000.
Roberto G Mendoza Foreign Relations and the Chemical Engineers.
He was appointed senior 08 World Economic Forum.
Tony Isaac 02 independent director in 57, non-executive director.
She has a BA in political science 60, chief executive.
He was Appointed in October 2002. from Stanford University and an Appointed an executive executive vice president of the He is a founding partner of MBA from Harvard University.
director in October 1994 and ABB Group based in Zurich Integrated Finance Ltd, the Julie Baddeley 04 became chief executive in until his retirement in 1995. non-executive chairman of 51, non-executive director.
He was previously He is chairman of The TAC Egg Plc, and a board member Appointed in May 2001. finance director of Arjo Group and chairman of The of ACE Limited, Prudential Plc, She was an executive director Wiggins Appleton plc, which Pharmadule Group, both with Reuters Group Plc and Vitro of Woolwich plc until he joined shortly before headquarters in Sweden, and is S. A.
He joined J. P. Morgan in October 2000, responsible the fide-merger from BAT also chairman of the DUNI AB 1967 and served as vice for e-commerce, information Industries p. l. c. in 1990.
He is involved in three chairman of the board from technology and human to that he had been finance venture capital companies 1990 to 2000.
Mr Mendoza resources, and was previously director of GEC Plessey based in Sweden and in was a managing director of head of change management Telecommunications Ltd since Switzerland and holds an Goldman Sachs & Co from for Maritime Region, its formation in 1988.
2000 until he resigned to Accenture.
She is a non-executive director of co-found Integrated Finance non-executive director of the Exel plc and International Ltd in 2001.
He was born in Yorkshire Building Society, the Power plc.
Cuba, obtained a BA in history Government Pensions Group, from Yale and an MBA with and two venture capital trusts, high distinction from the I-Net VCT plc and Classic 3 Harvard Business School.
She is also a member of the Audit Commission, an Associate Fellow of Templeton College, Oxford and a Companion of the Institute of Management.
She has an MA honours degree in zoology from Oxford University.
01 02 04 03 06 05 08 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Pensions committee Board committees Matthew Miau 09 Dr Raj Rajagopal 11 The pensions committee was 56, non-executive director.
49, chief executive, reconstituted during the year and now Audit committee oversees the review of governance Appointed in January 2002.
The audit committee meets regularly with and control procedures applying to all internal and external auditors, as well as He is chairman of MiTACAppointed an executive employee retirement benefit plans and management, to review the effectiveness reviews and makes recommendations on Synnex Group, one of Taiwans director in July 2000.
He joined of internal controls, matters raised in the investment policies and strategies their regular reports to the committee leading high-tech industrial BOC in 1981 and has held applied to the Groups retirement benefit and the half year and full year financial groups.
He is also a Convenor several positions in BOC plans.
The committee comprises two statements prior to their submission to independent non-executive directors, the board.
The committee reviews the of Civil Advisory Committee Edwards.
He was appointed the chief executive and the finance programme and effectiveness of risk of National Information and managing director, Edwards director.
The committee is chaired management within the Group as well as by Julie Baddeley.
Communications Initiatives Vacuum Products in 1993 ensuring that an appropriate relationship between BOC and the external auditors NICI and a member of the and managing director, Executive management board is maintained.
The committee comprises The executive management board meets Board of Supervisors of the vacuum technology division only independent non-executive directors regularly having primary authority for the and is chaired by Chris ODonnell.
He was appointed day-to-day management of the Groups Institute ITRI and the Board a non-executive director of operations and policy implementation Management resources committee pursuant to the Groups strategy agreed The management resources committee of Directors of the Institute FSI International Inc in January with the board.
The committee comprises meets approximately six times a year.
He has a PhD in the chief executive, the other executive The committee recommends to the directors and certain senior managers and Taiwan.
board the policy on executive directors is chaired by Tony Isaac.
Further details remuneration and the specific are given on pages 10 and 11. remuneration, benefits and terms of Chris ODonnell 10 John Walsh 12 employment of each executive director.
47, chief executive, Investment committee The committee comprises only The investment committee meets Appointed in March 2001.
independent non-executive directors regularly and reviews and approves Group and is chaired by Gran Lundberg.
He is chief executive of Smith Appointed an executive commitments up to certain levels set by the board.
The committee comprises & Nephew plc.
Previously he director in July 2001.
He was Nomination committee the chief executive, the other executive The nomination committee meets held senior positions with previously president, Process directors and certain senior managers periodically as required.
The committee Davy Ashmore, Vickers Limited Gas Solutions, north America.
and is chaired by Tony Isaac.
monitors the composition and balance of the board and identifies and recommends and C R Bard Inc.
He has an He joined BOC in 1986 as to the board the appointment of honours degree in mechanical vice president, special gases new directors.
All the independent engineering from Imperial and has held various senior non-executive directors and the chief executive serve as members of this College, London and an MBA management positions in the committee.
The committee is chaired from the London Business Group, including president, by Rob Margetts.
He is a chartered Process Plants.
He has a BA engineer and a member of in economics and an MBA in the Institution of Mechanical finance and marketing, both Engineers.
