Directors Report Business and Status No contract or arrangement existed during the year in The company carries on business as an investment which any of the directors was materially interested.
trust for the purpose of the Income and Corporation Directors have no service contracts with the company.
Taxes Act 1988 and has been approved as such by the Inland Revenue for the period ended 31 January Directors Liability Insurance 2001.
The company has subsequently conducted its The company maintains insurance in respect of affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such directors and officers liabilities in relation to their approval.
acts on behalf of the company.
The company is an investment company, within the Payments Policy terms of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The companys payments policy is to ensure settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with Review of Activities the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement During the year the company followed the normal terms are agreed prior to business taking place and it activities of an investment trust.
Details of these are is the companys policy to abide by those terms.
given in the Chairmans Review and the Investment Managers Review.
Going Concern The companys directors believe that the company Dividends has adequate resources to continue its operational An interim dividend of 2.15p was paid on existence for the foreseeable future.
The directors recommend that a they continue to adopt the going concern basis in final dividend of 4.60p 20014.45p per share be preparing the accounts.
paid on 26 April 2002 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 April 2002, Corporate Governance making a total of 6.75p 20016.55p per share for Compliance the year ended 31 January 2002.
The ex-dividend The board is accountable to the companys date is 3 April 2002. shareholders for a high standard of governance and this statement describes how the governance The directors propose that the companys revenue provisions which are identified in the Combined surplus for the year of 193,000 20011,005,000 Code appended to the Financial Services Authority be transferred to the revenue reserve.
Listing Rules are applied by the company.
Directors The board confirms that the company has complied In accordance with the articles of association, throughout the accounting period with the Robert Douglas Miller retires from the board by provisions which are relevant to it.
rotation and will be proposed for re-election at the Ordinary Shares annual general meeting.
Valentine Fleming and Directors held at 31 January Ewan Brown retired from the board on 13 March 2002 2001 Nature of interest 2001 and 26 April 2001 respectively.
Max Ward 50,000 20,000 Beneficial Ruaridh Budge 9,791 3,131 Beneficial The names of the directors and their holdings in the companys shares are shown in Table 1 opposite.
Robert Douglas Miller 65,000 45,000 Beneficial Jean Matterson 17,128 17,128 Beneficial The company has not been notified of any other John Scott 10,770 Beneficial changes in directors holdings between 31 January 2001 and 13 March 2002.
Table 1 Directors and their holdings in the company PAGE 15 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report The board, which meets at least six times each year, Shareholders have direct access to the manager at has overall responsibility for the companys affairs.
any time through the freephone shareholder It delegates, through an investment management information service.
agreement and through specific instructions, the day to day management of the company to the manager, Accountability and audit Edinburgh Fund Managers plc.
The company has no The board confirms that as at 31 January 2002 executives or employees.
there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the companys significant The board consists of five non-executive directors, business and operational risks, that it has been in including the chairman.
Each of the directors is place for the year ended 31 January 2002 and up to considered by the board to be independent.
the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the board Information on the directors appears on page 14 of and accords with the internal control guidance for this report.
Each director has the requisite business directors on the Combined Code.
and financial experience to enable the board to provide effective strategic leadership and proper The board has overall responsibility for ensuring governance of the company.
The senior independent that there is in place a system of internal control and director is Jean Matterson.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate Appointments of new directors are considered by the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and whole board taking into account the need to can only provide reasonable and not absolute maintain a balanced board.
When a new director is assurance against material misstatement or loss.
appointed to the board, he or she is provided with all relevant information regarding his or her duties The manager is responsible for the design, as a director.
implementation and maintenance of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the company A director appointed during the year is required to and to manage its affairs properly.
The system retire and seek election by shareholders at the next extends to operational and compliance controls and annual general meeting.
All directors are required to risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have submit themselves for re-election at least once every been established between the board and the three years.
The board receives regular reports covering key performance and risk indicators and considers There is a procedure for directors to take control and compliance issues brought to its independent professional advice, if necessary, at the attention.
In carrying out its review, the board has companys expense.
had regard to the activities of the manager, the managers internal audit and compliance function Communication with shareholders and the external auditors.
The directors place great importance on communication with the companys shareholders.
The external auditors are responsible for reviewing the accounting systems and controls surrounding the At the annual general meeting all shareholders have accounting systems to the extent necessary for them the opportunity to put questions to the board and a to form their opinion on the truth and fairness of presentation from the manager covers the the financial statements.
investment performance and strategy during the financial year and the outlook for the year ahead.
The board meets as an audit committee twice a year The board hopes that as many shareholders as and considers reports from the internal and external possible will be able to attend the meeting.
auditors, as well as from the manager.
The audit PAGE 16 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report committee keeps under review the scope and Ordinary resolution 6 will be proposed to confer an effectiveness of the external audit.
The independence authority on the directors, in substitution for any and objectivity of the external auditors are also existing authority, to allot up to 36,529,265 unissued considered on a regular basis.
Shareholders have the ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount opportunity at each annual general meeting to vote of 9,134,816 being 22.8% of the current issued on the appointment of the external auditors for the ordinary share capital and within institutional forthcoming year.
guidelines in accordance with section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
The authority conferred by this Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible resolution will expire on 22 April 2007.
Investment Policy The directors consider that the authority and power The companys manager actively encourages proposed to be granted by resolution 6 is necessary companies in which it invests to adhere to best to retain flexibility, although they do not have any practice in the area of Corporate Governance and intention of exercising such authority and power at socially responsible investing.
They believe that this can best be achieved by Special resolution 7 will be proposed to authorise the entering into a dialogue with company company to make purchases of its own shares.
The managements to encourage them, where necessary, maximum number of ordinary shares which may be to improve their policies.
purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the company as at the In order to monitor company policies effectively the date of the passing of the resolution approximately 24 manager subscribes to the Proxy Voting and million ordinary shares.
The minimum price which Environmental Screening service offered by may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p.
The Manifest, an organisation which provides specialist maximum price for an ordinary share exclusive of research information in both areas.
expenses shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder companys ordinary shares for the five business days The manager, on behalf of the company, will exercise immediately preceding the date of purchase.
This proxy votes if it believes it to be appropriate.
authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would enchance the net asset value and is in the best Auditors interests of shareholders generally.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the annual general meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc The directors recommend that shareholders vote in as auditors of the company and to authorise the favour of resolutions 6 and 7. directors to fix their remuneration.
By order of the board, Substantial Share Interests Edinburgh Fund Managers plc At 13 March 2002, the beneficial interests in the Secretary ordinary share capital had been notified to the Edinburgh, 13 March 2002 company as shown in Table 2.
Holder No of ordinary shares % Annual General Meeting Special Business At the annual general meeting to be held on 23 April The Standard Life Assurance Company 7,887,611 4.93 2002, the following resolutions will be proposed, D C Thomson & Co Ltd 6,075,000 3.79 the first one as an ordinary resolution and the second one as a special resolution: Table 2 Substantial share interests PAGE 17 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002
