Investment Managers Review The chairman has highlighted in his review that this has been a difficult year for equity markets.
Economic and business news has been poor.
It is pleasing to see, however, that the companys net asset value has outperformed its benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index.
Portfolio review The value of the portfolio, before allowing for capital charges, fell by 12.6% compared to a fall of 17.6% in the FTSE All-Share Index in capital terms, i. e. excluding dividends reinvested.
The negative effect of gearing in a falling market meant that the Changes to the portfolio were driven more by stock net asset value fell 14.6%.
This outperformance selection than by sector allocation but there were net came partly from exposure to the more defensive additions to the engineering, leisure and bank sectors.
sectors of the market and partly from successful stock selection within sectors.
Much attention has focused on the technologyrelated sectors and on whether share prices in these The worst performing areas of the market were, for areas will recover.
It seems more likely that the the second year running, the technology, market will be increasingly selective across all sectors telecommunications and media sectors which fell and that the better companies will perform well 70%, 49% and 39% respectively.
Valuations of while the poorer ones will continue to languish.
companies in these sectors had reached levels so high Such an environment should be well suited to the that they could be sustained only by the best of managers stock-picking style.
In fact business conditions for most of continue to look for companies with strong these industries deteriorated rapidly, forecasts were management, sustainable competitive advantage and cut back and a number of companies went bankrupt.
The terrorist attacks in America sent the market Outlook down sharply and many companies in the transport, The coming year is expected to be one of recovery leisure and insurance sectors were hit particularly from the current low levels of economic growth.
So too were companies perceived to be high slowdown has been much milder in the UK than in risk because of high borrowing or strong gearing other parts of the world, including the US and into an economic downturn.
The rebound may also be more on the other hand, held up well through the year, modest but GDP growth should gradually accelerate although they failed to participate in the market again.
Interest rates may well have reached the low rally in the fourth quarter of 2001. point and while no rises are expected in the immediate future, the base rate is likely to go higher Some of these sector moves benefited DIGIT relative in the course of the year.
to the benchmark, especially the fall in telecommunications stocks where the trust is Profit growth should also show some recovery considerably underweight.
The trust also gained although here too the pace of recovery is likely to be from its heavy positions in housebuilding, beverages, slow as a result of the overcapacity in the world tobacco, general retail and utilities.
economy and the high level of sterling.
PAGE 5 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Investment Managers Review So the prospect is for a gradual return to more Dividend growth has been very sluggish in recent normal conditions which means a slightly better years and there is unlikely to be a significant outlook for profits but a slightly worse one for improvement in the near future but as the economy interest rates.
Neither of these trends is likely to be recovers and corporate profitability improves we more than gradual and limited.
At present the expect companies to revert to a higher rate of market is having to absorb a lot of bad news in the dividend growth.
form of company failures and concerns over accounting malpractice or poor standards.
A certain Edinburgh amount of this is inevitable after periods of 13 March 2002 economic weakness and falling equity markets, but has generally in the past given way to improving confidence and better share prices.
Table 1 Analysis of capital performance year to 31 January 2002 % Decrease in Net Asset Value 14.6 Decrease in FTSE All-Share Index 17.6 Outperformance 3.0 Analysis of performance % UK listed equities 8.0 Stock selection 2.8 Sector allocation 5.2 Unlisted investments 0.0 Borrowings -3.6 Cash 0.1 Capital charges -1.5 Retained revenue for year 0.0 PAGE 6 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002
