Directors Report Business and status enhancing the net asset value for the remaining The company carries on business as an investment shareholders.
The Inland Revenue has approved the companys status as an investment trust for the Dividends purposes of the Income and Corporation taxes Act The directors recommend that a final dividend of 1988 for the year ended 31 March 2001.
In the 8.65p 20018.45p per share be paid on opinion of the directors, the company has 4 July 2002 to shareholders on the register at the subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it close of business on 7 June 2002, making a total of to continue to obtain such approval.
12.75p 200112.45p per share for the year ended 31 March 2002. Review of activities During the year the company followed the normal Directors activities of an investment trust.
Details of these are Sir Chips Keswick retired from the board on 4 July given in the Chairmans Statement and the 2001 and Richard Barfield was appointed to the Managers Review.
Share capital In accordance with the articles of association, During the year the company bought back 6,040,000 Richard Barfield will seek re-appointment.
Roy ordinary shares of 25p each representing 2.4% of the Summers and The Earl of Eglinton and Winton issued share capital as at 31 March 2001 on the retire by rotation at the annual general meeting and London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total offer themselves for re-election.
Resolutions in cost of these shares was 28,125,000.
Since respect of the foregoing will be proposed at the 31 March 2002 a further 625,000 shares have been annual general meeting.
The names of the directors and their holdings in the The principal purpose of such share buybacks was companys shares are shown in Table 1 below.
to address the imbalance between the supply and demand for the companys ordinary shares and No contract or arrangement existed during the year thereby reduce both the scale and volatility of the in which any of the directors had a material interest.
discount at which the shares trade in relation to the No director had a service contract with the underlying net asset value whilst at all times company.
Ordinary Shares held at 31 March 2002 31 March 2001 Nature of interest The Earl of Eglinton 4,350 4,350 Beneficial and Winton 4,885 4,741 Non beneficial Richard Barfield 2,289 Beneficial Scott Dobbie 108,523 106,606 Beneficial 2,281 Non beneficial Ian Inglis 5,000 2,000 Beneficial Sir Gavin Laird 5,460 5,308 Beneficial Eileen Mackay 2,552 2,526 Beneficial Roy Summers 22,492 19,099 Beneficial 3,522 2,304 Non beneficial Table 1 Directors and their holdings in the company PAGE 16 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report Since 31 March 2002 the company has been board to provide effective strategic leadership and notified that The Earl of Eglinton and Winton has proper governance of the company.
The senior added a further 12 shares to his non beneficial independent director is Scott Dobbie.
The company has not been notified of any other changes in the holdings listed in Table 1 The board meets at least eleven times each year.
There between 31 March 2002 and 21 May 2002. is an annual cycle of board meetings which is designed to address, in a systematic way, overall Corporate Governance strategy, review of investment policy, investment Compliance performance, marketing achievements, budgets, The company is committed to high standards of dividend policy and communication with corporate governance.
The board is accountable to shareholders.
the companys shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the company Appointments of new directors are considered by the applies the principles identified in the Combined whole board taking into account the need to Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial maintain a balanced board.
When a new director is Services Authority.
appointed to the board, he or she is provided with all relevant information regarding the company and The board believes that the company has complied their duties as a director.
throughout the accounting period with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code except A director appointed during the year is required to for the provision which relates to the combination retire and seek re-appointment by shareholders at the of the roles of the chairman and chief executive.
The Articles also require This provision does not apply as the company has that one third of the directors retire by rotation each no executive directors.
year and seek re-election at the annual general meeting and also that every director submit himself or Directors herself for re-election at least every three years.
The board has overall responsibility for the companys affairs.
It delegates, through an There is a procedure for directors to take investment management agreement and through independent professional advice, if necessary, at the specific instructions, the day to day management of companys expense.
This is in addition to the access the company to the manager, Edinburgh Fund which every director has to the advice and services of Managers plc.
The company has no executives or the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, employees.
which is responsible to the board for ensuring that board procedures are followed and that applicable The board presently consists of seven non-executive rules and regulations are complied with.
directors, one of whom is chairman.
Communication with shareholders All of the directors are considered by the board to be The directors place great importance on independent of management and free from any communication with the companys shareholders.
business or other relationship which could The company also carries out a programme of materially interfere with the exercise of their regular dialogue and individual meetings with independent judgement.
Biographies of the directors appear on pages 14 and At the annual general meeting all shareholders have 15 of this report.
Each director has the requisite the opportunity to put questions to the board and a business and financial experience which enables the presentation from the manager covers the investment PAGE 17 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report performance and strategy during the financial year The audit and management engagement committee, and the outlook for the year ahead.
The board hopes of which Sir Gavin Laird is chairman, meets at least that as many shareholders as possible will be able to four times a year and considers reports from the attend the meeting.
Shareholders have direct access to internal and external auditors, as well as from the the manager at any time through the freephone manager.
The audit and management engagement shareholder information service.
committee keeps the scope and effectiveness of the external audit under review.
The independence and Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder objectivity of the external auditors are also The manager instructs proxy votes on behalf of the considered on a regular basis, with particular regard company.
to the level of non audit fees.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each annual general meeting to vote Accountability and audit on the election of the external auditors for the The respective responsibilities of the directors and forthcoming year.
the auditors in connection with the financial statements appear on pages 20 and 21.
Going concern The directors believe that the company has adequate The board is responsible for the companys system resources to continue in operational existence for the of internal control and for reviewing its foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage adopt the going concern basis in preparing the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve accounts.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Substantial share interests misstatement or loss.
At 21 May 2002 the substantial interests in the ordinary share capital which had been notified to The board confirms that there is an ongoing process the company are shown in Table 2 opposite.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the companys significant business and operational risks, Corporate Governance and that it has been in place for the year ended Socially Responsible Investment Policy 31 March 2002 and up to the date of approval of The companys manager actively encourages investee the annual report and accounts, that it is regularly companies to adhere to best practice in the area of reviewed by the board and accords with the internal Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible control guidance for directors on the Combined Investing.
The manager believes that this can best be achieved The manager is responsible for the design, by entering into a dialogue with company implementation and maintenance of controls and management to encourage them, where necessary, to procedures to safeguard the assets of the company improve their policies in both areas.
and to manage its affairs properly.
The system extends to operational and compliance controls and The managers ultimate objective however is to risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have deliver superior investment return for its clients.
been established between the board and the manager Accordingly, whilst it will seek to favour companies and regular reports on controls and compliance which pursue best practice in these areas this must issues are provided to the board.
In carrying out its not be to the detriment of the return on the review, the board has had regard to the activities of investment portfolio.
the manager, the manager's compliance and risk function and the external auditors.
PAGE 18 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report In order to monitor company policies effectively the Holder No of ordinary shares % manager subscribes to the Proxy Voting and The Standard Life Assurance Company 21,507,538 8.7 Environmental Screening service offered by Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 18,606,522 7.6 Manifest, an organisation which provides specialist research information on both areas.
Prudential plc 8,681,922 3.5 Table 2 Substantial share interests Commission The manager has arrangements in place whereby a number of stockbrokers pay for specific investment services used by the manager in return for business This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if placed with such stockbrokers.
The level of to do so would enhance the net asset value per share commission paid by the company in respect of such and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
business was monitored by the board and for the year to 31 December 2001 it was 264,000.
By order of the board, Payment of such commission by the company ceased Edinburgh Fund Managers plc on 31 March 2002.
Secretary Payments Policy Edinburgh, 21 May 2002 The companys payment policy is to ensure settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
Auditors Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
Annual General Meeting Special business At the annual general meeting of the company to be held on 3 July 2002, special resolution 8 will be proposed to renew the companys authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
The maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the company as at the date of the passing of the resolution.
The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p.
The maximum price for an ordinary share exclusive of expenses shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
PAGE 19 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
