Managers Review The company aims to achieve its objectives by investing in a portfolio of UK equities including large and small companies.
As manager, we seek to add value in the longer term through a combination of sector allocation and stock selection.
Borrowings, or gearing, are employed to raise exposure to equities when we feel the prospects for equities are attractive.
The FTSE All-Share Index recorded its second successive annual fall, for the first time since 1973-74, retreating by 5.7% during the twelve Standing: Johnny Russell Manager UK Small Companies, Robert Waugh Overall months to the end of March 2002.
A steady flow of Portfolio Manager, Ken Murray Accountant Seated: Lynn Mathewson Secretary, Peter Cockburn Manager UK Large Companies disappointing economic and corporate news weighed heavily on equity returns, particularly in the higher growth sectors of the market.
Companies within the transport, leisure and technology, telecommunications and media sectors insurance industries were affected particularly badly.
were again among the worst performing sectors during the period, falling by 56%, 36% and 15%, The global financial system, supported by further respectively.
In contrast, the defensive sectors of the interest rate cuts in all of the major economies and market benefited from the economic uncertainty as attractive equity valuations, quickly stabilised and investors favoured a high degree of earnings equity prices started to recover in the fourth quarter visibility over the more unpredictable and volatile of the calendar year.
The final quarter of the exposure offered by cyclical companies.
Food companys financial year has been dominated by the producers, beverages and tobacco were among the corporate results season in the UK.
While reported best performing sectors in the period.
earnings have met depressed expectations, there was a marked improvement in the tone of outlook The twelve months under review has been one of the statements provided by many companies.
The FTSE most volatile periods in UK equity market history.
All-Share Index closed the year at 2,557.
The FTSE All-Share Index started the year at 2,711 and made steady progress through the spring, Capital return peaking at 2,891 towards the end of May.
However, The net asset value per share fell by 10.4% during as it became increasingly clear that the economic the year from 540.96p to 484.73p.
This compares downturn, particularly in the US, was threatening to with a capital return of minus 5.7% from the FTSE be far more pronounced than the market had been All-Share Index over the same period.
anticipating, equities started to drift lower through the summer.
Table 1 overleaf illustrates the key contributors to the performance of the net asset value of the company in The response from the monetary authorities on both relation to its benchmark.
The analysis highlights the sides of the Atlantic was to continue cutting interest disappointing performance of the underlying UK rates aggressively.
Tentative economic signs that this equity portfolio and the negative contribution from stimulus was beginning to take effect were shattered the use of borrowings in a falling market.
by the terrorist atrocities in America on 11 September 2001.
In the days following the The weak contribution from the equity portfolio attacks stock markets around the world collapsed stemmed from the underperformance suffered in the with the FTSE All-Share Index reaching a low of first six months of the year.
During this period, the PAGE 5 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Managers Review company was positioned for a recovery in the global representing a 3.6% increase.
This was principally economy reflected by the cyclical bias within the the result of an increase in short term deposit portfolio.
Performance was therefore hurt by the interest received by the company through holding a weaker than anticipated economic activity, higher cash balance than the previous year.
The particularly during the extreme market conditions in revenue return was also helped by a lower expense September.
The second half of the year has been charge than last year.
much more positive, both for equities in general and the companys performance, with the underlying Dividends equity portfolio 1.0% ahead of the FTSE All-Share The total dividend for the year, subject to the Index during this period.
Following Septembers approval of the final dividend at the annual general collapse in equity markets, the company took the meeting, will be 12.75p, a rise of 2.4% on the opportunity to invest all of its borrowings in previous year.
The final dividend of 8.65p will be equities, raising the gearing level to 19%.
The cash paid to those shareholders, directly or by way of the was invested in predominantly market sensitive various savings schemes, who are on the register on stocks, which were trading on very depressed the 7 June 2002.
The dividend itself will be paid on valuations.
The FTSE All-Share Index subsequently the 4 July 2002. rallied by 20% over the next two months, at which point the funds gearing was reduced back to the Borrowings more normal level of 10%.
The company has two debenture issues outstanding amounting to 200 million.
This debt was only Revenue return partly utilised during the period with an average The revenue return per share was 12.50p compared gearing level of 10% during the year.
At 31 March with the previous years return of 12.07p, 2002, the company had approximately 111% of shareholders equity invested in UK equities.
The interest on the borrowings reduced the companys % net asset value by 1.1% during the period.
Decrease in Net Asset Value 10.4 Portfolio activity Decrease in FTSE All-Share Index 5.7 The managers UK equity resource was strengthened Underperformance 4.7 during the period with several new additions to the team.
These changes have enhanced the stock selection process through the introduction of Analysis of performance % different valuation techniques, ensuring that our UK Equities -2.9 process continues to evolve.
The process is built on Stock Selection -1.4 rigorous fundamental financial analysis focused on understanding companies and how they fit into the Sector Allocation -1.5 industries in which they operate.
Particular emphasis Borrowings -0.8 is placed on a companys ability to generate cash Charges to capital -1.3 flow and the strength of its management team.
Debenture interest -1.1 This stock specific approach to portfolio Management fee -0.2 construction has translated into overweight Share Buyback 0.3 positions in the construction, beverages and Cash 0.0 engineering sectors, while exposure to technology, pharmaceutical and general retail stocks were Table 1 Analysis of capital performance year to 31 March 2002 Excludes the attributable effect of stock selection and sector allocation reduced during the period to an underweight stance.
PAGE 6 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Managers Review The company will continue to look for long term At 31 March 2002 Portfolio Index opportunities in companies with strong %% management, sustainable competitive advantage and FTSE 100 83.5 84.3 undervalued share prices.
FTSE 250 12.9 12.5 Purchases FTSE Small Cap 3.6 3.2 Significant new holdings were established across 100.0 100.0 twelve different market sectors during the year.
The Table 2 Size analysis of the UK equity portfolio Index is the FTSE All-Share Index larger companies added to the portfolio were Cookson Group, SSL International, P & O Ports, EMAP, Persimmon, British Energy, Safeway, Abbey National, Weir Group, British Land, Old Mutual, restructure balance sheets following the downturn.
Galen Holdings, Alliance & Leicester, Candover and This is inevitable after a period of economic Waste Recycling Group.
weakness and falling equity markets, and has in the past given way to improving confidence and rising Sales share prices.
Some technology companies were sold out of the portfolio in the period including Spirent, Logica, The portfolios structure will continue to be driven Autonomy, ARM Holdings and Marconi.
Valuations by fundamental stock analysis.
With volatile market within the general retail sector also appeared conditions likely to persist, the company is well stretched and Marks & Spencer, Kingfisher and placed to take advantage of valuation anomalies Woolworths were disposed of during the year.
Other across the UK equity market.
sales included Railtrack, Brambles Industries, BskyB, Energis, EMI, Scottish & Newcastle, Sainsbury, Rank Group and BTG.
Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Future portfolio strategy 21 May 2002 The coming year is expected to be one of recovery from the current low levels of economic growth.
The slowdown has been much milder in the UK than in other parts of the world and therefore the rebound may be more modest, though a gradual acceleration in GDP growth is anticipated.
The consumption element of GDP is our primary concern.
The UK consumer has taken on a very high level of debt while interest rates have been falling, though this debt burden would become more difficult to service should interest rates start to rise.
As a result we have reduced our exposure to the consumer related areas of the market, such as leisure and general retail, where company valuations are looking stretched.
The steadily improving economic news flow has created a more receptive equity market with over 4 billion of fresh capital raised in the first quarter of 2002, as companies attempt to repair and PAGE 7 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
