Managers Review Edinburgh US Tracker Trust is the only UK The issuance of new shares raised 32.6 million of investment trust to track the performance of new funds which were invested across existing the S&P Composite Index, the primary holdings.
The total value of purchases in the year benchmark for measuring the performance of amounted to 40.0 million while sales totaled the US equity market.
The index is calculated 7.6 million.
In order to maintain accurate on the basis of the market capitalisation of its tracking, the company also used S&P 500 500 constituents which are drawn from Composite Index futures during the year to provide companies quoted on the New York Stock full exposure to the US stock market.
At the year Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and end, however, the company had no open positions NASDAQ.
The strategy employed by the company to track the Since the beginning of 2001, the Federal Reserve index is full replication of the index constituents.
Board has cut US interest rates on thirteen occasions This means that the company holds every stock taking short term interest rates down from 6.5% to making up the index in an amount that equals the 1.75%.
Evidence is now beginning to emerge that stock's weight in the index.
this significant monetary stimulus is working and a sharp recovery in US economic activity is anticipated Activity within the portfolio in the year to this year.
Investor sentiment, however, remains 31 January 2002 reflected changes to the cautious following poor returns from equities in constituents of the index arising from takeover 2000 and 2001 and a rebound in corporate profits activity and investment of the proceeds received by will be required to push share prices higher.
the company from the issue of new shares.
The largest companies to be taken over during the period Edinburgh Fund Managers plc were Wachovia, Texaco, US Bancorp, Ralston 13 March 2002 Purina and American General, while the largest additions to the index included John Hancock Financial Services, AT&T Wireless, XL Capital, Immunex and Ace.
A total of 30 new stocks were added to the portfolio during the year.
At 31 January 2002, the portfolio consisted of 501 stocks.
PAGE 5 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
