Directors Report Business and Status Lord Mansfield will retire from the board at the The company carries on business as an investment trust conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
and, for the purpose of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, has been treated by the Inland No contract or arrangement existed during the year Revenue as approved as such for the year ended 31 in which any of the directors was materially January 2001.
The company has subsequently interested.
Directors have no service contracts with conducted its affairs so as to receive such approval.
The company is an investment company within the Directors Liability Insurance terms of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The company maintains insurance in respect of directors and officers liabilities in relation to their Review of Activities acts on behalf of the company.
During the year the company followed the normal activities of an investment trust.
Details of these are Corporate Governance given in the Chairmans Statement and the Compliance Managers Review.
The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board is accountable to the Share Capital companys shareholders for good governance and this During the period 4 July 2001 to 31 January 2002 statement describes how the company applies the the company issued 4,910,000 shares at a premium principles identified in the Combined Code appended to net asset value at prices ranging from 562.0p to to the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
The total consideration for these shares was 32,646,450.
Since 31 January 2002 a further The board confirms that the company has complied 200,000 shares were issued for a consideration of throughout the accounting period with the 1,288,000. provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Dividends Directors The directors recommend that a dividend of 2.85p The board consists of four non-executive directors, per share be paid on 14 May 2002 to shareholders of whom Sir Angus Grossart is the chairman.
on the register at the close of business on 3 May Mr Wilson has been appointed as the senior 2002, making a total of 4.85p 20014.85p per independent director.
All directors are considered by share for the year ended 31 January 2002. the board to be independent of the company and the investment manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, Directors and free of any material relationship with the The names of the directors and their holdings in the manager which could interfere with the exercise of companys shares are shown in Table 1.
company has not been notified of any changes in directors holdings between 31 January 2002 and 13 March 2002.
Ordinary Shares held at 31 January 2002 31 January 2001 Nature of interest In accordance with the articles of association, Sir Sir Angus Grossart 1,000 1,000 Beneficial Angus Grossart retires by rotation at the Annual The Earl of Mansfield 2,000 2,000 Beneficial General Meeting and will be proposed for reelection.
James Ferguson, who was appointed a W M Wilson 1,000 1,000 Beneficial director of the company on 12 March 2002 also James Ferguson retires at the Annual General Meeting and will be proposed for re-election.
Table 1 Directors and their holdings in the company PAGE 11 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report Profiles of the board members appear on page 10.
The articles also require that one third of the Each director has the requisite high level and range directors retire by rotation each year and seek reof business and financial experience which enables election at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, the board to provide clear and effective leadership all directors are required to submit themselves for reand proper stewardship of the company.
election at least every three years.
The board meets at least four times each year and Relations with shareholders more frequently where business needs require.
The The directors place a great deal of importance on board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for communication with shareholders.
The report and decision and the requirement for board approval on accounts are widely distributed to other parties who these matters is communicated directly to the senior have an interest in the companys performance.
Such matters include strategy, Shareholders and investors may obtain up to date borrowings, treasury and dividend policy.
Full and information on the company through the managers timely information is provided to the board to freephone information service and the company enable the board to function effectively and to allow responds to letters from shareholders on a wide directors to discharge their responsibilities.
board also reviews the financial statements, performance and revenue budgets.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting included within the annual report and accounts is sent out at The board considers that the post of chief executive least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
All officer is not relevant for an investment trust shareholders have the opportunity to put questions company as this role has effectively been delegated at the companys annual general meeting.
to Edinburgh Fund Managers plc under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder The company does not normally vote on issues There is an agreed procedure for directors to take relating to its investments as all investments are held independent professional advice if necessary and at due to their inclusion in the S&P Composite Index.
This is in addition to the The manager has the right to vote on behalf of the access which every director has to the advice and company if they believe it is appropriate.
services of the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, which is responsible to the board for Accountability and audit ensuring that board procedures are followed and that The respective responsibilities of the directors and applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
the auditors in connection with the financial statements appear on pages 15 and 16.
Appointments to the board of directors are considered by the whole board.
Possible new The board is responsible for the companys system directors are identified against the requirements of of internal control and for reviewing its the companys business and the need to have a effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage balanced board.
External search consultants may be rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve used to ensure that a wide range of candidates can business objectives and can only provide reasonable be considered.
Every director is entitled to receive and not absolute assurance against material appropriate training as deemed necessary.
A director appointed during the year is required, The board confirms that there is an ongoing process under the provisions of the companys articles of for identifying, evaluating and managing the association, to retire and seek re-election by companys significant business and operational risks, shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
that it has been in place for the year ended 31 January PAGE 12 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report 2002 and up to the date of approval of the annual Payments Policy report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by The companys payment policy is to ensure the board and accords with the internal control settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
The responsibility to ensure compliance with regulations and company law to provide effective Auditors and efficient operation and investment management Resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual General has been delegated to the manager under the terms Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc of the management agreement.
as auditors of the company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
The manager is responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of controls and Annual General Meeting procedures to safeguard the assets of the company Resolutions relating to the following items of special and to manage its affairs properly.
The system business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual extends to operational and compliance controls and General Meeting:- risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have been established between the board and the manager i Continuation of the company and regular reports on controls and compliance As required by the companys articles of association, issues are provided to the board.
In carrying out its shareholders are asked to release the board of review, the board has had regard to the activities of directors from the obligation in the companys the manager, the managers internal audit function articles of association to convene an extraordinary and the external auditors.
general meeting at which an ordinary resolution will be proposed requiring the company to be wound up The directors have appointed an audit and voluntarily.
management engagement committee, chaired by Mr Wilson.
The committee considers reports from the ii Increase in authorised share capital.
external auditors as well as from the manager.
The An ordinary resolution will be proposed to increase scope and effectiveness of the external audit is also the companys authorised share capital from kept under review.
The independence and objectivity 23,942,482.50 to 30,000,000 by the creation of of the external auditors is also considered on a an additional 24,230,070 ordinary shares of 25p regular basis, with particular regard to the level of each in the share capital of the company ranking non-audit fees.
The non-audit fees for the year to pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary 31 January 2002 were nil.
shares of 25p each in the share capital of the company.
This represents a proposed percentage Going Concern increase of approximately 25% in the companys The companys directors have a reasonable expectation authorised ordinary share capital.
The reason for the that the company has adequate resources to continue increase is to facilitate the potential issue of new its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For shares in the company.
this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Substantial Share Interests Holder No of ordinary shares % At 13 March 2002, the interests in the ordinary Barclays plc 9,618,106 10.9 share capital which had been notified to the company are shown in Table 2.
Table 2 Substantial share interests PAGE 13 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report iii Authority to allot shares v Purchase of the companys own ordinary shares A further ordinary resolution will be proposed to A special resolution will be proposed to authorise the authorise the directors to allot up to 29,460,388 company to make market purchases of its own shares.
unissued ordinary shares being up to an aggregate The maximum number of ordinary shares which maximum nominal amount of 7,365,097.
This may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be maximum nominal amount represents 33.3% of 14.99% of the issued share capital of the company the companys total ordinary share capital currently as at the date of the passing of the resolution in issue and meets institutional guidelines.
These approximately 13.25 million ordinary shares.
The guidelines permit such authorities to be calculated minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary on the basis of one-third of the existing issued share shall be 25p.
The maximum price for an share capital.
ordinary share exclusive of expenses shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle The authority conferred by this resolution will market quotations for the companys ordinary expire on 12 May 2007. shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
iv Limited disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions A resolution will be proposed to give the directors This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if power to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate to do so would enhance the net asset value and is in nominal amount of 2,209,529, being 10% of the the best interests of shareholders generally.
current issued share capital of the company, for cash other than to existing shareholders pro rata to their vi Amendment to articles of association holdings.
Under this authority, ordinary shares A special resolution will be proposed making one would only be issued for cash at a price not less than amendment to the companys articles of association.
the net asset value per share.
A maximum of Consistent with the own share purchase authority 7,365,097 of unissued ordinary share capital may referred to at paragraph v above, it is proposed to also be allotted for cash pursuant to a rights issue introduce a new article 22A making express made pro rata to shareholders in the future.
provision that, subject to the requirements of the Ordinary shares would only be issued for cash Companies Act, the company may purchase its own pursuant to a rights issue at a price not less than the shares.
This amendment does not affect the need to net asset value per share.
obtain annual shareholder approval for an extension of the own share purchase authority.
The full terms The directors consider that the powers proposed to of the proposed amendment are set out at special be granted by the resolutions described at iii and resolution 12 in the notice of Annual General iv above are necessary to retain flexibility.
the 10% limited disapplication of pre-emption rights which will be used to meet investor demand, the By order of the board directors do not have any intention of exercising Edinburgh Fund Managers plc such powers at the present time.
Secretary Edinburgh, 13 March 2002 PAGE 14 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
