32 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2002 The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are audited financial statements for Egg plc and its related made and that applicable accounting standards are entities the Group and for Egg plc the Company for followed.
They also ensure that appropriate accounting the year ended 31 December 2002. records are maintained which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Results for the year Company and that they take such steps as are The Group made a loss after tax of 18.8 million for the reasonably open to safeguard the assets of the year ended 31 December 2002 2001: 62.1 million Company and Group and to prevent and detect fraud loss.
This loss was consistent with the directors and other irregularities.
expectations based on the growth in new customers achieved in the UK and the launch in France.
A full Directors explanation of the results is presented in the business The present directors of the Company are listed on and financial review sections.
Details of the interests in the share capital of the Financial statements and dividends Company of the directors in office as at 31 December The consolidated balance sheet on page 50 shows 2002 are set out in the remuneration section of this the state of affairs of the Group at 31 December 2002. report on pages 35 to 45.
The Companys balance sheet appears on page 51 and the consolidated profit and loss account on page 49.
Employees There is a five-year review of the Group on page 86.
The Group has a policy framework and procedures that The directors do not recommend payment of a dividend.
ensures compliance with employment legislation in addition to reflecting the culture and values of Egg.
Principal activity and business review Company policy is to recruit, develop and employ staff Egg plc is the holding company of the Group and the on the basis of the suitability of their qualifications and principal undertakings of its subsidiaries are retail experience for the work to be performed, regardless of banking in the UK and France.
sex, marital status, creed, race, nationality or disability.
A review of the business is shown in the Business and Full consideration is given to continuing the employment Financial Reviews on pages 20 and 26. of staff who become disabled and to provide training Share capital and career development opportunities to disabled During the year, the ordinary share capital was increased employees.
The requirements of the Disability by the issue of 1,125,354 ordinary shares allotted as a Discrimination Act 1996 have been put into effect.
result of the exercise of options under the Companys The Group has effective communication channels share schemes.
whereby information on the Groups affairs is passed to employees and through which employees views are Substantial shareholdings sought on issues that concern them.
The Groups As at 21 February 2003 the Company has been notified intranet enables easy access for all to policies, job of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued vacancies, news and other company information.
addition, quarterly road shows allow employees regular Percentage access to senior managers, for an update on current and Number of of issued future business plans and for an open forum question ordinary ordinary and answer session.
Shareholder shares share capital Corporate governance Prudential plc The directors support the Combined Code on Corporate and certain subsidiaries 650,666,326 79.3% Governance annexed to the Listing Rules issued by the Directors responsibilities Financial Services Authority the Code and Egg is The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on committed to high standards of corporate governance.
the performance and financial position of the Company The Company has complied throughout the year ended and the Group and are responsible for preparing the 31 December 2002 with all the Code provisions set out financial statements of the Group on pages 49 to 85. in Section 1 of the Code, except in relation to the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial requirement for the Remuneration Committee to statements for each financial year which give a true comprise solely of independent non-executive directors.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and This Committee has comprised both independent and the Group and of the results for the period and which non-independent non-executive directors throughout the comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The reasons for this departure are discussed later in statements the directors ensure that suitable accounting this report, in the section dealing with the membership policies are selected and applied consistently, that and objectivity of this committee.
33 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 During 2002, Egg plc acquired as a subsidiary, Zebank and authority levels for expenditure.
All directors have SA, a French internet bank which was subsequently full and timely access to relevant information and have renamed Egg SA.
The high level control framework for access to the advice of the Company Secretary and the Egg Group including the governance structures has to independent professional advice where needed in been reviewed during the year and, where appropriate, furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
amendments have been made to reflect the needs of The Board ensures that a clear organisation structure the enlarged Group.
During the year, Egg SA maintained with which to manage the business is in place.
a corporate governance structure to meet its French This structure includes appropriate delegation of authority corporate governance and regulatory requirements.
and accountability with regard to acceptable levels of The Conseil fide Surveillance operated as the senior risk and these are documented in the Groups high Board in France, with the Directoire as the executive level controls framework which is reviewed by the Board.
Representatives of Eggs Executive Committee Board on an annual basis.
sat on the French Boards and a Chief Executive Officer Principal Board Committees for Egg France was in place.
Reporting lines and The Board has established a number of committees, authorities were established for Egg SA to reflect its each with specific terms of reference, consisting of position as a subsidiary of Egg plc.
certain directors and senior executives.
The following Board of Directors are the principal committees: The primary objective of the management structures Executive Committee within Egg, headed by the Board of Directors and led by The Executive Committee meets regularly and acts the Chairman, is to deliver sustainable long-term value to as a general management committee under the shareholders.
Implementation of the strategy set by the delegated authority of the Chief Executive Officer.
Board is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer, who is The Committee is responsible for implementing Group supported by a committee of senior executives.
policy, monitoring business performance, managing The Board is made up of nine members, consisting of risks and ensuring the effectiveness of internal controls, three executive directors and six non-executive directors.
approving budgets and capital expenditure for In November 2002, Dr Juan Rada was appointed to recommendation to the Board and ensuring efficient replace David Smilow who resigned in April 2002.
A and effective management of the Group.
resolution will be put forward at the AGM in April 2003 proposing a change to the Articles of Association to Audit Committee allow for the appointment of Pascal Cagni as an The Audit Committee assists the Board in meeting its additional non-executive director to widen further the responsibilities for reviewing the effectiveness of the breadth of experience on the Board, as appropriate system of internal control and for approving the for a rapidly growing international Group.
accounting policies and financial statements of the Group.
The Audit Committee also considers the plans The relationship between the Company and Prudential and findings of the Internal Audit and the Compliance plc is documented in a relationship agreement, which department.
It provides a direct channel of has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Under this communication between the external auditors and the agreement Prudential plc is entitled to nominate one Board, helping to ensure that the external audit is person to be a director of the Company.
Jonathan conducted in a thorough and effective manner and that Bloomer, one of the non-executive directors, has been reports by the external auditors are actioned as nominated by the Prudential accordingly.
The Committee reviews the plans and is also entitled to appoint any director to be Chairman results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness as of the Board.
Roberto Mendoza, another of the well as the independence and objectivity of the external non-executive directors, has been so appointed.
Both are also directors of Prudential plc.
The Group has adopted a policy on the independence of All the remaining non-executive directors are auditors.
The policy includes guidelines on the provision independent and accordingly the Board is of the of non-audit services and the Audit Committee will monitor view that throughout the period, a majority of the and in some cases must approve expenditure on nonnon-executive directors were independent.
audit work to enable the Committee to satisfy itself that The senior non-executive director is Richard Delbridge.
auditor independence is not being compromised.
The full Board met eleven times during the year.
The Committee is comprised of four independent nonThe Board has a clearly documented schedule of executive directors and met six times during the year.
matters reserved to it, including the agreement of After each meeting, the Chairman of the Audit strategy and budgets, the approval of major capital Committee reports to the Board.
expenditure, policies covering treasury operations, 34 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Directors report continued Corporate governance continued The members of the Audit Committee are Richard there are appropriate controls in place to manage them.
Delbridge Chairman, Leslie Priestley, Derek Higgs, The procedures implemented have remained in place up and Juan Rada.
Senior Executives, as well as Eggs to 21 February 2003, the date of approval of the Annual senior financial, internal audit, compliance and risk Report and Accounts by the Board.
The Board has management executives and the external auditor attend undertaken an annual assessment of the effectiveness meetings as requested by the Committee.
From time to of internal control based on a comprehensive time, the Audit Committee meets in private with the self-assessment programme by senior line and internal and external auditors.
functional managers, co-ordinated by the Risk Management Department and reviewed and evaluated Remuneration Committee by the Internal Audit Department.
The Remuneration Committee considers the terms of The Groups key internal control procedures include employment for certain senior executives, including the the following: executive directors.
In particular it makes decisions regarding grants under share plans and decisions Authority to manage the businesses that constitute Egg concerning the salaries, incentive compensation and is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer within limits other terms of employment.
The Remuneration set by the Board.
There are Group-wide policies, Committee is chaired by Roberto Mendoza who, as procedures and manuals in place covering financial indicated above, has been nominated by the Prudential controls, business processes, information security, credit as Chairman of the Board.
It includes as members both policy and compliance with regulatory and legislative the independent non-executive directors and the nonrequirements.
In addition, delegated limits apply to all executive director nominated by Prudential.
The Board transactions and risk positions to ensure that exposures believes that the Chairman of the Remuneration are controlled.
The accountabilities of key managers are Committee and the non-executive director nominated designed to ensure appropriate segregation of duties.
by Prudential are sufficiently independent from the In each of the key business areas, regular independent day-to-day activities of the business to objectively checks are made on operating performance and assess the remuneration of the Groups senior executives.
customer service to ensure that control procedures are being observed.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee meets as required to Systems and procedures are in place to identify, control carry out the process of nominating candidates to and report on the major risks including credit, changes fill vacancies on the Board.
Nominations will then be in the market prices of financial instruments, liquidity, considered by the Board.
All directors are subject to operational errors and fraud.
Exposure to these risks election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting throughout the Group is monitored by each of the following their appointment and to re-election at least Group Risk and Controls Committee, the Asset every three years.
The Nominations Committee is chaired and Liability Committee ALCO, the Group Retail by Roberto Mendoza and includes as members all of the Credit Committee and the Group Wholesale Credit non-executive directors.
They are also monitored by subsidiary company boards of directors and by the Internal control Executive Committee.
The Board is ultimately responsible for internal control in Risk assessments are also completed as part of all the Company and its related entities and for reviewing its project appraisals, and risk is considered within the effectiveness.
Systems and procedures have been budget and business planning exercises, which are designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations reviewed and approved by the Board.
and help ensure the quality of external reporting, compliance with applicable laws, regulations and to There is a system of financial reporting to the Board monitor internal policies with respect to conduct of based on an annual plan, with monthly reports of actual business.
Such systems are designed to manage, results, analysis of variances from plan, review of key rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve performance indicators, and regular updates to business objectives and can only provide reasonable forecasts.
The annual plan and revised forecasts are and not absolute assurance against material errors, both reviewed against overall business strategy on a losses or fraud.
regular basis by the Executive Committee and the Board.
Market and competitor intelligence reports are The key procedures the directors have established are received and reviewed.
designed to provide effective control in accordance with: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the The Internal Audit Department monitors compliance Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
There is an with Group policies and procedures and the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing effectiveness of internal control structures across the the significant risks faced by the Group and for ensuring Group as a whole.
The work of Internal Audit is 35 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 focussed on the areas of greatest risk.
The Chief Mendoza Chairman, Jonathan Bloomer, Richard Internal Auditor reports to the Chief Financial Officer, Delbridge, Derek Higgs, Leslie Priestley and Juan Rada the Chief Executive Officer and the Audit Committee.
who joined the Committee in November 2002.
The Committee has appointed Watson Wyatt LLP Actuaries These internal controls procedures apply to Egg plc and 1 and Consultants to review and provide independent its subsidiary companies.
The Egg Group also includes advice to the Committee on the remuneration of its an associated company, IfOnline Group Limited and a executive directors and other senior managers.
joint venture company Marlborough Stirling Mortgage Throughout the year Watson Wyatt LLP also provide the Services Limited MSMS.
During the year, the Group with market data for use in benchmarking the shareholding in MSMS was reduced so that Marlborough Groups salary structure, together with other remuneration Stirling plc now owns more than 50% of the equity and related advice.
In addition, the Committee is advised by MSMS has adopted the Internal Control procedures Andy Craggs, Chief People Officer on matters operated by the Marlborough Stirling Group.
IfOnline concerning the overall pay structure and the balance of Group Limited has a number of significant investors and the different elements of the package.
applies its own internal control processes to meet the needs of all of its significant investors, rather than The Committee meets at least three times a year and adopting the Internal Control procedures of Egg.
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief People Officer are also in attendance.
The Chief Executive Officer The Group Risk and Controls Committee meets regularly advises the Committee specifically on the performance under the delegated authority of the Chief Executive and reward recommendations for his executive team, Officer.
This Committee ensures that the Groups risk and leaves the meeting when his own compensation management framework is effective, and that a sound is discussed.
system of internal controls is in place, remains effective 1 Watson Wyatt has given and has not withdrawn its written consent and is embedded throughout the organisation.
to the inclusion of its name in this document in the form and context The Group Risk and Controls Committee is chaired within which it appears.
by the Chief Executive Officer and includes as members certain members of the Executive Committee Remuneration policy and other senior executives.
It is the policy of the Committee to provide remuneration The Audit Committee keeps under review the packages for the executive directors that are sufficiently effectiveness of the system of internal control and competitive to attract and retain scarce executive talent, reports regularly to the Board to assist in its review of and which align the interests of executive directors with effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Audit those of shareholders.
Base pay, bonus and share plans Committee receives an annual confirmation, through the are each designed to provide an overall package that Risk Director, from senior line and functional managers provides significant scope for linking reward to individual that there have been no material losses, contingencies performance.
Consequently, variable elements provide a or uncertainties caused by any weakness in relatively high proportion of total reward.
For all executive internal controls.
directors, assuming target performance, base salary represents approximately one third of the target value Communication with shareholders of the total remuneration package taking into account Communication with shareholders is given a high priority.
the value of long-term incentives as explained later in Extensive information about Eggs activities is provided the report.
in the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Performance underpins the reward strategy so that base Report, which are sent to shareholders.
Further investor salary is positioned approximately at median against the information is accessible on the Egg website, relevant comparator group with variable pay taking total www.
There is a regular dialogue with cash into upper quartile levels, based on meeting institutional investors.
Enquiries from individuals on stretching individual and Group targets.
The structure of matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the remuneration package is reviewed as necessary with Egg are dealt with in an informative and timely manner.
the above factors in mind.
Remuneration Comparator group Remuneration Committee As a uniquely successful Financial Services internet startThe Remuneration Committee the Committee up business, Egg does not have a natural comparator operates within specific terms of reference in order to group of companies.
The Committee has accordingly review matters of general policy in relation to the chosen a set of appropriate comparator groups against remuneration and terms and conditions of service of which to measure different aspects of executive reward.
executive directors of the Group, and to make Base pay and total cash use a comparator group of recommendations to the Board as considered companies suitably comparable to Egg, which provides appropriate.
The members of the Committee are Roberto 36 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 09 size matters We are the largest pure online bank in the world Egg is now the largest pure online bank in the world, according to research from Nielsen Net Ratings.
We take this position seriously, and do not underestimate the need to continue to lead the field in offering the best services and products we can to our customers.
37 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 38 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Directors report continued Remuneration continued roles that are similar in size when applying benchmark Annual bonus gradings.
The companies and roles are chosen to The annual bonus scheme is focused on the key provide appropriate comparators for Egg based on a strategic aims of the Group for the period.
It provides combination of size, similarity of operations and industry executive directors with an incentive based on meeting sector, and similarity of roles.
annual quantitative and qualitative financial and business targets.
The achievement of qualitative targets is decided Two further comparator groups are used for the purposes by the Committee, and this is based on evidence of long-term incentive awards.
The Remuneration provided by the Chief Executive Officer.
Executive Committee has selected a comparator group of retail directors participate at a level of up to 100% of base banks in the FTSE 350 for the purpose of determining salary, based on both Group and individual achievement.
the level of awards and a further comparator group of the In 2002, the proportion of bonus based on individual FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts for measuring targets was increased from 20% to 40% of the overall company performance when applying performance bonus.
On target achievement against stretching conditions on long-term share plans.
The basis for objectives would lead to a bonus of 75% and is long-term incentive awards is outlined later in designed to achieve upper quartile market total cash this section.
Any annual bonus payment is receivable in Salary the form of a taxable, non-pensionable cash payment The Remuneration Committee reviews annually the salaries following the announcement of the annual results for the of the executive directors, taking into account individual relevant year.
accountabilities and contribution, in addition to business Benefits in kind results and market data on remuneration in comparator Each executive director is provided with a company car, companies.
The target positioning for fully competent medical and life assurance, none of which is pensionable.
performance is market median of the relevant comparator group, with actual positioning being dependent on individual skills, experience and performance.
2 Table 1: Directors emoluments Other Total Total Salary Bonus benefits 2002 2001 Director 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Mike Harris 276 234 17 527 501 Paul Gratton 368 312 20 700 671 Stacey Cartwright 255 217 11 483 457 Total 2002 899 763 48 1,710 n a Total 2001 842 758 29 n a 1,629 2 Tables 1 to 11 in the Remuneration report are those items described in the auditors report on page 48 as having been audited.
The highest paid director for 2002 was Paul Gratton whose emoluments for 2002 were 681,660.
Additionally in 2002 the Group made pension contributions of 32,568 on his behalf to a defined benefit pension scheme.
The highest paid director in 2001 was Paul Gratton whose emoluments for 2001 were 670,783, in addition to a pension contribution of 58,420 to a defined benefit pension scheme.
Pensions All of the executive directors have individual pension arrangements to which the Group makes contributions.
Paul Gratton participates in a defined benefit pension scheme whilst Mike Harris and Stacey Cartwright have defined contribution schemes.
In the event of Paul Grattons early retirement, he will be entitled to an early retirement pension, which shall be at an annual accrual rate of one thirtieth of his final pensionable remuneration.
This will be reduced by an early retirement factor calculated by an actuary.
Upon Pauls death after retirement a pension will be paid to his spouse equal to two-thirds of the pension he was in receipt of on the day of his death.
The pension payable to Paul will be increased in line with the Retail Price Index.
39 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Table 2: Defined Benefit Pension Schemes Change in Transfer Transfer accrued value of value of Transfer Years of entitlement Accrued accrued accrued Change in value of the pensionable in period to entitlement at entitlement at entitlement at transfer the increase Age at service at 31 December 31 December 31 December 1 January value at in accrued 31 December 31 December 2002 2002 2002 2002 31 December entitlement 2002 2002 6 years Paul Gratton 43 11 months 22,639 76,050 276,263 200,471 75,792 68,443 The accrued entitlement combines both approved and unapproved benefits.
The unfunded element of the defined benefit pension scheme at 31 December 2002 amounted to 282,000 2001: 211,500 which has been fully provided.
Table 3: Pre tax contribution or salary supplements Year to Year to 31 December 31 December 2002 2001 Director 000 000 Executive Mike Harris 83 78 Stacey Cartwright 49 46 Total 132 124 Includes pre tax contributions to a Self Invested Pension Plan of 20% of Inland Revenue Earnings Cap the Cap plus taxable salary supplements of 20% of earnings in excess of the Cap.
Remuneration of non-executive directors The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board, and are set at a level that, historically, has been sufficient to attract and retain individuals of the appropriate calibre.
Jonathan Bloomer was remunerated by Prudential.
His services to the Group were of a non-executive nature and his emoluments were deemed to be wholly attributable to his services to Prudential for the period.
The fees shown are for services as director of Egg plc and its subsidiaries from 1 January 2002.
David Smilow resigned from his position as non-executive director of Egg plc on 26 April 2002.
The fees for 2002 below are therefore prorated.
Juan Rada joined the Egg plc Board on 19 November 2002 and the fees for 2002 are therefore prorated.
Table 4: Non-executive directors fees Total Total 2002 2001 Director 000 000 Non-executive Roberto Mendoza Chairman 75 75 Jonathan Bloomer Richard Delbridge 35 35 Derek Higgs 33 33 Leslie Priestley 33 33 David Smilow 10 30 Juan Rada 4 Total 190 206 40 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Directors report continued Directors service contracts It is the policy of the Group not to allow service contracts with more than 12 months written notice.
Each executive directors service contract is dated 22 May 2000 and is terminable by either side giving 12 months written notice of termination.
In either case, the Group will not require the individual to carry out their normal duties under the contract for more than six months.
The Committee has discretion over any compensation for any unvested long-term incentives in the case of loss of office by an executive.
Long-term incentives The Group operates a restricted share plan the Restricted Share Plan and an employee share option plan the Share Option Plan.
Awards were granted to the executive directors under both plans at the time of the Initial Public Offering.
These awards were designed to take into account the inherent value accumulated under a previous cash based long-term incentive arrangement Long-term Incentive Plan in the 18 months prior to flotation.
For this reason performance conditions were not applied to these grants.
This plan terminated upon flotation.
It has been the policy of the Remuneration Committee to grant awards of long-term incentives annually, under the Restricted Share Plan and the Share Option Plan.
It is intended that the level of awards will be maintained in 2003, with the awards being delivered wholly in restricted shares.
Performance conditions apply to the grant of awards under both plans.
Performance conditions are based on the delivery of Eggs business plan for the year, and the individual responsibilities necessary to deliver the plan.
The targets for the Egg business plan were achieving profit, sales and revenue targets, and a successful launch of Egg in France: individual responsibilities were in support of that plan.
For executive directors, the key individual responsibilities are:- Paul Gratton ensuring delivery of the Groups operating plan and achieving the optimal positioning of information technology, brand and cost base necessary for both the year and for Eggs future plans: Stacey Cartwright achieving financial targets incorporated in the Groups operating plan, integrity of results and sound risk management: Mike Harris devising Eggs future strategic plans.
These are subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Performance conditions were not applied to the vesting of awards granted under the Restricted Share Plan before 2002 or under the Share Option Plan.
With effect from awards made in 2002, performance conditions apply to restricted shares on vesting.
Total Shareholder Return TSR against the FTSE 350 was felt to be the most appropriate measure in the absence of specific comparators for Eggs stage of growth.
This is a general index and outperforming this is a reasonable measure of providing return to shareholders.
The proportion of the initial award that vests will be determined by the Committees assessment of Eggs TSR ranked against the FTSE 350 at the end of the measurement period.
The measurement period begins on the date of the award and ends on the third anniversary thereof.
Depending on positioning against this group, the actual number of restricted shares received will be based on a multiplier of between 0 and 4 times the basic award shown in Table 5.
The basic award will normally be given at median ranking against the TSR results for the FTSE 350, with straight-line interpolation rising to twice the basic award if performance is at upper quartile ranking, and quadruple the basic award if performance is at top ranking illustrated Figure 1 below.
Eggs performance against the FTSE 350 is shown in Figure 2 below.
Figure 2: Illustrative performance graph from Eggs IPO at 12 June to 31 December 2002 Figure 1: Percentile TSR ranking vs FTSE 350 Egg Total Cumulative Shareholder Return compared against Award units multiples Total Shareholder Return of FTSE 350 Actuaries Share Index 4.0 120 100 3.0 80 2.0 60 40 1.0 20 0 102030405060 708090 100 0 12 June 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2000 2000 2001 2002 Total shareholder return measures the percentage change Egg plc FTSE 350 in the value of a share assuming dividends to have been reinvested 41 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 In 2002 awards were made to executive directors under both long-term incentive plans, with an expected normative maximum value calculated using PEV see below of 175% of salary, with 40% of the value being in restricted shares and 60% of the value in share options.
The positioning for on target achievement against stretching objectives is validated with reference to the median of total direct compensation, for the comparator group of retail banks in the FTSE 350 outlined earlier.
Exceptionally in 2002 the Committee made enhanced awards of 200% of salary to five people, including the three executive directors, reflecting the achievement of targets set at IPO.
From 2002 Watson Wyatts Present Economic Value PEV methodology has been applied to arrive at long-term incentive award levels.
This builds on the mathematical and economic principles underlying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The advantage of this methodology is that it allows the Remuneration Committee to value consistently all types of long-term incentives taking into account features relating to the expected future share price volatility and dividends, performance and exercise conditions.
A minimum shareholding requirement has been introduced from 2003, whereby executive directors are required to hold shares to the value of twice their annual salary after seven years, with an interim requirement to hold shares to the value of their annual salary after three years.
Egg Restricted Share Plan On 25 April 2000, the Group adopted the Restricted Share Plan, under which executive directors of the Group may be awarded shares in Egg plc.
The awards are conditional until the vesting date.
Details of the conditional awards of shares in Egg plc under the plan are shown below.
These shares represent the conditional awards out of which allocations will be made.
The market price of shares conditionally awarded in 2002 is based on the market price of the shares on the day of the award.
The market price of shares vested in 2002 is based on the market price of the shares on the day of vesting.
There were no performance conditions attaching to the awards vested in 2002.
As a result rights were granted over 100% of the shares conditionally awarded.
The shares conditionally awarded in 2002 are subject to the performance conditions outlined in the previous section.
42 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Directors report continued Remuneration continued Egg Employee Share Option Plan On 25 April 2000, the Group adopted the Share Option Plan, under which executive directors of the Group may be granted options over shares.
The grants are conditional until the vesting date.
Details of the option grants under the plan are shown below.
Figures shown for Paul Gratton include options held by his wife, who is a senior manager at Egg.
The options granted during 2002 were subject to individual performance conditions on grants as described above.
The market price of Egg plc shares at 31 December 2002 was 1.44.
The highest price during the year was 1.90 and the lowest price during the year was 1.15.
Egg Savings-Related Share Option Scheme On 6 September 2001 Egg launched a savings-related share option scheme Sharesave.
A second invitation was issued under this plan in October 2002.
This is open to permanent employees of Egg and its subsidiaries.
Options up to the Inland Revenue limits are granted at a 20% discount and cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed.
43 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Table 7: Egg Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Granted Lapsed Exercised Exercise Earliest Latest 1 January during the during the during the 31 December price exercise exercise Director 2002 period period period 2002 date date Executive Paul Gratton 4,457 4,457 1.304 2004 2005 3,298 3,298 1.146 2005 2006 4,457 7,755 Directors Long-term Incentive Schemes in Prudential plc Prudential Prudential operates long-term incentive schemes for its executive directors and senior employees in the form of the Prudential Restricted Share Plan and the Prudential Share Participation Plan.
The executive directors of Egg plc ceased to be eligible to receive new awards under these schemes on 1 January 1999.
Prudential Restricted Share Plan This is a long-term incentive plan, operated by Prudential.
It is designed to provide reward contingent upon the achievement of predetermined returns to shareholders.
Under this plan directors of Egg plc were granted annually a conditional award of shares in Prudential which are held in trust for three years.
The conditional award is equivalent to a percentage of salary at the time of the award, valuing the shares at their average share price during the preceding calendar year.
The number of shares that the directors are allocated out of the conditional award after three years depends on the total return to shareholders relative to other companies in the FTSE-100 share index over the three years.
In addition, the Prudential Remuneration Committee must be satisfied with the overall financial performance of Prudential.
The right to receive allocations may then be exercised by the director concerned at any time during the following seven years.
In respect of the 1999 Restricted Share Plan, Prudentials Total Shareholder Return was ranked 43rd out of the 84 relevant comparator companies i. e. 51st percentile for the three year performance period ended on 31 December 2001.
As a result, rights were granted over 22.5% of the shares conditionally awarded.
Table 8: Prudential Restricted Share Plan Conditional Market price Conditional share awards of rights share awards outstanding at Conditionally Rights Rights vesting in outstanding at 1 January awarded in vested in lapsed in 2002 31 December Release Director 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 year Non-executive Jonathan Bloomer 36,308 8,170 28,138 7.195 2002 63,470 63,470 2003 135,301 135,301 2004 177,110 177,110 2005 235,079 375,881 The market price of rights vested in 2002 is based on the market price of the shares on the day of the vesting.
The Prudential Restricted Share Plan replaced the Executive Share Option Scheme in 1995 as Prudentials long-term incentive plan.
Outstanding options under the Executive Share Option Scheme remain in force and are set out below together with options under the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The latter scheme is open to all employees and options up to the Inland Revenue limits are granted at a 20% discount and cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed.
44 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Directors report continued Remuneration continued Table 9: Prudential Executive and Savings-Related Share Option Schemes Market Granted Lapsed Exercised price on Exercise Earliest Latest 1 January during the during the during the date of 31 December price exercise exercise Director 2002 period period period exercise 2002 date date Executive Paul Gratton 1,327 1,327 7.30 2002 2003 924 924 7.30 2004 2005 2,251 1,327 Non-executive Jonathan Bloomer 196,750 196,750 3.15 1998 2005 226,750 226,750 3.15 2000 2005 7,67 7 7,677 6.515 2.54 2002 2002 2,247 2,247 7.51 2005 2005 433,424 425,747 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The market price on the date of exercise is the market price of the shares on the day of exercise.
The shares listed have not yet been sold.
The market price of Prudential plc shares at 31 December was 4.39.
The highest price during the year was 8.24 and the lowest price during the year was 3.33.
Directors shareholdings in Egg plc The beneficial interests of directors and related parties in shares of Egg plc, including awards allocated under the Restricted Share Plan, but excluding conditional awards under the Restricted Share Plan, are shown below.
The directors hold no non-beneficial interests in shares of Egg plc.
There have been no changes in directors interests from 31 December 2002 to the date of the approval of the financial statements.
Table 10: Directors shareholdings in Egg plc 1 January 2002 or date of appointment 31 December Director if later 2002 Executive Mike Harris 59,854 124,535 Paul Gratton 126,034 190,217 Stacey Cartwright 44,243 92,478 Non-executive Roberto Mendoza 200,000 225,000 Jonathan Bloomer 470 9,092 Richard Delbridge 20,000 20,000 Derek Higgs 470 5,470 Leslie Priestley 940 940 Juan Rada Figures shown for Paul Gratton include shares held by his wife, who is a senior manager at Egg.
45 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Directors shareholdings in Prudential plc The beneficial interests of directors and related parties in shares of Prudential plc, including awards under the Prudential Share Participation Plan and allocated under the Prudential Restricted Share Plan, but excluding conditional awards under the Prudential Restricted Share Plan, are shown below.
The directors hold no non-beneficial interests in shares of Prudential plc.
There have been no changes in directors interests since 31 December 2002 to the date of the approval of the financial statements.
Table 11: Directors shareholdings in Prudential plc 1 January 2002 or date of appointment 31 December Director if later 2002 Executive Mike Harris 32,041 32,041 Paul Gratton 20,224 20,411 Stacey Cartwright Non-executive Roberto Mendoza 3,444 45,933 Jonathan Bloomer 152,623 176,493 Richard Delbridge Derek Higgs 41,344 41,344 Leslie Priestley 138 138 Juan Rada Corporate Social Responsibility We believe the way we interact with our people, the communities in which we operate, our customers and the broader society our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR has a bearing on our overall financial performance.
Our core values are honesty, integrity and respect for people.
We believe in challenging the conventions of our industry to provide better products and services.
We aspire to be vibrant, imaginative and fair in everything we do.
We respect our peoples individuality and diversity, encouraging them to develop their careers in a stimulating environment in keeping with our values.
Our customers are the reason we exist and we constantly look to offer them the products and services that put them in control of their money.
Our shareholders own the business and must be fairly rewarded for their investment.
We work co-operatively with our suppliers and business partners, choose those who share our values and strive for mutual trust and benefit.
We behave as good neighbours in our local communities and as a responsible citizen of society.
We respect and protect the environment.
We are a young, fast-growing company.
Our focus has been on building the business and developing good relationships with our customers, staff and the communities in which we operate.
We continue to develop our strategy on social issues.
Updates are posted on our website.
We are listed in the FTSE4Good index series for socially responsible investment designed by the FTSE, one of the worlds leading global index providers.
46 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Directors report continued Corporate social responsibility continued Environment Our environmental impacts are direct, such as the use of transport, energy and paper, or indirect, such as our decisions on investment and insurance.
We are a retail bank and do not make commercial loans.
We have a corporate environmental policy and a main board member with specific responsibility for the environment.
We set environmental improvement targets.
We are committed to: Comply with the law and, if possible, exceed minimum legal requirements.
Ensure that managers consider the environment when making decisions.
Raise environmental awareness among our people to encourage them to help improve our environmental performance.
Measure and use energy and water efficiently.
Measure and reduce our total carbon dioxide emissions from our business.
Measure our total waste and work to reduce, re-use or recycle the materials we use.
Use our procurement policies to encourage suppliers to minimise their environmental impact.
Manage our buildings in a way that makes them a comfortable and productive place to work, while minimising their impact on the environment.
Consider the environmental implications of investment decisions.
This chart shows our progress against targets.
Data Data Targets Targets 1 Parameter 2001 2002 2002 2003 2 Energy use Utilities Electricity kWh per person 5,744 5,812 10% 10% Gas kWh per person 2,860 2,557 5% 5% Water cu mtrs per person 11.26 9.93 5% 5% 3 Business travel Total car miles miles per person 1,191 1,029 5% 5% Total train miles miles per person 103 305 5% No target 3 Paper use Office and print kgs per person 176 306 10% No target Copy paper kgs per person 40 43 No target 10% on 2001 levels 4 Waste Total solid waste kgs per person 160 179 5% No target Total landfill kgs per person 101 108 10% 10% Total recycled kgs per person 59 71 10% 10% rate of rate of 37% 40% 1 In 2002 we improved our data collection and our baseline 2001 has been adjusted to reflect this.
2 We did not meet our electricity target because of additional computer systems using more power.
We aim to meet the target in 2003.
3 Rail has a lower environmental impact than cars.
We will continue to switch more staff journeys to trains.
We will not try to reduce train miles.
4 Paper use includes print for marketing and copy paper used in our offices.
In 2003 we will focus on reducing the use of copy paper.
5 Cleaning before office relocation and our brand refresh in early 2002 contributed to greater amounts of waste.
In 2003 we aim to further increase recycling and meet our 2001 target for reducing the amount of waste sent to landfill.
We will not focus on our 2001 target for reducing overall levels of solid waste.
Target reductions for 2003 are on 2002 levels, unless otherwise stated.
47 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Community Our people are active in their communities and we encourage our staff to contribute time to good causes.
They also collect money by organising fund-raising events.
Those who benefited in 2002 include: Air Training Corps, Cancer Research UK, Childline, Children in Need, 4th Derby Guides, Lords Taverners, St Albans Lion Club, Centre Stage Theatre School.
Funds raised for charity by Egg People: 8,400.
In 2002, the Group made charitable donations of 20,781 2001: 7,558.
Beneficiaries included: Derby Promoting Voluntary Action, Childline Northern Ireland, Children in Need and Sports Aid 2002.
It is Group policy not to make political donations and, as a result, none were made during the year.
Supplier payment policy In most cases the supplier of goods or services does so under standard terms of contract that lay down terms of payment.
In other cases, specific terms are agreed beforehand.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that the terms of payment are notified in advance and adhered to.
The total outstanding indebtedness of the Group to trade creditors as at 31 December 2002 amounted to 2.0 million 31 December 2001: 5.1 million, corresponding to seven days purchases when averaged over the year.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Board has satisfied itself that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Groups financial statements have accordingly been prepared on a going concern basis.
By order of the Board Marcus Ezekiel Company Secretary 21 February 2003
