Investment Managers Review Principles of Valuation of Unlisted Investments Principles of Valuation of Unlisted Investments In valuing unlisted investments, the Directors follow a number of general principles in accordance with the BVCA guidelines which are set out below: Investments are stated at amounts considered by the Directors to be a fair assessment of their value, subject to the overriding requirements of prudence.
All investments are valued according to one of the following bases: cost less any provision required : open market valuation: earnings multiple: or net assets.
Investments held for more than one year are valued on one of the bases described above.
Investments are normally valued at cost for at least one year after acquisition.
Provisions against cost, however, will be made as soon as appropriate in the light of adverse circumstances for example, where an investment performs significantly below expectations.
Upward adjustments to cost may be made within one year in the following circumstances: where an offer is received for the company, where securities held become quoted or where events occur such as accelerated repayment of acquisition debt, which have the effect of reducing the acquisition price of the investment.
Wherever practical, investments will be valued by reference to an open market transaction or quoted price.
This includes investments in unquoted convertible securities in companies which are listed on a stock exchange.
In arriving at the valuation, a discount of up to 30 per cent will be applied to the quoted price depending on the size of the company, the liquidity of the market for its shares and restrictions on sale.
Discounts applied may be offset by premiums appropriate on yield considerations or where the investment is part of a controlling interest.
Where investments are valued on an earnings basis, earnings of the current year will normally be used provided these can be predicted with reasonable certainty.
Where earnings of investments for the current year cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty, historical earnings will normally be used.
Such earnings will be adjusted to a maintainable basis, taxed at the full tax rate and multiplied by a discounted market price earnings multiple.
Earnings will normally be calculated after deduction of interest unless the capital structure of the investment includes a significant level of acquisition debt, in which case earnings before interest may be considered to be more appropriate.
Market price earnings ratios utilised are related to comparable quoted companies and normally discounted by at least 25 per cent.
The discount used may be lower where a realisation is planned within 12 months and higher if the timing of a realisation is relatively long-term or not currently being contemplated.
In arriving at the value of an investment, the percentage ownership is calculated after taking into account any dilution through outstanding warrants, options and performance related mechanisms.
The net assets basis is used where there is no open market valuation available and an earnings basis is inappropriate, as in the case of certain asset based investments.
In arriving at a final valuation, the Directors will normally have reference to the valuations implied by other valuation methodologies, including using historical, current and prospective earnings multiples and the amount of net assets to ensure the appropriateness of the discount applied in arriving at the valuation result.
