Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Left to right Ronald Armstrong Professor Sir George Bain Lord King of Bridgwater Michael Walton Peter Williams 8 Electra Investment Trust PLC Overview Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Chairman Lord King of Bridgwater Aged 57, was appointed a Director Aged 69, was appointed a Director in 1994. in 1992.
He is currently Chairman of the London A Member of Parliament from International Financial Futures & Options 1970 until 2001, he held a variety of senior Exchange and a non-executive Director Cabinet posts and was Secretary of State of HSBC.
In the USA he was a former for Defence from 1989 to 1992.
He has Governor of the National Association of been a member of the Nolan Committee Securities Dealers and Chairman of and Chairman of the Intelligence and Nasdaqs International Markets Security Committee.
He was formerly a member of the Financial Before entering Parliament he was a senior Services Authority, Chairman of Gerrard manager in DRG, the printing and Group plc, and a Member of the Court of packaging group, and subsequently the Bank of Ireland.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of London Ronald Armstrong International Exhibition Centre Holdings.
Aged 58, was appointed a Director in 1994.
Michael Walton Aged 59, was appointed a Director in Most of his career has been spent in July 2000. companies in which the application of technology is critical to success and he He was previously on the Board of the has considerable experience of this Company from 1981 to 1986.
He was process across a wide range of industries Managing Director of Gartmore Private and countries.
Capital until 1996 and has subsequently been a Director of NatWest Equity He is a Director of JP Morgan Fleming Partners.
He has served on the Council of Worldwide Income Investment Trust, a the British Venture Capital Association.
Director of E-Synergy, which specialises in venture funding for early-stage technology He is a Director of Elderstreet Millennium companies, and Chairman of Prism Risk Venture Capital Trust, Bridgepoint Capital Management.
and a number of private companies.
Professor Sir George Bain Peter Williams Aged 63, was appointed a Director Aged 60, was appointed a Director in 1998. in 1994.
He is currently President and ViceHe is Chairman of RPC Group, one of Chancellor of The Queens University of Europes largest producers of plastic Belfast, having held senior academic packaging.
He is a former Director of Reed posts at the London Business School International and former Chief Executive of and the University of Warwick.
He was David S. Smith Holdings.
also Chairman of the Low Pay Commission and is on the Boards of Bombardier Aerospace Short Brothers and the Canada Life Assurance Company.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
All Directors are members of the Audit Committee.
