Investment Managers Review Portfolio Analysis Portfolio Analysis In the year to 30 September 2002 Electra's net asset value per share decreased by 7.9% from 830p per share to 764p per share.
Over the same period the FTSE All-Share Index decreased by 23.0%.
The year under review was characterised by considerable turmoil in the financial markets.
Despite these difficult conditions, Electra's net asset value significantly outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index.
The resilience demonstrated by the portfolio was mainly due to the underlying quality of the larger investments where good cash generation and increasing profits helped to offset the effect of falling earnings multiples.
In addition a number of portfolio companies were in sectors which performed better than the market as a whole.
The decline in Electras net asset value was due primarily to a reduction in the multiples used to value portfolio companies together with a number of specific provisions made against investments, notably Swifty Serve in the USA.... Electra's net asset value Over the year the changes in the portfolio were as shown below.
significantly outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index.
Year ended 30 September 2002 2001 000 000 Opening valuation 759,891 1,033,628 Investments 116,421 66,862 Realisations 137,208 166,916 Change in valuation 47,377 173,683 Closing valuation 691,727 759,891 New investments in the year amounted to 116 million, an increase over the previous year in which the total reached 67 million.
This increase reflected the number of attractive investment opportunities arising either directly, or as a result of the activities undertaken by existing portfolio companies, together with the level of support required to protect the value of the existing portfolio.
The level of realisations was impacted by the uncertain economic outlook and the reduced level of M&A activity.
Total realisations of 137 million fell below the level of the previous year 167 million but still represented reasonable progress given market conditions.
Over the year there was a net disinvestment from Electra's portfolio of an amount in excess of 20 million.
At 30 September 2002 Electra's investment portfolio comprised direct investments in 88 companies with an aggregate value of 606 million together with 86 million of investment in 27 private equity funds.
The top twenty direct unlisted investments accounted for 62% of the total portfolio value.
The composition of the top twenty investments has changed markedly over the year following the sale of Invicta Leisure, Merlin Communications and Fairbridge Estates and the reduction in value of TM Group and Swifty Serve.
Their places have been taken by the new investments in Esporta and Forthpanel and the existing investments in Inchcape Shipping Services, Freightliner and International Garden Products in the USA.
In terms of geographical spread the portfolio is now predominantly in the UK and Europe 76% with lesser amounts in North America 18%, Asia 4% and South America 2%.
Outlook Over the last twelve months conditions in the financial markets have remained unfavourable.
Reflecting these conditions the rate of realisations of investments from the portfolio has continued to decline as buyers remain on the sidelines.
Under current market conditions it is unlikely that maximum value will be realised from the sale of investments unless special circumstances exist either in the relevant sector or in relation to a particular market.
For this reason it is unlikely that there 12 Electra Investment Trust PLC Electra Investment Trust PLC Portfolio Analysis will be a significant increase in the rate of realisations until some improvement in market conditions takes place.
The portfolio has performed robustly in the difficult conditions of the past twelve months.
Within the larger companies in the portfolio, considerable scope remains to add value through increases in earnings, further debt repayments and other factors.
The portfolio also contains a number of companies where a successful turnaround will add significantly to their value.
The current low interest climate will also benefit the overall portfolio in view of the gearing in the underlying companies.
Given more appropriate market conditions Electras maturing portfolio has considerable potential for generating cash realisations.
Meanwhile, the price of new private equity opportunities is likely to become increasingly attractive and new investments will continue to be made to the extent that cash flow permits.
