The financial objectives of the Group remain consistent, hard work our employees have been able to share in the focusing on achieving strong operating profit margins, above success of the Group, historically by way of the Groups Profit target levels of return on capital employed and attention to Share Scheme and currently from the recently launched Share sound management of health, safety and environmental Incentive Plan.
Many of the Groups employees hold shares in matters.
The Group has continued to invest in product the Company and the strong take up for the Save As You Earn innovation and research and development into build techniques Share Option Scheme means that many employees are saving with a view to enhancing profitability.
This will enable our employees to participate further in the future of the Company.
The Board Further to the reconstitution of the Board on 1 February 2002, positions on the Board have remained At the 2002 Annual General Meeting the Company passed a unchanged.
During 2002, Malcolm Harris continued to lead his resolution approving and adopting a Share Incentive Plan.
This executive team and Stephen Brazier became Group Operations plan has been launched and will allow the award of shares in Director on 1 February 2002.
Previously, Stephen Brazier held the Company to employees based on performance.
It will also the Board position of Regional Chairman.
Ron Walford, having provide employees with an opportunity to purchase shares in notified the Board of his intention to retire, did so effective the Company each month.
I would like to express my thanks to Ron Prospects The housing market in 2002 witnessed a period Walford for his 30 years service with the Group and for his of strong growth both in activity and in sales prices.
It is wise and meaningful contribution to the Board.
David Ritchie unlikely that the growth in sales prices, reported by the Halifax was appointed Finance Director effective from 1 July 2002, for the year to December 2002 at 26.4%, will be repeated in having previously been employed as the Groups Financial 2003.
A period of sales price growth more in line with earnings Controller.
The three non-executive directors remained growth is expected and would most likely return a sense of unchanged during 2002 including myself as Chairman.
stability to the housing market.
The fundamentals of the Corporate governance The Group continues to be housing market are sound with demand in the areas in which committed to good corporate governance and applies the the Group operates exceeding supply and affordability provisions of the Combined Code.
After careful consideration of remaining positive.
Underlying retail price inflation in 2003 is the Higgs Review Review of the role and effectiveness of nonexpected to be benign, at or around the Governments target executive directors issued in January 2003, the Group is rate of 2.5%.
This will support continued interest rate stability generally supportive of the re-affirmation of the principles of such that the cost of mortgage finance should not adversely best practice.
However, the Board considers that certain affect affordability during 2003. recommendations contained in the report are too formulaic The Groups strategy is to offer good value housing in locations and prescriptive and as a result, if implemented, could lead to a close to large conurbations within easy commuting distance control environment which subordinates the valuable and along strong employment corridors.
The Group has no judgement of the Board and a flexible and common sense current developments in central London and monitors closely approach to individual company circumstances.
Consequently, investment levels within the M25.
This approach, established by the Board is making representations to the relevant authorities the Group some years ago, minimises its exposure to changes in outlining its concerns.
In raising these concerns, the Board aims the housing market.
The Groups trading experience to date in to assist in the development of a strong corporate governance 2003 suggests that the housing market will be less buoyant culture which in turn will assist the Group in its aim of than in 2002 but that demand in the sectors in which the maximising shareholder return.
Group specialises will remain firm and that prices will continue Employees On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all to rise.
It is only with their commitment, enthusiasm and expertise that the Group has been able to achieve the Nigel Mobbs record profits during 2002.
I am pleased that through their Chairman Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 5
