Investment Managers Report Performance Review - As shown in the Summary of boost domestic demand, the European Central Bank finally Results on page 2, the NAV returned 8.5% in the year to lowered interest rates by 0.5 percentage points to 2.75% in 31 December 2002, outperforming the FTSE World Europe early December.
The cut was the first since November ex UK Index, which returned 27.4%.
All performance 2001 and brought interest rates down to their lowest level figures are on a total return basis and in sterling.
The euro strengthened against the US dollar over the year, Total return performance a reversal of the previous years trend.
It rose by 18% for year to 31 December 2002 against the US currency, from $0.890 to $1.049.
120 Portfolio Review - The Companys NAV return was 110 considerably better than the performance of the broad 100 % European market.
In the context of a falling market, there 90 -8.5% was a wide differentiation in stock performance within 80 -22.5% sectors which created a good stock-picking environment.
-27.4% 70 60 Holdings in the tobacco sector made a positive ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' 31 31 28 31 30 31 30 31 31 30 31 30 31 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec contribution to returns with some of the portfolios larger 01 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 02 Undiluted NAV Share price FTSE World Europe ex UK Index holdings, including Swedish Match and Altadis, performing well.
Stock selection in the banking sector proved rewarding during the year, particularly the holdings Market Background - European equity markets declined in Bank of Ireland and Credit Lyonnais.
Bank of Ireland over the year under review.
Technology sectors extended was valued attractively in its sector and has had a strong their run of poor returns and IT hardware stocks had a position on the periphery of the European banking sector, particularly difficult time.
Sectors which are themselves while the share price of Credit Lyonnais was boosted after dependent on stock market returns, such as insurance and Credit Agricole launched a takeover bid for the French other financials, including asset managers, also performed retail bank during the latter part of the year.
The portfolios low exposure to IT hardware stocks proved The most resilient areas of the market were the defensive beneficial to performance as the environment for sales of IT sectors, particularly tobacco.
These types of companies and telecommunications equipment continued to were more insulated from external factors such as the deteriorate during the year.
Similarly, a low exposure to the lagging European and global economies.
Elsewhere, the poorly performing insurance sector boosted relative returns low interest rate environment benefited real estate and stock selection proved to be important.
insurer, CNP Assurances was a particularly strong performer.
In the eurozone, significant disparities between growth rates in member states remained a feature of economic Portfolio Structure - The general structure of the portfolio development.
While countries such as Greece and Ireland remains unchanged.
In broad terms, the portfolio is continued to enjoy robust economic growth, conditions in positioned with a relatively neutral balance between Germany were less favourable and the economy remained defensive and economically sensitive sectors.
In terms of on the brink of recession.
German unemployment rose to the technology sectors, the Manager continues to favour 10% and contributed to the highest level of joblessness in media and telecommunication services stocks, with fewer the eurozone since the middle of 2000.
In an attempt to holdings in IT hardware.
8 The portfolios bias towards medium-sized and smaller orientation or those selling commodity products where companies remains unchanged.
The Manager believes that international competition is a factor.
a greater number of undervalued opportunities can be In this uncertain economic and market environment, we identified outside the market leaders, as these companies continue to believe that stock selection based on in-depth are often less well researched by the broader investment company analysis will be key in outperforming the index community.
The portfolio remains well diversified, with over the coming year.
168 holdings at the end of the year.
Although country allocation is a residual of stock selection, Fidelity Investments International the portfolio remains more exposed to the peripheral 24 February 2003 markets in Europe including Greece and Spain and is less exposed to the core eurozone markets, notably Germany and France.
This is shown in the chart below.
Relative % weighting to FTSE World Europe ex UK Index Other Peripheral Eurozone Western Europe non Eurozone Core Eurozone -20.0 -15.0 -10.0 -5.0 0.0 5.0 10.0 15.0 20.0 Source: Fidelity, 31.12.2002 Outlook - Economic expansion could slow further in the eurozone in coming months as companies curb spending and costs, but a recovery may come later in the year if global growth picks up as expected.
Additionally, unemployment may increase in early 2003 as companies cut costs to maintain profitability.
Although interest rates were reduced in December, many economists expect further cuts if the eurozone economy struggles to pick up momentum and inflation falls further.
However, the benefit of these cuts for European companies could be reduced by the development of the euro, which strengthened relative to the US dollar in 2002.
This will be particularly important for companies with an export 9
