Investment Managers Report Stephen Macklow-Smith Has been managing the Companys assets since September 1997.
INVESTMENT MANAGER The year under review saw another decline in stocks are over-valued, but frequently the European equity markets.
The value of our correction can take months or years to run its Company also fell: in total return terms, the share course.
During that time the news flow often looks price fell by 9.7%, and the NAV by 6.8%.
This was as if it is getting rather cheerier, but then some the second successive year of equity market falls, new event will come along and knock sentiment but the compound annual rate of growth in the once again.
Some of the corporate events of the share price of our Company over the last three last twelve months have had little to do with years on a total return basis has been 5.3%, over technology, such as the spectacular collapse of the last five years 9.3%, and over the last ten years Enron in the US.
At other times they are directly 12.2% even taking the last two years decline into related, as in the spiralling share price declines of account.
It is worth recalling these figures, the telecom companies, with Deutsche Telekom because we need to remind ourselves that equities and France Telecom moving to prices below that at are a sound long-term investment, and there is no which they were originally issued.
reason to expect that the future will be different in There has certainly been something of a debt this respect.
overhang to be neutralised, and when high tech The year was dominated by two major stories.
The companies bounced sharply in October and first was the continued retrenchment in technology November, it was no surprise to see many of them expenditure, which was a major element in the taking the opportunity to issue new shares and deceleration in economies on both sides of the pay down some of their debt.
This process is Atlantic, and the consequent decline in share continuing, although we hope that as cash flow prices.
The second was the terrorist attack in stabilises, companies will use the funds they have September: harrowing for those who experienced generated themselves to pay off borrowings, rather it and were directly affected by it, and sobering for than returning to the markets.
all of us who witnessed it on live television.
Politically, the year saw a gentle swing away from In a way, the attacks, while sticking in the memory, the social democratic consensus that has prevailed had far less impact on the economy than was at for much of the last ten years.
In Germany, Mr first feared.
It was the continued struggle of the Schroeder has seen his approval ratings decline economy to recover from the excesses of the late steadily, and he now faces a real challenge from 1990s and 2000 that was the main story.
his right-wing rival Mr Stoiber.
In France, the real shock came after our financial year-end, when the When economic bubbles burst, it can feel as if it is left wing was trounced in the first round of the all happening in slow motion.
We may believe that Fleming Continental European 5 Investment Managers Report continued Presidential election by the extreme right.
The growth will be somewhat lower than investors have extreme right has been resurgent in many come to expect, at least in 2002.
We think that countries, forming part of the government in equity valuations are still rather demanding for the Austria, Italy and Denmark, and now in Holland market as a whole, but we also think that profits as well.
growth will resume this year, which will improve the picture.
We are tempted to say that the longIt is interesting to look behind this, and see why term decline of the Euro against the US Dollar has the protest vote had gained in popularity, and we bottomed out but we are wary of making would look no further than the monthly press currency predictions!
We are very heartened by the releases of the European Central Bank, in which evidence of continuing restructuring by European mention is repeatedly made of the pressing companies, and we think that corporate take-overs urgency for labour and social reform.
The attempt and mergers will remain a feature of our investing to make the unwieldy pensions systems in some landscape.
European countries affordable continues, as does the ongoing push to improve competitiveness by Our stock selection model has worked well over fide-regulating the labour market.
Progress can the year, as shown by our out-performance of the appear painfully slow, and change is often deeply benchmark.
It is worth noting that in falling unpopular with voters.
Nevertheless we feel that markets gearing acts as a brake on performance, there is no alternative, and we view Continental as we are servicing our debt costs against a Europes revolution continuing to roll forward, background of falling asset prices.
Despite this, we maybe at a pace rather slower than we might like, were able to do a little better than the market, and but nonetheless inexorable.
As investors we like we did this by focusing on those areas where we this, as it will free up companies to cut costs and believe long term out-performance is likely, namely improve returns on capital, and in reforms of the those companies at both the value and growth pension system we foresee the creation of new ends of the market which are sustained by positive flows of investable assets, many of which will be news-flow.
Companies like Tandberg videodirected towards equities.
This is, however, a story conferencing, Altana pharmaceuticals, Essilor for the next ten years, rather than the next two spectacles and lenses and Adidas sportswear years.
all did well for us at the higher growth end of the market, while our value picks, such as BNP Paribas What of the immediate future?
We believe that the and Societe Generale both French banks, Altadis recovery will take hold, assisted as it has been by Franco-Spanish cigarettes and Peugeot French generous provisions of liquidity from central banks cars also did well.
We avoided stocks with bad around the world, but we think that the rate of 6 Fleming Continental European We feel that after two years of share price declines, we are close in time to a turnaround for stock markets.
Investment Managers Report continued news-flow and poor valuation dynamics, and deploy extra capital in an environment of rising benefited from underweighting companies like AXA asset prices.
We feel that after two years of share and Generali insurance, Deutsche Telekom and price declines, we are close in time to a turnaround France Telecom both telecom operators and for stock markets.
We are not, however, convinced Ericsson telecom equipment.
We also attempted that the absolute bottom has yet been achieved.
to add value in the management of our cash Investors will have to take on board the reversal, position by investing in liquidity funds to give us a some time this year, of the easy money policies higher return on our cash than we could have got that have been employed to combat the downturn in bank deposits.
When we deem the moment in demand.
Valuations, as we have said, are not yet right, we will sell these liquidity funds, and invest at compelling levels.
in equities, to increase our effective gearing.
The long term picture, however, remains bright, We can see the effect of our stock selection efforts with European restructuring boosting our by looking at attribution reports, which tell us how confidence that durably higher returns on capital the Companys out-performance of the benchmark can be achieved by companies: that is good news by about 0.4% was achieved.
This shows that for investors.
Overall we feel as managers that we stock selection added 1.4%, but was mitigated by have survived the battering of the last two years in the negative impact of our gearing, which cost us reasonably good shape, and we look forward to about 0.4% of performance, and by Company applying ourselves with diligence on your behalf to expenses, which were a negative 0.7%.
continue to extract value from European equities.
We are convinced that the JPMorgan Fleming stock selection model will continue to add value for our Stephen Macklow-Smith Company, and once equity markets start turning Investment Manager 14th June 2002 up, our gearing will also help, as we will be able to 8 Fleming Continental European Report & Accounts.
