Directors Report Business of the Company Going Concern The Company carries on business as an investment After making enquiries, the Directors consider that trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as the Company has adequate resources, an an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 appropriate financial structure and suitable of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for management arrangements in place to continue in the year ended 31st December 2001.
In the opinion operational existence for the foreseeable future.
of the Directors, the Company has subsequently For these reasons, they continue to adopt the conducted its affairs so that it should continue to going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Company will continue to seek Payment Policy approval under Section 842 of the Income and It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
for all business and therefore there are no standard Approval for the year ended 31st December 2001 is payment terms.
In general the Company agrees subject to review should there be any subsequent with its suppliers the terms on which business will enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
take place and it is the Companys policy to abide The Company is an investment company within the by those terms.
As at 31st December 2002, the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985.
Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
The Company is not a close company for taxation Directors purposes.
The Directors of the Company who held office at the Investment Policy end of the year, together with their interests in the The Directors have continued their policy of investing Companys shares, are shown below.
All interests in UK companies which offer the prospect of growth are beneficial: in both capital and income.
A review of the 31st December 1st January Companys activities and prospects is given in the 2002 2002 Chairmans Statement on pages 1 and 2, and in the Sir Michael Bunbury Bt 9,250 9,250 Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 8.
Professor Sandra Dawson 5,787 5,689 Revenue and Dividends Rt.
Peter Lilley MP 1,039 1,018 Gross revenue return for the year before expenses Robert Walther 8,382 4,861 and tax totalled 12,090,000 2001: 11,510,000 The following Directors have acquired ordinary and net income available for distribution to shares in the Company since the year end: shareholders was 8,938,000 2001: 8,070,000.
The Directors declared a fourth quarterly interim Director Number of ordinary shares dividend of 2.75 pence per share which was paid Professor Sandra Dawson 61 on 3rd March 2003 to shareholders on the register Rt.
Peter Lilley MP 12 at close of business 14th February 2003.
This, when John Redwood added to the other three quarterly interim Robert Walther 66 dividends paid during 2002, made a total dividend for the year of 9.65 pence 2001: 8.50 pence.
No Director reported an interest in the Companys These dividends total 8,054,000 and the balance debentures during the year.
of 884,000 has been transferred to the revenue reserve.
22 Fleming Claverhouse Directors Report continued The Directors retiring by rotation at the and also to other investors when the Directors forthcoming Annual General Meeting will be John consider that it is in the best interests of Redwood and Peter Lilley, who being eligible, offer shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only themselves for re-election by shareholders.
made at prices greater than the net asset value NAV, they increase the assets underlying each An insurance policy is maintained by the Company share and spread the Companys administrative which indemnifies the Directors of the Company expenses, other than the management fee which is against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of charged on the value of the Companys assets see their duties.
below, over a greater number of shares.
The issue Acquisition of the Companys Own Shares proceeds are available for investment in line with The Company did not repurchase any of its shares the Companys investment policies.
At the end of the year the Directors Management and Performance Fee had authority, within the terms of the special The Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset resolution passed by shareholders at the Management UK Limited JPMFAM is employed Companys Annual General Meeting held on 1st May under a contract which can be terminated on one 2002, to purchase up to 12,481,284 ordinary shares years notice.
The management fee is charged at a for cancellation.
This authority expires on 31st rate of 0.6% per annum of the Companys assets October 2003, but may be renewed at the Annual less current liabilities and is calculated and paid General Meeting to be held on 25th April 2003.
special resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General If the Company invests in funds managed or Meeting as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
advised by JPMFAM, or any of its associated companies, they are excluded from the calculation Issue of Shares and therefore attract no fee.
During the year, the Company issued a total of 275,969 new ordinary shares for cash for a total JPMFAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan consideration of 1,169,000.
Since the year end, Chase & Co. which through other subsidiaries also the Company has not issued any further new provides banking, dealing and custodian services ordinary shares.
At an Extraordinary General to the Company.
Meeting of the Company held on 3rd January 2001, A performance fee was introduced with effect from shareholders granted the Directors authority to 1st January 2000.
The fee is calculated at 15% of issue up to 35,190,384 new ordinary shares for the difference between the movement of the cash otherwise than by pro rata issue to existing Companys total return compared to the total shareholders.
This authority expires on 2nd return of the Companys benchmark, the FTSE January 2006 unless previously revoked, varied or All-Share Index, plus a hurdle rate of 0.5%.
The fee renewed by the Company in general meeting.
As at is calculated annually, with any under-performance the date of this report, a total of 12,834,550 new carried forward and offset against any future outordinary shares had been issued pursuant to this performance.
Any fee payable is charged to capital, authority, leaving the Directors authority to issue spread evenly over three years and subject to a 22,355,834 new ordinary shares, equivalent to cap of 0.4% of total assets less current liabilities in approximately 26.8% of the Companys issued any one year.
share capital at the date of this report.
The results for the year to 31st December 2002 It is advantageous for the Company to be able to generated a negative performance fee for the year issue new shares to participants purchasing shares of 2,950,010.
This has been added to the negative through the JPMorgan Fleming savings products Fleming Claverhouse 23 Directors Report continued fee brought forward of 37,714.
A total negative Accordingly, the Board does not believe that it is fee of 2,987,724 will be carried forward to offset necessary to appoint a senior independent Director.
any out-performance in future years.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Notifiable Share Interests At the date of this report the Company had been A management agreement between the Company notified of the following interests in excess of 3% and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the of its issued share capital: Manager has authority.
All other matters are Number of reserved for the approval of the Board.
Shareholders shares held % The Board meets on at least five occasions each 1 Henderson Nominees Limited 33,413,250 40.0 year and between those meetings there is regular 2 JP Morgan Chase & Co. 15,942,024 19.1 contact with the Manager, who provides the Board Included within this are with appropriate and timely management the following: JPMorgan Fleming information.
JPMFAM also provides company Managed Growth plc 15,209,413 18.2 secretarial advice and services.
The Directors also Legal & General 2,558,875 3.1 have access, where necessary, in the furtherance 1 of their duties, to independent professional advice Held on behalf of JPMFAM ISA, PEP and Share Plan participants.
at the expense of the Company.
Board Committees Auditors The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness Nomination Committee, which meets when to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint necessary to select and propose suitable them and authorise the Directors to determine candidates for appointment to the Board, and of their remuneration for the ensuing year will be the Remuneration Committee, which reviews proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors fees on a regular basis.
The Remuneration Report is set out on page 27.
Corporate Governance To ensure the appropriate level of corporate To ensure its independence from the Manager, the governance, the Board has put in place Audit Committee excludes from membership any arrangements which it believes are suitable for an Directors who are or were employed by JPMFAM, or investment trust and enable the Company to any of its subsidiaries or associated companies.
comply with the Principles of Good Governance The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year.
and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, The Committee reviews the terms of the published by the Committee on Corporate management agreement and examines the Governance in June 1998.
The Board considers that effectiveness of the Companys internal control the Company has complied with the provisions systems, receives information from the Managers contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code Compliance department and also reviews the scope throughout the year ended 31st December 2002 and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and and the following describes how the relevant the independence and objectivity of the external principles of governance are applied by the auditors.
The Directors statement on the Companys Company.
system of internal control can be found below.
The Board Relations with Shareholders The Board consists solely of non-executive At the Companys Annual General Meeting, the Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as Directors and representatives of the Manager are independent of the Companys Manager.
24 Fleming Claverhouse Directors Report continued available in person to meet and answer The key elements designed to provide effective shareholders questions.
In addition, a internal control are as follows: presentation is given by the Investment Manager, Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive reviewing the Companys activities.
During the year review by the Board of key investment and the Companys brokers, the Investment Manager financial data, including management accounts, and JPMFAM hold regular discussions with revenue projections, transaction analysis and institutional shareholders.
The Directors are made performance comparisons.
fully aware of their views and responses are Management Agreement Appointment of a tailored as necessary.
The Chairman and Directors manager and a custodian regulated by the Financial make themselves available as and when required Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are to address shareholder queries.
clearly defined in a written agreement.
Accountability and Audit Management Systems Regular and comprehensive The Directors responsibilities in respect of the reviews, conducted on behalf of the Board, of the Accounts are set out on page 27 and the statement Managers system of internal control.
The Managers of the Auditors responsibilities is given on page 29. system of internal control includes organisational Internal Control agreements which clearly define the lines of The Combined Code requires the Directors at least responsibility, delegated authority, control annually to review the effectiveness of the procedures and systems.
These are monitored by Companys system of internal control and to report JPMFAMs Compliance department which regularly to shareholders that they have done so.
This has monitors compliance with FSA rules.
extended the previous requirement, which focused Investment Strategy Authorisation and on internal financial controls, and encompasses a monitoring of the Companys investment strategy review of all controls, which the Board has and exposure limits by the Board.
identified as including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by The Directors are responsible for the Companys monitoring the operation of the key operating system of internal control, which is designed to controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that information the Board, through the Audit Committee, used within the business, or published, is reliable.
reviews the terms of the management However, such a system is designed to manage agreement and receives regular reports from rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve JPMFAMs Compliance department: business objectives and therefore can only provide the Board reviews the report on the internal reasonable but not absolute assurance against controls and the operations of the custodian, fraud, material misstatement or loss.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently reviewed: and Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the the Board reviews every six months a report on Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the the internal controls and operations of JPMFAM Companys system of internal control mainly which is independently reported on by comprises monitoring the services provided by .
JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating By means of the procedures set out above, the Board controls established by them, to ensure that they confirms that it has reviewed, and is satisfied with, meet the Companys business objectives.
Fleming Claverhouse 25 Directors Report continued the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal potentially contentious issues and to keep them in touch with corporate governance control for the year ended 31st December 2002 and issues generally.
up to the date of this report.
Annual General Meeting Socially Responsible Investment Resolutions relating to the following items of The following, which has been reviewed and special business will be proposed at the approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs forthcoming Annual General Meeting: policy statement on socially responsible investment SRI : i Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares The authority to repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is our the Companys issued share capital, granted by primary duty to act in the best financial interests shareholders at last years AGM, will expire on 31st of our clients and to achieve good financial October 2003 unless renewed at the forthcoming returns consistent with an acceptable level of AGM.
Although no shares were repurchased during risk in the management of our clients the year, the Directors consider that the renewing investments.
A company run in the long-term of the authority is in the interests of shareholders interests of its shareholders with the objective of as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a enhancing shareholder value over time will need discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV to manage effectively relationships with its of the remaining shares.
employees, suppliers and customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the environment The Board will therefore seek shareholder approval and society as a whole.
In our pursuit of good at the AGM to renew this authority, which will last financial returns for our clients, our investment until 24th October 2004 or until the whole of the managers take account of these and all other 14.99 per cent has been acquired, whichever is the factors affecting the valuation of the companies earlier.
The full text of the resolution is set out in in which they are currently invested or the Notice of Meeting on page 28.
Repurchases considering investment on behalf of clients.
will be made at the discretion of the Board, and will only be made in the market at prices below the Corporate Governance and Voting Policy prevailing net asset value per share as and when The following, which has been reviewed and approved market conditions are appropriate.
by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs statement on corporate governance and voting policy: The Directors consider that the renewal of the share buy-back facility is in the interests of JPMFAM vote on all resolutions and seek to shareholders as a whole and unanimously promote good practice on all corporate recommend all shareholders to vote in favour.
governance issues, with the overall aim of minimising corporate mismanagement and ii Change of Company Name failure.
We also keep in close touch with The Directors recommend that the Companys similarly interested parties at other major name be changed to JPMorgan Fleming investment institutions.
Details of this recommendation are given in the Chairmans Whilst generally supportive of management, Statement on page 2. our pro-active approach seeks general adherence to the principles set out in the By order of the Board Combined Code.
Our policy is to vote on all JM Latter, for and on behalf of company resolutions and we therefore seek full J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, voting discretion from our clients, it is our Secretary practice to liaise with clients to discuss 7th March 2003 26 Fleming Claverhouse
