Investment Managers Report James Inglis Jones James Illsley Shares responsibility for the Appointed Investment Manager day-to-day management of in August 2002 having shared the Companys assets.
responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Companys assets since May 2000.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS petered out amid increasing investor nervousness, Stockmarket Review to leave the UK stock market nursing its third The benchmark for The Fleming Claverhouse worst year since 1800, with only the oil crisis years Investment Trust, the FTSE All-Share Index, fell for of 1973-74 triggering worse annual returns.
the third consecutive year in 2002, returning 22.7%.
The unwinding of the late 1990s stock Economically, the UK fared better than most market bubble continued to be the main factor industrialised nations during 2002, with growth driving UK equities lower, but investors were also forecast at 1.6% for the year compared, for hit by the gradual realisation that global example, to just 0.7% in the Euro zone.
However, deflationary pressures could lead to a prolonged forecasts for 2003 are only a little better, and such period of low economic growth and low corporate sluggish prospects helped dampen expectations profits.
The year began badly, with the market subdued by Given the uncertain equity environment, it comes poor corporate news, economic uncertainty and as no surprise to find that defensive sectors worries over global terrorism.
Against such an outperformed over the year, led by Tobacco, already difficult background, UK investors Personal Care and Water.
These sectors were in responded to a series of damaging corporate fact the only FTSE All-Share sectors to record a scandals in the US during the summer, and the positive return during the year.
At the other end of increasing likelihood of a war against Iraq, by the scale, the market was led lower by Technology demanding a higher risk premium.
debt concerns in the telecom and technology Most illustrative of the downturn in the sectors and a worrying upsurge in Middle East Technology sector was telecom equipment maker violence also hitting confidence, the UK stock Marconi formerly cash-rich blue chip GEC, which market fell throughout the year to reach a six-year succumbed to its high debts during the year and low at the end of September.
Insurance stocks also The perception that earnings were bottoming out contributed to the markets malaise, as the value as companies broadly met their quarterly earnings of their equity portfolios dropped, raising solvency expectations led to a modest rebound for the fears and forcing them to sell large amounts of market during October and November.
But as the stock in an already weak market.
Iraq situation deteriorated in December, the rally 4 Fleming Claverhouse Investment Managers Report continued The following table provides a breakdown, relative to Portfolio Review the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
As disclosed in the Chairmans statement your Performance attribution for the year to Company produced a total return on net assets of 31st December 2002 29.2% with the permanent level of gearing in the % Companys asset structure magnifying the falls in Net asset value total return in sterling terms 29.2 Benchmark total return in sterling terms 22.7 equity markets over the year.
Excluding the effects Relative return 6.5 of gearing, the underlying equity portfolio Analysis of relative return performed broadly in line with the FTSE All-Share Allocation Effect 0.4 Index over the year.
Underlying equity selection Selection Effect 0.2 Gearing Cash Effect 5.6 has added an average of 1.8% per year to Management fees & other expenses 0.8 Residual Item 0.1 performance over the last three years.
Total 6.5 In 2002 our holdings in the Building & Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data.
Construction, Leisure and Chemical sectors were Definition: Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative particularly well rewarded, and our underweight to its benchmark.
positions in the Technology, Media and Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating Telecommunication TMT and Aerospace sectors assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different sectors or asset types.
added value as these sectors continued to be out Selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in of favour for much of the year.
Notable individual securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in outperformers were British Vita, Persimmon, Rank securities outside the benchmark.
Group and Stanley Leisure, whilst we avoided Gearing cash effect: Measures the impact on relative much of the capital destruction in stocks such as returns of the Companys net borrowings.
Management fee and other expenses: The payment of BAE Systems, Reuters and Cable & Wireless.
fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, These performance gains were, unfortunately, and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
offset by disappointing performance from our Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence holdings in smaller Engineering companies and between total return as calculated by the the Life Assurance and Food Retailing sectors.
AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating system.
This is a result of Within the Food Retailing sector we have methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and timing differences.
subsequently seen multiple bids for our holding in Safeway.
Fleming Claverhouse 5 Investment Managers Report continued For 2003 our investment criteria remain the same: interest rates.
In the smaller company area we to identify fundamentally sound companies have shifted our investment from a small number trading at attractive valuations where business of directly held shares into specialist smaller prospects are improving, and those companies company funds managed by the dedicated smaller offering superior earnings growth where company team at JPMorgan Fleming.
The team has management continue to deliver above market a very successful track record and Fleming expectations.
Against these criteria in 2002 we Claverhouse will benefit from their focus on this further reduced our exposure to the Media and area.
Technology sectors as valuations were not compelling and industry fundamentals Market Outlook deteriorated further.
The Media sector continued Given that UK equities remain attractively valued to be impacted by weakness in the advertising compared to bonds, with the net dividend yield on market, whilst the unwinding of the late 1990s the UK market approaching 4%, we are optimistic excesses in the Technology sector left the industry that an improving economic and geopolitical with surplus capacity and weak pricing power.
environment will help produce positive returns in 2003.
After the significant outperformance enjoyed by house builders over the last three years, we In the short term, however, geopolitical uncertainty reduced our position.
Valuations have become over Iraq is likely to continue to cause volatility as less attractive and the house price inflation we investors assess the potential effect of any new have seen in recent years has lessened the scope Gulf war on global trade and consumer confidence.
Interest rates are also likely to remain supportive, With the proceeds of the above sales we increased as the Bank of England would not be expected to our exposure to the Leisure sector and tighten policy while economic data, both global significantly added to our Banking exposure.
and domestic, remains so fragile.
However, with Share price weakness had left bank valuations at inflation above the governments 2.5% annual extremely attractive levels, with dividend yields in target and with consumer borrowing and house many instances greater than available cash prices still rising at unsustainable rates, the scope 6 Fleming Claverhouse Given that UK equities remain attractively valued compared to bonds... we are optimistic that an improving economic and geopolitical environment will help produce positive returns in 2003.
Investment Managers Report continued for further substantial interest rate cuts appears Retail sector, following the bids for supermarket limited.
In February 2003 we saw a modest chain Safeway.
Companies are clearly striving to reduction in interest rates to 3.75% as the Bank of improve their competitiveness and cut costs, England responded to the weak economic which will stand them in good stead once the environment.
economic backdrop begins to improve.
Another source of encouragement for the market is the recent trend towards industry consolidation James Illsley and refinancing, which has been most visible in James Inglis-Jones 7th March 2003 the Telecoms sector and, more latterly, in the 8 Fleming Claverhouse Report & Accounts.
