Directors Report Business of the Company Accounts The Company carries on business as an investment The accounts of the Company for the financial trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as year ended 31st March 2002 are shown on pages an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 32 to 44. of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for Going Concern the year ended 31st March 2001.
In the opinion of After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the Directors, the Company has subsequently the Company has adequate resources, an conducted its affairs so that it should continue to appropriate financial structure and suitable qualify.
The Company will continue to seek arrangements in place for its management to approval under Section 842 of the Income and continue in operational existence for the Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
For this reason, they continue the year ended 31st March 2001 is subject to to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the review should there be any subsequent enquiry accounts.
under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Payment Policy Company is not a close company for taxation It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms purposes.
The Company is an investment company for all business and therefore there are no within the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies standard payment terms.
In general the Company Act 1985. agrees with its suppliers the terms on which A review of the Companys activities and prospects business will take place and it is our policy to is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 1 abide by these terms.
As at 31st March 2002, the and 2 and in the Investment Managers report on Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
Directors Investments The Directors of the Company at the end of the The investments were valued at 529,213,000 as year together with their beneficial interests in the at 31st March 2002.
The notes to the accounts ordinary share capital are given below: show the basis of this valuation.
A list of the 1st April 2001 Companys investments is given on pages 19 to 21. or at date of Revenue and Dividends 31st March 2002 appointment Gross revenue for the year totalled 13,326,000 William Berry 6,000 6,000 and distributable revenue after deducting interest, Robin Faber 2,000 2,000 administrative expenses and taxation amounted to Gal fide Pontbriand 765 nil 1,948,000.
the Lord Renton The Directors recommend a dividend of 3.20p per of Mount Harry P. C. 2,000 2,000 share payable on 23rd July 2002 to holders on the Hugh J Twiss 3,833 3,807 register at the close of business on 21st June 2002.
Ferdinand Verdonck 503 500 This distribution will absorb 1,934,000 resulting Alexander E Zagoreos 10,500 10,500 in a transfer to the revenue reserve of 14,000.
No No changes in interest since the year end have other dividends were paid in respect of the year.
been notified by any Director as at the date of this The revenue reserve after this transfer will amount report.
Fleming Continental European 23 Directors Report continued Andrew Murison was appointed a Director of the JPMorgan Fleming or any of its associated Company on 23rd April 2002.
In accordance with companies, those investments are excluded from the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr the calculation and therefore attract no fee.
Murison, being eligible, offers himself for election If NAV performance exceeds benchmark at the Annual General Meeting.
performance plus 0.5%, the base fee in any one The Directors retiring by rotation are Robin Faber, year rises to 0.6% for that year.
In the event of this, Ferdinand Verdonck and Alexander Zagoreos.
a performance fee is also payable and is calculated Being eligible they offer themselves for re-election at 20% of the excess of the NAV total return over at the Annual General Meeting.
the benchmark total return plus a hurdle of 0.5%.
Any performance fee earned will be spread evenly Lord Renton of Mount Harry, is required to offer over three years, with a cap of 1% of total gross himself for re-election having turned 70 in May assets in any one year.
Any unpaid performance 2002. fee will be carried forward until paid in full or During the year an insurance policy has been offset against subsequent under-performance.
maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Any under-performance is offset at the first Directors of the Company against potential opportunity and must be fully offset before any liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
performance fee can be paid.
Acquisition of the Companys Own Shares A carried forward amount of 38,099 was During the year under review, the Company did not required to be offset at the beginning of the repurchase any ordinary shares of 25p each.
In the year to 31st March the end of the year, the Company has repurchased 2002, the Company outperformed the benchmark 700,000 ordinary shares at a total cost of but not in excess of the 0.5% hurdle rate.
Therefore there is no performance fee payable and the carried forward amount of 38,099 is Management transferred to the next financial year.
Following the merger between Chase Manhattan and JP Morgan which became effective on 2nd Notifiable Share Interests January 2001, Chase Fleming Asset Management At the date of this report the following had UK Limited changed its name to J. P. Morgan declared a notifiable interest in the Companys Fleming Asset Management UK Limited issued ordinary share capital: JPMFAM with effect from 14th May 2001.
Number of JPMFAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JP Morgan Shareholders shares held % Chase & Co. which, through other subsidiaries, Ordinary shares also provides banking, dealing and custodian Gerrard 4,738,086 7.8 services to the Company.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. 4,328,933 7.2 Management and Performance Fee HSBC Asset Management Limited 3,491,099 5.8 The Manager and Secretary, JPMFAM, is employed Reliance Mutual 2,175,000 3.6 under a contract terminable on one years notice.
For the year ended 31st March 2002, the fee was Auditors calculated and paid monthly in arrears and On 28th June 2001, Ernst & Young, the Companys charged at the annual rate of 0.45%.
If the auditor, transferred its entire business to Ernst & Company invests in funds managed or advised by Young LLP, a limited liability partnership 24 Fleming Continental European Directors Report continued incorporated under the Limited Liability have access, where necessary, in the furtherance Partnerships Act 2000.
The Directors consented to of their duties, to independent professional advice treating the appointment of Ernst & Young as at the expense of the Company.
extending to Ernst & Young LLP with effect from Board Committees 28th June 2001.
The Board as a whole fulfils the function of a Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness Nomination Committee which meets when to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint necessary to select and propose suitable them and authorise the Directors to determine candidates for appointment to the Board.
The their remuneration for the ensuing year will be Board as a whole fulfils the function of a proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate Governance To ensure its independence from the Manager, the To ensure the appropriate level of corporate Audit Committee excludes from membership any governance, the Board has put in place Director who is employed by, or who is a former arrangements which it believes are suitable for an employee of JPMFAM, or any of its subsidiaries or investment trust and enable the Company to associated companies.
comply with the Principles of Good Governance The Audit Committee meets at least twice each and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, year.
The Committee reviews the terms of the published by the Committee on Corporate Management Agreement and examines the Governance in June 1998.
The following describes effectiveness of the Companys internal control how the relevant principles of governance are systems, receives information from the Managers applied to the Company.
Compliance department and also reviews the The Board scope and results of the audit, its cost The Board consists solely of non-executive effectiveness and the independence and Directors, all but one of whom are independent of objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors the Companys Manager.
Accordingly, the Board statement on the Companys system of internal does not believe that it is necessary to appoint a control is set out below.
Directors Remuneration The Company has complied with the provisions of Directors fees for the year ended 31st March 2002 the Combined Code in regard to the re-election of were at the rates set in 1999 of 15,000 for the Directors every three years.
Chairman, 11,000 for the Audit Committee Chairman and 10,000 for each other Director.
Any A Management Agreement between the Company increase in Directors fees requires shareholder and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the approval.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
Relations with Shareholders The Investment Manager holds regular discussions The Board meets on at least five occasions each with institutional shareholders, the feedback from year and between these meetings there is regular which is valued by the Board.
In addition, a contact with the Manager who provides the Board presentation by the Investment Manager which with appropriate and timely management reviews the Companys activities, is a feature of the information.
JPMFAM also provides company Companys Annual General Meeting, where both secretarial advice and services.
The Directors also Fleming Continental European 25 Directors Report continued the Directors and the Investment Manager are revenue projections, transaction analysis and available to answer shareholders questions.
Accountability and Audit Management Agreement Appointment of a The Directors responsibilities in respect of the manager and custodian regulated by the FSA Accounts are set out on page 28. whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
Internal Control The Combined Code requires the Directors at least Management Systems Inclusion in the Managers annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness system of internal control of organisational of the Companys system of internal control and to agreements which clearly define the lines of report to shareholders that they have done so.
This responsibility, delegated authority, control has extended the previous requirement which procedures and systems.
JPMFAMs Compliance focused on internal financial control, and now department regularly monitors compliance with encompasses a review of all controls which the FSA rules.
Board has identified as including business, Investment Strategy Authorisation and financial, operational, compliance and risk monitoring of the Companys investment strategy management.
and exposure limits by the Board.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of system of internal control which is designed to the Companys system of internal control by safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper monitoring the operation of the key operating accounting records and ensure that information controls of the Manager and its associates as used within the business, or published, is reliable.
follows: However, such a system is designed to manage the Board, and its Audit Committee, reviews the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve terms of the management agreement and business objectives and therefore can only provide receives regular reports from JPMFAMs reasonable but not absolute assurance against Compliance department: fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
the Directors review the report on the internal Since investment management, custody of assets controls and the operations of its custodian, and all administrative services are provided to the JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the audited.
Companys system of internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by the Directors review every six months a report JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating on the internal controls and the operations of controls established by them to ensure that they JPMFAM which is independently reported on by meet the Companys business objectives.
The key elements designed to provide effective By the means of the procedures set out above, the internal control are as follows: Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive control for the year ended 31st March 2002. review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, 26 Fleming Continental European Directors Report continued Socially Responsible Investment and will not subordinate the economic The following, which has been reviewed and interests of our clients to any other entity or approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs interested party.
policy statement on socially responsible Annual General Meeting investment: Resolutions relating to the following item of JPMFAM has adopted a positive engagement special business will be proposed at the approach to SRI issues.
Specific assets or types forthcoming Annual General Meeting: of assets are not excluded on purely social, Repurchase of the Companys Shares environmental or ethical criteria unless At the Annual General Meeting held on 12th July specifically requested by clients.
Rather, 2001, shareholders gave authority to the Board to analysts take such issues into account as part enable repurchases of up to 14.99% of the then of the mainstream analytical process.
At that time shareholders then engages with company management on were informed that this authority would expire on specific environmental and sustainability 15th January 2003.
A proposal is to be put to issues either at company meetings or by coshareholders at the Annual General Meeting to ordinated use of its proxy votes.
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy The Directors consider that the renewing of the The following, which has been reviewed and authority would be in the interest of shareholders approved by the Board, is an abbreviated version as a whole as the repurchase of shares at a of JPMFAMs statement on corporate governance discount to the underlying net asset value NAV and voting policy: would enhance the NAV of the remaining shares.
JPMFAM views seriously its obligation to The Directors therefore recommend that exercise voting authority over shares for which shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
Proxies The full text of the resolution is set out as increasingly contain controversial issues Resolution number 9 in the Notice of Meeting on involving shareholder rights, corporate page 29. governance and social concerns, among Increase in Directors Fees others, which deserve careful review and The Directors are this year proposing a modest consideration.
Exercising proxy votes has increase in their fees, which were last increased economic value for our clients and, therefore, three years ago.
Full details of this resolution are we consider it to be our fiduciary duty to set out as Resolution number 10 in the Notice of preserve and protect the assets of our clients, Meeting on page 30. including proxy votes, for their exclusive benefit.
It is the policy of JPMFAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner after careful review of each companys proxy statement on By order of the Board an individual basis.
Our voting decision is JM Latter, for and on behalf of based exclusively on our reasonable J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK judgement of what will best serve the financial Limited, interests of the beneficial owners of the Secretary security.
In determining our vote, we do not 14th June 2002 Fleming Continental European 27
