Directors Report Business of the Company Payment Policy The Company carries on business as an investment It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as for all business and therefore there are no an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 standard payment terms.
In general the Company of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for agrees with its suppliers the terms on which the year ended 31st January 2001.
In the opinion of business will take place and it is our policy to the Directors the Company has subsequently abide by these terms.
As at 31st January 2002, the conducted its affairs so that it should continue to Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
The Company will continue to seek approval Directors under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation The Directors of the Company at the end of the Taxes Act 1988 each year.
year together with their beneficial interests in the Approval for the year ended 31st January 2001 is ordinary share capital were: subject to review should there be any subsequent 31st January 1st February enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
2002 2001 The Company is not a close company for taxation WL Banks 19,752 19,752 purposes.
The Company is an investment company NW Berry 500 500 within the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies SL Keswick 34,700 34,700 Act 1985.
IH Leslie Melville 15,000 15,000 A review of the Companys activities and prospects LE Linaker 2,318 2,318 is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 1 Lord Rothermere and 2 and in the Investment Managers Report on Viscount Younger 500 500 pages 3 to 6.
Mr Leslie Melville purchased 15,000 shares on 3rd Revenue and Dividends April 2002.
Gross revenue for the year totalled 39,435,000 No other changes in the above holdings have been and distributable revenue after deducting interest, recorded to the date of this report.
Lord Rothermere management expenses and taxation amounted to was appointed a Director of the Company on 22nd 28,364,000 which is available for the ordinary November 2001.
In accordance with the Articles of shareholders.
The Directors have declared quarterly Association of the Company, Lord Rothermere, interim dividends totalling 17.50p per ordinary being eligible, offers himself for election at the share for the year which totalled 23,770,000.
The Directors retiring by revenue reserve amounts to 28,848,000. rotation will be Mr WL Banks and Mr NW Berry.
Going Concern They are both eligible and will be seeking reAfter making enquiries, the Directors consider that election by shareholders at the Annual General the Company has adequate resources, an Meeting.
Viscount Younger, having reached the age appropriate financial structure and suitable of 70, will also be seeking re-election by management arrangements in place to continue in Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
During the year an insurance policy has been For this reason, they continue to adopt the going maintained by the Company which indemnifies the concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors of the Company against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
Fleming Mercantile 19 Directors Report continued Manager and Management Fee and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, Following the merger between Chase Manhattan published by the Committee on Corporate and JPMorgan which became effective on 2nd Governance in June 1998.
The following describes January 2001, the Manager, Chase Fleming Asset how the relevant principles of governance are Management UK Limited, changed its name to J. P. applied by the Company.
Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited The Board JPMFAM with effect from 14th May 2001.
The Board consists solely of non-executive JPMFAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Directors, the majority of whom are independent of Chase & Co. which through other subsidiaries also the Companys Manager.
Accordingly, the Board provides banking, dealing and custodian services does not believe that it is necessary to appoint a to the Company.
The contract with the Manager senior independent Director.
can be terminated on one years notice.
The Company has complied with the provisions of The management fee is paid by monthly the Combined Code in regard to the re-election of instalments based on the total assets less current Directors every three years.
liabilities at the beginning of each month and is A management agreement between the Company charged at a rate of 2.0% on unquoted assets and and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the 0.4% on other assets per annum, excluding funds Manager has authority.
All other matters are managed or advised by JPMorgan Chase or any of reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Board meets on at least five occasions each Notifiable Interests in the Companys Shares year and between these meetings there is regular At the date of this report, the following had declared contact with the Manager who provides the Board a substantial interest in the Companys issued with appropriate and timely management ordinary share capital: information.
JPMFAM also provides company Number of secretarial advice and services.
The Directors also Shareholders shares held % have access, where necessary, in the furtherance AXA Sun Life Investment of their duties, to independent professional advice Management 14,109,445 10.39 at the expense of the Company.
1,2 JP Morgan Chase & Co. 12,465,813 9.18 Board Committees Legal & General Investment The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management 6,779,746 4.99 Nomination Committee which meets when 1 Non beneficial.
necessary to select and propose suitable 2 candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Included within this are shares on behalf of Board as a whole fulfils the function of the participants in the Investment Trust ISA, PEP and Remuneration Committee.
To ensure its independence from the Manager, the Corporate Governance Audit Committee excludes from membership all To ensure the appropriate level of corporate Directors who are employed by, or who are former governance, the Board has put in place employees of JPMFAM, or any of its subsidiaries or arrangements which it believes are suitable for an associated companies.
The Audit Committee meets investment trust and enable the Company to at least twice each year.
comply with the Principles of Good Governance Fleming Mercantile 20 Directors Report continued The Audit Committee reviews the terms of the The Directors are responsible for the Companys management agreement and examines the system of internal control which is designed to effectiveness of the Companys internal control safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper systems, receives information from the Managers accounting records and ensure that information internal audit and compliance departments and used within the business, or published, is reliable.
also reviews the scope and results of the audit, its However, such a system is designed to manage cost effectiveness and the independence and rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve objectivity of the external auditors.
business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against Directors Remuneration fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
Directors fees are currently set at a rate of 20,000 for the Chairman and 13,500 for each Since investment management, custody of assets other Director.
and all administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the In aggregate, fees must not exceed 100,000.
Companys system of internal control mainly Directors fees are reviewed regularly and any comprises monitoring the services provided by increase in the aggregate amount requires both JPMFAM, the Manager and its associates, including Board and shareholder approval.
the operating controls established by them to A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming ensure that they meet the Companys business Annual General Meeting to increase the aggregate objectives.
The key elements designed to provide effective Relations with Shareholders internal control are as follows: The Investment Managers hold regular discussions Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive with institutional shareholders, the feedback from review by the Board of key investment and which is valued by the Board.
In addition, a financial data, including management accounts, presentation by the Investment Managers which revenue projections, transaction analysis and reviews the Companys activities, is a feature of the performance comparisons.
Companys Annual General Meeting, where both the Directors and the Investment Managers are Management Agreement Appointment of a available to answer shareholders questions.
Manager and custodian, regulated by The Financial Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities Internal Control are clearly defined in a written agreement.
The Combined Code requires the Directors at least annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness Management Systems The Managers system of of the Companys system of internal control and to internal control includes organisational report to shareholders that they have done so.
This agreements which clearly define the lines of has extended the previous requirement which responsibility, delegated authority, control focused on internal financial control, and now procedures and systems.
These are monitored by encompasses a review of all controls which the JPMFAMs Compliance Department which regularly Board has identified as including business, monitors compliance with FSA rules.
financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
Fleming Mercantile 21 Directors Report continued Investment Strategy Authorisation and repurchase of shares at a discount to the monitoring of the Companys investment strategy underlying net asset value NAV would enhance and exposure limits by the Board.
the NAV of the remaining shares.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of favour of the resolution.
The full text of the the Companys system of internal control by resolution renewing the share buy-back authority monitoring the operation of the key operating is set out as Resolution number 7 in the Notice of controls of the Manager and its associates as Annual General Meeting on page 24. follows: the Board, through the Audit Committee, Aggregate Directors Fees reviews the terms of the management The Articles of the Company currently restrict the agreement and receives regular reports from aggregate remuneration of the Directors to JPMFAMs Internal Compliance Department: 100,000 per annum.
The current remuneration is 20,000 for the Chairman and 13,500 for the the Directors review the report on the internal other Directors.
However, with the recent controls and the operations of the custodian, appointment of Lord Rothermere, the aggregate JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently remuneration for seven Directors for a full year reviewed: would be 101,000.
In view of this, a resolution will the Directors review every six months a report be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to on the internal controls and the operations of increase the aggregate remuneration of the JPMFAM which is independently reported on.
There are currently no plans to increase the Directors By the means of the procedures set out above, the remuneration for the coming year.
Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal A proposal to increase the aggregate Directors control.
fees from 100,000 to 150,000 with effect from 1st February 2002, is set out as Resolution Annual General Meeting number 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions relating to the following items of on page 24. special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Auditors  have expressed their Repurchase of the Companys Shares willingness to continue in office and a resolution to At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2001, re-appoint them and authorise the Directors to shareholders gave authority to the Company to agree their remuneration for the ensuing year will enable it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
At that time shareholders were informed that this authority would expire at the 2002 Annual General Meeting and could be By order of the Board renewed by shareholders at any time at a General J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, Meeting of the Company.
The Directors consider Secretary that the renewal of the authority would be in the Richard Lewis interest of shareholders as a whole as the 12th April 2002 Fleming Mercantile 22
