Directors Report Business of the Company abide by these terms.
As at 30th September 2002, The Company carries on business as an investment the Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as Directors an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 The Directors of the Company at the end of the of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for year together with their beneficial interests in the the year ended 30th September 2001.
In the Companys share capital are given below.
opinion of the Directors, the Company has 30th September 1st October subsequently conducted its affairs so that it 2002 2001 should continue to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Section 842 of the PAF Gifford 9,678 1,500 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
BNA Hardman 3,000 3,000 EI Kingston 1,500 1,500 Approval for the year ended 30th September 2001 JD Paulson-Ellis 1,500 1,500 is subject to review should there be any DC Ritchie 11,142 7,642 subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Company is an investment No changes in the above holdings have been company within the meaning of Part VIII of the notified by any Director between the year end and Companies Act 1985.
The Company is not a close the date of this report.
The Directors retiring by rotation are Mr Ritchie A review of the Companys activities and prospects and Mr Gifford.
Both are eligible, and offer is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 1 themselves for re-election at the forthcoming and 2 and in the Investment Managers Report on Annual General Meeting.
Having reached the age pages 4 to 6. of 70, Ivan Kingston also retires as a Director of the Revenue Company at the conclusion of the Annual General Gross revenue return for the year totalled Meeting on the 19th December 2002.
David 3,601,000 and after deducting interest, Pearson is to be appointed a Director with effect management expenses and taxation there was a from 1st January 2003. deficit of 1,567,000.
No dividend has been During the year an insurance policy has been declared.
maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Going Concern Directors of the Company against certain liabilities After making enquiries, the Directors consider that arising on the conduct of their duties.
the Company has adequate resources, an Management and Management Fee appropriate financial structure and suitable The Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset management arrangements in place for it to Management UK Limited JPMFAM is a whollycontinue in operational existence for the owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co. which foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue through other subsidiaries may also provide to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the banking, dealing and custodian services to the accounts.
The contract with the Manager can be Payment Policy terminated on one years notice.
It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the The Manager is remunerated at a rate of 0.6% per best terms for all business and therefore there are annum on the Companys gross assets up to no standard payment terms.
In general the 500m, 0.45% on the next 500m and 0.375% Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on thereafter, and this is calculated and paid monthly which business will take place and it is its policy to in arrears.
Fleming Japanese 17 Directors Report continued When the Company invests in funds managed or provides company secretarial advice and advised by JPMFAM or any of its associated services.
The Directors also have access, where companies they are excluded from the calculation necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, to and therefore attract no fee.
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Notifiable Share Interests At the date of this report the Company had been Board Committees notified of the following interests in excess of 3% The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the of its issued share capital: Nomination Committee which meets when necessary to select and propose suitable Number of candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Shareholders shares held % Board as a whole also fulfils the function of the 1 JPMorgan Chase 14,271,624 7.6 Remuneration Committee.
An Audit Committee, which consists entirely of 1 Non-beneficial.
independent non-executive Directors, meets at Corporate Governance least twice each year.
To ensure its independence To ensure the appropriate level of corporate from the Manager, the Audit Committee excludes governance, the Board has put in place from its membership all Directors who are arrangements which it believes are suitable for an employed by, or who are former employees of, investment trust and enable the Company to comply JPMFAM, or any of its subsidiaries or associated with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of companies.
Best Practice the Combined Code, published by The Audit Committee reviews the terms of the the Committee on Corporate Governance in June management agreement and examines the 1998.
The Board considers that the Company has effectiveness of the Companys internal control complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the systems, receives information from the Managers Combined Code throughout the year ended 30th Compliance Department and also reviews the September 2002 and the following describes how scope and results of the audit, its cost the relevant principles of governance are applied to effectiveness and the independence and the Company.
objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors The Board statement on the Companys system of internal The Board consists solely of non-executive control is set out below.
Directors, the majority of whom are regarded by Directors Remuneration the Board as independent of the Companys Directors fees are currently at a rate of 15,000 for Manager.
The Board does not believe it is the Chairman and 11,000 for each other Director.
necessary to appoint a senior independent Directors fees are reviewed regularly.
have approved total aggregate fees of 100,000, All Directors submit themselves for re-election at any increase of which requires further shareholder least every three years.
A Management Agreement between the Company Relations with Shareholders and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the The Board has regular discussions with the Manager has authority.
All other matters are Companys brokers.
The Investment Manager holds reserved for the approval of the Board.
regular discussions with shareholders, the feedback from which is valued by the Board.
In The Board meets regularly each year and between addition, a presentation by the Investment these meetings there is regular contact with the Managers which reviews the Companys activities, Manager who provides the Board with appropriate is a feature of the Companys Annual General and timely management information.
JPMFAM also Meeting, where both the Directors and the 18 Fleming Japanese Directors Report continued Investment Managers are available to answer procedures and systems.
Department regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
Internal Control The Combined Code requires the Directors at least Investment Strategy Authorisation and annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness of monitoring of the Companys investment strategy the Companys system of internal control and to and exposure limits by the Board.
report to shareholders that they have done so.
This The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of extends the previous requirement which focused on the Companys system of internal control by internal financial control, and now encompasses a monitoring the operation of the key operating review of all controls which the Board has identified controls of the Manager and its associates as as including business, financial, operational, follows: compliance and risk management.
the Board, through the Audit Committee, The Directors are responsible for the Companys reviews the terms of the management system of internal control which is designed to agreement and receives regular reports from safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper JPMFAMs Compliance department: accounting records and ensure that information the Directors review the report on the internal used within the business, or published, is reliable.
controls and the operations of its custodian, However, such a system is designed to manage JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve reviewed: business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the Directors review every six months a report fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
on the internal controls and the operations of JPMFAM which is independently reported on.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the By the means of the procedures set out above, the Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the Companys system of internal control mainly effectiveness of the Companys system of internal comprises monitoring the services provided by control for the year ended 30th September 2002 JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating controls established by them to ensure that they Auditors meet the Companys business objectives.
On 31st July 2002 Everett, Chettle & Co. merged with Begbies and now practice as Begbies Everett Chettle.
The key elements designed to provide effective The Directors have consented to treating the internal control are as follows: appointment of Everett, Chettle & Co. as extending to Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive Begbies Everett Chettle with effect from 31st July review by the Board of key investment and 2002.
Begbies Everett Chettle have expressed their financial data, including management accounts, willingness to continue in office and a resolution to revenue projections, transaction analysis and reappoint them and authorise the Directors to agree performance comparisons.
their remuneration for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Management Agreement Appointment of a Manager and custodian, regulated by The Financial Annual General Meeting Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities Resolutions relating to the following items of are clearly defined in a written agreement.
special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Management Systems The Managers system of internal control includes organisational agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control Fleming Japanese 19 Directors Report continued a Repurchase of the Companys Shares The Company repurchased a total of 8,035,000 shares for cancellation during the year, representing 4.1% of the Companys issued share capital at the previous year end, for a total consideration of 14.4m.
The authority to repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, granted by shareholders at last years AGM, will expire on 17th June 2003 unless renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board will seek shareholder approval at the AGM to renew this authority, which will last until 18th June 2004 or until the whole of the 14.99 per cent has been acquired, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors consider that the renewing of the authority would be in the interest of shareholders as a whole as the repurchases of shares at discount to the underlying net asset value NAV would enhance the NAV of the remaining shares.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 22.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Board, and will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value per share as and when market conditions are appropriate.
By order of the Board Fraser Easton, for and on behalf of J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited Secretary 12th November 2002 20 Fleming Japanese
