Investment Managers Report Martin Hudson Katy Woodhouse Has been managing the Was appointed assistant Companys assets since 1994. investment manager in 2001.
Market Background Performance The UK economic background during the year Given that background, it was a tough year for remained positive, especially relative to the rest of investors and the total return with net income the world.
The economy grew at about 2% in 2001, reinvested from the Mercantile benchmark index, inflation remained below the Governments target the FTSE AllShare excluding FT-SE 100 constituents of 2.5% and base rates fell to 4%.
Mortgage rates and investment trusts was 11.9%.
The Mercantile dropped to their lowest level for a generation, portfolio fell by 12.6% but the total return to unemployment remained close to a 25 year low shareholders was 8.1% as the share price and wages rose faster than inflation.
Consumer discount to net asset value reduced over the year spending and Government spending both from 15.9% to 12.1%.
The underlying performance continued to grow strongly.
of the stocks in the Mercantile portfolio was in fact 2.4% ahead of the benchmark for the year but the However, despite this seemingly positive total return was reduced by the effect of gearing background, economic pain was felt by investors and investing our borrowings in a falling market.
corporates, as both were hit by a sharp decline in company profitability.
This was principally a result of The bar chart below shows the relative contribution the global slowdown, with the USA now in recession to performance for the year of the five best and five and European growth at a standstill.
Indeed, such worst sectors within the portfolio.
The blue bars to was the speed and severity of the downturn, that the the right show a positive contribution to US Federal Reserve cut interest rates eleven times in performance relative to the benchmark index and the 2001, from 6.5% to 1.75%, taking them to their orange bars to the left show a negative contribution.
lowest level in more than forty years.
Stockmarkets were already falling before the 11th September Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to 31st January 2002 terrorist atrocities, which heightened investor anxiety Top 5 and put us in the worst bear market since 1973-74.
Construction and Building Materials 1.8% Indeed, in the UK the FT-SE All Share Index fell for Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to Software st 1.3% the second consecutive year in 2001.
31 January 2002 Electronics 0.8% The year saw a number of high profile disasters for Pharmaceuticals 0.8% Top 5 investors, such as Railtrack, Marconi and 0.7% Transport Construction and Building Materials 1.8% Software Independent Insurance, but the most painful Bottom 5 1.3% Electronics 0.8% Pharmaceuticals 0.8% element for investors was watching the death 0.3% Leisure Transport 0.7% Bottom 5 -0.3 Leisure -0.4 I. T. throes of those technology, media and telecoms 0.4% I. T. Hardware Hardware -0.5 Speciality Finance -0.7 Telecoms - TMT stocks which had been the darlings of the 0.5% Speciality Finance 1.2 General Retailers TMT valuation bubble in late 1999.
Whilst the 0.7% Telecoms Relative Contribution % economy and consumers are clearly benefiting 1.2% General Retailers from the advances of information technology, the Source: JPMorgan Fleming Relative Contribution % scale of the over investment, in particular in telecoms infrastructure, means that large sums of Source: Frank Russell.
money have been wasted globally.
Fleming Mercantile 3 Investment Managers Report continued This shows that the sector positives outweighed and that we would invest our borrowings if share the negatives.
In a falling interest rate environment prices deteriorated on continuing bad news.
This we benefited from an overweight position in we did in July, but as stockmarkets continued to construction and building materials, although slide we reined in our gearing again to end the being underweight in general retailers was a year 110% geared, close to our opening level.
Being underweight in both software and During the year we kept the portfolio broadly electronics helped performance although being diversified across all sectors of the stockmarket overweight in information technology hardware with about half the stocks by number in mid-sized and telecoms hurt.
companies and half in smaller companies.
Of the individual stocks held, the biggest However, by value, we kept the portfolio size contributors to performance were Rank Group and distribution close to that of our benchmark index Heywood Williams, with strong performances from which is currently 81% mid-250 and 19% small cap.
a number of larger mid-250 companies which were The level of turnover was substantially reduced promoted to the FT-SE 100 such as Gallaher Group, compared with last year, which had reflected large Severn Trent, Safeway and Amersham.
We also sales of technology stocks after their strong benefited from not holding a number of the larger performance.
It still however reflects the quarterly stocks which fell dramatically, such as Baltimore, review of large mid-250 stocks which get promoted Bookham Technology and Regus.
Nevertheless, on to the FT-SE 100 index.
We normally either sell the negative side we were caught by heavy fallers completely or reduce a holding when it is such as BATM, Redstone and Northgate promoted from the mid-250 into the FT-SE 100.
Information Solutions and we missed out on some We continued our programme of researching strong mid-250 performance from Man Group and companies which are not well known in the Rexam.
Of the smaller stocks Acambis, MJ Gleeson, stockmarket and during the year we met or visited Synstar and VP did well for us, but New Media nearly four hundred companies.
Again this year we Industries, Iomart and Comino did badly.
avoided the majority of new issues, judging them During the year we received takeover bids for to be overpriced, although new issue activity in sixteen companies.
Our largest of these positions 2001 was at its lowest level for more than a were in Enterprise Oil, P&O Princess Cruises, decade.
We bought one new issue during the year, Jermyn, Beazer, Expamet, Exchange FS and Mid Inditherm, which we sold after a rise, and bought Kent Water.
another, Vanco, after it had been floated.
Of the ten largest holdings, which are listed on Activity page 12, nine were held in the portfolio a year ago, A year ago we commented that the stockmarket and United Business Media was a new entrant into continued to fret about technology stock our benchmark index following demotion from the valuations being too high and old economy stocks FTSE 100 index.
having held up too well in the face of a US Of last years ten largest investments five are still held, economic slowdown.
We argued that whilst the UK three received takeover approaches and two have could not be immune from the testing conditions in been sold on promotion into the FT-SE 100 index.
the US, UK economic fundamentals were healthy, 4 Fleming Mercantile Currently the prospective dividend yield on the underlying Mercantile portfolio is 3.1%, which is good value.
Investment Managers Report continued benchmark.
The blue bars to the right show an Outlook overweight position and the orange bars to the left The stockmarket fell last year by more than the an underweight position.
Our largest overweight downgrade in profits estimates for companies.
positions are in building and construction and real With this derating, currently the prospective estate and the largest underweight positions are in dividend yield on the underlying Mercantile support services and engineers.
portfolio is 3.1%, which is good value.
Share prices normally begin to rally long before the news begins Consumer spending in the UK continues to be to look good and we aim to continue to focus on strong and Government spending is also set to stock selection within a broadly diversified grow strongly.
In contrast to FT-SE 100 larger UK portfolio to take advantage of this.
Currently, Companies which generate about 40% of their financial fragility is a general theme and we are profits from overseas, our UK small and mid sized paying particular attention to balance sheet issues companies generate about 80% of their profits in our stock selection process.
The stockmarket is from the UK.
Whilst looking for recovery prospects, currently facing the post-bubble aftermath, for example, in the media sector, we shall continue resulting from the excessive growth of debt, to favour companies with good and growing especially in the telecom related sectors.
With low dividend yields and those exposed to areas of inflation and low growth, high levels of debt will strength within the domestic economy.
At this stage in the cycle a wave of corporate collapses is normal.
The chart below shows the current disposition of the Martin Hudson Company sector weightings relative to the Katy Woodhouse 12th April 2002 Sector analysis relative to the Benchmark at 31st January 2002.
0% Basic Industries 5.6% 0.2% Cyclical Consumer Goods Cyclical Services 7.8% 3.6% General Industrials Financials 5.8% 0.8% Information Technology Non Cyclical Consumer Goods 2.0% 1.7% Non Cyclical Services 0.2% Resources Utilities 0.6% Source: JPMorgan Fleming.
The above figures have been calculated using total assets less current liabilities thereby excluding long-term borrowing.
