Investment Managers Report Stephen Mitchell Jonathan Dobson has been managing the has been assisting in the assets of the Company since management of the assets of December 1997. the Company since June 2001.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS the second half of the year was the solution to the Review problems in the banking sector.
In almost a re-run of After rising 3.6% in yen terms for the first half of the what happened in spring last year, the Japanese year, the Japanese TOPIX index fell 13.1% over the government increased the flow of rhetoric directed last six months.
This equated to an overall decline of at the banks from the beginning of 2002.
Given the 10% for the year in yen terms, which compares stabilization in the Japanese economy, investors favourably with the 20.8% drop recorded by the UK found themselves more prepared to believe the FTSE 100 index or the 20.5% fall in US dollars news flow than they otherwise might have been, returned by the US S&P 500. and, in the process turned the banking sector into For much of the first half, the economic outlook for one of the best performers from the January to June Japan appeared to be brightening, helped along by a period.
From its low, to the high it marked in June, global economy which had remained more resilient Sumitomo Mitsui Bankings share price rose 60% than expected in the wake of the terrorist attacks in and more or less held this level to the end of the New York in September.
Towed along in the slipstream of the banks, components and machinery products, where construction stocks, real estate shares and other inventory levels were extremely low, improved, and asset-related companies also performed well.
exports of Japanese finished goods to Asia and the However, as a sign that the markets patience was USA rose sharply.
Not surprisingly, the share prices starting to wear thin with both the governments of companies such as Honda 39% and Canon failure to deliver and its propensity to procrastinate, 44% climbed sharply as a result, as did those of the first few weeks of October saw the share prices companies in the technology sector such as of many banks fall sharply, pulling TOPIX down to an Advantest 90% and Shin-Etsu Chemical 62%.
eighteen year low in the process.
As  data continued to improve, so did the performance of stocks with a Performance Commentary more domestic bias such as bearings companies The Companys NAV in pounds sterling fell 14.6% and machinery manufacturers, where many share over the year, 3.1% less than the 17.7% decline prices and valuations were so depressed that even posted by the TOPIX index.
All of the moderate good news led to sharp share price rises.
outperformance was concentrated into the first six From March onwards, however, the outlook for months of the year when the Companys NAV rose Japanese equities became less clear.
The further 8.6% in sterling, versus a fall of 3.9% for the deterioration of economic data from both the USA benchmark index.
Over this period it benefited from and especially Europe started to put pressure on having raised its exposure to premium quality Japans export sector, a trend compounded by the companies with high export ratios, and to weakness of the dollar against the yen.
Additionally, technology stocks, at a time when valuations and the pick up in orders for electronic components and share prices in both areas were extremely machinery which had begun in autumn 2001, started depressed.
This suggested that the flow of The environment became much tougher from March good figures had been driven more by the reonwards, as worries about the economy in the USA, stocking of inventories than by real end-user accompanied by a bout of dollar weakness, started to demand.
Against this backdrop, the stocks and depress the share prices of the stocks which had sectors which had performed best in the Septemberhelped so much in the first half.
The positions in some March period, fell back sharply over the summer.
of the better performers such as Alps and Ricoh were One of the main issues hanging over the market for cut completely, as were the holdings in cyclical 4 Fleming Japanese Investment Managers Report continued manufacturers such as Koyo Seiko and Tsubakimoto certain.
Similarly, the current weighting in non Chain.
Other holdings such Sumitomo Bakelite were benchmark stocks of just 5.3% also reflects a trimmed aggressively.
However, this still left the slightly cautious stance.
portfolio overweight in the export sector and this was Performance attribution for the year a cause of underperformance in the third quarter, to 30th September 2002 whilst the remaining technology holdings 1 Year underperformed for much of the second half.
% As much as what was owned, the second half was a Net asset value total return in sterling terms 14.6 story of what the portfolio didnt own.
Because of Benchmark total return in sterling terms 17.7 the investment managers views on the quality and Relative return 3.1 valuations of Japanese banks, construction, real Analysis of relative return estate and railway companies, none of these are Allocation effect 4.9 held in the portfolio.
Yet in the March-September Stock selection effect 3.2 period, because of rhetoric-fuelled optimism about Gearing effect 1.2 solutions to the banking crisis, many of these soCash hedging effect 1.7 Management fee and other expenses 0.8 called asset sectors outperformed the index.
Buybacks 0.2 Detailed performance attribution shows that Other Residual Item 1.5 overweight positions in the Non-ferrous Metals Total 3.1 sector Fujikura and Mitsui Mining and Smelting Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data and Chemicals sector Sumitomo Bakelite and Definition: Performance attribution analyses how the Kaneka were sources of underperformance over the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its year, largely because of their exposure to the benchmark.
An aggressive overweight position Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the in Nintendo also caused a negative return from the portfolios weighting in different sectors or asset types.
The largest positive Stock selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in contributor to performance was the Electrical securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities Appliances sector where long term holdings in outside the benchmark.
companies such as Canon helped generate more Gearing effect: Measures the impact on relative than 2.5% outperformance over the period.
Despite performance of long term borrowings.
the rally in banks in the second half of the period, Cash hedging effect: Measures the effect on relative performance of holding cash balances and hedging remaining underweight in the sector over the year movement in local currency.. was a net positive contributor to performance.
Management fee and other expenses: The payment of Finally, even though the level of gearing was kept fees and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and below ten per cent for almost the entire period, therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
Buybacks: Measures the net effect on relative maintenance of a geared stance in a falling market performance of decreasing the number of shares in issue.
Other residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between total return as calculated by the At the end of the period there were 78 holdings, AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by and the top 30 positions accounted for 63% of the the attribution generating system.
This is a result of Companys assets.
The portfolio has a 7% methodology differences with respect to the treatment of Income and cashflows, and timing differences.
overweight position in mid-cap stocks, which is lower than it than would be if the outlook were more Fleming Japanese 5 Investment Managers Report continued world markets: for example, the current price-toOutlook book ratio for Japan is in the region of 1.3x, close to The sharp economic upturn which took place earlier a twenty year low.
Additionally, corporate activity is in the year in Japan has now levelled out, with further also rising.
Japanese companies have approved progress dependent both on a number of factors.
share buy backs which are five times larger than last Given that many larger Japanese companies rely on year, and ten times greater than in 2000.
Even overseas business for a substantial portion of their assuming a completion rate of only one third the profits, and that robust exports were a major source amount projected, it still means that the actual of the recovery in spring 2002, the direction of the amount of shares bought back will double that US, European and Asian economies is very achieved in 2001. important.
Continued volatility in stock markets in these regions will probably influence Japanese share Japanese companies continue to restructure prices more than has been the case in recent years.
Earlier this year, Matsushita Electric Within Japan, a solution to the problems in the Industries announced that it was closing or turning banking sector is urgently needed, although the off 24 production facilities and writing off 2 billion governments propensity to obfuscate on the issue dollars-worth of inventory as part of a broad-ranging seems likely to mean only slow changes, despite the restructuring programme designed to return it to an appointment of Mr Takenaka as Economic Minister.
operating profit margin of five percent within three What is clear, however, is that the Bank of Japans years.
At the moment, MEI trades on a price to book proposal to purchase equities from the banks does ratio of just 1x.
not solve the problems of the financial system or The investment managers approach is not restore the economy to sustainable growth, but it predicated on the Japanese government achieving has highlighted the weakness of the banking system reform, or solving the problems in the banking and the urgent need of remedial action.
sector, or even a robust economic recovery.
It is From a corporate and a valuations standpoint, the based simply on investing in world class companies outlook is much brighter.
Internationally competitive with real growth prospects, where management is companies such as Toyota continues to take market committed to returning that growth to shareholders.
share from American companies in their home This includes companies which are already high market, and announced interim profit numbers which quality ones, which are expected to maintain their greatly exceeded expectations.
It is now one of the competitive position, but it may also include worlds most profitable mass producer of cars and organizations such as Matsushita where the has a price-to-earnings ratio of 13x.
Other Japanese management appears to be committing itself anew companies such as Canon are also steadily to delivering growth.
increasing their world market share.
Hondas current Reflecting these views, the largest holdings as price to earnings ratio is just 11x, and that for Nissan shown on page 12 are in companies which run is in the region of 8x.
Japanese companies in other global businesses with high world market shares fields, such as Canon, are also steadily increasing such as Canon office equipment, Toyota cars and their world market share.
Fuji Photo Film imaging products.
For the broader market as a whole, valuations also Stephen Mitchell look more attractive than for some other major Jonathan Dobson 12th November 2002 6 Fleming Japanese Report & Accounts.
