Directors Report Business of the Company Going Concern The Company carries on business as an investment After making enquiries, the Directors consider that trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as the Company has adequate resources, an an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 appropriate financial structure and suitable of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for management arrangements in place for it to the year ended 30th June 2001.
In the opinion of continue in operational existence for the the Directors, the Company has subsequently foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue conducted its affairs so that it should continue to to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the qualify.
The Company will continue to seek accounts.
approval under Section 842 of the Income and Payment Policy Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
Approval for It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms the year ended 30th June 2001 is subject to review for all business and therefore there are no should there be any subsequent enquiry under standard payment terms.
In general the Company Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Company is agrees with its suppliers the terms on which not a close company for taxation purposes.
The business will take place and it is our policy to Company is an investment company within the abide by these terms.
As at 30th June 2002, the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985.
Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects Directors is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 1 The Directors of the Company at the end of the and 2 and in the Investment Managers report on year together with their beneficial interests in the pages 3 to 6. ordinary share capital are given below: Revenue and Dividends 1st July 2001 Gross revenue for the year totalled 9,361,000 and or at date distributable revenue after deducting interest, 30th June 2002 of appointment administrative expenses and taxation amounted to Richard Barfield 1,253 3,304,000.
Simon Davies 500 500 The Directors recommend a dividend of 4.2p per Geoffrey Howe 1,843 502 share payable on 2nd December 2002 to holders Raymond Mould 5,094 5,054 on the register at the close of business on 1st George Paul 15,000 5,000 November 2002.
This distribution will absorb John Rennocks 1,000 2,979,000 which together with the adjustment of Since the year end, Richard Barfield has purchased 116,000 in respect of an overaccrual for last year a further 1319 ordinary shares.
results in a transfer to the revenue reserve of 441,000.
The revenue reserve after this transfer No other changes in interest have been notified by will amount to 11,714,000. any Director as at the date of this report.
No Director has an interest in the Companys Investments debenture stock.
The investments were valued at 409,472,000 as at 30th June 2002.
The notes to the accounts show Richard Barfield and John Rennocks were the basis of this valuation.
A list of the Companys appointed Directors of the Company on 1st investments is given on pages 16 to 19.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr Barfield and Mr Rennocks, being eligible, offer themself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
Fleming Overseas 21 Directors Report continued The Directors retiring by rotation are Mr Simon performance fee in any relevant period will be Davies and Mr Geoffrey Howe who, being eligible, spread equally over four years.
Performance will be will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual measured on a cumulative basis.
fee accrued but not paid can and will be reduced by the extent of any underperformance in During the year an insurance policy has been subsequent years.
Any adjustment in respect of maintained by the Company which indemnifies the underperformance will be deducted at the first Directors of the Company against potential opportunity from any amount accrued in respect of liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
Management The amount of any performance fee paid in any The Companys assets are managed by JPMorgan one year will be capped at 0.8 per cent previously Fleming Asset Management JPMFAM.
0.4% of the published net assets of the Company JPMFAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JP Morgan at the end of the relevant period.
Any excess will Chase & Co. which, through other subsidiaries, be carried forward until paid in full or offset also provides banking, dealing and custodian against subsequent underperformance.
The services to the Company.
results for the year ended 30th June 2002 give rise to a performance fee writeback of 2,178,429 as Management and Performance Fee the total return did not exceed the benchmark.
The The Manager and Secretary, JPMFAM, is employed cumulative performance fee accrued in the under a contract terminable on one years notice.
accounts based on prior years outperformance The management fee is calculated and paid monthly and this years writeback is 8,032,000, of which in arrears at a rate of 0.4% per annum of the 1,399,000 is payable in the current year.
The Companys total assets less current liabilities with balance of 6,633,000 remains payable in future the exception of the US smaller companies portfolio years but will first be reduced by any future on which the rate is 1% per annum.
or advised by JPMFAM or any of its associated Notifiable Share Interests companies which are held in the Companys portfolio At the date of this report the following had of assets, are excluded from the management fee declared an interest in 3% or more of the calculation and therefore attract no direct fee.
Companys ordinary share capital: A performance fee is payable if the total return Number of attributable to shareholders change in net asset Shareholders shares held % value plus dividend exceeds the total return of the 1 J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. 12,109,864 17.07 Companys benchmark by more than 0.5%.
The Included within this are terms of the performance fee were changed with the following: effect from 1st July 2002 and where a change has JPMF Investment Trust been implemented the calculation points under the 2 Units Fund 4,823,142 6.80 previous agreement ie the year ended 30th June Fleming Managed Growth plc 3,900,000 5.50 2002 are shown in brackets.
The performance fee 2 Henderson Nominees 4,065,587 5.7 payable will be 15% previously 20% of any 1 Non-beneficial.
excess of the total return excluding the effect of 2 Held on behalf of JPMFAM Share Plan, PEP and ISA share buybacks over the benchmark total return.
Payment of any amount earned under the 22 Fleming Overseas Directors Report continued Auditors secretarial advice and services.
The Directors also  have expressed their have access, where necessary, in the furtherance willingness to continue in office and a resolution to of their duties, to independent professional advice re-appoint them and authorise the Directors to at the expense of the Company.
determine their remuneration for the ensuing year Board Committees will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has appointed a Nomination Committee Corporate Governance which meets when necessary to select and To ensure the appropriate level of corporate propose suitable candidates for appointment to governance, the Board has put in place the Board.
The Board as a whole fulfils the function arrangements which it believes are suitable for an of the Remuneration Committee and reviews investment trust and enable the Company to Directors fees on a regular basis.
comply with the Principles of Good Governance To ensure its independence from the Manager, the and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, Audit Committee excludes from membership any published by the Committee on Corporate Director who is employed by, or who is a former Governance in June 1998.
The Board consider that employee of JPMFAM, or any of its subsidiaries or the Company has complied with the provisions associated companies.
contained within Section 1 of the Combined Code The Audit Committee meets at least twice each throughout the accounting period ended 30th June year.
The Committee reviews the terms of the 2002 and the following describes how the relevant Management Agreement and examines the principles of governance are applied to the effectiveness of the Companys internal control Company.
systems, receives information from the Managers The Board Compliance department and also reviews the The Board consists solely of non-executive scope and results of the audit, its cost Directors, all but one of whom are independent of effectiveness and the independence and the Companys Manager.
During the course of the objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors year the Board made the decision to appoint statement on the Companys system of internal Raymond Mould as senior independent Director.
The Company has complied with the provisions of Directors Remuneration the Combined Code in regard to the re-election of Directors fees are set at a fixed rate of 30,000 for Directors every three years.
the Chairman, 20,000 for the Chairman of the A management agreement between the Company Audit Committee and 17,500 for each other and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the Director.
All other matters are In aggregate, fees must not exceed 150,000 per reserved for the approval of the Board.
Directors fees are reviewed regularly and The Board meets on at least four occasions each any increase in the aggregate amount requires year and between these meetings there is regular both Board and shareholder approval.
contact with the Manager who provides the Board Relations with Shareholders with appropriate and timely management At the Companys Annual General Meeting, the information.
JPMFAM also provide company Directors and representatives of the Manager are Fleming Overseas 23 Directors Report continued available in person to meet and answer The key elements designed to provide effective shareholders questions.
In addition, a presentation internal control are as follows: is given by the Investment Managers which reviews Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive the Companys activities.
During the year, the review by the Board of key investment and Corporate Brokers, the Investment Managers and financial data, including management accounts, JPMFAM hold regular discussions with institutional revenue projections, transaction analysis and shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware of performance comparisons.
their views and responses are tailored as Management Agreement Appointment of a necessary.
The Chairman and Directors make Manager and custodian regulated by the FSA, themselves available as and when required to whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a address shareholder queries, which are normally written agreement.
channelled through the Company Secretary.
Management Systems Inclusion in the Managers Internal Control system of internal control of organisation The Combined Code requires the Directors at least agreements which clearly define the lines of annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness responsibility, delegated authority, control of the Companys system of internal control and to procedures and systems.
JPMFAM s Compliance report to shareholders that they have done so.
This Department regularly monitors compliance with has extended the previous requirement which FSA rules.
focused on internal financial controls, and now encompasses a review of all controls, which the Investment Strategy Authorisation and Board has identified as including business, monitoring of the Companys investment strategy financial, operational, compliance and risk and exposure limits by the Board.
The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of The Directors are responsible for the Companys the Companys system of internal control by system of internal control, which is designed to monitoring the operation of the key operating safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper controls of the Manager and its associates as accounting records and ensure that information follows: used within the business, or published, is reliable.
the Board, and its Audit Committee, reviews However, such a system is designed to manage the terms of the management agreement and rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve receives regular reports from JPMFAM s business objectives and therefore can only provide Compliance Department: reasonable, but not absolute assurance against fraud, material misstatement or loss.
the Directors review the report on the internal controls and the operations of its custodian, Since investment management, custody of assets JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently and administrative services are provided to the audited: and Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal control mainly the Directors review every six months a report comprises monitoring the services provided by on the internal controls and operations of JPMFAM JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating which is independently reported on.
controls established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys business objectives.
24 Fleming Overseas Directors Report continued By means of the procedures set out above, the an individual basis.
Our voting decision is Board confirms that it has reviewed the based exclusively on our reasonable effectiveness of the Companys system of internal judgement of what will best serve the financial control for the year ended 30th June 2002. interests of the beneficial owners of the security.
In determining our vote, we do not Socially Responsible Investment and will not subordinate the economic The following, which has been reviewed and interests of our clients to any other entity or approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs interested party.
policy statement on socially responsible investment: Annual General Meeting Resolutions relating to the following items of JPMFAM has adopted a positive engagement special business will be proposed at the approach to SRI issues.
Specific assets or types forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of assets are not excluded on purely social, environmental or ethical criteria unless Repurchase of the Companys shares specifically requested by clients.
Rather, The Company repurchased a total of 6,830,009 analysts take such issues into account as part shares for cancellation during the year, of the mainstream analytical process.
JPMFAM representing 8.8% of the Companys issued share then engages with company management on capital at the previous year end, for a total specific environmental and sustainability consideration of 35,393,000. issues either at company meetings or by coAt the Annual General Meeting held on 30th ordinated use of its proxy votes.
October 2001, shareholders gave authority to the Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Board to enable repurchases of up to 14.99% of The following, which has been reviewed and the then issued share capital.
At that time approved by the Board, is an abbreviated version shareholders were informed that this authority of JPMFAMs statement on corporate governance would expire on 31st December 2002 or the and voting policy: conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2002.
This being so, a resolution will JPMFAM views seriously its obligation to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General exercise voting authority over shares for which Meeting that the Company be authorised to it has responsibility worldwide.
Proxies purchase in the market up to 10,632,716 shares increasingly contain controversial issues or, if less, the number of shares which is equal to involving shareholder rights, corporate 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued share governance and social concerns, among capital as at the date of the passing of Resolution others, which deserve careful review and 8 set out in the Notice of Annual General consideration.
Exercising proxy votes has Meeting, using its realised capital reserves.
The economic value for our clients and, therefore, actual cash required to repurchase shares will be we consider it to be our fiduciary duty to met either from cash available or from selling preserve and protect the assets of our clients, investments in the portfolio.
including proxy votes, for their exclusive benefit.
It is the policy of JPMFAM to vote in a The decision as to whether the Company prudent and diligent manner after careful repurchases any shares will be at the absolute review of each companys proxy statement on discretion of the Board and purchases will be Fleming Overseas 25
