Ten Largest Equity Investments at 30th June 2002 Valuation % of total Company Country Sector 000 assets 1 Ericott North America Offshore fund 14,331 3.3 The fund invests in a large number of US companies during corporate actions seeking to arbitrage pricing anomalies.
It aims to, and has achieved, outperformance of cash.
Total Fina France Oil & Gas 8,112 1.9 Total Fina explores for, produces, refines, transports and markets oil and natural gas.
The company operates in over 100 countries.
The diversified nature of the business together with a strong balance sheet enable this company to be at the forefront of this industry in innovation and efficiency.
Pfizer North America Pharmaceuticals 8,105 1.8 A leafing global pharmaceutical company with dominant positions in cardiovascular and pain therapies.
Recently announced acquisition of Pharmacia reinforces guidance of mid teens earning growth outlook.
Pfizer, with its highly rated sales force, is also marketing partner of choice for for smaller pharmaceutical companies.
Microsoft North America Computer Software 6,906 1.6 Microsoft Corporation develops, manufactures, licenses, sells and supports software products.
The company offers operating system software, server application software, business and consumer applications software, software development tools, and internet and intranet software.
The company has the pre-eminent global operating system franchise which affords strong growth coupled with high margins.
Exxon Mobil North America Oil & Gas 6,801 1.6 Exxon Mobil operates petroleum and petrochemicals businesses on a worldwide basis.
The companys operations include exploration and production of oil and gas, electric power generation, and coal and minerals operations.
With substantial scale efficiencies and broadly-diversified reserves and production capabilities, Exxon Mobil are classleading in the industry.
Citigroup North America Insurance 6,425 1.5 Citigroup is the largest diversified financial services holding company in the world, and it and Services provides a broad range of financial services to consumer and corporate customers around the globe.
The companys services include investment banking, retail brokerage, corporate banking, insurance and cash management products and services.
With such broadly diversified revenue streams, Citigroup offers earnings and profitability stability well above that of its peers throughout the economic cycle.
BNP France Banks 6,118 1.4 BNP offers consumer, mortgage, commercial and industrial loans, foreign exchange services, discount securities brokerage services, lease financing, international trade financing, private banking services and life insurance, and advises on mergers and acquisitions, capital restructuring and privatisations.
With a strong management and brand, and an excellent retail banking franchise, BNP offers an attractive business mix at a compelling valuation.
Philip Morris North America Tobacco 5,909 1.3 Philip Morris is a leading consumer products company, with its interests largely concentrated in tobacco and food.
The companys products are sold globally and its world leading brands are expected to contribute to solid long term earnings growth.
Fannie Mae North America Specialist Finance 5,768 1.3 Fannie Mae buys and holds mortgages, and issues and sells guaranteed mortgage backed securities.
The Company is a beneficiary of positive secular trends in the housing market and is expected to deliver consistent earnings growth in the foreseeable future.
Vodafone UK Telecoms 5,6731.3 Vodafone is a leading provider of mobile telecommunication services.
The Company has a dominant position in each of its key markets and has a geographically diverse earnings base, offering a full range of voice and data services in 28 countries.
Total 74,148 17.0 Based on Total Assets less current liabilities of 436.3m.
In addition there are some non-equity investments held in the portfolio for cash management purposes.
These include: Valuation % of total Company Country Sector 000 assets Barclays United Kingdom Financials 13,429 3.0 Alliance and Leicester United Kingdom Financials 9,997 2.3 Royal Bank of Scotland United Kingdom Financials 7,249 1.7 12 Fleming Overseas
