Investment Managers Report Peter Harrison Peter Warnes INVESTMENT MANAGERS The performance of global stockmarkets has accounting practices, companies utilizing similar again been disappointing over the last twelve off balance sheet financing vehicles or who have months.
During the year the Companys grown rapidly through acquisition came under benchmark, the MSCI World Index, fell by 21.8% scrutiny.
A number of key blue chips were fidein sterling terms.
Over the same period, the rated as a result of guilt by association.
The other Companys return on net assets was 23.0%.
major effect of Enrons collapse was the severe tightening in the commercial paper market, with The period began amidst major concerns about access being denied to an increasing number of global economic growth.
As panic spread, the broader market already under pressure due to deteriorating was undermined, with all stocks falling those economic and corporate earnings expectations, with the highest debt have fallen furthest.
and consequently sold off sharply in the wake of the September terrorist attacks.
However, the The major feature in the currency markets during dramatic policy response by the Federal Reserve the year was the fall from grace of the mighty US and other central banks led to a huge increase in dollar, after its major upward move since the mid the rate of liquidity growth, which led to a strong 1990s.
The huge capital inflows needed to fund rally in global stockmarkets in October and the current account deficit have slowed November.
substantially as investors question the ability of the US to produce superior returns over the It soon became clear that the authorities had longer term.
Whilst the pace of re-adjustment is been successful in staving off a severe recession uncertain, we feel that the dollar will continue to and expectations of both economic and earnings weaken.
The best performing major stockmarket during However, towards the end of 2001, markets the year was the UK, which still fell by more than became increasingly volatile as investors were 14%.
The US market performed poorly, with the torn between the improving macroeconomic data S&P500 falling over 24% in sterling terms and and disappointing news at the corporate level.
NASDAQ fairing even worse it fell almost 38%.
The fallout from the Enron bankruptcy continued European markets also produced poor returns, to escalate.
With the focus on Enrons aggressive Fleming Overseas 3 Investment Managers Report continued though the stronger Euro partially mitigated the The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
losses Germany fell almost 20% in sterling terms and France over 15%.
The Japanese market Performance attribution for the year produced a return of 23%.
The best performing to 30th June 2002 1 Year markets were to be found amongst the emerging % markets Korea, Russia and Thailand all rose over Net asset value total return in sterling terms 23.0 20% in sterling terms.
Benchmark total return in sterling terms 21.8 Relative return 1.2 There was a wide disparity between sector performances during the year.
The technology Analysis of relative return Currency Effect 0.3 and telecommunications sectors were again the Allocation Effect 0.8 worst performing sectors, both falling by more Selection Effect 1.4 Gearing Cash 2.7 than 40%.
Healthcare, normally a defensive Fees Expenses 0.6 sector, also underperformed the broader market, Performance fee 0.5 Buybacks issuances 0.6 due to ongoing pricing and approval pressures in Residual 0.7 the US and concerns about rising generic drug Total 1.2 competition.
Most sectors were in negative Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM AITC Fundamental Data.
territory, although consumer staples managed to Definition: Performance attribution analyses how the Company eke out a small positive return.
The energy and achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
Currency effect: Measures the impact of currency exposure materials sectors also managed to outperform the differences between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
It also identifies the effects of holding forward currency contracts or currency futures.
Allocation effect: Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark, via the portfolios Performance weighting in different countries, sectors, or asset types.
During the year the Companys performance was Stock selection effect: Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser extent than their weighting in the 1.2% behind the funds benchmark.
This shortfall in benchmark, or of investing in securities outside of the benchmark.
Gearing cash effect: Measures the impact of returns on performance was due to the Companys borrowings, cash balances or cash substitutes on the Companys borrowings, where returns on assets failed to come relative performance.
Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees and close to covering the interest cost.
Stock selection expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
was mixed across markets, with positive Performance fee effect: The underperformance of the contributions in Europe, UK and Japan offset by a benchmark leads to a reduction in performance fees earned in previous years but not yet paid.
The reduction in this accrual has negative contribution from the US.
The US a positive impact on relative performance.
Buybacks issuances: Measures the net effect on relative performance lagged due to an overexposure to performance of increasing or decreasing the number of shares in smaller capitalisation stocks.
In terms of sectors, issue.
Other residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between the portfolio benefited from being underweight to total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating system.
This is a result of methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cash-flows, and timing differences.
4 Fleming Overseas Investment Managers Report continued relatively robust, largely thanks to record levels of Activity mortgage refinancing and aggressive auto The structure of the portfolio was relatively incentives.
The willingness of the Federal Reserve consistent throughout the year.
Exposure to the US to raise rates, still at a forty year low, given the was reduced, partly through reducing exposure to current market background, has clearly been the US small cap sector.
This asset class provided substantially reduced.
The inflation outlook significant beta to the portfolio during strong remains remarkably benign.
Hence our view is that bounces, but profits were taken after strong rallies.
the US economy will continue to post positive, Elsewhere, exposure to the UK was increased, though not spectacular, growth over the next where we continued to find numerous quality twelve months.
Elsewhere economies continue to companies at attractive valuations.
From an recover, with growth particularly robust in nonunderweight position at the start of the year, the Japan Asia.
UK was overweight for most of the period.
Outlook We expect that markets will move from fear to There are two conflicting forces driving equity greed once the expected earnings recovery markets: on one hand equities should be comes through at the individual company level.
responding positively to the prospects of This time around investors are too wary and synchronized global recovery: but on the other, analysts too scared about trying to forecast too investor risk aversion has increased dramatically far ahead.
If equity markets can be convinced that against a background of corporate governance and earnings are on an improving trend, then investors credit related concerns.
The gold price has risen will be prepared to put their concerns on corporate significantly since the end of last year and the governance and credit issues to one side.
The degree to which government bonds have sharp improvement in productivity and the decline outperformed equities in recent months is almost in unit labour costs seen so far in 2002 are a key unprecedented.
Although the low level of nominal growth is clearly causing a drag on The outlook for the US economy remains key.
We corporate profits, as companies continue to find it still feel that capital expenditure is unlikely to hard to hold on to productivity gains given the recover dramatically in the near term, given scarcity of pricing power, we still expect growth of corporates difficulty in accessing capital from the around 5-10% this year.
As such we feel that financial markets, balance sheet pressures, and markets are approaching the point of maximum that overcapacity still exists in many sectors.
However, the US consumer has remained Hence the problem is not so much earnings, rather remarkably resilient.
So far there is little indication the price that investors are prepared to pay for that spending is being affected.
After years of upwards re-rating confidence has retreated from the levels reached due to the substantial falls in inflation and bond earlier this year, but spending has remained Fleming Overseas 5 Investment Managers Report continued yields in the 1990s, stock market valuations had exposure to technology than other markets.
We become high in developed markets and, in also see opportunities in emerging markets, particular, the US.
The situation was compounded especially in non-Japan Asia, where as well as the by company managements diluting the quality of markets being attractively valued in relative terms, earnings through overly aggressive accounting the structural rise in domestic consumption will practices and by investors willingness to use help to support growth, even if external demand increasingly exotic means of valuing those begins to falter.
The portfolio remains defensively positioned, with Following recent stockmarket falls we feel that overweight positions in sectors such as energy and valuations are starting to reach attractive levels.
materials, where we feel valuations do not For example, the UK market has yielded more than adequately reflect medium term growth prospects.
base rates twice in the past fifty years in 1974 Exposure towards the consumer sector is biased and in July this year.
In a number of sectors we are towards staples, rather than cyclical stocks.
The finding stocks which are genuinely cheap.
Even in portfolio remains underweight to technology and the US, where we feel the aggregate valuation of telecommunications.
the market is still too high, 60% of the S&P 500 The sharp fall in markets has created opportunities Index trades at less than 15x earnings.
Not all at the stock level which we will seek to exploit.
sectors are cheap technology and telecoms being Although poorer quality companies are likely to the obvious examples.
Others, for example oils, bounce more sharply in the initial stages of are implying that the companies will never earn an recovery, we will look to increase exposure to acceptable return of capital again.
those quality companies which will be long term Within equity markets we prefer Europe to the US.
winners in the low growth, low inflation The US market has been re-rated relative to Europe environment.
We will continue to look to more fully in recent years.
Although the correlation between utilise the Companys borrowing facility.
the two regions markets has risen significantly recently, valuations in Europe are still generally less extended and there are less signs of corporate Peter Harrison excess.
The US market also has a much greater Peter Warnes 23rd September 2002 6 Fleming Overseas Report & Accounts.
