Managers Review Overall Investment and news was mixed.
While the inflation revisions were exaggerated and Strategy Review numbers improved, growth forecasts valuations looked attractive, and to sell The continental European equity had to be revised down steadily as some of the individual situations that markets fell again last year, in numbers on both sides of the Atlantic had done well.
Otherwise, we focused sympathy with trends elsewhere.
Most showed the recovery still to be sluggish mainly on limiting the risks in our of the fall was seen in the second half and many of the forward-looking portfolio.
The slight outperformance of of our financial year when the markets indicators actually deteriorated.
With the portfolio against the Index over the lost over a third of their value, the the softer economic climate, bond year thus came wholly from stock greatest fall since the crash of 1987. yields fell again.
Selling pressure was particularly appreciation of the euro and the intense as the mutual funds suffered improving inflation numbers the MAJOR SECTOR REVIEWS from massive redemptions and the European Central Bank offered no As shareholders are aware, we follow a insurance companies sought to further cut in rates after its earlier move.
sector-based investment approach in rebalance their portfolios towards Company results reflected Europe when constructing our bonds for solvency reasons.
inevitably the more difficult economic portfolio.
The table below shows the Certainly, the international environment.
The insurers were performance in sterling terms of the background remained poor.
Politically, affected by the weakness of the principal sectors that make up the relations between the US and Iraq financial markets and high claims in the continental European markets over the deteriorated further, Latin America was wake of 11 September, the technology past year.
shaken by the Argentinean devaluation companies by the cutbacks in Banks Financials and the Brazilian elections and in investment spending, particularly from For much of the year, the banking Germany the centre-left coalition was the telecom operators, and the sector performed well.
Quarterly returned, but with a greater retailers by the deteriorating outlook for earnings benefited from stable interest dependence on the Greens.
Not surprisingly, margins, good cost control and lower these were the poorer performing than expected loan provisioning.
Performance of sectors over the year.
More resilient However, it fell back towards the end European Sectors were the foods, pharmaceuticals and as investors became concerned about oils where the results showed fewer the likely negative impact from the Index Average Total disappointments.
weak financial markets, particularly on Weight Return Sector of Sector in Throughout the year, we the firms investment banking activities.
Banks Financials 18.8 30.1 maintained our defensive stance.
Our We added to the sector during the Insurance 9.6 51.0 gearing remained negligible, having year, attracted by the resilience of the Oil 9.5 10.3 been cut significantly the year before, banks earnings and their attractive Telecoms 7.0 27.7 Autos 3.5 1.6 and we took no major sector stances valuations in terms of price to book Healthcare 9.7 18.7 given the continuing market volatility and yield.
Our stocks performed well, Chemicals 3.3 10.8 and sector rotation.
The only sector given our focus on the French banks, Technology 10.8 37.6 Other 27.8 n a changes we made were to add to the such as Socit Gnrale and BNP, Total 100.0 25.0 banks and the telecoms, where we felt where the domestic market remains Source: F&C and FTSE Indices that that the downwards earnings attractive, and on quality names such 4 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2002 5 Fund Manager and Head of the European Equities Desk, Stephen White R with the Manager of the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC, Jeremy Tigue.
as UBS which have a strong private majors thus continued to generate While the decision to move back into banking franchise.
We had only limited strong cash flow upstream, even if the sector was correct, our stock exposure to Germany which remains a earnings in their refining and marketing selection suffered from an overweight difficult market for banking given the divisions turned down.
position in Telefonica which was weak domestic economy and the Although we suffered from being negatively affected by its exposure to heavy competition from the publicmarginally underweight the sector given Latin America.
its strong performance, we more than Healthcare Insurance made up through stock selection.
This The pharmaceutical sector proved one The insurance sector was the worst was due to our emphasising of the more resilient over the year, performing sector over the year.
It TotalFinaElf where the production despite a poor environment for the suffered first from a deterioration in its outlook remains attractive and cost industry itself with product liability situation as the total claims benefits from the merger of the three withdrawals, patent worries, the arrival from the terrorist attacks of 11 companies continue to come through.
of generics and tighter clinical trials.
September continued to rise and then Telecoms Reported earnings generally at least in its asset situation as the value of its The telecom sector saw the met expectations, although there were equity holdings plummeted.
With their most mixed fortunes.
It few upgrading of forecasts.
solvency positions worsening was sold off heavily at first Here, we suffered both from being significantly, many companies were as investors continued to underweight the sector and also from obliged to announce major equity worry about competition in stock selection within.
The main issues despite the falls in their share fixed-line, the costs of reason for this was our being prices in order to be able to continue the rollout of the 3G The 3650 is the newest member of writing business.
networks and the Nokia's imaging phone family.
Not Although the sector performed companies heavy only will this be the first product on the market with an integrated poorly, our portfolio of stocks did debt burden.
camcorder, but the MMS relatively well.
This was due to our However, interest functionality will enable users focusing on the quality names within returned to the to send video clips, images, text and sound to other the sector, such as ING and RAS, and sector towards the compatible devices.
avoiding those where solvency issues end of the period as it Nokia remains the would necessitate capital raising became apparent that industry leader in mobile handsets with exercises.
many of the operators were over a third of the Oils cutting back significantly on global market and makes almost The oil sector was again one of the their costs and capital 150 million best performers over the year.
Fears of investment and were maximising phones every war in the Middle East with the Iraq cash flow.
tensions kept the price of crude at the Having been underweight at the upper end of OPECs desired range outset, we added to the position throughout the period, despite during the course of the year given the expectations of a fall in demand with improving fundamentals and valuations the weaker global economy.
The oil that started to look attractive again.
Managers Review continued overweight in NovoNordisk which fell product lines did come under pressure, generally held up better than expected, sharply on the announcement of poor volumes actually held up reasonably and earnings benefited from the major first quarter sales due to earlier well and with costs under control cash cost cutting initiatives underway.
stocking of insulin by wholesalers.
We maintained a neutral exposure Aventis was also disappointing as Our holdings did well.
Both Ciba to the sector throughout.
Stock investors feared that their antiSpecialty Chemicals and BASF saw selection was positive due mainly to histamine, Allegra, would be severely good volume development and results our overweight position in BMW where impacted by a competitors product holding up extremely well in a difficult earnings continued to surprise on the being switched to non-prescription.
upside, helped by the launch of the Chemicals Autos new Mini and an ending of the losses The chemical sector did surprisingly Despite fears of slower business at Rover.
well given concerns of a slowing in activity, the auto sector performed well economic activity.
While prices of many in relative terms.
Car registrations The new Mini Cooper, first shown at the Paris auto show in late 2001, represents the Mini's first design evolution since it was introduced in 1959.
Urbanisation and higher traffic volumes have driven strong growth in the small car market worldwide and BMW feel that the New Mini will fill a gap in the market for customers who want a fun and distinctive car that is also practical and cost-efficient.
The cars are being built in Oxford and sold via a select group of BMW's existing retail outlets.
Sales of 140,000 units year are expected when full production is reached.
6 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2002 7 economic climate.
The sectors that performed less well were retail and media due to concerns over the weaker outlook for consumer spending and for advertising.
Many of our best individual share performances came from this specific market segment.
Stocks that did particularly well in relative terms amongst the consumer-related companies were Electrolux, LOral, Nestl and Gucci and amongst the cylicals SCA and Arcelor.
Less positive were our retail stocks, in particular Metro and Ahold, which suffered from the downturn in consumer spending in Germany and accounting issues respectively.
Nestl Waters is the leader in the bottled water market, with 16% of the world market.
In 1998, the company launched its first Nestle-branded product: Nestl Pure Life.
Nestl Pure Life is drinking water that has been remineralised and will be sold in emerging markets, particularly Latin America and Asia.
The bottled water market, which now represents 9% of Nestl's sales with 72 different brands has a bright Stephen White future in the developing world.
Although total consumption of bottled water in China stands at three billion Fund Manager bottles a year, the per capita consumption remains low, about one-fifteenth of that in the United States, 8 November 2002 and is growing at 12% to 15% a year.
Technology weather the current storm best and The technology sector had another where the long-term prospects remain difficult year.
Cutbacks in capital sound, such as Nokia and Schneider.
investment spending by the telecom This led to our outperforming the sector.
operators, lower corporate spending Other generally on IT services, weak The other smaller sectors did well in semiconductor prices and sluggish the main.
The food and drink and consumer demand for electronics consumer staples sectors benefited goods all contributed to the declining from their defensive nature, while even earnings trend.
more cyclical areas such as paper, In view of the difficult industrial construction and steel also did well environment, we trimmed our weighting relative to the overall market given their of the sector.
We also limited our low valuations and continuing ability to exposure to the companies likely to generate cash despite a softening
