Twenty Largest Equity Holdings at 30 September 2002 This Last Company Country % of Total Year Year Description Investments 1 1 TotalFinaElf France 8.0 After the acquisition of Petrofina in late 1998 and the merger with Elf Aquitaine in late 1999, TotalFinaElf became the fourth largest oil company worldwide.
While its margins are not yet in line with the sector majors, the potential for synergies, cost savings, and growth is much higher than average.
The stock also offers an attractive yield.
2 3 Aventis France 3.7 Aventis was created from the merger of Rhone Poulenc with Hoechst.
It has since sold off most of the peripheral activities in order to concentrate on pharmaceuticals.
Earnings are currently being driven by the restructuring benefits from the merger as well as strong top line growth from the sales of blockbusters such as Allegra anti-histamine, Taxotere anti-cancer and Lovenox antithrombosis.
3 4 Nokia Finland 3.6 Nokia has cemented its position as the worlds leading supplier of mobile handsets thanks to their successful design, technology and applications.
Its latest products incorporate many new features including MMS and cameras.
Its success in handsets is enabling it to weather more difficult conditions in its telecom equipment business.
4 2 Nestl Switzerland 3.5 Nestl is one the largest food companies in the world with leading positions in areas such as soluble coffee, mineral water and confectionery.
Earnings are benefiting from the new managements strategy of disposing of non-performing divisions, as well as focussing on new areas such as petfoods.
5 8 Novartis Switzerland 3.5 Having divested its chemical and agro-chemical businesses, Novartis is now largely a pure pharmaceutical company.
Its broad portfolio of drugs include such new winners as Diovan hypertension, Gleevec anti-cancer and Zelnorm IBS.
It has a strong balance sheet with the sales of recent disposals and is looking to reinvest in other pharmaceutical businesses.
6 - UBS Switzerland 3.4 UBS is Switzerlands largest bank in terms of market capitalisation.
Its earnings have held up well over the past couple of years given its focus on private banking, its limited corporate lending exposure and its tight control of risk in its trading activities.
7 7 Socit Gnrale France 3.1 Socit Gnrale is a major banking group, with the most profitable retail chain in France.
The company is also a major player in investment banking, asset management and private banking.
Gen. has implemented an aggressive acquisition strategy to increase its growth opportunities abroad, especially in Eastern Europe.
8 11 Danone France 3.0 Danone is the largest manufacturer of fresh dairy products in the world and also produces snacks and grocery foods as well as mineral water.
Brand names include Danone dairy products, Evian mineral water and Lea & Perrins sauces.
It has a very strong balance sheet following the sale of its beer business which will enable it to make further sound acquisitions as they present themselves.
9 5 Telefnica Spain 2.7 Telefonica is Spains leading telecommunications operator.
Following recent acquisitions in Brazil by its subsidiary TISA it is maintaining its strategic focus of being the leading operator for the Spanish and Portuguese speaking communities of the world.
Although its exposure to Latin America has hurt of late, we believe that in the long term these investments will prove very rewarding given the expected long-term above-average growth from this region.
10 29 BMW Germany 2.4 BMW is Europes leading luxury car manufacturer after Daimler Chrysler.
Despite a difficult market environment BMW has continued to perform better than expected due to favourable sales mix, cost control and the ending of losses at its operations in the UK.
8 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2002 9 This Last Company Country % of Total Year Year Description Investments 11 28 Crdit Lyonnais France 2.3 Crdit Lyonnais is the third largest of the French retail banks by market capitalisation.
It has an attractive franchise in the domestic market and could well be bought by another bank in the medium term given its current shareholder ownership.
12 10 Novo Nordisk Denmark 2.2 Novo Nordisk is the world leader in diabetes care with the broadest product portfolio in the industry, including the most advanced products within the areas of insulin delivery.
Some 17 million people in the US are estimated to have diabetes and the numbers are growing due to obesity, poor diet and lack of exercise.
In addition, Novo Nordisk has a leading position in areas such as haemostasis management, growth disorders and hormone replacement therapy.
13 14 BBVA Spain 2.1 BBVA is Spains second largest bank in terms of market capitalisation.
It has a dominant presence in its domestic market where earnings are benefiting from strong lending volumes and good cost control.
It has also extensive operations in Latin America which have been performing relatively well in a difficult economic context.
14 - CIBA Speciality Chemicals Switzerland 2.0 Ciba was spun off from Novartis in 1997 and is today a leading specialty chemicals company.
It has focussed on a limited number of segments where it believes it can maintain or attain market leadership and add shareholder value.
Currently, these include plastic additives, coating effects, water and paper treatment, textile effects and home and personal care.
Through careful control of costs and capital investment it is managing to generate considerable cash flow.
15 6 ING Netherlands 2.0 ING of the Netherlands is a major global financial institution active in banking, insurance and asset management.
The company has had a steady long term record of earnings growth as a result of good cost discipline, a pragmatic management team, and a series of sound acquisitions in Europe and the US.
Furthermore, it has a strong balance sheet which has enabled it to weather better than many of its peers the recent falls in the stock markets.
16 27 LOral France 1.9 LOral is the worlds leading cosmetics company with strong positions in hair colour, skincare, skin protection, make-up and perfumes.
Apart from LOral, its main brands include Lancme, Vichy, Biotherm, Maybelline and Helena Rubinstein, targeting both the mass consumer and luxury segments.
Sales growth is coming from both acquisitions and organic expansion in new markets, and this is having a favourable impact on margins.
17 22 Lafarge France 1.9 Lafarge is the worlds leading producer of building materials with group sales of over 14 billion.
Its main business areas are cement, aggregates and concrete, roofing and gypsum.
While the economic background in general is mixed, Lafarge is benefiting from government spending on infrastructure projects in many countries, a reasonable pricing environment for its products and synergy benefits following its merger with Blue Circle.
18 39 Unicredito Italiano Italy 1.8 Unicredito is Italys largest bank in terms of market capitalisation.
Although it does have activities abroad, the greater part of its earnings are derived from its domestic business where interest spreads remain solid, costs are under control and loan provisioning remains satisfactory.
19 21 Nordea Sweden 1.7 Nordea is the largest financial group in the Nordic region, formed primarily from the merger of Swedish Nordbanken and Finnish Merita.
Earnings are benefiting from a healthy domestic lending business, strict control over costs and the synergy benefits arising from the merger.
20 - BNP Paribas France 1.7 BNP Paribas is the largest French bank in terms of market capitalisation, formed from the merger of the retail bank BNP and the investment bank Paribas.
It has a strong domestic franchise, as well as a leading international investment banking business.
The value of the twenty largest equity holdings represents 56.5% 2001 58.4% of the Companys total investments.
The figures in brackets denote the position at the previous year end.
The country shown is the country of incorporation.
