The Directors present their report and the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2002.
Report of the Directors Status of Company at a price of 285 pence per share and the total cost, including During the year under review the Company carried on the expenses, amounted to 144,000.
A total of 131,500 ordinary business of an investment trust and has since conducted its shares have been bought back since the Companys year end.
affairs so as to continue to qualify as such under the provisions of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Substantial Share Interests Taxes Act 1988.
The last accounting period for which the At 8 November 2002 the Company had not received notification Company has been treated as approved by the Inland of any holding of more than 3% of its ordinary share capital.
Revenue was for the year ended 30 September 2001.
This approval is subject to there being no subsequent Charitable Donations enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
In the During the year the Company made no charitable donations.
opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to obtain Directors Section 842 approval.
The Directors listed on page 12 held office throughout the The Company is an investment company as defined by year under review.
Mr D P Thomson retired as a Director on Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors retiring by rotation this The Company was a qualifying investment trust under year are Messrs D F E Bierbaum and D C P McDougall and the Personal Equity Plan Regulations 1989, as amended.
Professor P Schwartz all of whom, being eligible, offer The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in an themselves for re-election.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Note 1 on the accounts contains full details of the Details of the Directors shareholdings in the Company are accounting policies adopted.
contained in note 5 on the accounts.
Review of the Business Management A review of the Companys activities is given in the Note 3 on the accounts contains details of the Companys Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3 and the Managers management agreement the Agreement with F&C Review on pages 4 to 7.
Results and Dividends Policy on Payments to Suppliers 000s The Companys principal supplier, the Manager, is paid in the Net revenue available for distribution 3,659 month following the end of each calendar quarter, in Proposed dividend of 1.7p per share 1,279 Special dividend of 3.0p per share 2,254 accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement.
both payable on 20 December 2002 3,533 Other suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual Amount transferred to reserve 126 payment terms agreed with each supplier.
Capital At 30 September 2002, the Companys outstanding trade At the Annual General Meeting held on 18 December 2001 creditors were equivalent to one days payment to suppliers.
shareholders renewed the Boards authority to buy back up to 11,211,589 of the Companys ordinary shares for cancellation.
Corporate Governance Pursuant to this authority, a total of 50,000 ordinary shares The Board has considered the principles set out in the were purchased for cancellation during the year under review Combined Code and believes that the Companys current 14 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2002 15 practice, given the special circumstances of an investment compliance with the Companys objectives and consider the trust company is, in all material respects, consistent with the asset allocation, sector allocation, stock selection, currency principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance exposure and gearing policies of the Manager.
issued by the London Stock Exchange the Code.
The The Board has established a procedure whereby Company has complied throughout the year under review Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
may take independent professional advice at the Companys The Board reviews the independence of its members and expense.
The Board has direct access to the advice and is currently comprised of nine non-executive Directors, all of services of the Company Secretary, F&C Management whom are independent of the Manager.
One of these Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Directors, Mr E C Elstob retired as a director of the Manager Committee procedures are followed and applicable in 1995.
He is a director of another investment trust managed regulations are complied with.
In accordance with the and administered by the Manager.
Companys articles of association, Directors are required to In view of the composition of the Board, which is wholly submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
comprised of persons who are independent of the Manager, The Committee of the Board, comprised of the Directors the Board does not believe it is necessary to appoint a senior who are resident in the UK, also functions as a nominations independent director and has not done so.
All of the members of this committee are nonCompany does not comply with the Code in this respect.
Four executive Directors who are also independent of the Directors, including the Chairman, are resident in the UK.
Appointments of new Directors are made on a of the other Directors reside in Germany and the remaining formal basis with the final decision in any particular case three Directors reside in Holland, Spain and Switzerland resting with the full Board.
Each of the Directors who is based in a country on the Continent of Europe follows the stock market in that Accountability and Audit country closely.
The biographical details of the Directors, which The Audit and Management Engagement Committee of the are to be found on page 12, demonstrate the wide range of Company operates within written terms of reference clearly skills and experience which they bring to the Board.
New setting out its authority and duties.
The Directors denoted on appointees to the Board are given a preliminary briefing on the page 12 constitute the Committee.
The primary role of the workings of the Company by the Chairman, by the fund Committee is to review the accounting policies and the manager, Mr S F White, or other appropriate persons.
contents of the interim and annual reports, the adequacy and The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of scope of the external audit and compliance with regulatory the Companys affairs.
It also determines strategic issues and and financial reporting requirements.
The Committee has all operational matters of a material nature.
In order to enable direct access to the auditors, , and them to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have full to the compliance and internal audit directors of the Manager and timely access to relevant information.
The Board meets and to the Managers group audit committee and reports its quarterly and, with the exception of August when there is no findings to the Board.
meeting, a Committee of the Board, comprised of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys Directors who are resident in the UK, meets in those months systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effecthat the Board does not.
At each meeting the Directors tiveness.
These aim to ensure that assets of the Company review investment performance and consider financial and are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained other reports of a strategic nature.
The Directors also monitor and the financial information used within the business and for Report of the Directors continued publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering By means of the procedures set out above, and in financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on embedded by a series of investment performance, performthe Combined Code published by the Working Party of the ance attribution and Managers reports and a quarterly Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the control report.
The control report incorporates a key risk Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, table and includes those risks that are not directly the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the responsibility of the Manager, and details any known internal Company and has regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the control failures.
The systems of internal controls are designed internal control systems for the period.
This process has to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve been in place throughout the year under review and to the business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not date hereof and will continue to be regularly reviewed by the absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has contractually delegated the management of the investment portfolio, the operation of custodial services Going Concern and the provision of accounting and company secretarial The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to services to the Manager.
Details of the terms of its agreement adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the with the Manager, as set out in note 3 on the accounts, are Companys accounts, as the assets of the Company consist reviewed periodically by the Companys Audit and mainly of securities which are readily realisable.
The Board has carried out a risk and control assessment Remuneration Committee including a review of the Managers risk management infraThe Company has no employees or executive Directors and structure.
A key element of this assessment is the Statement consequently does not have a remuneration committee.
Note of Internal Corporate Governance for the year 31 December 5 on the accounts provides information on the remuneration 2001 the Statement prepared by the Manager for its arrangements for Directors of the Company.
investment trust clients to the standards of the Financial Reporting and Auditing Group Technical Release 21 94 Investor Relations FRAG21 issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
Containing an independent report from addition to the information provided in the annual and interim external accountants, it sets out the Managers control policies accounts, information in an updated form is available on the and procedures with respect to the management of its clients F&C website at www.
At the annual general investments.
The effectiveness of these controls is monitored meeting, all investors have the opportunity to question the by the Managers group audit committee, which receives Chairman, the Board and the Manager.
Proxy voting figures regular reports from the Managers compliance and audit and are announced to the shareholders at the meeting.
risk departments and the Statement contains a report from the Managers external auditors.
The Audit Committee has Auditors received and reviewed the Statement together with a report The auditors, , have indicated their from the Managers group audit committee on the effectivewillingness to continue in office and a resolution re-appointing ness of the internal controls maintained on behalf of the them and authorising the Directors to fix their remuneration Company and annual compliance report from the Managers will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
16 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2002 17 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Authority for the Company Shareholders will find a separate enclosure which contains the to Purchase its Own Shares Notice of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Resolution 8 authorises the Company, until the conclusion of Company to be held at Exchange House, Primrose Street, the annual general meeting in 2003, to purchase in the London EC2A 2NY on 17 December 2002.
In addition to the market up to a maximum of 11,252,103 ordinary shares ordinary business of the meeting, two resolutions numbered 7 equivalent to approximately 14.99% of the issued share and 8 are proposed as special business.
capital for cancellation at a minimum price of 25 pence per share and a maximum price per share of not more than 5% Authority to Allot Shares above the average of the middle market quotations for an Resolution 7 is similar to the authority and power given to the ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Directors at previous annual general meetings.
By law, Daily Official List for the five business days immediately Directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant before the date of purchase.
rights over shares unless authorised to do so by Under this authority purchases would only be made shareholders.
In addition, Directors require specific authority within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
from shareholders before allotting new shares or granting They would be made through the market for cash at prices rights over shares for cash without first offering them to below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share, existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
which would have the effect of increasing net asset value per Resolution 7 gives the Directors, for the period until the ordinary share for the remaining shareholders.
Any ordinary conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2003, the shares which were purchased would be cancelled.
necessary authority to allot securities up to an aggregate The Directors consider that it would be advantageous to nominal amount of 938,300 which is equivalent to shareholders for the Company to have the authority to make approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital and such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be empowers the Directors to allot securities for cash, otherwise favourable.
However, use of this authority, if given, will than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
Such depend upon market conditions and the Boards judgement authority expires at the conclusion of the annual general of its likely effectiveness in increasing net asset value per meeting in 2003.
This authority provides the Directors with a share and or reducing the discount.
degree of flexibility to increase the assets of the Company by It is proposed that any purchase of ordinary shares the issue of new shares, should any favourable opportunities would be financed out of realised revenue and or capital arise to the advantage of shareholders.
reserves and funded from the Companys own cash The Directors can, if necessary, use this authority to resources or, if appropriate, from short term borrowings.
satisfy demand from participants in the F&C Private Investor The authority to purchase ordinary shares will continue and Pension Savings Plans and from holders of F&C until the conclusion of the annual general meeting in 2003 or, Individual Savings Accounts when they believe it is if earlier, 16 December 2003.
The Board intends to seek a advantageous to such participants and the Companys renewal of such authority at subsequent annual general shareholders to do so.
In no circumstances would the Directors use the By order of the Board F&C Management Limited authority to issue shares at a price which would result in a Secretary dilution of the net asset value per ordinary share.
