Directors Douglas McDougall OBE Chairman Pedro Schwartz OBE Hon.
Appointed Chairman on 7 May 1999 having joined the Board on A former deputy in the Spanish Parliament, Pedro is now Professor 22 February 1999.
He is chairman of the Law Debenture Corporation of Economics at the Autonomous University of Madrid, executive plc and the Independent Investment Trust PLC and a director of the president of IDELCO and vice-chairman of Fincorp AVSA.
He is also Scottish Investment Trust plc.
He is a former senior partner of Baillie a member of the Trilateral Commission, a private club gathering Gifford and Co and a former chairman of IMRO and of the AITC.
business leaders, academics, politicians, and civil servants from the Age 58.
Far East, Japan and North America to discuss world problems.
He was appointed to the Board in 1993.
Eric C Elstob Deputy Chairman He was a director of F&C Management Limited for over 25 years and Zweder O H M Baron van Hvell tot Westerflier was appointed to the Board in 1972.
He is an elected member of the Was managing director of the insurance company Achmea and was Executive Committee of the AITC and a director of SR Europe chairman of the Board of Achmea Bank Holdings.
He is a board Investment Trust.
Age 59. member of Mercury Select Trust.
He was appointed to the Board in 1981.
Detlef F E Bierbaum Partner of Sal.
Oppenheim Jr & Cie. bankers in Cologne, and is in Consultant charge of the banks asset management and investment research Sir Nicholas Henderson GCMG, KCVO departments.
Was on the Board of Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC from 1984 to 1989.
He had a distinguished career in the Diplomatic Service during Clemens Brsig which he served as Ambassador to Poland, West Germany, France A member of the board of managing directors and chief financial and the United States of America.
He is a director of Sothebys and officer CFO of Deutsche Bank AG, having previously been a was the first chairman of the Channel Tunnel Group.
member of the board of managing directors and CFO of RWE AG and a member of the board of managing directors of Robert Bosch Members of the Audit Committee GmbH.
He was appointed to the Board in 1998.
J A Dick Chairman E C Elstob D C P McDougall J Antony Dick Director of G. T. Management PLC for over 20 years.
He was formerly chairman of Saracen Value Trust PLC and of Invesco Tokyo Trust PLC.
He was appointed to the Board in 1989.
Ralph Kanza Previously chairman of the French stockbroking firm Cheuvreux fide Virieu, and responsible for European equity markets at Banque Indosuez.
He is now Chief Investment Officer of Beaumont Capital LLP, and vice chairman of Schroder & Co Ltd, based in London.
He was appointed to the Board in September 1997.
Philippe Sarasin Managing partner of Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie. bankers in Geneva.
He has been with that company for 21 years and is responsible for their investment management activities.
He was appointed to the Board in 2000.
