The Directors present their report and the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Report of the Directors Status of Company RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS During the year under review the Company carried on the Attributable to equity shareholders: 000s 000s business of an investment trust and has since conducted its affairs to qualify as such under the provisions of Section Revenue return attributable to equity shareholders 38,758 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act, 1988.
The Dividends paid or payable: last accounting period for which the Company has been Ordinary shares treated as approved by the Inland Revenue was for the Interim of 1.05p per year ended 31 December 2001.
This approval is subject share paid 20 September 2002 9,957 to there being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Proposed final of 2.45p per share Tax Self Assessment.
payable on 8 May 2003 to The Company is an investment company as defined shareholders registered at the close of business on 14 March 2003 23,251 33,208 by Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
"The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in an Amount transferred to revenue reserve 5,550 Individual Savings Account ""ISA"" and are also eligible as an investment for Personal Equity Plan ""PEP"" transfers."
The final dividend now recommended of 2.45 pence per Details of subsidiary undertakings and substantial interests share, together with the interim dividend, make a total are given in note 10 on the accounts.
dividend of 3.50 pence per ordinary share for the year ended Note 1 on the accounts contains principal details of 31 December 2002.
This represents an increase of 6.1% the accounting policies adopted.
over the 3.30 pence per share paid in the previous year.
Review of the Business Substantial Share Interests A review of the Companys activities is given in the At 27 February 2003 the Company had received Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and in the notification of the following disclosable interest in its Managers Review on pages 7 to 9. ordinary share capital: Capital Ordinary Shares % At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 May 2002, shareholders renewed the Boards authority to buy back Skandia Life Group 49,142,891 5.2 the Companys ordinary shares for cancellation.
Shareholders gave authority for the buy back of up to Directors Remuneration 141,401,725 such shares.
No shares were bought back The Company has no executive Directors and no during the year and none have been bought back since employees, and does not have a remuneration committee.
The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be found Directors on page 23, and note 5 on the accounts, provides The Directors of the Company are listed on page 5.
All the detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for Directors held office throughout the year under review.
Shareholders will be asked to Mr Maxwell Ward and Mr Ewen Macpherson retire by approve the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for reGeneral Meeting.
The Lord Rockley also retires by rotation but will Management not be standing for reelection.
Note 3 on the accounts provides details of the Companys No Director has a service contract with the Company.
"management agreement ""the Agreement"" with F&C Details of Directors shareholdings in the Company and Management Limited ""the Manager""."
their interests in contracts and agreements are contained The Manager, F&C, has arrangements under which in note 5 on the accounts.
stockbrokers pay for various investment services which it uses in return for stated amounts of commission.
The 18 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Managers policy is that this commission should be within the month following the end of each calendar quarter, in a range of 10% to 15% of total commissions paid by accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreeclients of F&C in any one year.
Other suppliers are paid in accordance with the The Manager has developed and published a policy individual payment terms agreed with each supplier.
"At on Corporate Governance, Voting Policy and Socially 31 December 2002, the Companys outstanding trade Responsible Investment ""SRI""."
The Manager believes that creditors were equivalent to 2 days payments to suppliers.
the interests of its clients are served by investing in Corporate Governance companies that adopt best practice in corporate The Board has considered the principles set out in the governance.
"It seeks to encourage companies to be Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the socially responsible and is attracted to invest in those that UK Listing Authority ""the Code"" and believes that the are."
The approach to SRI is designed to contribute to Companys current practice, given the special maintaining and improving standards of social circumstances of an investment trust company is, in all responsibility in the corporate sector as it believes that material respects, consistent with the principles of the social responsibility in companies makes for good Code.
The Company has complied throughout the year investment returns over the long term.
under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the The Manager seeks to avoid investing in a firm that Code.
Whilst there are no significant changes envisaged in does not meet generally accepted standards of social respect of the management of the Board following the responsibility unless there is a reasonable prospect of publication of the Higgs Report into the effectiveness of improvements that would raise the companys standards non-executive directors, of the Association of Investment up to an adequate level.
Should the Manager become Trust Companies draft guidelines on corporate aware of occurrences of social irresponsibility at a governance and of the FSAs proposals for investment company in which it has invested, it will state its trusts, the application to the Company of each is being dissatisfaction to the management in order to effect given full consideration by the Board.
If such pressure fails to work, then it approach towards SRI and voting is set out under the will consider selling the investment in the company section headed Management above.
concerned or attempt to change or influence the The Board reviews the independence of its members management concerned.
The Manager supports the and is currently composed of ten non-executive Directors, boards of companies with its vote unless it sees clear all of whom are independent of the Companys Manager.
investment reasons for doing otherwise.
Decisions on The Chairman, Mr Mark Loveday, was the senior partner of contested takeover bids are always referred to the Cazenove & Co. until his retirement in April 2001.
He has a Companys Board of Directors and it is the Companys small shareholding in Cazenove Group plc and continues policy to exercise its voting rights at shareholders to be a director of a subsidiary in the Cazenove group, meetings of investee companies receiving nominal directors fees, for reasons unrelated to The Managers current policy, which is available on the the business and affairs of the Cazenove group, in which F&C website, has been reviewed and endorsed by the he is no longer concerned: the subsidiary provides inBoard which encourages and supports the Manager on its house services within the group and is not regulated.
The voting policy and its stance towards SRI, and in Cazenove group provides corporate stockbroking services developing its response to the Statement of Principles to the Company, which has a small shareholding in relating to the responsibilities of institutional shareholders Cazenove Group plc.
The Deputy Chairman, The Lord and agents drawn up by the Institutional Shareholders Rockley, is the Senior Independent Director of the Committee.
Company and will be replaced in that role by Mr Ewen Policy on Payment of Suppliers Macpherson upon his retirement at the Annual General The Companys principal supplier, the Manager, is paid in Meeting.
There is no chief executive position within the Report and Accounts 2002 19 Report of the Directors continued Company.
All of the Directors of the Company are resident internal audit and risk directors of the Manager, and to the in the UK and their biographical details on page 5 of this Managers group audit committee and reports its findings annual report demonstrate the wide range of skills and to the Board.
Ms Haruko Fukuda will step down from the experience that they bring to the Board.
New appointees to Committee immediately following the Annual General the Board are given a preliminary briefing on the workings Meeting whereupon Mr John Rennocks will be appointed of the Company by the Chairman, by the fund manager, Mr Chairman and Sir Michael Bunbury will join.
Jeremy Tigue, and by other appropriate persons.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship systems of internal controls and for reviewing their of the Companys affairs.
It also determines strategic issues effectiveness.
These aim to ensure that assets of the and all operational matters of a material nature.
In order to Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records are enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors maintained, and the financial information used within the have full and timely access to relevant information.
The business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks Board meets regularly and at each meeting reviews the identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and Companys investment performance and considers risk management, is embedded by a series of monthly financial and other reports of a strategic nature.
The investment performance, performance attribution and Directors also monitor compliance with the Companys Managers reports, and a quarterly control report.
Typical objective and are responsible for strategic decisions on areas of risk material to investment trusts in general, and gearing.
The Board supervises the management of the which have been identified and are monitored as part of investment portfolio which is contractually delegated to the the control process, include excessive gearing, Manager.
A schedule of matters reserved for the decision inappropriate long term investment strategy, loss of of the Board has been adopted.
management personnel and potential loss of section 842 The Board has established a procedure whereby status under the provisions of the Income and Corporation Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their Taxes Act, 1988.
The control report incorporates a key risk duties, may take independent professional advice at the table that identifies the risks to which the Company is Companys expense.
The Board has direct access to the exposed and the controls in place to mitigate them, and advice and services of the Company Secretary, F&C includes those risks that are not directly the responsibility Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring of the Manager and details of any known internal control that Board and committee procedures are followed, and failures.
The systems of internal controls are designed to that applicable regulations are complied with.
manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve Under the articles of association, all Directors are business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but required to submit themselves for re-election at least every not absolute, assurance against material misstatement three years.
Accountability and Audit The Board has contractually delegated the management The Audit and Management Engagement Committee of of the investment portfolio, the operation of custodial the Company operates within written terms of reference services, and the provision of accounting and company clearly setting out its authority and duties.
The Directors secretarial services to the Manager.
Details of the terms of denoted on page 5 constitute the Committee.
The primary its agreement with the Manager, as set out in note 3 on the role of the Committee is to review the accounting policies, accounts, are reviewed periodically by the Companys Audit the contents of interim and annual reports, the adequacy and Management Engagement Committee.
and scope of the external audit, and compliance with The Board has carried out a risk and control regulatory and financial reporting requirements.
The assessment including a review of the Managers risk Committee has direct access to the auditors, management infrastructure.
A key element of this  LLP, and to the compliance and assessment is the Statement of Internal Corporate 20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Governance for the year ended 31 December 2002 the shareholders.
"The Committee will also make Statement prepared by the Manager for its investment recommendations with regard to Committee membership, trust clients to the standards of the Financial Reporting and succession planning, Directors re-appointments and Auditing Group Technical Release 21 94 ""FRAG21"" variations in the terms of appointment."
Mr Macpherson will issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in replace The Lord Rockley on the Committee upon his England and Wales.
Containing a report from the retirement at the Annual General Meeting.
Managers external independent reporting accountants, the Private Equity Committee Statement sets out the Managers control policies and The Board has established a Private Equity Committee to procedures with respect to the management of its clients monitor the performance of the private equity investments investments.
The effectiveness of these controls is made through Limited Partnerships managed by monitored by the Managers group audit committee, which HarbourVest Partners and Pantheon Ventures Limited.
The receives regular reports from the Managers compliance, Directors denoted on page 5 constitute the Committee.
and audit and risk departments.
The Audit and Charity Committee Management Engagement Committee has received and During the year the Company contributed 25,000 for reviewed the Statement together with a report from the charitable purposes.
The Charity Committee, the members Managers group audit committee on the effectiveness of of which are listed on page 5, meets twice yearly to the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company, consider donations in accordance with the policy set by and an annual compliance report from the Managers the Board.
Following the Annual General Meeting, Sir director of compliance.
Andrew Wood will replace Mr Rennocks on the By means of the procedures set out above, and in Committee.
No political donations were made.
"accordance with ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Investor Relations on the Combined Code"" published by the Working Party of Shareholder communication is given a high priority."
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Shareholders can receive either an annual review and Wales, the Board has established an ongoing process for summary financial statement, which is designed to meet identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the information needs of most investors, or, upon request, faced by the Company, and has regularly reviewed the a copy of the full report and accounts.
At the half-year effectiveness of the internal control systems for the period.
stage an interim report is sent out to all shareholders.
This process has been in place throughout the year under Information in updated form is also available on the F&C review, and to the date hereof, and will continue to be website at www.
A regular dialogue is regularly reviewed by the Board going forward.
maintained with the Companys shareholders and, at Going Concern annual general meetings, all investors have the opportunity The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to to question the Chairman, the Board and the fund adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts manager.
Proxy voting figures are announced to the as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities shareholders at the Meeting.
Auditors Nominations Committee Following the transfer of substantially all of the business of A Nominations Committee, comprising Mr Mark Loveday  to a Limited Liability Partnership Chairman, The Rt Hon Kenneth Clarke and The Lord LLP from 1 January 2003,  Rockley, meets twice yearly to review the Board structure, resigned from office on 26 February 2003, and the size and composition, and make recommendations to the Directors appointed its successor, Board with regard to any changes that are deemed  LLP, as auditors of the Company.
The final decision always rests with the Board  LLP have indicated their and all appointments are subject to confirmation by willingness to continue in office, and special notice has Report and Accounts 2002 21 Report of the Directors continued been received for a resolution to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as auditors and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Ordinary and Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Shareholders will find a separate enclosure which contains the Notice of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at The Brewery, Chiswell Street, London EC1 on Wednesday, 7 May 2003 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, three resolutions numbered 6, 7 and 8 are proposed as special business.
Further information with regard to both the ordinary and special business to be proposed at the meeting is contained in the enclosure.
By order of the Board F&C Management Limited, Secretary 27 February 2003 22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
