Dir Directors ectors Mark Loveday Chairman Biomedix Plc, deputy chairman of Inmarsat plc and also Elected to the Board in May 2001 and appointed Chairman serves on the boards of Babcock International Group PLC, in May 2002.
He was senior partner of Cazenove & Co. for Diploma PLC, JP Morgan Fleming Overseas Investment seven years, retiring in April 2001 after 36 years in the firm.
Trust plc, Oxford GlycoSciences Plc and Wagon plc.
He is a trustee of The Grosvenor Estate.
Robert Adams The Lord Rockley Deputy Chairman Appointed a Director in September 1998.
He is the Appointed a Director in 1991.
He is the Senior director of Planning and Development at Rio Tinto plc, a Independent Director, and is chairman of Hall & position he has held since 1991.
He was formerly chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group plc and a director of Equity & Law plc, Sir Michael Bunbury Bt Abbey National plc and Christies International plc.
Appointed to the Board in March 1998.
He is a consultant to the Smith & Williamson Group and was chairman of Smith & Maxwell Ward Williamson Investment Management Ltd.
He is chairman of Elected a Director in May 2000.
He was a partner in Baillie the Council of the Duchy of Lancaster and a director of Gifford & Co, the Edinburgh firm of fund managers, for 25 Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust plc.
Age 56. years and was manager of Scottish Mortgage & Trust plc for 11 years.
He is chairman of Dunedin Income Growth The Rt Hon Kenneth Clarke QC, MP Investment Trust plc and a director of The Independent Appointed to the Board in August 1997.
He has been the Investment Trust plc and Aegon UK plc.
Member of Parliament for Rushcliffe since 1970 and served as a minister throughout the Conservative Sir Andrew Wood GCMG governments of 1979 to 1997.
He was Chancellor of the Appointed a Director in December 2000.
Served as Exchequer between 1993 and 1997.
He is deputy ambassador in Moscow and Belgrade: he is a senior chairman of Alliance Unichem plc, chairman of Savoy adviser to Ernst & Young and has acted for Unilever, Glaxo Asset Management PLC, deputy chairman of British SmithKline, Diageo BP and other companies interested in American Tobacco plc, non-executive chairman of British the Russian market.
He is also a member of the Advisory American Racing Holdings Ltd and a director of Councils of Renaissance Capital and the BCCB, and of the Independent News and Media UK Limited.
Executive Council of the Russo-British Chamber of Commerce.
He is a director of the PBN Company.
Haruko Fukuda OBE Appointed a Director in 1988 and is Chairman of the Audit Members of the Audit and Management and Management Engagement Committee.
Until recently Engagement Committee: she was chief executive of the World Gold Council, and Haruko Fukuda, Chairman was previously vice chairman of Nikko Europe Plc and a Ewen Macpherson partner of James Capel & Co. She is a senior adviser at John Rennocks Lazard and is a director of the Aberdeen Asian Smaller Companies Investment Trust PLC.
She is also an adviser to Members of the Nominations Committee: METRO AG and to Management Diagnostics Ltd. She is a Mark Loveday, Chairman member of the Business Advisory Council of the United Kenneth Clarke Nations Office for Project Services UNOPS.
The Lord Rockley Ewen Macpherson Members of the Private Equity Committee: Joined the Board in February 1997.
He is chairman of Sir Michael Bunbury, Chairman Merrill Lynch New Energy Technology PLC and a director Mark Loveday of Scottish Power plc and Pantheon International Ewen Macpherson Participations PLC, having retired as chief executive of 3i Maxwell Ward Group plc in July 1997.
Members of the Charity Committee: John Rennocks Robert Adams, Chairman Appointed a Director in August 1997.
Previously executive John Rennocks director finance of Corus Group plc, he is chairman of KS Report and Accounts 2002 5
