18 03 03 20 23 tp 25 3 03 4:30 pm Page 20 20 BUSINESS REVIEW The acquisition in 2002 transformed our standing in the asset management sector and we are now one of the largest fund management companies in the UK.
ISIS, a new force in asset management The enlarged business, which was renamed 2002 performance The Asset Management operating profit, before ISIS Asset Management plc in September, has amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional nearly double the funds under management items and tax, was 23 million 27 million some 60 billion at the end of 2002 for full year 2001.
Although assets under and is one of the largest fund management management have increased as a result of the companies in the UK and within the top 50 acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance Investments in the world according to Global Investor.
RSAI, increased revenue has been offset by interest payments on a loan from Friends The integration has proceeded very well Provident Life and Pensions to partially fund and we have met or exceeded the very the purchase.
Additionally, declining equity HOWARD CARTER challenging timescales that were set prior markets have depressed revenues.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE to the completion of the acquisition in July 2002.
We moved quickly to reduce the ISIS Strengthening the business stafng level of the enlarged organisation The major strategic development during and to appoint the best management and the year was the acquisition of RSAI in July 2002 which not only transformed our staff from both organisations.
standing in the asset management sector The two investment teams were consolidated but also created a scaleable business model into a single team and located in the capable of taking on additional funds under management at relatively little additional cost.
Wood Street ofces by September 2002.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 20 23 tp 25 3 03 4:30 pm Page 21 ASSET MANAGEMENT 21 We have also made rapid progress with management and we have already signalled combining the integration of both information that we are prepared to consider future acquisition opportunities and to move technology systems and administration forces to rapidly to generate organic growth.
as well as taking the decision to consolidate the administration of our collective funds achieve results To facilitate these ambitions, we have taken with IFDS, the leading outsource provider a number of steps to change the structure of of transfer agency business in the UK.
This the business to be more closely aligned with will not only bring cost synergies, but also our strategic objectives.
We took an early decision after the RSAI In addition, both the investment dealing acquisition to rename the company ISIS Asset and front ofce systems have been successfully Management plc.
Having launched the retail harmonised and rolled out across the business, ISIS brand after extensive research over a year and our back ofce investment support ago, the move to bring all areas of the systems are due for consolidation on to a company under one name has enabled us to single platform in the first quarter of 2003. align the brand under a single succinct and The speed of the integration process has resulted memorable name.
This, in turn, has been in significant cost savings which we estimate an important step in reinforcing external to be in excess of 23 million per annum.
perception of ISIS as an independent asset We have made management business.
Strategy excellent progress with The acquisition of RSAI allowed us to take Two further changes which have had, and a large step towards meeting a number of our will continue to have, significant benets for the integration of the previously stated strategic objectives.
Over the organisation are the withdrawal from and above the increase in funds under two businesses which overseas operations, and a strengthening of management, we now have a signicantly our domestic business.
All overseas operations more diversied revenue stream both by asset has resulted in ISIS in the US and the Far East have been closed, class and also by customer.
Together Friends and overseas clients, which account for less becoming a formidable Provident and Royal & SunAlliance account for than 5% of our revenue base, are now around 65% of total revenues, and provide new force in the asset serviced from the UK.
The move to close subsecure cash ows from long-term contracts.
scale overseas operations and consolidate in management sector.
the UK not only gives greater focus, but will The strategic goal for ISIS is to become also allow us to better extract economies of a top 5 active investment manager in the scale and strengthen brand perception in UK over the next 5 years.
This will involve a considerable increase in assets under the marketplace.
18 03 03 20 23 tp 25 3 03 4:30 pm Page 22 22 BUSINESS REVIEW The ISIS Investment Process Research Team Sector Stock Analysis Fund Management Team Stock Selection and Portfolio Construction Risk Management Team Strategy Team Portfolio risk monitoring Macro-Economic View As a result of the RSAI acquisition we have performance, which ultimately is the key The strategic goal for ISIS added significant depth to our investment factor in driving organic growth.
In total, we now have around 120 is to become a top 5 active ISIS investment professionals and we have taken We have invested heavily in the investment manager in the steps to address our investment process, communication of our brand promise: again looking to combine the best from UK over the next 5 years.
ISIS is a new investment company for a new both companies.
You can trust us because Our integrated investment process is we act responsibly, we focus on what we are focused on providing support to fund good at and we dont over promise.
Much managers in three key areas: fundamental of the communication has been through promotional activity and advertising using corporate analysis, tailored portfolios to individual client specific risk profiles, and the strapline THIS IS REALITY.
Recent understanding the global strategic and economic research undertaken by the Telegraph newspaper showed that we have already made backdrop.
We have also established a fund management culture which encompasses significant ground in name recognition, with clear individual accountabilities within 25% of respondents recalling ISIS advertising.
Combining the existing product set with the In addition, we have separated the new products acquired from RSAI has given business into distinct retail and institutional us a number of competitive offerings with strong track records.
In the retail market we functions.
This separation has been carried across other areas of the company, including have particular strengths in the core sectors fund management, marketing and sales, of UK and European equities, corporate bonds, and allows a greater focus on the distinct and fund of funds.
During 2003, we will and often differing requirements of our undergo a large fund rationalisation project to remove overlap in the collective fund ranges.
We anticipate a final range of approximately The change to our investment approach was 30 retail funds.
We also have extremely strong prompted by the disappointing performance offerings in the more specialist areas of that we have delivered to some institutional Venture Capital Trusts, where we are the clients, particularly within equity portfolios, leading player in the market under the over recent years.
In contrast, our bond team Baronsmead brand, as well as Investment Trusts has continued to produce superior returns and Socially Responsible Investment SRI.
We are In the institutional market, the key strengths confident that in the long-term, the additional expertise will lead to stronger investment reside in our xed interest, property and FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 20 23 tp 25 3 03 4:30 pm Page 23 ASSET MANAGEMENT 23 ISIS is a new investment company for a new investment reality.
You can trust us because we act responsibly, we focus on what we are good at and we dont overpromise.
In particular, an area of rapidly growing interest is our Responsible Engagement Overlay reo programme.
In 2001, we formed a venture with State Street Global Advisors SsgA, with a reo overlay being applied to index-tracking funds, allowing institutional investors to pursue social, environmental and ethical objectives without compromising their financial obligations.
In recent months, significant new investors, including Shropshire County Council and John Lewis, have adopted this service and we anticipate an expansion of our overall relationship with SsgA.
In January 2003, Royal and SunAlliance Insurance Group plc also subscribed to our responsible engagement service, taking our reo funds to in excess of 16 billion.
