18 03 03 08 11 tp 25 3 03 3:45 pm Page 8 8 BUSINESS REVIEW In 2002 we continued to build the scale and breadth of our Life & Pensions business through a combination of strategic acquisitions and partnerships underpinned by organic growth.
service and partnership agreement we secured with Countrywide, 2002 performance the UKs leading estate agency business.
We New life and pensions business grew expect both of these key developments to make strongly in 2002, particularly across the three a significant contribution to our new business product markets on which the business is growth in 2003. focused savings and investment, protection and group pensions.
Highlights of 2002 were: Total new life and pensions business We maintained the momentum which premiums regular plus single premiums characterised our performance last year, with increased by 11% to 1,744 million levels of new business in each quarter of 2002 compared with 1,576 million in 2001. exceeding the corresponding quarter in 2001.
BEN GUNN New life and pensions business for MANAGING DIRECTOR Our multi-channel distribution strategy, 2002 on an APE basis increased by FRIENDS PROVIDENT coupled with an enhanced product range 10% to 377 million compared with LIFE AND PENSIONS and good service, have all contributed 343 million in 2001. to our strong performance.
New business for each quarter of 2002 Towards the end of 2002 we began to exceeded the amount generated in each All new business figures shown in this section are see additional new business ow from the corresponding quarter of 2001, with new expressed as Annual Premium Equivalent APE unless international organisation we acquired from business in the fourth quarter exceeding stated otherwise.
This measure adds together new regular premium business and one tenth of single premium business.
100 million for the first time ever.
Royal & SunAlliance and the distribution FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 08 11 tp 25 3 03 3:46 pm Page 9 LIFE AND PENSIONS 9 Total New Business: APE m 400 300 200 100 98 99 00 01 02 New savings and investment business in 2001.
We expect that our partnership Successful increased by 42% to 97 million with Countrywide will make a significant compared with 68 million in 2001. contribution to the growth of protection partnerships business in the years ahead.
New protection business, including in testing times Pensions income protection, increased by 31% to Total new pensions business in 2002 45 million compared with 35 million decreased by 2.3% to 234.6 million compared in 2001. with 240.1 million in 2001 reecting New group pensions business increased the exceptional group pensions business in by 12% to 158 million compared with the final quarter of 2001 and our ongoing 141 million in 2001. strategic decision to reduce our emphasis on individual pensions for profitability reasons, The enlargement Savings and Investment and to increase margins on annuity business.
We have made considerable progress in of our international this strategically important sector, with new New group pensions business in 2002 business, our exclusive business increasing by 41.6% to 97.0 million.
increased by 12.2% to 157.8 million We ended the year strongly, with new business compared with 140.7 million in 2001. distribution agreement in the fourth quarter of 2002 increasing New business in the fourth quarter 2002 by 60.1% to 30.9 million, of which decreased by 10% to 40.6 million with Countrywide and 20.3 million was produced by our enlarged compared with the exceptional performance our close partnership international business.
Total international in fourth quarter 2001 of 45.1 million business accounted for 14% of our total which was influenced by the Government with IFAs will help drive new business in 2002 compared with 10% stakeholder deadline.
in 2001 which demonstrates the increasing our growth in 2003.
Incremental new business that is diversication of our business.
contributions from new members and Protection additional contributions from existing New protection business in 2002, including members continued to grow in 2002 with income protection, increased by 30.7% 45 million being generated from schemes To find out more about our to 45.1 million in 2002 compared with set up prior to 2002.
The recent Green Paper life and pension products visit: 34.5 million in 2001.
In the fourth quarter on pensions will, in our view, do nothing to www.
com of 2002 new business increased by 50.6% curb the trend away from dened benefit to to 13.1 million, including 2.2 million dened contribution schemes.
We expect that from the distribution agreement with this trend will have a positive impact on our Countrywide, compared with 8.7 million dened contribution new business.
18 03 03 08 11 tp 25 3 03 3:46 pm Page 10 10 BUSINESS REVIEW New Group Pensions: APE New Protection: APE m m 200 50 40 150 30 100 20 50 10 98 99 00 01 02 98 99 00 01 02 New individual pensions in 2002 decreased mortgage related protection products under the pleased to receive independent recognition by 14.5% to 46.1 million compared with agreement.
This partnership with Countrywide of the quality of our Direct Business 53.9 million in 2001 which reected our contributes to our objective of growing our Operation through the Financial Adviser Sales strategic focus on the more profitable group share of the life and pensions market and Awards 2002 where we were the winner of pensions market.
diversifying our distribution by working the Most Admired Tied-Agent Host Company and Runner Up in the Most Admired Large alongside key partners.
New annuity business decreased from Direct Sales Force.
45.5 million in 2001 to 30.7 million Both of these developments are expected in 2002 and reected our strategy to to make a significant contribution to our Committed to service excellence focus on margins rather than volumes.
Throughout the year we continued to pursue our commitment to providing top Strengthening the business Diversifying distribution quality service relevant to the needs of our In August we announced the completion A long established business strength of customers and to applying modern technology of the acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance Friends Provident has been our ability to to transform the traditional processes of International Financial Services, the Isle of manage and develop a range of distribution transacting life and pensions business.
Man based offshore life insurance operations channels, making us less vulnerable than those of Royal & SunAlliance, for 126 million.
In February 2002 we earned the right to display companies which are reliant on one main sales As part of this transaction we also acquired the Raising Standards quality mark which channel.
As a result of the two transactions Royal & SunAlliance Investment Management signies that we have improved the standards described above we have diversied our Luxembourg, a Luxembourg based SICAV of our customer service and the clarity of our distribution channels and the sources of management company.
Since the Raising Standards our new business production even further.
to full Friends Providents objective to expand initiative was launched in October 2000 only Throughout 2002 we invested some its international operations in markets which nine other companies have been successful in 30 million in top quality IFAs to support have excellent growth and profit prospects.
achieving the Raising Standards accreditation the development of a healthy IFA sector, Friends Provident International now ranks as and we are delighted to have received this to provide good long term returns for our one of the largest offshore life businesses.
independent recognition of the progress we shareholders and to prepare for the abolition have made.
Additionally, we were awarded In August we also announced a 15 year of the so called polarisation regime.
a Four Star rating in the prestigious 2002 distribution agreement with Countrywide, Financial Adviser LIA Service Awards which is Our Direct Business Operation was the UKs leading estate agency business, to an independent assessment based on the views responsible for some 19% of total 2002 distribute mortgage-related protection products of more than 1600 IFA rms.
We now have the through Countrywides 700 estate agency new business and undertook a number highest service rating of all the major UK listed branches and its 650 licensed consultants.
of key developments during the year which life and pension companies.
At the same time Friends Provident sold its not only reduced the cost base of the overall own 104 branch network of estate agencies sales operation but also improved overall Throughout the year we have continued to to Countrywide which will continue to sell productivity and performance.
We were apply modern technology in an innovative FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 08 11 tp 25 3 03 3:46 pm Page 11 LIFE AND PENSIONS 11 With the stronger business platform established in 2002 we are confident of growing our share of new business in 2003.
2002 New Business by way which we believe will bring benets to distribution channel our business, advisers and customers alike.
In particular we introduced new extranet services for IFAs in June which provide online access to their clients policy details.
Also, we have developed our customer website www.
com to provide new and relevant services for the growing number of our customers who wish to deal online: services such as My Organiser which gives customers instant access to information on their policies and the Learning Lounge which IFA 67% provides useful information about financial Direct 19% services products.
International 14% 2002 Bonus changes As a result of sharp falls in investment markets and as part of the process of aligning policy values to levels which more closely reect the underlying investment values of policies, we have reduced bonus rates for conventional and unitised with profits Through the further policies.
Unless there is a strong recovery in diversification of our equity markets, further reductions in bonus rates are likely.
We recognise that lower values business in 2002 we will be disappointing for our customers but maturing with profit policies are still have strengthened achieving good real returns.
our strategic flexibility to respond to business and industry change.
18 03 03 12 19 tp 25 3 03 4:06 pm Page 12 12 Long-term relationships with our customers and partners lie at the heart of our business.
We support these relationships with a commitment to achieving exceptional service by empowering, supporting and rewarding the people who deliver this service.
Increasingly, the same is true of direct FACE is already producing tangible results Friends Achieving customers and that is why FACE is so important.
and we are confident that its impact on Customer Excellence Life & Pensions will grow as its principles are Our Life & Pensions business has now fully We have reviewed every aspect of our completely absorbed into our business culture.
This is a working service proposition and achieved significant In February 2002 we were accredited under brand and we believe it will distinguish our improvements in our systems and processes.
the Raising Standards Quality Mark scheme, business and our approach.
In every aspect But FACE not only embraces what we do: it recognising the quality of our customer service of our business including product addresses how we do it.
In essence, we are and the clarity of our product literature.
This development, marketing, use of technology striving to understand and connect with our Quality Mark scheme is an industry-wide and service we are striving to make our customers to meet both their practical and initiative which aims to improve the quality business more accessible and to be more emotional needs.
As you would with a Friend.
of products and communications to customers.
This is as much about how we make people feel as about what we do.
Best of Friends Rewarding people FACE is supported by a new Learning and Changing our culture and working practices Central to our success is the FACE Friends Development vision called Best of Friends which is also benefiting our people.
They are Achieving Customer Excellence initiative.
is designed to provide all our people with the increasingly empowered to deliver and share Launched as a series of projects in 2001 experience and tools they need to achieve our service improvements, and their satisfaction, to improve customer service, FACE became business goals.
measured by our regular Staff Opinion Survey, integral to the way we do business in 2002. remains high.
In achieving the objectives of FACE it is vital that Distinctive service our managers lead by example and a leadership We know that customer service has more development programme Leading Friends impact on how Independent Financial aligned to the FACE principles and the Friends Advisers rate life offices than any other single brand is underway.
growth through FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 12 19 tp 25 3 03 4:08 pm Page 13 13 Since we wholeheartedly embraced Facing facts FACE, I can honestly say that I have every customer counts seen a real difference in the way that people in the Customer Information Centre approach their customers.
My own team comprises very diverse characters.
By tuning into each FACE lift for CIC customer and treating them as we The application of FACE to our Customer would a Friend, we can really respond Information Centre CIC in 2002 has to their needs.
My people have the driven significant improvements.
New freedom to use their own discretion to performance measures now allow our be themselves.
The result is that our people to manage their time more effectively, allocating more time to those customers and our people both love it.
customers that require greater attention.
And we have torn up all the scripts call handlers can now be themselves as well as being able to treat their customers as individuals, allowing their personalities to work as an asset for the Liz Boulton CIC Team Manager, Salisbury company.
Our regular customer survey indicates that this approach is already paying dividends.
The CIC auditing system has also been changed to not only focus on the technical accuracy and responsiveness of what we do, but to also consider empathy that is how our people we respond to the emotional needs of our customers.
YOU CAN ALWAYS TALK TO FRIENDS 18 03 03 12 19 tp 25 3 03 4:08 pm Page 14 14 Ethical principles have been at the heart of our business since its foundation in 1832.
Today we operate at the frontier of Socially Responsible Investment and we strive to make our portfolio a force for positive change as well as delivering competitive returns for our investors.
activities encouraging companies to achieve keeping with our commitment to transparency, Breaking new ground change.
Each year, our team of twelve we publish our full voting record.
Socially Responsible Investment SRI is specialists carefully select a target group of the most powerful way Friends Provident issues and a priority group of companies with Reinforcing our commitment can promote environmentally and socially which to engage.
Progress is tracked quarterly The acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance responsible activity.
In addition to our and the results reported.
Investments, and the formation of ISIS Asset Stewardship range of ethical investments, Management, virtually doubled the funds we the first such funds launched in the UK and We believe that companies that modify their manage on behalf of our clients.
Following the still the market leader in the sector, we are behaviour to address these issues, given the formation of ISIS we took the opportunity to alert to the significant influence we can have growing significance of corporate social write to all our investee companies underlining on all the companies in which we invest.
responsibility, also enhance their long-term our continuing commitment to SRI and offering shareholder value.
them our full support as they seek to address In order to be vigilant about our investment these important issues.
choices, we require full transparency from the We apply reo to nearly all the equity companies we invest in.
Where we do identify investments made on behalf of our life Naturally, we seek to encourage socially social, ethical and environmental issues, our and pensions customers and during 2002 responsible activity at all levels within our Asset Management business, ISIS, has developed provided reo services in respect of own Group.
a unique system to address them known 11.4 billion of funds.
as reo responsible engagement overlay.
We also use our considerable influence as Through reo, we engage with companies a major shareholder to encourage companies to encourage them to improve the quality of to adopt effective corporate governance practice the way they run their business and how they by voting at the shareholders meetings of over manage their social, ethical and environmental 1,500 companies around the world.
Engagement involves a wide range of growth through FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 12 19 tp 25 3 03 4:09 pm Page 15 15 We welcome constructive suggestions Committed to from investors about how to manage acting our environmental activities.
ISIS has played an important role in helping us responsibly examine our timber sourcing and find ways to participate in target-setting and certification.
This improves our environmental performance, which in Protecting the environment Through the reo programme turn makes us more attractive to investors on sustainable forestry, ISIS like ISIS which take into account social Asset Management encourages and environmental issues.
companies to make an explicit commitment to obtaining supplies from certified sources.
Over the past two years we have been in discussion with Travis Perkins which supplies around 280 million of wood and wood products each Ian Goldsmith Group Planning Director with corporate year to the building trade about its responsibility for environmental issues, wood-sourcing policies.
In May 2002 Travis Perkins the Board of Travis Perkins elected to join the WWF-led Forest Trade Network and sign up to a target of sourcing two thirds of its timber from certified sources by 2006.
Later in the year we spoke at the companys annual suppliers conference about our integrity the benefits of managing environmental risks.
THE FUTURE IS BRIGHTER WITH FRIENDS 18 03 03 12 19 tp 25 3 03 4:10 pm Page 16 16 By anticipating our customers needs and exploiting technological advance to satisfy them we are creating real competitive advantage.
Our investment and innovation are already delivering efficiency gains, improved customer service and strong demand for our online services.
and then track and service that policy value of any policy, access projections for future Flexible and responsive all electronically.
These services extend to most investment returns, adjust their payments, switch We believe in the power of technology to of our individual life and pensions products.
products and, of course, communicate with us.
transform and improve the way we work.
Thats In fact, Milestones narrowly missed first place why we have been investing continuously in the In 2002 we saw a significant increase in in a recent Moneywise magazine review of kind of technology which gives our customers consumer websites.
online sales of two of our most popular product more choice and control.
Online sales of our Investment Portfolio partnerships with Independent Financial Advisers Best practice Bond increased to more than 60% of new IFAs to create the interfaces and straight through At the heart of our technology strategy is bond sales in December from less than processes which are driving down their costs a desire to make the data we hold easily 15% in January 2002.
Online protection and ours while improving the service they can accessible to all our customer groups.
We also business is also on the increase.
In December offer their clients.
For us technology is transforming seek to identify best practice and apply it not 2002 over 25% of new protection business the traditional processes of transacting life and just to our customer groups but internally as was transacted online by IFAs compared pensions business and bringing real and lasting well.
That means organising our call centres with only 1% in January.
benefits for all those involved.
to reflect the way we know our people use the internet, and bringing more engaging and Another milestone Each of our distribution channels is accessible web services to our own staff.
benefiting from our proven ability to exploit We anticipated the growing consumer technological advances.
demand for e-commerce solutions and the Friends Milestones website, designed for During the year we launched new extranet customers who wish to deal with us directly, services for IFAs and over 15,000 IFAs are now now has over 30,000 registered users.
registered for these online services.
For individual business, IFAs can now apply for a policy This year we have further enhanced the on behalf of their clients, receive a quotation site, enabling customers to view the real-time growth through FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 12 19 tp 25 3 03 4:11 pm Page 17 17 Traditionally, product sales have created business more quickly, further enhancing Leading an immense paper trail with significant the service we receive.
Its a highly the field in administrative and cost implications efficient, cost-effective electronic for advisers and providers alike.
extranet technology Shortly, using the Extranet we will be able to transact business on our own systems seamlessly straight through to Extranet benefits Friends Providents systems there is In June 2002 we launched no paper trail.
All the management Janine Menasakanian new extranet services for IFAs.
information we need is readily available Head of Provider Liaison, This gives IFAs instant and and Friends Provident can process the Inter-Alliance comprehensive online access to their clients policy details for individual life and pension policies.
We have now added a New Business Tracking feature, giving IFAs access to the same data that we hold and enabling them to follow online the progress of their clients applications through the system.
The information is right up-to-date and enables IFAs around the world to obtain an immediate snapshot of their relationship with us at a time that suits them.
our technology Inter-Alliance is a leading IFA.
STAY IN TOUCH WITH FRIENDS 18 03 03 12 19 tp 25 3 03 4:12 pm Page 18 18 The Friends Provident Group is growing.
We have increased the breadth of the Group and are developing the business through acquisitions and partnerships.
Our increasing scale allied to our efficiency is one of our key strengths.
Firm foundation Further growth has come through our Strength and depth Friends Provident comprises two core businesses partnership with Countrywide, the UKs leading Our successful transition to a proprietary company Friends Provident Life and Pensions and ISIS estate agency business.
This is an important in 2001 delivered the increased financial strength Asset Management.
Both these businesses new partnership for us and, going forward, we we required to take the business forward and are now major players in their sectors.
This year will continue to explore further opportunities realise our strategic objectives.
we have focused on building and reinforcing to extend our customer reach.
the Friends and ISIS brands to present a more These objectives include the continued clearly distinctive identity to our customers Business transformation development of a number of distribution while continuing to deliver genuine value.
We have transformed our Asset Management channels and a comprehensive range of business this year with the integration of accessible, cost-effective products.
This Our Life & Pensions business remains a market Royal & SunAlliance Investments.
Our new broad-based business platform helps to leader.
Independent Financial Advisers IFAs, investment company, ISIS, draws on the protect our income and delivers the choice our major distribution channel, are benefiting from expertise of some of the industrys outstanding and responsiveness required by our customers our strength in technological innovation and low professionals to manage a range of investment and business partners.
We are making it easier and solutions for individual investors, financial more cost-effective for IFAs to transact business advisers and institutions.
The evolving demographic profile in the with us and this is leading to further growth.
UK, along with changes to Government The establishment of ISIS has greatly policy, means there is an enormous potential The acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance enhanced our research capability and demand for innovative, flexible, long-term International Financial Services has created broadened our product range, and we savings and investment products.
Given one of the largest offshore life companies.
are now well positioned to respond to the a positive environment, we have the scale, It has also increased new business generated demands of a rapidly changing marketplace.
strategy and expertise to translate this outside the UK, expanded our sales force demand into continuing strong growth and opened up valuable new markets.
growth through FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 18 03 03 12 19 tp 25 3 03 4:13 pm Page 19 19 Growth and transformation A new investment brand Following the acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance Investments RSAI we ISIS is a new force in the asset decided to integrate and relaunch our management business.
We are fund management businesses with strongly positioned as one of the few a single, memorable name.
ISIS Asset fund managers with the critical mass Management, created by the merger Robert Talbut to prosper in a rapidly changing of Friends Ivory Sime and RSAI, is now Chief Investment Officer, one of the UKs largest fund managers marketplace.
We have a significantly ISIS Asset Management with 60 billion under management deeper pool of investment talent, we at the end of 2002. have a stronger financial footing, and The acquisition of RSAI has added we have key positions in both the considerable depth to our investment retail and institutional markets.
teams we now have over 120 investment professionals and its successful integration has resulted in a scaleable business model, able to take on additional funds under management at relatively little our scale additional cost.
We are investing heavily in the ISIS brand and aim to become a top-five active investment manager in the UK within the next five years.
