DIRECTORS REPORT FP013 p33 45 vAW3 26 3 03 10:35 am Page 33 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 33 The directors present their report to shareholders for the financial year from issued share capital at 4 March 2002 171,040,827 shares.
No such purchase has 1 January 2002 until 31 December 2002.
This report, the directors reports on been made and none is currently intended.
corporate governance and remuneration that follow and the financial statements will be laid before the Annual General Meeting.
Share capital and directors interests At 3 March 2003, the authorised share capital of the Company was 250 million Annual General Meeting divided into 2,500 million ordinary shares of 10p each, of which 1,721,921,688 shares A separate document, the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2003, convening having a nominal value of 172,192,168.80 have been issued.
On 1 January 2002, the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held at Novotel London Euston, the number of ordinary shares in issue was 1,710,408,275.
On 2 August 2002, 100-110 Euston Road, London, NW1 on Thursday 8 May 2003 at 11.00 a. m. has a further 11,513,413 ordinary shares were issued under the Preferential Offer made been sent to all shareholders and contains an explanation of the business before on the flotation of the Company under which one free bonus share was agreed that meeting.
to be issued for every complete 20 ordinary shares bought on 9 July 2001 and continuously held until 9 July 2002.
Principal activities Friends Provident plc is the holding company of the Friends Provident Group of Details of the shares under option as at 31 December 2002, and shares issued companies and is currently a constituent of the FTSE 100.
The Group has two core during the financial year ended 31 December 2002, are given in note 21.
The businesses, life and pensions and asset management, whose principal activities are interests of directors in the shares of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown the provision of retail financial services, chiefly long-term insurance business and in note 38.
Details of directors interests in options are contained within the asset management.
The life and pensions business operates primarily in the UK Remuneration Report on page 42. and in selected international markets, the latter serviced through a subsidiary life assurance company in the Isle of Man and a branch operation in Guernsey.
The Directors asset management business is undertaken through ISIS Asset Management plc, Details of Board members at the date of this report are set out on pages 24 a 67% owned, listed subsidiary company.
Particulars of the main subsidiary and and 25.
All directors appointed on or after 6 June 2001, when the current associated undertakings are given on page 91.
Articles of Association of the Company were adopted, must be elected at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter must seek Statement of going concern re-election at least every three years.
Sufficient biographical details to enable After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Company and the members to take an informed decision about continuing directors are contained Group have adequate resources to continue to operate as a going concern for on pages 24 and 25.
The directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General the foreseeable future and have prepared the financial statements on that basis.
Meeting are Ben Gunn, Martin Jackson and Christopher Jemmett and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Alison Carnwath, who was appointed Results and business review as a director on 19 December 2002, will retire at the Annual General Meeting The Board seeks, through the Report & Accounts, to present a balanced and and, being eligible, will offer herself for election.
understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Groups results for the financial period are shown in the consolidated profit and loss Other than their employment and service contracts, there were no contracts account on pages 50 and 51.
A review of the financial year and future in existence during or at the end of the financial year in which a director developments are covered in the Chairmans Statement, the Group Chief Executives of the Company was interested.
Review and the other business and financial reviews that precede this report.
Statement of directors responsibilities Dividend Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial The directors are recommending a final dividend for 2002 of 4.8 pence per year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the share, payable on 30 May 2003 to all holders of ordinary shares on the register of Group and of the profit or loss for that financial period.
In preparing those financial shareholders at the close of business on 22 April 2003.
The dividend for the year, statements, the directors are required to: including the interim dividend of 2.45 pence per share paid in November 2002, amounts to 7.25 pence per share.
The total cost of dividends for 2002 will amount select the most appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: to 125 million.
The intention is for interim dividends to be paid in November and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: final dividends to be paid in May each year.
The interim dividend will represent state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed with any approximately one third of the anticipated total dividend.
material departures being disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Convertible bonds prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate On 11 December 2002, the Company issued 290m of 5.25% convertible bonds to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
that carry the right at any time before 5 December 2007 to convert into fully paid ordinary shares of the Company at a price currently equal to 1.71 per share.
The The directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements.
net cash proceeds of the issue were used to refinance certain recent acquisitions and strategic investments and for general corporate purposes.
Unless previously The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose purchased and cancelled, redeemed or converted, the bonds will be redeemed with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the at par on 11 December 2007.
Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Purchase of own shares Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the The company is, until the date of the next Annual General Meeting, generally and Company and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and unconditionally authorised to buy back its own ordinary shares up to 10% of its detection of fraud and other irregularities.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 DIRECTORS REPORT FP013 p33 45 vAW3 26 3 03 10:35 am Page 34 34 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Additionally, staff are involved in each core businesss, and through that the Groups, Substantial shareholdings performance by way of participation in Inland Revenue approved all-employee share At 3 March 2003 and in accordance with the provisions of section 211 of the schemes specific to each core business: ShareSave Schemes savings-related share Companies Act 1985, the Company had received notifications from Achmea option schemes and Share Incentive Plans formerly called All-Employee Share Pensioen-en Levensverzekeringen N. V. and Banco Comerial Portugus, S. A.
of holdings in the Companys issued share capital amounting to 4.97% and 3.10% respectively.
Creditor payment policy It is the Companys and the Groups policy to adhere to the payment terms agreed Employees and equal opportunities with individual suppliers and to pay in accordance with their contractual and other The Company aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without discrimination on legal obligations.
The Company has no trade creditors.
the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, sex, sexual orientation or disability in all our dealings with staff.
We recruit and promote those best suited for the job.
Charitable and political donations The Company respects the dignity of individuals and their beliefs.
The Company Contributions to charitable organisations paid by the Group amounted to 301,927 does not tolerate any sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in the 2001: 290,402, of which ISIS Asset Management plc donated 41,000 2001: work place.
The Company donated 250,000 to the Friends Provident Charitable Foundation.
No political donations were made 2001: Nil.
The Group has amongst its employees a number who are disabled.
It gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
In Friends Provident Charitable Foundation the event of employees becoming disabled every effort is made to maintain them The Foundation is a registered charity created with the intention that it should in employment with appropriate retraining being arranged if necessary.
It is the be the vehicle through which the Friends Provident Group would contribute to Groups policy that disabled persons should as far as possible be given the same charitable purposes after the demutualisation of Friends Provident Life Office opportunities for training, career development and promotion as other employees.
The Company has undertaken to donate to the Foundation 250,000 annually for three years from 9 July 2001.
Additionally, the Foundation will benefit by Employee involvement and communications up to 20 million in July 2004, when the Company donates the sale proceeds from The Group is committed to its policy of encouraging employee involvement at shares that have not been claimed by shareholders since July 2001.
In this way, the all levels.
The primary methods by which the two core businesses implement Foundation will be endowed and its future grant-making intentions facilitated.
this policy are: Auditors management briefings presentations and discussion through the Following the conversion of the Companys auditors  to a management structure: Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  the issue of a full range of employee communications via the Companys resigned on 23 January 2003 and the directors appointed its successor, Intranet or other internal publication of relevant information, which inform  LLP, as auditors.
Having indicated their willingness staff of current issues developments and progress: to continue in office, a resolution to appoint  LLP as a Staff Forum in the life and pensions core business that encourages auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
staff views and questions on a variety of subjects to be discussed with management: an established and regular staff opinion survey that encourages staff anonymously to present their views, thereby generating workplace and business improvements: and the establishment of effective working relationships with staff representative bodies.
For the Board The primary aim of all these activities is to ensure staff know the objectives and B. W. Sweetland activities of the Company and the Group so that they can contribute fully to their Director and Company Secretary continued success.
4 March 2003 FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
