qxd 26 3 03 2:56 pm Page 7 oulof any of mmendations?
OVER THE NEXT FIVE YEARS ARE YOU GOING TO REMAIN A UK COMPANY?
qxd 26 3 03 2:56 pm Page 8 What constitutes strength at HBOS?
successful during my time as chief executive, my greatest ambition thereafter will be to pick up the newspapers and read about further success in the organisation.
So yes, theres plenty of challenge.
Ive got outstanding colleagues: colleagues who can take over from me any time.
DAVID ROUGH: Did you raise capital to maintain your credit ratings?
Are you running this business so as to maintain ratings?
JAMES CROSBY: You cant always sustain your credit rating through all market circumstances and you shouldnt obsessively manage your business to do so.
In our case though we are number one in liquid savings so financial strength is unusually important its part of our brand.
DAVID ROUGH: Fine, but what constitutes financial strength at HBOS?
JAMES CROSBY: We would argue that we have the best balance of different businesses amongst our peers, weve got the capital we need to support growth, very high quality assets, two thirds of which are mortgages and unrivalled leverage capacity.
So wed be disappointed if they werent reected in one of the best credit ratings in the market, as indeed they are.
DAVID ROUGH: And in terms of IN OUR INVESTMENT return on capital, your target in 2004 is for a 20% return on BUSINESS, IT IS OUR equity?
It seems to me that investors simply dont believe DISTRIBUTION POWER you can get there?
JAMES CROSBY: Yes, but with WHICH MAKES THE respect theyre wrong.
Let me tell you how were going to DIFFERENCE.
First of all weve just HX027 Rough Report AWv2.
Simple business, you drive revenue harder than costs, you drive up returns and the real trick in this marketplace today, you have to do it without widening margins.
So we really do believe we can do more than just deliver our 20% RoE for shareholders we can at the same time give better increased our Group Target value to customers.
Thats Return on Equity by over one the nature of our ambition.
per cent in one year from 16.8% to 17.9%.
And for the DAVID ROUGH: So over the next future weve got a lot going for five years are you going to remain us.
Weve got very significant a UK company?
merger synergies still to come of short term volatility in our DAVID ROUGH: And if in 2004 2005 JAMES CROSBY: We have through, around 600m.
So the answer to you failed to make that RoE tremendous opportunities in 2002 we were still sustaining your question is clear its no!
target, will you consider it to be the UK to grow the business substantial losses in Intelligent an act of God or would it be that in pretty well every product Finance which we will eliminate.
the management have failed DAVID ROUGH: And are there two line.
Were no fans of We will increase returns in a to perform?
or three key financial measures expanding internationally for number of divisions as we also which are in your control that you JAMES CROSBY: Itll be the sake of it and we will only did in 2002. are happy to be measured by for exactly what our shareholders make a major international the next three years?
If we hit the target move if it genuinely adds value But the key is Retail where we the shareholders will be for our shareholders, and if its JAMES CROSBY: Yes weve showed in 2002 how we can delighted, if we dont the big enough to matter for them.
got lots of public targets, in increase shareholder returns shareholders must sit in In the meantime, where we can fact more than the rest of the whilst giving better value to judgement, that is always their we take our expertise abroad banking sector put together.
I wouldnt offer and add value for shareholders But the two financial ones that that through the virtuous circle any excuses but if they want as we do in Australia, in Bank loom largest for me are: the of better products producing to offer excuses thats ne of Scotland Corporate Banking return on equity for 2004 and more sales, higher productivity, by me.
in the US or indeed investment the tough cost targets we have lower costs and so on.
And products across Europe under for each division targets for us that circle has much the Clerical Medical brand.
which define what it is we further to turn.
So no shortage have to achieve to win of reasons why well hit 20% on costs.
DAVID ROUGH: Is there a share price at which the board would sanction buying your own DAVID ROUGH: And to deliver in DAVID ROUGH: So presumably shares in?
terms of revenue growth I take it?
your costs have got to grow at 3 or 4% less than your asset base JAMES CROSBY: You are JAMES CROSBY: Yes we to enable you to achieve that have market share targets in really testing our own ability virtuous circle?
lots of products but I wouldnt to invest retained earnings at a good return.
Weve grown necessarily call them financial JAMES CROSBY: Yes, indeed our return on equity this year, targets.
But yes, having simple look at last year, we had a weve got a target out there value for money products that slight slippage in margins in to grow it over the next couple customers buy in great Retail but we still had a double volumes is critical because figure percentage increase in of years.
So its clear that we thats what enables us to revenue and we had just a 2% can deploy the capital were increase in costs.
And yes, we generating in the business deliver higher returns and can keep that going, maybe very profitably for our lower costs without widening not forever but for a few years.
shareholders regardless margins against the customer.
qxd 26 3 03 2:56 pm Page 10 What really motivates you?
DAVID ROUGH: Management often are right, its a really tough JAMES CROSBY: No.
Frankly, David Rough asked that benefit by backing economic environment in which to I think most of our deficits will in place of a fee for this growth as if its all down to their convince people thats the be eliminated as and when interview, a donation be genius whereas when its an case!
We can only deliver a markets recover.
But even made to Childline and economic downturn or somebody share price that does better if Im wrong the members of The Salvation Army.
elses fault its the world economy, than its peers and over the our schemes are young and, The interview was its not their problem.
last three years it has by as our FRS 17 data shows, recorded on Monday 25% plus, but obviously the long term costs of putting 20 January 2003.
JAMES CROSBY: You make shareholders arent quite so right the deficits are eminently running a major PLC sound impressed when the market affordable for HBOS.
Ive has still dragged the share been chief executive of a PLC price down.
for four years, three of them DAVID ROUGH: Finally, what really have been in the worst bear turns you on?
I believe DAVID ROUGH: Are you in denial Is it the returns to shareholders that our business is forging a about the size of your pension and thus your pockets?
Or great future for itself.
JAMES CROSBY: Shareholders are our owners, ultimately we really only exist to create ONE OF THE MOST shareholder value.
Sometimes the best way to make money EXCITING THINGS ABOUT for our shareholders is to make life tougher for our competitors OUR NEW ORGANISATION shareholders.
But that has always been the case.
We believe that in todays markets IS THE VERY HIGH you can only achieve real shareholder value in financial QUALITY OF PEOPLE WHO services by being genuinely different.
For us in Retail that ARE JOINING US.
means delivering value, simplicity and transparency to customers.
There is no misalignment between the interests of shareholders and customers and you see that in our gures this year, very, very clearly.
It is volume growth and profits growth on top of tight cost management in pretty well every business were in.
But none of this could be achieved without the enormous efforts of our other stakeholders, my 60,000 colleagues.
Theyre the ones who really deliver for customers and shareholders.
Highlights Profit 3.06bn up22% Assets 355bn up 14% Customers 22m up 10% before tax and exceptional items.
Contents 1 Highlights 33 Financial Review and 64 Directors Accounting 73 Consolidated Statement 2 Chairmans Statement Risk Management Responsibilities of Total Recognised Gains 4 Retail Banking 43 The Board 65 Independent Auditors and Losses 8 Insurance & Investment 45 Directors Report Report to the Members of 73 Consolidated Cash Flow 14 Business Banking 47 Report of the Board in HBOS plc Statement 18 Corporate Banking Relation to Remuneration 66 Accounting Policies 74 Notes on the Accounts 22 Treasury Policy and Practice 69 Consolidated Profit 114 Accounts in US Dollars 26 BankWest 62 Corporate Governance and Loss Account 115 Accounts in Euros 28 Corporate Responsibility Statement 70 Consolidated Balance Sheet 116 Shareholder Information 32 Five Year Summary 72 Company Balance Sheet 2HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 I am delighted to report that one year on, Our general insurance business also Last years Annual Report HBOS has recorded a 22% rate of profit underlines the power of value and simplicity marked the formation of growth and corresponding underlying with an acceleration in growth in customers, earnings per share growth of 18%, the latter policies and profits: in household, repayment HBOS plc from the merger held back by our share placing in March.
Here, sales growth of Halifax and Bank of of 25% pushed profits ahead by 15%.
Last year we signalled our clear intention to Scotland.
Its pages were full fund future growth from our own resources For the third year running weak equity and increase dividend cover to 2.5 times.
The markets ate away at capital resources of ambition, enthusiasm and Board has therefore decided to recommend and undermined customer confidence excitement at the prospects a final dividend of 19.6p, bringing the total in equity based saving.
Customers remain dividend per share to 29.4p, 5% higher than cautious and we have to assume that in the for what we modestly last year but representing a much smaller foreseeable future the going will be tough.
proportion of earnings per share.
described as The new force.
Even so, inspired by exceptional growth in bancassurance, sales of investment products Everywhere we are showing how genuinely grew 11%.
Despite all the doom and gloom different strategies create competitive advantage and therefore shareholder value.
our wealth management, broker and My colleagues in HBOS simply refuse to bancassurance businesses have bright accept the status quo.
So in HBOS you find futures in which we must invest.
radical, but invariably simple ideas deployed In Business Banking customers opening to win and retain customers: but most of all over 42,000 new current accounts have to do so for the benefit of our shareholders.
actively chosen higher interest on their In Retail Banking, the seemingly unique current accounts or free business banking idea of simple value for money products forever, both denied them by the traditional sold by enthusiastic, well motivated HBOS players.
The investment phase of our SME people has created a powerful momentum banking initiatives is now largely behind us in earnings.
That enthusiasm for performance and the growth phase upon us, as the new and its rewards has its roots in the acceptance services are rolled out via Halifax branches that existing customers matter every bit as in England and Wales.
And so in Retail Traditional bankers and fair weather we are able to report not only 18% profit competitors have also been noticeably less growth but market leading results in new active in our core Corporate Banking markets.
mortgages, credit cards and bank accounts: The fact is that there is business to be done none of which has been achieved at the on sound credit quality and higher margins expense of credit quality and all of which has been delivered from a cost base which for those who have a focus appropriate rose by only 2%.
to the economic conditions that currently Chairmans Statement Our results confirm HBOSs ability to convert volume growth into profitable growth for shareholders
