qxd 26 3 03 2:55 pm Page 3 THE ROUGH REPORT ke sure fall off?
balance sheet as there has been over the last two or three years.
DAVID ROUGH: But what about the buy to let market the rents for many parts of the South-East are actually falling rather than rising!
Do you not see that house prices are going to be under pressure as the buy to let owners start having to be net sellers?
JAMES CROSBY: Weve already seen whats happened.
Its well over a year now since we saw a very significant fall in rentals in London.
Why hasnt that fed through to prices?
In the UK we are so hooked on owner occupation and the rental sector is so small that in practice we dont switch from owning to renting because of price.
You would have to see rentals fall an awful long way before they interest rate stress that we had really influenced peoples in the late 80s and thats just preferences.
The fact is, not going to happen!
rentals have fallen and people have sold vacant properties for a good profit.
DAVID ROUGH: Last year you started underwriting the creditor insurance business yourself.
DAVID ROUGH: And are you part With a slowdown on the way of the fraternity that are lending wasnt that awful timing?
based on four times salary?
JAMES CROSBY: No in JAMES CROSBY: Not as a fact it wasnt that much of a general rule.
Almost all lending change really the nature of in the UK by mortgage lenders, the arrangement we and other not just us, is on the same banks historically had with the income multiples as were insurers meant we were all applied in the late 80s.
The but underwriting the business big difference is that on any ourselves.
So we dont see scenario interest rates are less that the move to actually than half what they were then.
being the repayment insurer has changed our risk prole.
DAVID ROUGH: But the housing It has just given us more market is still surviving because control, a greater ability to interest rates are incredibly low.
design the product to t into God forbid that interest rates ever our sales processes: and as go up: how do lenders survive then?
a result weve achieved better JAMES CROSBY: Interest sales.
This is an important and rates would have to move up profitable business, which is very, very signicantly to get performing well without having us to anything like the same a higher risk prole.
qxd 26 3 03 2:55 pm Page 4 Do you really think yourSMEbusiness DAVID ROUGH: You pay front line JAMES CROSBY: Yes it is people very well, they appear to core to our strategy.
We set WE HAVE TREMENDOUS have share options, are you sure ourselves the ambition to be youre not incentivising them to if not number one, one of the OPPORTUNITIES IN sell the wrong products?
two or three biggest players in investment products, a JAMES CROSBY: Yes, they are THE UK TO GROW THE strategic imperative for an incentivised to sell but its not organisation that is already just about sales: there are all BUSINESS IN EVERY number one in liquid savings.
sorts of quality measures as To be number one in investment well.
Remember also, our retail products you have to have PRODUCT LINE.
strategy is based on offering wide-ranging distribution, customers simple products, in bancassurance, IFAs and which offer value for money.
upscale wealth management That really does reduce the where St. Jamess Place come DAVID ROUGH: Is Intelligent chances of mis-selling because into their own.
Finance ever going to earn an the customer is so much more adequate return on capital for likely to really understand what shareholders?
Are you prepared DAVID ROUGH: On its he or she is buying and why.
announcement in 2000 esure was responsible for a pound hike in JAMES CROSBY: As a new DAVID ROUGH: How much the then Halifax share price.
Three bank, Intelligent Finance has shareholder value destruction is years on whats happening, has it done all the right things: built represented by the purchase of measured up to all the early hype?
a brand, a very powerful St. Jamess Place Capital at the consumer brand, in a key part JAMES CROSBY: Its doing top of the market?
Weve built extraordinarily well, distributing going to do anything with the assets because you never through Halifax branches, minority interest?
turn a new bank round to Sainsburys stores and direct profitability without doing so, JAMES CROSBY: St. Jamess using the esure brand which thats where the margin comes Place has a unique business has established itself as the from and last year Intelligent model.
Its a wealth internet telephone motor Finance took an 8% share of management business that insurance brand for safe net mortgage lending.
Were actually does have real drivers.
It has a great now building the volume to distribution, not just a nice opportunity to grow profitably get to the required scale.
idea waiting for customers to in todays insurance markets.
The challenge isnt when we come to it.
Inevitably, this sort break even, because Im sure of business was going to well break even at the end of DAVID ROUGH: Are you out of struggle in the third year of a 2003.
Its the number of with profits?
bear market but as markets products per customer.
Last JAMES CROSBY: Today with recover and we see the year that grew from 1.9 to 2.2 profits products represent advent of a new depolarised which shows we are well on roughly 25% of all our world, St. Jamess Place will the way to getting the number investment sales and yes, return to its traditional growth of products per customer to its a market that currently the level that will deliver track.
When we bought the provides an inadequate return shareholder value.
business we said it was right for shareholders.
Weve said for us to own a majority stake.
as much on a number of The fact that management DAVID ROUGH: But merely breaking occasions.
But the bear market and the financial advisers in even isnt much of a goal?
has meant that capacity has St. Jamess Place own their been destroyed in this market JAMES CROSBY: Thats why own bits of the business is in a way which will never come I say breaking even at the end part of its uniqueness.
With fewer competitors, of 2003 is not a particularly think thats still right today.
theres every chance that this exciting ambition.
We will market will support higher deliver it.
But as I say, were DAVID ROUGH: So is it an returns in the future.
But if much more focused already on driving up the number of investment or a core part it doesnt well redeploy our products per customer.
qxd 26 3 03 2:55 pm Page 5 nk you can double ss n three years?
DAVID ROUGH: But if Sandlers simplicity and value and if deals where we are in control recommendations are implemented value means free banking of the lending mandate and wont it make it impossible for you forever so be it, well still judgement to a very large to earn higher returns and operate make excellent returns for extent.
The truth is our MBO within a 1% fee cap?
portfolio is performing pretty well in line with the rest of JAMES CROSBY: Well wait our book at this stage.
and see if and how Sandler DAVID ROUGH: Going into a is implemented.
Theres not market like this, are you not a lot in Sandler thats not going to get the poorer risks already happening somewhere rather than the better risks in the marketplace anyway.
For example, the secret of our JAMES CROSBY: No success in bancassurance is thats where having the selling simple products with a Bank of Scotlands capability single annual management fee on the ground and being which gives real value to the involved from top to bottom consumer.
And yes, if the 1% is so very important to us.
cap is applied to with profits This isnt a business Halifax they wont be part of the could have built on its own.
simplied product offering Halifax just didnt have Bank Sandler so wishes to promote!
of Scotlands pedigree and capability in business credit DAVID ROUGH: Cant you build a assessment.
Equally, Bank sensible SME business without of Scotland always lacked giving the product away?
Isnt distribution power in England that what free banking forever and Wales.
JAMES CROSBY: We have DAVID ROUGH: Do you really made a big investment in think you can double your SME building the capability and business within three years?
infrastructure to go into JAMES CROSBY: Yes, thats England and Wales precisely our target, from 3% to 6% as we said we would.
But market share and well do it.
weve also made great Weve already moved much progress in attracting new faster in other banking customers up 36% on products products like last year to 273,000.
The current accounts where we established order in SME were also told customers banking has been operating in wouldnt move.
The result is, highly priced, confusing products DAVID ROUGH: Corporate banking much has been talked about delivered through by other banks it is alleged, inefficient systems.
investing in quoted junk bonds.
Given the poor business climate There is a great opportunity in the UK, is not the Bank of for us in bringing together Scotlands high exposure to highly IS TO OFFER VALUE Bank of Scotlands market leveraged MBOs not just the leading capability in Scotland same thing?
AND SIMPLICITY with Halifaxs distribution JAMES CROSBY: No.
We systems in England and Wales, dont invest in junk bonds, TO CUSTOMERS OF to really make a difference for SME customers providing we lend on a relationship a real choice: one based on basis on individually structured OUR COMPETITORS.
qxd 26 3 03 2:55 pm Page 6 Does HBOS fall fou the Higgs recomm have to devote a considerable companies.
On each of the HBOS PERFORMANCE amount of time, not just occasions the board elected attending main board meetings Dennis Stevenson to be DIVISIONAL PROFIT CONTRIBUTION but working on the various chairman they did so full in committees and getting close the knowledge that he also to the business.
We have six had the role as chairman of main Audit and Risk Control Pearson.
His appointment Retail up 18% Committees and all the other has served the shareholders Insurance & Investment up 25% committees youd expect us extraordinarily well.
So why on Business, no change to have.
If earth would we change that?
17 people got together once Corporate up 30% a month and that was all they DAVID ROUGH: Given the Treasury up 37% did, it wouldnt work.
complexity of your business, are you and the senior management DAVID ROUGH: Therefore their spending enough time ensuring roles and responsibilities are that training and development larger than youd expect in most goes on at all levels of your staff?
DAVID ROUGH: Over the years, our exposure to riskier areas non-financial services companies JAMES CROSBY: I believe investors have watched Bank of such as ofce developments and therefore they get rewarded so.
There are phases in any Scotland consume capital like a in Central London.
merger: the first six months thing possessed.
With all this JAMES CROSBY: Yes, our is putting people into jobs and growth in Corporate it looks like DAVID ROUGH: And in terms of non-executive directors do helping them to work with business as usual now its HBOS?
stakeholder pensions, do you give substantially more time, each other.
Then a year to JAMES CROSBY: Our believe that stakeholder is the they get into the detail right 18 months on you really are Corporate team made great panacea for either your savings across a complex business, immersed into all the strides in 2002.
They showed and investment market or for they probably do have more succession planning and how returns in this business your clients?
responsibility and, yes, development, which are so can be increased even when hopefully the rewards are important for the future.
One JAMES CROSBY: No, theres were suffering provisions about right.
of the most exciting things a lot of evidence that you can signicantly above any through about our new organisation is CAT mark products, you can the cycle average.
And the very high quality of people cap their charges and DAVID ROUGH: And will your remember, its returns that who are joining us.
Internal everything else and actually senior non-executive and other matter, Corporate only wins development, succession it doesnt influence what people non-executives be attending all capital allocation inside HBOS planning and attracting buy.
Today, most of savings your meetings with investors, as by delivering RoE!
top class talent into the products that are or could be the Higgs report suggests?
organisation are all crucial bought are CAT marked, but JAMES CROSBY: Probably not, to our future.
DAVID ROUGH: You have very few mortgages are CAT but theyd be very welcome to significant exposures to split marked.
What does that tell attend all hundred plus of them capital investment trusts and DAVID ROUGH: And in terms of you?
It tells you the consumer that I do each year.
Time to be scared or are succession planning the board will engage with the bank you still confident?
takes succession planning or insurance company in the DAVID ROUGH: Does HBOS fall seriously?
And youre being JAMES CROSBY: Our product they really want or need foul of any of the Higgs challenged enough in your investment trust lending has to buy regardless of whether recommendations?
halved as trusts have fideor not it is CAT marked.
geared into the bear market.
Weve said weve made some Because the core principle of... definitely!
DAVID ROUGH: Corporate provisions in this area but not Higgs is that it isnt a set of governance.
Our property interests rules, it is a benchmark view is that boards with over ten DAVID ROUGH: Often, chief are very well spread, ranging against which PLCs that differ members do have real problems.
executives make sure that the from housing association should argue condently as How do you make a board of 17 next level down are open to loans through to property to why their model is slightly function in a satisfactory manner?
challenge but avoid effective development.
The one key area challenge to their own position?
JAMES CROSBY: Ours is a a difficult cycle in commercial where well be different is that property but even so weve highly regulated and complex we have a chairman who JAMES CROSBY: If were significantly managed down business.
Our non-executives is chairman of two FTSE judged to have been
