3HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 persist.
Sticking to those sectors we know best achievements are many, his wit legendary and his contribution to banking appropriately and being prepared to continue supporting recognised by a knighthood long term relationships has delivered good in the New Years Honours list.
We also bid growth, increased returns and profits ahead farewell to George Simpson who retired by 30%, all achieved without any increase in from the Board in 2002.
The Board our risk appetite.
HBOS is a potent force in is grateful for his contribution.
the UK Corporate Banking arena precisely because we stick to our knitting!
We are delighted that Sir Ron Garrick steps up to Deputy Chairman and George HBOS Treasury Services has delivered a Mitchell to Governor of Bank of Scotland.
substantial 37% growth in pre-tax profits.
Their combined experience and dedication It has done so by extracting benefits from will be of great assistance to all of us the merger but most of all by carefully in their new and additional roles.
exploiting the opportunities open to it George Mitchell, merely from providing services to HBOSs The Boards thanks go to all HBOS colleagues Governor, Bank of Scotland businesses and their customers.
who have delivered these results.
We have placed huge reliance on their energy and Right across HBOS, strong sales, quality commitment and right across the Group not outstay my welcome or my energy levels lending and good profits growth are the key at either HBOS or Pearson, where I am also the 60,000 people who are our greatest drivers of something much more important, advocates have once again exceeded all Chairman, both Boards have expressed their shareholder value.
More than anything else enthusiasm for the status quo.
The profit potential of the merger, our it is their belief in our strategy, our products In a departure from the norm in Annual track record of hitting tight cost targets, and our services which will ensure that Reports, the Chief Executives review the prospect of stable margins and the HBOSs challenge to the established order takes the form of an interview with a capital strength so recently reinforced will be both potent and enduring.
David Rough, the are the criteria that will continue to Standards in Corporate Governance have recently retired and highly respected shape our fortunes in the coming year.
been re-defined in no small measure by former Director of Investments at Legal & Weaker, or sometimes confusing, economic Derek Higgs and Sir Robert Smiths Revised General, challenges James Crosby in the data has frequently vied with adverse Combined Code.
It is the responsibility of Rough Report.
It highlights many of the geo-political sentiment and the threat of large companies not only to behave properly challenges we face and it demonstrates international instability to depress markets but to be seen to be behaving properly.
the passion and belief that sustains For that reason we welcome Derek Higgs and create uncertainty.
We serve our the view that the new force can really emphasis on comply or explain.
We will shareholders best in such times by calmly achieve a huge amount, for customers therefore embrace the new Combined Code but firmly focusing on what we are good and colleagues but most of all in both letter and spirit.
We will continue to concentrate on for shareholders.
There will HBOS is already largely compliant I am delighted that the conclusions be no let up on cost control, no push for with the changes recommended for point to there being much more to do: the last hurrah of growth that can only be the Combined Code, and also Higgs life would be dull were that not the case.
delivered by compromising credit control.
Higgs also makes We have come too far and have too much a number of recommendations which we Dennis Stevenson in train for shareholders to be oblivious to will embrace with alacrity because they will Chairman the realities of difficult market conditions.
Under this heading fall greater clarification about the workings As I look forward, it is hard to accept that of the Nominations Committee and further we shall take HBOS onto another level development of our training for Nonof achievement without Peter Burt.
On the other hand, 27 years with Bank of Scotland, Peter made on occasion, as Higgs invites us to do, major contributions in several senior roles: we will choose to explain why we do becoming Chief Executive in 1996, Governor not believe that compliance will be in 2001 and following the merger, Executive in the interest of our shareholders.
Together with Mike Ellis, the Group Finance Director, Peter ensured There is of course the Higgs recommendation that merger integration was largely complete that individuals should not be Chairman of before electing to retire in January 2003.
His more than one FTSE company.
Whilst I will 22% 18% 14% 3,062m profit before tax 56.1p underlying earnings 355bn total assets and exceptional items per share 4 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Highlights Profits 1,426m 2001 1,205m ROE 20.4% 2001 18.8% 29% market share of net mortgage lending Estimated 27% of market share of new and switchers bank accounts Estimated 21% market share of new credit card accounts Andy Hornby, Stirling branch, Scotland.
The first purpose built Chief Executive, Retail Banking.
Bank of Scotland and Halifax branch opened in February 2003.
Retail Banking HBOS Retail Banking has beaten all its published targets in 2002 5 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Delivering for Shareholders and Customers against the published target for the year resulting in an estimated HBOS market share Our commitment to deliver value, simplicity of 25%.
Our five mortgage brands: Halifax, of 21%, ahead of our stated target.
Balances and transparency to consumers is delivering have grown strongly in 2002, up 26% to 3.9bn.
Bank of Scotland, the Mortgage Business, very good bottom line growth with profits The year on year growth in unsecured personal Birmingham Midshires and Intelligent Finance before tax and exceptionals 18% higher at loans sales was 31%, with total gross lending are a key strategic advantage in a competitive 1,426m and the post tax return on equity marketplace, allowing us to trade effectively up from 3.9bn in 2001 to 5.1bn in 2002. increasing from 18.8% to 20.4%.
We live by through all channels across the complete Growth has been driven through effective simple rules that start with simple, transparently range of mortgage segments.
Total gross use of the core Halifax and Bank of Scotland priced value for money products.
We believe mortgage lending rose by 42% to 57bn, brands together with strong performances it is wrong that existing customers should whilst good retention performance enabled from partnership and affinity brands.
subsidise more attractive rates reserved the group to achieve net lending of 23bn.
The Number One Savings Business for new customers and our proposition is The retail mortgage book now stands at In savings our strong fixed rate portfolio therefore to deliver outstanding products around 150bn of balances including 5bn of products, including fixed rate ISAs, and and services to both existing and new of securitised assets, an increase of around Guaranteed Reserve, helped us to grow customers alike.
Halifax was again rated savings and banking credit balances by 7.0bn 5-star in the Financial Advisors Annual Awards That customer proposition is we believe in 2002.
This was achieved while record levels for Mortgage Providers.
The substantial delivered by the most enthusiastic and of customer deposits were transferred into investments made by Halifax in advanced motivated colleagues in UK Retail Banking HBOS long-term savings products, reflecting mortgage processing capability continues to today.
Being proud to work for HBOS, having the strategic value of the Savings and Long provide, we believe, the shortest turnaround great confidence in the products you sell Term Savings businesses working closely times in the industry.
These benefits will be to customers and having fun while you do, together.
This maintained our position as rolled out to other HBOS brands during the make HBOS a very different place to be.
the number one Savings Institution in the next 18 months.
And the results delivered through our five UK.
Our commitment to providing outstanding consumer brands, once again demonstrate Another Million Plus New Bank Accounts value products has been clearly illustrated in that success is the reward for sticking Our market leading current account, combining market leading Cash ISAs and Best buy Bank to simple consumer led virtues.
attractive interest and overdraft rates, backed of Scotland IASAs which grew by 33% to by aggressive populist marketing, has seen 3.7bn in balances in 2002.
Our estimated In 2002 HBOS Retail Banking has beaten HBOS sustain its attack on the traditional overall market share of Household Sector all its published targets: incumbents in the UK banking market.
The Liquid Assets has increased to 15.5% in 2002.
Net mortgage lending share of 29% strong sales performance of 2001 has been On Track for Profits at Intelligent Finance target 25% maintained with 1.3m new bank accounts Intelligent Finance IF continues to deliver in 2002, compared with 1.2m in 2001 and 1.3m new bank accounts target 1m growth in customer balances and improved an estimated 27% share of the growing new financial performance.
Strong growth in net 1.2m new credit card accounts target 1m and switchers current account market.
Our interest income was the key factor behind a Automated Account Transfer Service is now Bancassurance premium income up 66% 29m reduction in losses in the second half used by 17% of all applicants.
Customer advances increased by attracted by decent rates for current 7bn in 2002 as IF took a UK net mortgage Cost growth of 2.3% target 3% accounts have perhaps not surprisingly lending share in excess of 8%.
Further invested or transferred balances to their This level of performance was delivered improvements in income generation, allied HBOS bank accounts which have grown by by colleagues who are motivated to succeed to stability in operating costs and the 35% in the year to 8.9bn.
Debit balances and rewarded by performance.
A combination have also grown by 17% to 0.8bn.
of an on target outcome, a share based enhancement where part or all of the Exceptional Growth in Consumer Credit bonus can be converted to shares and The HBOS credit card business continues share options sees colleagues amongst to benefit from an extensive multi-branded the most productive in UK banking today.
product range coupled with the broadest distribution base of any UK retail bank The Measures of Success ranging from branches to direct mail and Mortgage Balances Reach 150bn our broad collection of partnership and Another year of extraordinary growth has affinity arrangements.
We acquired 1.2m seen the five HBOS retail mortgage brands new accounts 1.4m including those acquired achieve a 29% share of net lending for 2002 through our joint venture partners in 2002, Howard introduces customers to our products and services online via the Howards Home microsite.
42% 26% 57bn total gross mortgage 3.9bn credit card balances lending in the year 6HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Prospects Retail Banking has exceeded each of the published targets set for 2002.
We have demonstrated that our strategy, based on delivering value, simplicity and transparency to consumers, allied to an intense focus on cost control and asset quality, is driving exceptional growth in both sales and profitability.
2003 is the year when many of our integration initiatives come to fruition, further strengthening our capability to deliver sales and profit growth in 2004 and beyond.
The key deliverables for Retail Banking in 2003 will be: to achieve net mortgage lending in excess of HBOSs share of stock to confirm our position as the clear No.
1 bancassurer in the UK Janice Geddes, Banking Advisor and Julie McKenzie, to deliver one million new current Assistant Manager, Stirling branch.
accounts and one million new credit card accounts for Intelligent Finance to break even provisions charge will drive a significant Current account credit quality improved by the end of the year with average reduction in losses in 2003, enabling IF to with provisions as a proportion of year products per customer reaching 2.5, and meet the commitment to break even by the end advances decreasing from 4.85% to once again restrict total cost growth end of the year.
in 2001 to 4.65% and non-performing assets to no more than 3%.
declining from 8.0% of year end advances Our Financial Performance to 6.8% in 2002.
Mortgage credit quality Profit before tax and exceptionals also improved, as measured by arrears accelerated to 1,426m with the second performance and closing provisions as a half profit performance matching the 18% percentage of closing advances.
Mortgage growth achieved in the first half.
Growth arrears declined from 1.49% to 1.08% and in lending balances, improved acquisition total mortgage provisions as a percentage spreads and broadly stable margins were of closing advances declined to 0.29% in the key drivers behind an 11% increase in 2002 compared with 0.32% as at December net interest income to 3,007m, while tight 2001.
In the credit card portfolio, credit cost control and the delivery of 62m of quality remains stable with provisions merger-related synergies restricted growth declining as a percentage of balances at in operating expenses to 2.3%.
In personal lending, Strong Credit Quality despite the significant growth in new Overall asset quality improved still further advances, there has been no deterioration as the year progressed with all lead quality in application credit quality, and all early indicators showing either stable or improving warning indicators remain stable.
Non-performing assets NPAs as a proportion of year end balances have decreased from 2.14% of total advances reduced from 8.26% in 2001 to 7.49% to 1.84%, whilst the provisions charge in 2002.
Non-performing assets declined increased by 92m to 373m representing from 13.0% of year end balances in 2001 0.25% 2001 0.22% of average advances.
Retail Banking continued 7.2% 103.8bn total Retail deposit balances
