15 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 A Year of Achievement At the start of the year we began to Laying the Foundations for Growth The last twelve months have seen work with the Halifax branch network We comfortably beat our target of opening notable achievements recorded for to offer ground-breaking products, such in excess of 70,000 new customer accounts Bank of Scotland Business Banking, as the interest bearing current account and increased total advances to 23.2bn, culminating in the Business Finance and free banking forever.
By the end with significant lending in Motor, Property Awards when Business Banking gained of the year, 42,000 new customers had Investment and Hotels and Restaurants.
awards for Business Bank of the Year agreed with us that this was the best In a highly competitive market Motor Finance and On-line Provider of the Year.
Overall, our total provided nearly 2bn of new lending, and This crowned a year when we made business customers in the UK increased achieved a market share around 13% with significant progress towards our key by 36% to 273,000. over 540,000 customers, an increase of goal of challenging the way that During the year we completed one of the 11% over last year.
In addition fleet growth business banking is provided in the UK.
most ambitious recruitment programmes of 12% was recorded by our market-leading Financially, we have made good progress ever seen in the industry.
Over 1,500 people contract hire businesses and including our in a year where the key focus has been with wide experience of the finance business Lex Vehicle Leasing and RFS joint ventures on investment, including recruitment and decided to join us in sales, relationship this now gives us a fleet of 170,000 vehicles, infrastructure expansion in England and management and customer services.
The sales momentum across our level of business generated by our new Whilst residual values across the industry businesses, including our attack on the business teams on a face-to-face basis have dropped lower than anticipated, traditional providers of SME products, grew significantly ahead of plan.
We have impacting negatively on our results, recent has seen lending growth of 23%.
seen strong growth across many of our key trends indicate a more stable market.
markets, including asset finance and our Growth in deposits has been robust, at 15%.
thriving businesses in Ireland and Australia.
Our overseas operations now account Operating income rose 17% to 1.2bn and for 22% of profit before tax.
Following the We have gained a wide variety of profit before tax and exceptional items was integration of our two businesses in Ireland, customers from other banks over the last 307m including 25m profit on the disposal lending growth of 26% was achieved and twelve months.
Our approach is to offer of our merchant services business against we are continuing to make good progress flexibility to customers and transparency of 306m in 2001. towards our goal of becoming the number choice in their banking arrangements.
Our one business bank in Ireland.
In Australia This is a creditable result when seen distribution strategy provides for internet we have generated strong earnings from against a background not only of significant and telephone banking, through the Direct fees and commissions.
Total growth in investment, but also the ground-breaking Business Bank, including professional banking overseas deposits was 38%.
introduction of credit interest on all advice.
It also now provides business servicing current accounts.
through around 90 branches in England On top of the successes of the last and Wales and 263 in our traditional twelve months, our investment in people Challenging the Face of Business Banking heartland of Scotland.
We are currently and infrastructure is designed to provide a Our strategy is to continue to challenge strengthening our presence in Scotland, springboard for growth in 2003.
In addition the established view of business banking.
with 165 additional business managers to our recruitment of over 1,500 banking Our track record of innovation produced being placed within local communities.
professionals, we also have an infrastructure interest bearing current accounts and free These will complement the 235 people in the UK to support dramatic increases banking forever even before the Competition already providing advice and support in in business, through branch, telephone, Commission forced our competitors to business relationship roles in Scotland.
internet, intermediary and face-to-face do the same.
And whilst other banks are channels.
reluctantly providing the minimum required under the Competition Commission report, Investment in a series of key strategic we continue to go beyond what is required, IT systems has also strengthened our capability, with innovations such as free cash-in-transit not only to process transactions and credit service and a commercial offset mortgage.
applications faster than ever and handle higher customer volumes, but also to dramatically The strength of our proposition reduce our time-to-market for new products.
was highlighted by our award-winning Working Together to Reach Money Man advertisements, which More Customers Than Ever challenged businesses to contrast the Bank of Scotland approach with the excess The basis of our expansion in England and profit other banks were making from them.
Wales is our partnership with the Halifax Robert Hare accepting the Business Bank of the Year and On-line Provider of the Year awards at the Business Finance Gala Awards, 2002.
23% 13% 23.2bn total lending market share with to business customers over 540,000 Motor Finance customers 16 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 branded branch network.
We have a presence in around 90 locations with plans for this to increase, and the Direct Business Bank has benefited from the enormous number of referrals generated through the branch network, from which 1 out of every 2 becomes a customer.
We are currently ahead of target for delivery of synergy benefits arising from the merger between Bank of Scotland and Halifax.
Recruitment of the staff for expansion into England & Wales is completed, the cost base is stable and revenue streams are increasing.
Overall synergy performance is 32% better than expected.
Financial Performance In a year of planned investment, profit before tax and exceptionals was 307m representing 10% of the Groups profits.
Operating income grew strongly in the year, up 17% to 1,204m driven by business from both new and existing customers.
Net interest income rose by 14% to 628m and customer advances rose 23% to 23.2bn.
Non-interest income rose by 21% to 576m.
Our operating expenses excluding operating Kim Collins is our 1,000th Business Banking recruit lease depreciation grew by 25% as we invested in 2002. in significant additional people and resources and expanded our presence into around 90 locations throughout England and Wales.
are in place in all key new business areas their bank.
We will continue to recruit the to support the acquisition and growth of best people in the industry.
In all our business Notwithstanding the variable economic deposits to ensure a healthy self-funding ratio.
units and our overseas operations we seek to climate, asset quality remains sound.
continue the growth in performance already The total provision charge as a percentage Our results have delivered a post tax return seen, whilst at the same time containing cost of average customer lending was 0.70% on equity of 15.4% 2001 16.4% which reflects growth to produce progressive reductions in compared to 0.69% for 2001.
Non Performing the impact of the strategic investment in the our cost:income ratio.
Assets as a percentage of total lending have expansion into England and Wales.
In challenging the face of business banking, Ready to Do Business We continue to have a well spread portfolio we will bring significant benefits to both With our innovative proposition and of advances, and significant exposures are customers and shareholders.
focus on giving genuine benefit to all regularly reviewed.
our customers, we have already broken the mould of business banking.
The investment Margins were impacted in the second half of the year by asset mix considerations.
in people and infrastructure that we have Consequently, the margin declined by made in the last year gives us the platform 11bps in the second half but overall for to generate growth on a scale never seen the year margins were stable at 3.04%.
Deposit growth in the year has been strong We will continue to reap the benefits of at 15%, increasing from 10.7bn to 12.3bn our partnership with the Halifax Retail branch which reflects our sustained focus on this network.
We will both grow our market share part of the funding mix.
Dedicated teams and improve the deal that businesses get from Business Banking continued UK No1 in Contract Hire and Vehicle Management, with over 170,000 vehicles
