Pacific Portfolio Review While the Pacific stock markets proved volatile over the year under review, in aggregate they finished just 3.8% higher.
The performance of underlying markets was more extreme with South Korea ending 33% higher against Hong Kong 16% lower.
Through the period sentiment was buoyed by increasing confidence as to the recovery of the global economy, to which Asia is well geared due to the importance of exports.
Also supportive was the pick up in consumption, reflected in strong auto and housing sales, as domestic savings were mobilised.
Hong Kong proved to be the exception within the region with activity held back by the deflationary pressures derived from the currencys peg to the buoyant US dollar.
Australia remained steady, supported by a robust economy.
Portfolio Activity Although the exposure of the Company to the Pacific region remained stable there was some reallocation of funds.
The main activity was a reduction of holdings in Hong Kong, primarily selling stocks with exposure outside of the region, such as conglomerate Hutchison Whampoa, and an increase in exposure to Korea and Taiwan, where purchases included Kookmin Bank, a major consumer lender in Korea.
Elsewhere there was some trimming of positions in Australia, principally through the sale of pallet distributor Brambles.
Fresh exposure was taken in Malaysia through the acquisition of Genting, owner of South East Asias only casino.
Outlook With the global economy expected to achieve a continued, if sluggish, recovery the outlook for the region is robust and largely one of a perpetuation of current trends.
A growing demand for exports, supported by the continued outsourcing of manufacturing activity to the region, will support economic growth, as will the buoyancy of consumer demand within the region.
The risks are largely external, both geopolitical and economic.
Disappointment from either perspective would drive risk premia higher and damage returns, despite the regions relative merits.
Within the region Asia is favoured over Australia due to its relative position in and gearing to the economic cycle.
Strength is expected across the Asian stock markets with even Hong Kong likely to see late cycle upside.
With monetary policy likely to remain accommodative, domestic demand should remain strong and so further outperformance by consumer related stocks is anticipated.
From an export perspective, selected technology companies should also perform well, given cheap valuations and continued outsourcing.
Australias economic cycle is looking more mature with interest rates now edging higher, nevertheless it continues to offer a range of well managed and successful companies.
% of total % of total 000 portfolio 000 portfolio 1,571 Kookmin Bank bank 0.5 1,106 Cheung Kong property 0.4 1,555 BHP Billiton mining 0.5 1,076 Sun Hung Kai Properties property 0.4 1,526 Samsung Electronics technology 0.5 973 China Mobile HK telecommunications 0.3 1,375 Westpac Banking bank 0.5 957 Genting leisure 0.3 1,322 News Corporation media 0.5 907 City Developments property 0.3 1,147 Taiwan Semiconductors technology 0.4 682 Asustek Computer technology 0.2 cc 1,128 United Overseas Bank bank 0.4 16,451 5.6 1,126 Swire Pacific conglomerate 0.4 mm 13
