Directors L C N Bury C D PalmerR W Smith R A F McClean J D W Pocock J G Ruffer Age 63 Appointed Tomkinson Age 51 Appointed Age 64 Appointed Age 42 Appointed Age 50 Appointed to the Board in 1995.
Age 60 Appointed to the Board in to the Board in to the Board in to the Board in Chairman of South to the Board in 1992.
Retired from Henderson Strata Executive of the Executive of Mi Executive of Ruffer plc, a director of The Cazenove in April Investments plc.
International Herald Services Group and Investment Sage Group plc and 2002.
Tribune and a formerly a Director Management Service Power director of Mercury of FI Group plc.
European Investment Previously worked Trust plc.
with IBM and Andersen Consulting.
Independent director and member of the Audit and Management Engagement Committees which are chaired by Mr Bury.
The Management Team Richard Smith Richard has managed the UK portfolio of Henderson Electric and General since 1986 and was appointed a director in 1992 assuming overall responsibility for the Companys investments in early 1993.
Richard is a director of one other investment trust company and is actively involved in the day to day management of it.
He specialises in the UK with an emphasis on smaller companies.
Ann Hall Michael Tim Stevenson William Pitman Krista Burwood Ann took over Wood-Martin Tim has specialised in William joined the FCIS responsibility for the Michael has covered European investment management team in Krista is the appointed North American the Japanese for over sixteen years.
He is a representative of portfolio in February stockmarket since he He is a director of specialist in the Pacific Henderson Secretarial 2002.
She also joined Henderson in Henderson EuroTrust region.
He is also Services Limited, the manages other US 1987.
He has managed Deputy Manager of corporate Company funds including the a four year period in Henderson Electric Henderson Far East Secretary.
Henderson American Hendersons Tokyo and Generals Income Trust plc.
Smaller Companies office he returned to European portfolio Fund and the North London in 1995.
American portfolio of took over the running Henderson Strata of Henderson Electric Investments plc.
and Generals Japanese portfolio in 1997.
