Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited accounts Mr R W Smith is an executive of Henderson Global of the Company for the year ended 31 May 2002.
Investors Limited, the Management Company.
Status Mr C D Palmer-Tomkinson retired as a managing director in The Company is an investment company as defined in the corporate finance department of Cazenove on 30 April Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and operates as 2002.
Cazenove is one of the stockbrokers through which an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the the Company buys, sells and lends investments on an arms Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The Company is length basis in the normal course of business.
Subject to required to seek Inland Revenue approval of its status as an these exceptions, no director was a party to, or had an investment trust under the above mentioned Section 842 interest in, any contract with the Company, at any time during every year and this approval will continue to be sought.
the year, or subsequent to the date of this report.
No director Inland Revenue approval of the Companys status as an has a service contract with the Company.
investment trust has been received in respect of the year Directors Interests ended 31 May 2001, although this approval may be subject The interests of the directors in the share capital of the to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under Company were as follows: Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The directors are of the 31 May 1 June opinion that the Company has subsequently conducted its Ordinary Shares 2002 2001 affairs in a manner which will enable it to continue to gain Beneficial: such approval.
L C N Bury 50,000 50,000 C D Palmer-Tomkinson 59,700 59,700 Activities and Business Review R A F McClean 20,500 20,500 A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement J D W Pocock 18,477 2,777 on page 5 and the portfolio reviews on pages 6 to13.
J G Ruffer 3,000 Assets R W Smith 60,672 61,572 At 31 May 2002 total net assets were 301.23m 2001: Non-Beneficial: 395.15m and the net asset value per ordinary share was R W Smith 1,400 500 337.5p 2001: 419.7p, a decrease of 19.6% in the year.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Revenue and Dividends directors since the year end and the date of this report.
Earnings per ordinary share amounted to 4.56p 2001: 4.72p.
No director holds any interest in the debenture stock of Net revenue for the year after taxation and available for the the Company.
An interim dividend of 1.85p 2001: 1.85p per ordinary share Substantial Share Interests was paid on 1 February 2002 and the directors recommend The following have declared a notifiable interest in the that a final dividend of 2.35p 2001: 2.15p per ordinary share issued ordinary share capital as at 1 July 2002: be paid on 20 September 2002 to shareholders on the Number of ordinary shares % register on 2 August 2002 making a total dividend for the Henderson Global Investors Limited 6,454,204 7.3 year of 4.20p 2001: 4.00p per ordinary share.
discretionary managed clients Directors Barclays PLC 3,196,430 3.6 All of the directors of the Company shown on page 4 held Legal & General Investment Management 2,839,499 3.2 office throughout the year under review.
In accordance with the Articles of Association and corporate governance Management Company procedures Mr L C N Bury and Mr J D W Pocock retire by Investment management, accounting, company secretarial, rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for readministrative and UK custody services are provided to election.
15 Report of the Directors continued ISAs PEPs the Company by Henderson Global Investors Holdings plc and its subsidiaries Henderson.
The Company is eligible for inclusion within an Individual Savings Account ISA and remains eligible for existing The management fee arrangement for the year under Personal Equity Plans PEP.
It is also possible to transfer review was 0.45% on the first 400 million of assets, existing PEP funds into the Company.
0.35% on the next 300 million of assets and 0.30% on assets in excess of 700 million.
The base management Payment of Suppliers It is the payment policy for the financial year to 31 May fee was calculated quarterly based on the average of the net chargeable assets on the last day of the relevant 2003 to obtain the best terms for all business and, therefore, there is no consistent policy as to the terms used.
In general, quarter and the corresponding quarter in the previous year.
Investments in other funds managed by Henderson were the Company agrees with suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is our policy to abide by those excluded from this charge.
There were no trade creditors at 31 May 2002.
A performance fee was introduced with effect from 1 June Registered Auditor 2000.
The performance fee would be 15% of any outperformance of the Companys net assets over the chosen Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as the Companys registered auditor.
A benchmark, 50% of the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index and 50% of the FTSE All-World Index, both on a total resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor and to authorise the directors to determine their return basis, plus 2 percentage points, capped at 0.3% of net chargeable assets at the relevant year end, subject to a limit of remuneration will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
If in any period the Companys total investment Nominee Code return underperformed its benchmark, no performance fee Where shares are held in nominee companies the would become payable in subsequent periods until such Company undertakes: underperformance had been made good in full.
To the extent that there was any unpaid performance over and above the to provide to nominee operators, who have indicated in capped amount then the unutilised performance may be advance a wish to receive them, copies of shareholder carried forward.
The performance carried forward may only be communications to distribute to their customers: used to offset underperformance and not to enhance outperformance.
The carry forward is limited to three years.
No to encourage nominee operators to advise investors that performance fee was payable in respect of the year under review.
they may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited to do so by the Chairman.
The notice period for termination of the management agreement is twelve months.
Investors in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan and Henderson ISAs PEPs receive all shareholder Henderson uses certain services which are paid for or communications, an invitation to the Annual General provided by various brokers.
In return, it places business, Meeting and a letter of direction to facilitate voting.
which may include transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts In the expectation that returns will continue to come more Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts from capital appreciation than from income, the Company for each financial year which give a true and fair view of charges 75% of its interest payable and management fee the state of affairs of the Company and of the net as far as it relates to the maintenance of or enhancement revenue of the Company for that period.
In preparing in the value of investments to capital.
All performance fees those accounts, the directors are required to: will be charged to capital.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 16 Report of the Directors continued advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable The directors have no intention of using the authority and prudent: at the present time.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures Authority to Make Market Purchases of the disclosed and explained in the accounts: and Companys Own Shares Special Resolution 8 prepare the accounts on the going concern basis, At the AGM held in September 2001, the Company was unless it is inappropriate to presume that the authorised to make market purchases up to 14,026,866 Company will continue in business.
of the Companys own issued shares for cancellation.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper On 23 January 2002 the Company made market accounting records are kept which disclose with purchases for cancellation of 4,895,195 ordinary shares, reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of representing 5.2% of the number of ordinary shares in the Company and enable them to ensure that the issue as at 31 May 2001.
The shares were purchased at accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are a discount to net asset value of 14.5% and the also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the aggregate cash consideration paid by the Company for Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the the shares, including stamp duty and commission, was prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going Concern On 8 July 2002 the Company made a market purchase The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to for cancellation of 25,000 ordinary shares, representing adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts 0.03% of the number of ordinary shares in issue as at as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that date.
The shares were purchased at a discount to net that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company asset value of 20.2% and the aggregate cash has adequate financial resources to continue in consideration paid by the Company for the shares, operational existence for the foreseeable future.
including stamp duty and commission, was 60,926.
At the date of this report, the Company had valid authority Annual General Meeting outstanding, until the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, The notice for the Annual General Meeting AGM can to make market purchases of up to 9,106,671 ordinary be found on pages 36 and 37.
There are three items of shares, at which time this authority will cease.
special business to be considered:- The directors are seeking shareholder approval to take Authority to Allot Shares Ordinary Resolution 6 and authority to purchase on the London Stock Exchange up Disapply Pre-emption Rights Special Resolution 7 to 14.9% of the Companys issued share capital as at the The directors are seeking authority to allot authorised but date of the AGM, equivalent to 13,293,757 ordinary unissued shares in the Company, equivalent to 5% of the shares or 664,687 aggregate nominal value as at the Companys issued shares.
The directors are also seeking authority to issue shares Under the UK Listing Authority rules, the maximum price equivalent to up to 5% of the Companys issued shares for to be paid on any exercise of the authority must not cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in exceed 105% of the average of the middle market accordance with statutory pre-emption procedures.
These quotations for the shares for the five business days powers will only be used if the allotment price is greater immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The minimum than the Net Asset Value per share.
price to be paid would be 5p per share, being the nominal The powers to allot shares would only be used by the value per share.
directors if they believe that to do so would be 17
