Outlook in the whole technology area, and held only TDC, the well financed Danish incumbent telecom operator, in the If the situation was gloomy when we wrote this report a year ago then it has deteriorated further in this current telecoms area.
Valuations look attractive While we believe that European economies will show compared to previous history, and certainly compared to some sort of recovery as the year progresses, it remains the US market and their equivalent stocks.
However the difficult to find good quality, reliable growth companies.
market seems inclined to bring valuation levels down a We like companies in the logistics and transport groups further notch.
Previously a company growing at 20% per such as TPG formerly known as TNT Post Group and annum reliably, honestly and consistently would be worth Svendborg the parent company of Maersk.
We have a PER of about 20 ie a PE to growth ratio of about 1. also continued with a large exposure to the outsourcing However, there has been so much disappointment that companies ISS in cleaning, Sodexho in catering, both many companies are now trading at even lower levels.
good growth companies generating huge cash flow.
This is compounded by increasing selling pressure as insurance companies become forced sellers and Financials remain very underweight.
We have no European crossholdings are unwound.
banks some of which have actually held up well, when one considers how much they must be losing in their As an investment trust, able to take a slightly longer term investment banking operations, and have sharply reduced view, this should produce some excellent buying the insurance weight.
Axa, Aegon, Munich Re and Zurich opportunities.
With the weighting in Continental Europe Financial Services were all sold during the year.
now at a very low level, we will be trying to find these opportunities and build up large positions in them.
On the new purchases front we have added two We may sound too conservative, but I would emphasise companies in the healthcare and related area, with Capio again our intention to find reliable, consistent and honest in Sweden and Fresenius in Germany.
In principle, both growth companies at a reasonable valuation.
We are are good growth companies.
convinced that they are out there, and that some are already in the portfolio.
Emerging Markets Portfolio % of total % of total 000 portfolio 000 portfolio 1,343 Sandvik engineering 0.5 1,518 Henderson Horizon Global 1,335 Elior catering services 0.5 Emerging Markets offshore fund 0.5 cc 1,312 Dampskip Svendborg shipping and oil 0.4 1,518 0.5 1,260 Capio healthcare hospital operator 0.4 mm 1,253 Ryanair Holdings low cost airline 0.4 1,252 Swiss Reinsurance reinsurance 0.4 933 TDC telecom operator 0.3 868 Preussag travel services 0.3 cc 42,847 14.6 mm 11
