HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements continued the country and thereby attract international losses or delinquency through hedging and support for the measures necessary to restructure other techniques, which depends on, among debt obligations and create a viable financial other things, its ability to anticipate events that system.
cannot be captured by the statistical models it uses.
the effects of competition in the markets where HSBC operates including increased competition the success of HSBC in integrating the recently resulting from legislation permitting new types acquired Grupo Financiero Bital S. A. fide C. V. of affiliations between banks and financial and in completing the acquisition of, and services companies, including securities firms, integrating, Household International, Inc. particularly in the United States.
Trends and factors that are expected to affect the success of HSBC in adequately identifying the results of HSBCs operations in particular are and managing the risks it faces, such as loan described in the Financial Review.
Certain Defined Terms Unless the context requires otherwise, HSBC Where reference to constant currency is made, Holdings means HSBC Holdings plc and HSBC comparative data, as expressed in the functional means HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary currencies of HSBCs operations, has been translated undertakings.
Within this document the Hong Kong at current period exchange rates.
Special Administrative Region of the Peoples Republic of China is referred to as Hong Kong or Hong Kong SAR.
Information About the Enforceability of Judgements made in the United States HSBC Holdings is a public limited company the securities laws of the United States.
There is incorporated in England and Wales.
Most of HSBC doubt as to whether English courts would enforce: Holdings Directors and executive officers live certain civil liabilities under US securities laws outside the United States.
Most of the assets of in original actions: or HSBC Holdings Directors and executive officers and a substantial portion of HSBC Holdings assets judgements of US courts based upon these civil are located outside the United States.
As a result, it liability provisions.
may not be possible to serve process on such persons In addition, awards of punitive damages in or HSBC Holdings in the United States or to enforce actions brought in the United States or elsewhere judgements obtained in US courts against them or may be unenforceable in the United Kingdom.
HSBC Holdings based on civil liability provisions of 6
