HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Exchange Controls and Other Limitations Affecting Equity Security Holders There are currently no UK laws, decrees or or the terms of the Memorandum and Articles of regulations which would prevent the transfer of capital Association of HSBC Holdings concerning the right or remittance of dividends and other payments to of non-resident or foreign owners to hold HSBC holders of HSBC Holdings equity securities who are Holdings equity securities or, when entitled to vote, not residents of the United Kingdom.
no restrictions under the laws of the United Kingdom 7 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Description of Business Corporation Introduction Hang Seng Bank Hong Kong SAR HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial Limited Hang Seng services organisations in the world, with a market Bank capitalisation of US$105 billion at 31 December 2002.
At the end of 2002, HSBC had total assets of HSBC Bank plc United Kingdom US$759 billion and shareholders equity of US$52 CCF S. A. CCF France billion.
For the year ended 31 December 2002, HSBCs operating profit was US$9 billion on HSBC Bank USA New York State in the revenues of US$27 billion.
HSBC is a strongly United States capitalised banking group with a total capital ratio of HSBC Bank Brasil Brazil 13.3 per cent and a tier 1 capital ratio of 9.0 per cent S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo as at 31 December 2002.
HSBC Bank Headquartered in London, HSBC operates Brasil through long-established businesses in five regions: HSBC Private Switzerland, Hong Europe: Hong Kong: the rest of Asia-Pacific, Banking Holdings Kong SAR, Monaco, including the Middle East and Africa: North Suisse S. A. Luxembourg, United America: and South America.
Within each of these HSBC Private Kingdom, Singapore geographical regions, the principal businesses Banking Holdings and the Channel operate essentially as domestic banks and typically Islands.
have a large retail deposit base, together with strong liquidity and capital ratios, and provide services to Grupo Financiero Mexico personal, commercial and large corporate and Bital S. A. fide C. V. institutional customers.
By using HSBCs extensive GFBital technological links, businesses are able to access its wide range of products and services and adapt them to local customer needs.
In addition, in certain key Management and resources locations - London, Hong Kong, New York, Geneva, Paris and Dsseldorf - HSBC has significant HSBC recognises that the substantial customer and investment and or private banking operations which, asset base of its banking operations reflects years of together with its commercial banks, enable HSBC to trust and goodwill.
Through its many years of service the requirements of its high net worth operation, HSBC has developed a reputation for personal, corporate and institutional customers.
placing great value on long-term relationships with its clients and on observing the principles of sound Through its international network of over 8,000 and conservative banking.
HSBC organises and offices in 80 countries and territories, HSBC delivers its banking products and services in a way provides a comprehensive range of financial services that aims to retain local authority while capitalising to personal, commercial, corporate, institutional and on the advantages that flow from being an investment, and private banking clients.
establishment of HSBC as a uniform, international brand has ensured that the Groups corporate symbol HSBC believes that this combination of has become an increasingly familiar sight across the centralisation and local responsibility permits it to world.
HSBCs largest and best-known subsidiaries remain responsive to local needs while providing and their primary areas of operation are: customers with access to the services and strength of a worldwide financial institution.
The Hongkong and Hong Kong SAR, with Shanghai Banking an extensive network HSBC allocates resources, including capital, Corporation Limited throughout Asiamanagement time, human resources and information The Hongkong and Pacific.
technology, according to a range of factors, such as Shanghai Banking size and complexity of the operation, growth 8 prospects and the contribution made by each area.
services for HSBCs largest customers.
Economic profit is used by HSBCs management to Following on the progress of recent years in decide where to allocate resources so that they will aligning more closely HSBCs corporate be most productive.
banking and credit services with the skill base and professional expertise available from its HSBC considers the quality of its management investment bank, HSBC decided in 2002 to to be one of its principal strengths.
HSBCs merge the two into a new division called management is an international meritocracy which Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets combines detailed knowledge of local markets with a CIBM.
This division offers a wide range of global perspective.
By long-standing tradition and high quality tailored services to corporate and policy, HSBC recruits most executives for long-term institutional clients, including treasury and careers with the organisation.
HSBC attaches great capital markets products, and structured finance importance to cultivating its own talent and to solutions.
The fusion of these businesses will promoting from within the organisation.
It values help HSBC meet the requirements of its clients teamwork and a collective management style.
Senior some of the worlds largest and most successful management succession is seamless.
communication are kept short and speed of decisionmaking is emphasised.
To develop HSBC and the hexagon symbol as an international global brand.
Strategy This major initiative, begun in 1998, has been successful in making the name, HSBC, and the HSBC aims to become the worlds leading financial hexagon symbol a familiar sight around the services organisation.
HSBCs goal is to balance world.
HSBC aims to make the HSBC brand earnings between stable, mature economies and the universally synonymous with its core values of faster-growing, but more volatile, emerging markets.
integrity, trust and excellent customer service.
To achieve this, HSBC has developed a strategy of Managing for Value designed to build on its HSBCs strategy focuses principally on organic achievements.
This strategy is evolutionary and has growth, but it also allows for opportunistic four key components: acquisitions where these meet certain stringent criteria.
HSBCs approach to acquisitions is based on To concentrate on delivering personal financial added value.
When considering acquisition services to key markets around the world.
opportunities, HSBC takes full account of the fact Personal Financial Services encompasses the that the price paid determines the rate of return to entire relationship with personal customers shareholders.
including, but going well beyond, the provision of a simple cheque account and lending Over the years, HSBC has successfully acquired products.
HSBC offers these customers the full a number of businesses that have provided access to range of financial services and products, new markets, an increased presence in key including personal loans and mortgages, economies or an opportunity to expand existing consumer finance, savings, pensions, business lines.
HSBC uses its strong capital base and investments and insurance.
In none of HSBCs depth of management resources to develop such primary markets is this business fully mature businesses into long-term generators of wealth for its and there are strong growth prospects.
In November 2002, HSBC made a strategic move into Mexico with the purchase of To grow its commercial business.
This represents a strategic stake in a This market consists of a wide range of country with a growing and under-banked population businesses, including major companies, trading in an economy with strong long-term growth enterprises, professional practices, charities, potential through membership of NAFTA.
HSBC entrepreneurs and smaller businesses.
HSBC has now has a major presence in all the NAFTA been very successful in this market and aims to countries.
Completion of the acquisition of build on its strengths, in particular by making Household International, Inc. which was announced sure its customers have access to a full range of on 14 November 2002, will further increase HSBCs products and services.
presence in the US see Developments in 2002 on To enhance corporate and investment banking page 10.
9 Description of Business continued acquiring a 51 per cent interest in Marine Midland History and development now HSBC USA Inc..
The remaining interest was The founding member of HSBC, The Hongkong and acquired in 1987.
Shanghai Banking Corporation, was established in In 1981, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Hong Kong and Shanghai in 1865.
The bank Corporation incorporated its existing Canadian expanded rapidly, with an emphasis on building up operations.
HSBC Bank Canada has since made representation in China and the rest of the Asianumerous acquisitions, expanding rapidly to become Pacific region, while also establishing a presence in the largest foreign-owned bank in Canada and the the major financial and trading centres in Europe and seventh-largest overall at 31 December 2002.
In 1997, HSBC assumed selected assets, In the mid-1950s, The Hongkong and Shanghai liabilities, and subsidiaries of Banco Bamerindus do Banking Corporation embarked on a strategy of Brasil S. A. following the intervention of the Central pursuing profitable growth through acquisition as Bank of Brazil.
HSBC also completed the acquisition well as organic development a combination that of Grupo Roberts in Argentina in 1997. has remained a key feature of HSBCs approach ever since.
In December 1999, HSBC acquired Republic New York Corporation, subsequently merged with As each acquisition has been made, HSBC has HSBC USA Inc. and Safra Republic Holdings S. A. focused on integrating its newly acquired operations with its existing business with a view to maximising To expand its base in the euro zone, in October the synergy between the various components.
2000 HSBC completed its acquisition of 99.98 per International Managers, a group of approximately cent of the issued share capital of CCF, a major 400 mobile executives with wide international French banking group.
experience and committed to long-term careers within HSBC, are key to this integration process.
The Developments in 2002 most significant developments are described below.
In 2002, HSBC made further steps in expanding its The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking presence in North America.
On 25 November 2002 Corporation purchased The Mercantile Bank of India HSBC completed the acquisition of 99.59 per cent of Limited and The British Bank of the Middle East GFBital, the fifth-largest banking group in Mexico now HSBC Bank Middle East in 1959, increasing measured by deposits and assets, for a HSBCs interests in the rest of Asia-Pacific and the consideration of US$1.14 billion.
In 1965, The Hongkong and Shanghai 2002 HSBC recapitalised GFBital, injecting US$800 Banking Corporation acquired a 51 per cent interest million of fresh capital.
GFBitals principal subsequently increased to 62.14 per cent in Hang subsidiaries include the banking operation Banco Seng Bank, consolidating its position in Hong Kong.
Internacional, S. A. a brokerage house Casa fide Hang Seng Bank is the second-largest listed bank in Bolsa Bital, a bonding company Fianzas Mexico Hong Kong by market capitalisation.
Bital, and a joint venture insurance and pension fund operation with ING GFBital 51 per cent, ING 49 per In the late 1970s and the 1980s, The Hongkong cent.
and Shanghai Banking Corporation began to focus its acquisition strategy on the UK.
In 1987, The On 14 November 2002, HSBC announced that it Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation had reached agreement to acquire the common stock purchased a 14.9 per cent interest in Midland Bank of Household International, Inc. Household for a plc now HSBC Bank plc, one of the UKs principal consideration of approximately US$14.2 billion.
In 1991, HSBC Holdings plc was Pursuant to the agreement, Household will be established as the parent company of HSBC and, in merged into H2 Acquisition Corporation, a wholly- 1992, HSBC Holdings purchased the remaining owned subsidiary of HSBC.
Also pursuant to the interests in Midland.
In connection with this agreement, upon completion of the merger, each acquisition, HSBCs head office was transferred issued and outstanding share of Household common from Hong Kong to London in January 1993. stock will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder, 2.675 HSBC The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking ordinary shares or 0.535 ADSs each HSBC ADS Corporation entered the US market in 1980 by 10 representing an ownership interest in five HSBC 200,000 licensed agents.
ordinary shares, with any right to fractional interests Expansion of wealth management services being satisfied by a cash payment.
Upon completion remains another priority.
In late December 2002, of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of HSBC agreed to acquire Keppel Insurance Pte Household non-voting preferred stock will be Limited.
The acquisition was completed on 18 cancelled and converted into the right to receive cash February 2003 at a price of S$154 million in the amount of $1,000 per share $25 per approximately US$88 million in cash.
Keppel th depositary share representing 1 40 of a share, plus Insurance was established in Singapore in 1954 and all accrued and unpaid dividends up to but excluding provides a full range of life and non-life insurance the closing date, without interest.
The agreement products and services.
It is also the market leader in remains subject to a number of conditions including Takaful Islamic insurance in Singapore.
shareholders approval of both HSBC and Household and regulatory approvals.
A Discloseable Transaction On 28 June 2002, Merrill Lynch HSBC Circular was sent to HSBCs shareholders on 28 MLHSBC became a wholly owned subsidiary of February setting out, inter alia, reasons for and HSBC.
MLHSBC was formed as a 50:50 joint benefits of the acquisition.
A registration statement venture between HSBC and Merrill Lynch in April on Form F-4 describing the transaction has also been 2000 to provide direct investment and banking filed with the US Securities and Exchange services, primarily over the internet, to mass affluent Commission.
These may be found on HSBCs investors outside the US.
It currently operates in website www.
Australia, Canada and the UK.
The acquisition, which is expected to be Working with HSBCs private banking business, completed around the end of the first quarter of HSBC USA Inc. employed in July 2002 certain 2003, will significantly increase the contribution partners and staff of Arthur Andersen LLPs US from HSBCs North American operation.
In Private Client Practice, who have joined a new particular, Household offers HSBC national coverage HSBC Private Client Services Group WTAS in in the US for consumer lending, credit cards and the US, serving the wealth and tax advisory needs of credit insurance through varied distribution channels high net worth individuals.
including approximately 1,400 offices in 46 states.
HSBC continued to build in areas where it has Further information on Household, including its significant strengths and, in 2002, made filings with the SEC, may be found on the opportunistic investments in France, Turkey and companys website, www.
In further support of HSBCs investment banking business, particularly in the United States, in May 2002 HSBC Holdings plc and AEA Investors Inc. AEA agreed in principle that HSBC will invest up to US$750 million over the next five years in a new US$1 billion plus private equity fund.
In February, 2003, the fund completed its first closing for US$912 million, of which HSBCs share is US$638 million.
The fund will enhance HSBCs existing involvement in the private equity sector through entry to the US private equity market.
HSBC will be a limited partner in the fund.
Mainland China remains a critical growth area for the Group.
In November 2002, HSBC completed the acquisition of a 10 per cent equity stake in Ping An Insurance Company of China Limited at a cost of US$600 million.
Ping An Insurance is the secondlargest life insurer and the third-largest insurer in the Peoples Republic of China with over 25 million policyholders, some 21,500 employees and over 11 Description of Business continued fulfil customer needs when they arise.
Lines of Business Principal products and services for personal customers include current, cheque and savings Profit on ordinary activities before tax cash accounts, loans and home finance, cards, payments, basis by Line of Business.
insurance and investment services, including securities trading.
Services are increasingly delivered Year ended 31 December 2002 via self service terminals, the telephone and the 4,000 internet.
A comprehensive financial planning service, 3,717 3,543 3,000 covering customers investment, retirement and 3,034 personal and asset protection needs is offered 2,000 through specialist financial planning managers.
1,000 420 HSBC services its most valuable personal 0 -201 customers through its HSBC Premier service, now -1,000 available in 29 countries and territories.
The key components of the HSBC Premier service, in Personal Fin Services Commercial Banking addition to the standard range of personal banking Corp, Inv Bkg & Mkts Private Banking products and services, are: Other dedicated relationship management, Total Assets by Line of Business over 200 HSBC Premier centres worldwide, 24-hour priority telephone access, and As at 31 December 2002 % 24-hour global travel assistance.
Bkg and Mkts 52.6 22.9 Personal Fin Services As at 31 December 2002, HSBC had total Commercial Banking 15.1 personal customer deposits of US$258 billion and Private Banking 6.5 total personal customer loans and advances, net of Other 2.9 suspended interest and provisions for bad and doubtful debts, of US$144 billion.
excludes Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of HSBC sells and distributes a range of insurance indebtedness products, including life, loan protection and health protection, as well as pensions, investments and Personal Financial Services savings, principally through its locally based banking The Personal Financial Services segment covers subsidiaries.
HSBC is a broker for life and pensions individual customers, including those who are selfinsurance, general insurance and reinsurance and an employed.
Internationally oriented high net worth underwriter for property, casualty, life, pensions and individuals and their families who choose the health insurance.
HSBC sees continuing differentiated services offered within Private opportunities to deliver personal insurance products Banking are not included in this segment.
The to its personal customer base utilising its branch personal customer segment comprises some 36 network, local sales forces, direct telephone million customers worldwide.
Within this figure, capabilities and internet delivery channels.
more than 630,000 are classified as HSBC Premier customers and these represent the most valuable Commercial Banking personal customer segment.
The Commercial Banking sector covers a wide and Through its extensive branch network, HSBC diverse range of enterprises from sole proprietors, provides a wide range of banking and related partnerships, clubs and associations to incorporated financial services to meet the needs of its personal businesses and publicly quoted companies.
HSBC employees use Customer HSBC is one of the worlds leading banks in the Relationship Management CRM systems and provision of financial services and products with processes to sell appropriate products and services to over 1.8 million small to medium-sized businesses.
12 As at 31 December 2002, HSBC had total US and France.
HSBC has established special commercial customer deposits of US$92.9 billion divisions to finance commercial vehicles, plant and and total commercial customer loans and advances, equipment, materials handling, machinery and large, net of suspended interest and provisions for bad and complex leases.
It also provides services for doubtful debts, of US$90.6 billion.
consumer finance and small businesses.
HSBC continues to broaden and enhance its Payments and cash management.
HSBC is a leading range of products and services, placing a particular provider of payments, collections, liquidity emphasis on multi-disciplinary and cross-geographic management and account services worldwide, collaboration in meeting its commercial customers enabling financial institutions and corporate needs: customers to manage their cash efficiently on a global basis.
HSBCs extensive network of offices Personal Financial Services.
In addition to a range and strong domestic capabilities in many countries, of current and savings accounts, corporate and including direct access to local clearing systems, purchasing cards, treasury services and lending enhance its ability to provide high-quality cash products, HSBC also provides a wide range of management services.
insurance and investment products to commercial banking customers and their employees through an e-banking.
A key component of HSBCs market extensive, worldwide network of branches and leadership in providing financial services to business banking centres throughout the Asia-Pacific commercial customers is continuing innovation and region, Europe, the Americas and the Middle East.
flexibility in electronic delivery solutions, to best suit the clients needs.
HSBC provides business customers with a range of insurance protection, employee benefits Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets and pension schemes to meet the needs of both the business itself and its employees and to fulfil the HSBCs Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets statutory obligations of the company.
These products business provides tailored financial solutions to are provided by HSBC either as manufacturer or as major government, corporate and institutional clients supplier of third party products.
Managed as a global business, it either as intermediary broker, agent or consultant or operates a long-term relationship management direct supplier.
The range of products and services approach to build a full understanding of client includes: property damage: business interruption loss financial requirements.
Clients are served by sectorof profits: public and products liability: employers based client service teams that combine relationship liability: professional liability directors and officers managers and product specialists to develop financial liability: group life, pension schemes, healthcare solutions to meet individual client needs.
With schemes: key man life insurance: car fleet: goods in dedicated offices in over 40 countries and with transit: trade credit protection: risk management and access to HSBCs worldwide presence and insurance due diligence reviews: and capabilities, this business serves subsidiaries and actuarial employee benefit consultancy.
offices of these clients in 80 countries and territories.
HSBC has more than 130 years of Products and services offered include: trade services experience and expertise in this core Banking Services.
These comprise general banking business.
A complete range of traditional products including lending and deposit taking and documentary credit, collections and financing related services: payments and cash management products is offered, as well as specialised services services at an international and regional level as well such as insured export finance, factoring and as in country domestic services: trade services with forfaiting.
HSBC seeks to bring value to its customer an emphasis on the specialised Trade Solutions partnerships with solutions that are tailored to meet product: and securities services, where HSBC is one their requirements, supported by HSBCs highly of the worlds leading custodians providing custody automated systems.
and clearing services to both domestic and crossLeasing, finance and factoring.
Leasing, with an emphasis on large leasing, finance including instalment and invoice ticket transactions, finance and factoring and finance and factoring services, primarily to banknotes services are also provided by specialist commercial customers in the UK, Hong Kong, the units.
13 Description of Business continued Financing and Advisory Services.
These comprise onshore and offshore businesses have now been capital raising, including debt and equity capital, unified in the UK and the process of alignment is structured finance, and syndicated finance, under way in the US.
Private Banking works closely leveraging links with other areas of the business to with HSBCs retail, commercial and corporate and provide full distribution for these instruments: investment banking networks to generate and corporate finance and advisory services including maintain two-way client referrals.
those in connection with mergers and acquisitions, Client services include deposits and funds asset disposals, stock exchange listings, transfer, tax and trustee structures, asset and trust privatisations and capital restructurings: project and management, mutual funds, currency and securities export finance services providing non-recourse transactions, lending, letters of credit, guarantees and finance to exporters, importers and financial other extensions of credit on a collateralised basis.
institutions, working closely with all major export credit agencies: aviation and structured finance for The high net worth client requires a highly complex and tax efficient investment facilities: and differentiated service, provided through a Amanah finance which provides structured products combination of geographical presence and that are consistent with Islamic laws.
Working in collaboration with other members of HSBC, Private Banking is able to Investor services.
These comprise treasury and provide its clients with not just private banking, trust, capital markets services for supranationals, central and wealth management services, but a banks, corporations, institutional and private comprehensive range of financial services, including investors, financial institutions and other market corporate banking, investment banking and participants.
Products include foreign exchange: insurance.
currency, interest rate, bond and other specialised derivatives: government and non-government fixed In 2002, Private Banking launched WTAS and income and money market instruments: precious several successful product offerings, particularly in metals and exchange traded futures.
Equity services, the area of alternative investments and tax-efficient including research, sales and trading for institutional, insurance wrapper products.
The trust business has corporate and private clients and asset management been expanded in the US, Asia and the Channel services, including global investment advisory and Islands and, building on its success in Asia, internet fund management services, are also offered.
banking services were rolled out to the US, UK and Switzerland.
These comprise a narrow range of specialist insurance services for major corporate Geographical Regions and institutional customers.
Profit before tax split by geographical region Private Banking Year ended 31 December 2002 Private Banking provides world class financial services to high net worth individuals and their 4,000 families, through four distinct businesses: 3,500 3,710 3,500 3,000 HSBC Republic, HSBCs principal international 2,500 private banking division: 2,000 HSBC Guyerzeller, a traditional Swiss private 1,500 bank focusing on discretionary management and 1,000 1, 238 1, 260 trustee services: -58 500 0 CCF Private Banking, with its strong presence -500 in the euro zone: and HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt, providing banking and fund services in Germany, Europe Hong Kong North America Rest of Asia-Pacific Luxembourg and Hong Kong.
South America As part of HSBCs strategic objectives, the 14 Total assets split by geographical region continued to invest in improving customer relationship management systems, in creating more convenient service channels ranging from As at 31 December 2002 conventional branches to the internet and mobile phones, in developing innovative and flexible % products and in building a reputation for fair pricing.
Europe 45.7 Evidencing customers continuing response to Hong Kong 24.1 easier access to banking services, 5 million calls per North America 18.9 month are now answered across HSBC call centres Rest of Asia Pacific 10.2 excluding First Direct.
Matching customer preference, over 50 per cent of all telephone calls are South America 1.1 handled through automated systems, providing a more efficient and cost effective service.
This has allowed call centres to be used for more outward excludes Hong Kong SAR Government certificates of bound calls leading to more customers purchasing indebtedness financial products and services over the telephone.
Formerly described as Latin America, which included Over 780,000 sales, including personal loans Group entities in Panama and Mexico, which are now totalling over US$1.2 billion, were made through included in North America Direct Financial Services in 2002, an increase of Europe over 280,000 sales on 2001.
Europe contributed US$3,500 million, or 36.3 per Demand for remote services continues to grow cent, to HSBCs profit on ordinary activities before and HSBC Bank is responding with continued tax in 2002 compared with US$3,542 million in investment in internet banking, TV banking and 2001.
The UK contributed US$3,176 million in 2002 ATMs.
Some 1.2 million customers are now compared with US$3,147 million in 2001. registered for personal internet banking with a HSBCs main subsidiaries in Europe are HSBC further 177,000 customers registered for TV Bank plc, CCF S. A. HSBC Private Banking Banking.
These customers access their bank account Holdings Suisse S. A. HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt details around one million times weekly via personal KGaA and HSBC Bank A.
S.. internet banking, and over half of all payments on demand are made online.
HSBC Bank plc Global processing, through the establishment of Headquartered in London, HSBC Bank services Group Service Centres GSCs, continued to play an over 6 million personal current accounts, inter alia, important role in HSBCs strategic aim of pursuing through a network of 1,633 branches in the UK, economies of scale in order to increase productivity including 42 outlets in supermarkets.
Customers also and achieve a competitive and economic advantage.
have access to approximately 3,000 HSBC Bank Since their introduction in 1996, the GSCs have ATM machines, over 42,000 cash machines through progressively fulfilled more of the back office the UK LINK network and over 835,000 ATM functions previously undertaken by HSBCs machines worldwide.
HSBC Bank serves principal members, including HSBC Bank.
The approximately 14 per cent of the personal current centres provide a wide range of activities for a account market in England and Wales.
At 31 growing number of business areas, including cards, December 2002, on a consolidated basis, HSBC mortgage processing, investment products and retail Banks total assets were US$352 billion, total banking.
customer balances were US$211 billion and total net The HSBC Premier customer account base in customer loans were US$169 billion.
the UK has grown by 44 per cent during 2002.
The HSBC Banks strategy is to build long-term Premier telephone service has been enhanced to customer relationships by listening to customers, include the opening of personal loans, credit cards understanding their needs and delivering the most and savings accounts.
22 per cent of Premier effective solutions.
customers have registered for personal internet banking.
In following this strategy during 2002, the bank 15 Description of Business continued In 2002, HSBC Bank increased its market share customers online by the end of 2002.
Increasingly of net new mortgage lending, in the United customer contacts with First Direct are now made Kingdom, to 5.8 per cent compared with 4.4 per cent electronically.
Sales from internet banking and in 2001.
Over the last 5 years mortgage balances mobile phone banking sources have increased, with have almost doubled.
This has been achieved via 12 per cent of First Directs product sales now competitive pricing and attractive product design.
The first part of HSBC in For example, the development of HomeStart in the UK to adopt open architecture for product 2001, an innovative mortgage appealing to first time selection, First Direct continued to develop its buyers and allowing the customer to pay only the independent life, pensions and investments business, interest costs during the first three years, has been a offering products from leading providers supported major contributor to growth.
In July 2001, First by a telephone based advice service.
Direct launched smartmortgage which links HSBC Bank offers a full range of commercial customer savings, cheque and home loan accounts.
banking services, remaining committed to serving its Mortgage balances at First Direct grew from US$2.2 commercial customers through the branch network, billion in June 2001 to US$5.8 billion by the end of complemented by internet and telephone banking.
Buying a Home in France was launched in This commitment was strengthened in January 2002, April in conjunction with CCF.
when a number of specialist sales forces were HSBC Bank also issues a comprehensive range integrated into the branch network.
Working of credit cards to develop high value customer alongside relationship managers, they provide a relationships by providing more tailored, personal one-stop-shop for business financial services.
credit card solutions to customers as an integral part By increasingly employing product specialists, of the banks customer relationship strategy.
Nearly investing in new sales channels and through effective 30 per cent of new customers are now offered marketing, HSBC Bank demonstrated its customer premium card products.
focus and thereby increased its share of the business Again with the objective of building customer start-up market in 2002.
During the year, over 87,000 loyalty, in 2002, HSBC Bank was the first major new start-up business accounts were opened, an bank in the UK to reduce overdraft interest rates increase of more than one third over the same period significantly for unauthorised borrowing.
The number of customers moving accounts from competitors to the bank also grew, helping to Success in building stronger customer achieve more than 6 per cent overall growth in relationships is evidenced in the broadening product customer base in a stable market.
range delivered to customers, in particular wealth management products.
The banks combined market HSBC Banks commercial banking operations share for its principal investment products, Open have access to the full range of personal and other Ended Investment Companies OEICs and ISAs, financial services products allowing business owners was maintained at over 5 per cent during 2002, and directors to manage their business and personal despite the difficult investment market conditions.
wealth efficiently through to retirement.
HSBC Bank Private client services offer discretionary portfolio also offers business protection products such as key management services and independent financial man insurance and partnership protection.
Sales of advice to high net worth individuals.
Despite the such products during 2002 grew significantly, up by impact of adverse stock markets, new funds 11 per cent on 2001.
For example, HSBC Bank is increased by 8 per cent over 2001.
Within general now one of the top providers of regular premium insurance, HSBC Bank launched home emergency stakeholder pensions in the UK market, with a 6.3 and legal assistance products in 2002. per cent market share.
First Direct, which was launched by HSBC During 2002, the bank continued to invest in the Bank in 1989 as the UKs first full banking service development of alternative sales channels to increase by telephone, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, customer choice.
Dedicated Business Telephone continued to grow in 2002, attracting 88,900 new Banking centres now operate from Swansea, customers and maintaining its position as the UKs Edinburgh and Hyderabad handling inbound calls most recommended bank.
Its e-channel services from a total of 134,000 registered users.
A business attracted around 54 per cent of First Directs outbound telephone centre was established in 16 Leicester during the year.
Business Internet Banking, serves as the hub for HSBCs European network of launched in January 2002, offers customers easier treasury and capital markets operations, delivering a access to banking services and products.
high quality, tailored service to HSBCs corporate, commercial and institutional clients.
The major Through access to HSBCs international product areas are money markets, foreign exchange network, HSBC Bank is a market leader in providing and fixed income.
These are complemented by trade and international banking services and is derivatives trading activities in exchange traded recognised as one of the worlds largest trade finance futures and in precious metals and banknotes.
HSBC offers customers access to its extensive local knowledge and CCF international expertise to simplify the processes and reduce the risks associated with trading overseas.
CCF is the fourth-largest non-mutual bank in France and is HSBCs flagship in continental Europe, with The largest corporate and institutional clients are businesses in personal, corporate and investment managed through a number of specialist industry banking, asset management and private banking.
groups to facilitate a better understanding of, and Headquartered in Paris, CCF serves over one million response to, the needs of customers.
Core banking personal customers and major corporate and services have been aligned with investment banking institutional business clients.
CCF has a network of products and activities, making maximum use of 782 branches in France.
At 31 December 2002, HSBCs international network to win important CCFs total assets were US$73 billion, total cross-border business and providing support to customer deposits were US$26 billion and total net clients seeking to develop internationally.
customer loans were US$31 billion under UK In November 2002, HSBC Bank integrated the GAAP.
investment banking business of HSBC Investment CCFs strategy continues to focus on the fastest Bank following a Private Act of Parliament to enable growing and most profitable market segments.
CCF the required legal changes.
This restructuring is a leading bank in mass affluent personal retail supported HSBCs key strategic aim of integrating banking in France, with more than 80 per cent of its investment banking and commercial and corporate clients concentrated in middle and upper income banking activities.
brackets and 90 per cent of its branches in France Within institutional banking, HSBC Banks concentrated in the four regions with the highest global custody division offers comprehensive global, growth potential for banking activity: Paris, Rhneregional European and UK custodian services in 70 Alpes, Provence-Alpes-Cte dAzur and Languedoc markets worldwide.
Assets under custody were over Roussillon.
In corporate banking, CCF concentrates US$1,100 billion at 31 December 2002. on the most profitable high added-value segments of the market for both large and high quality mid-sized HSBC Banks provision of comprehensive cash corporates.
In asset management and private management services to corporate and institutional banking, CCF has specific subsidiaries dedicated to clients has been significantly enhanced by continued serving the most profitable client categories in the investment in European infrastructure and through highest added-value sectors.
These have significantly enhanced international money transmission and payment CCFs retail and commercial banking operations services provided by the bank to customers.
comprise the parent company CCF, with 226 Electronic banking channels continue to be branches, and a network of ten regional banks with a developed and will be further enhanced, with the total of 556 branches.
Each regional bank operates in launch of an enhanced internet-based service to a specific geographical area, under its own brand corporate customers planned for 2003.
HSBC Bank name, with strong local recognition.
was one of the initial participants when Continuous CCF offers products and services through a Linked Settlement services were launched in number of complementary distribution channels, September 2002 and actively uses the system to including online, telephone and mobile phone reduce foreign exchange risk and develop new banking.
CCFs online brokerage service was services for institutional and corporate customers.
launched in 1999, providing CCF customers and HSBC Banks major dealing room in London non-customers alike with trading opportunities on 17 Description of Business continued the Paris Bourse and financial information including in corporate savings plans provided through its stock quotes, French and international newswires and subsidiary Elyses Fonds.
CCFs online credit company, Netvalor, CCF, through its associates Erisa and Erisa offers credit directly to consumers through its IARD, offers a wide range of insurance products, dedicated consumer credit site, 123credit.
including comprehensive health insurance, personal CCF networks also offer high quality products property and casualty insurance, and homeowners and services to medium-sized French corporates and, insurance.
in the regional subsidiaries, to entrepreneurs.
CCF CCF has grown its private banking business both offers its customers a number of online account organically and through the selective acquisition of a management products and services, including trade number of specialist institutions, including Banque account management, business intelligence, du Louvre, Banque Eurofin in Paris, HSBC Bank centralised corporate treasury management, France S. A. an existing HSBC subsidiary transferred electronic payments systems and the recovery of to CCF in July 2002, and Banque Dewaay in unpaid receivables, all branded under its Elys Brussels.
In addition, CCF provides secure payment facilities that permit merchants to manage HSBC Private Banking Holdings order and inventory functions and conduct bank HSBCs principal private banking activities in transactions simultaneously.
Europe are grouped under a Swiss holding company, Through its Corporate Banking Division, CCF HSBC Private Banking Holdings.
At 31 December offers account management, credit, cash 2002, the principal subsidiaries of HSBC Private management and stock custody services to the 100 Banking Holdings comprised the international largest French institutional and corporate groups, and private banking operations of HSBC Republic with to international clients.
The Corporate Banking branches in Guernsey, Hong Kong, Jersey, London, Division is also very active in providing trade Luxembourg, Monaco, Nassau, Singapore and financing, export credit facilities and financing Switzerland, and HSBC Guyerzeller Bank AG backed by public and private sector credit support.
CCF provides equity and corporate finance Considerable progress was made during the year services, with teams integrated within HSBC.
CCF in grouping HSBCs various private banking advises on transactions involving notably French, activities under the HSBC Private Banking Holdings British and international clients across a wide range umbrella.
This coherent ownership structure brings of industries including among others retailing, together onshore and offshore private banking chemicals, pharmaceuticals, utilities, automobiles, services in Europe.
banking, finance and insurance, and entertainment.
In Asia, the reorganisation of HSBCs private CCF also provides asset financing as well as banking operations under HSBC Republic Bank structured financing for well-known corporates.
The operations Through a specialised subsidiary, CCF provides infrastructure was also rationalised into a regional investment advice and third-party fund management hub to take advantage of scale efficiencies, and in connection with commercial and residential real clients were segmented according to both their needs estate investment.
and the size of their portfolios.
HSBC Republic is CCF provides asset management services now one of the regions three largest private banks.
primarily through three full-service fund As part of HSBCs strategic objective to align management subsidiaries which serve institutional onshore and offshore private banking operations, clients, as well as retail networks, with proprietary or domestic and international private banking non-proprietary products.
HSBC Asset Management operations were successfully integrated in the United Europe SA is the major global mainstream Kingdom, and the business of HSBC Republic Bank discretionary manager: Sinopia specialises in active UK Limited was transferred under ownership of quantitative management together with guaranteed HSBC Private Banking Holdings on 1 July 2002. and structured products: HSBC Multimanager Europe is an independent service provider for fund In June 2002 HSBC Guyerzeller, HSBCs Swiss selection and multi-management.
CCF is also strong private bank, which focuses on discretionary 18 management and trustee services, completed its Germany merger with Handelsfinanz-CCF Bank S. A. and In Germany, HSBC operates mainly through HSBC Crdit Commercial fide France Suisse S. A.
This Trinkaus & Burkhardt KGaA HSBC Trinkaus & initiative strengthened HSBC Guyerzellers presence Burkhardt.
in Geneva and provided synergies and long-term cost savings.
Based in Dsseldorf HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt has branches in seven major German cities During the year HSBC Republic Holdings CI and offers a comprehensive range of services to Limited, HSBC International Trustee Limited and wealthy private clients, large and medium-sized HSBC Financial Services Cayman Limited were enterprises, institutional investors, public transferred under the ownership of HSBC Private corporations and financial institutions.
Its strengths Banking Holdings, increasing the Swiss holding lie in portfolio management, international business, companys client funds under management to US$45 interest rate and currency management, new issues billion at 31 December 2002. on the debt and capital markets, corporate finance, With investment activities subdued, and mergers and acquisitions advice, tailored to opportunities to increase credit facilities to clients clients requirements.
Client business is underpinned have been sought actively, and HSBC Private by trading activities in foreign exchange and interest Banking Holdings lending book grew by 22 per cent rate products, market-making in equities, and trading during 2002.
By leveraging HSBCs extensive in equities derivatives.
Investment advisory services branch network, HSBC expanded the Trust business are provided through HSBC Trinkaus Capital in Asia and the Channel Islands, and worked closely Management GmbH, and HSBC Trinkaus & with HSBC insurance experts to launch new taxBurkhardt Immobilien GmbH manages investments efficient insurance wrapper products.
The range of in closed-end property funds.
investment funds offered continued to grow, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardts stake in the especially in the alternative and hedge fund sector funds management company INKA Internationale where HSBC has US$10 billion of hedge fund assets  mbH was increased from under management.
The Hermitage Fund, the largest 60 per cent to 100 per cent during 2002, in public equity fund dedicated to Russia, continues to recognition of the strategic importance of the be rated as one of the best performing equity funds in securities markets in Germany.
Turkey Following successful trials in Asia during 2001, the roll out of internet banking services to the UK Demirbank was acquired from the Turkish Banking and Switzerland was completed in 2002 and there are Regulator in October 2001.
The purchase included now over 5,400 registered private banking internet the acquisition of Demir Yatirim, Demirbanks fund clients.
HSBC plans to extend this facility to other management and stockbroking subsidiary.
During HSBC Republic locations during 2003 and to 2002, the operations and business activities of enhance the services available.
Demirbank were successfully integrated into those of HSBC Bank A. S. Customers are served through a Investment in training and communications has variety of channels: 163 branches, call centres and developed excellent teamwork with HSBCs retail internet banking providing personal, corporate, banking operations and led to a significant increase treasury, capital markets, stockbroking, fund in client referrals from Hong Kong, Singapore and management and investment banking services across London, and on a reciprocal basis to the introduction the Turkish market.
of significant business to other areas of the Group, notably HSBC Premier.
On 19 September 2002, HSBC Bank A. S. completed the purchase of Benkar, Turkeys largest The strong core capitalisation of HSBC Private independent consumer finance and card services Banking Holdings and the financial strength of the company, and its high-profile Advantage brand.
At HSBC Group continued to represent a significant the time of acquisition, Benkar had over 280 competitive advantage as financial strength became participating merchant firms and over 1 million an increasingly important factor for private Advantage cardholders.
The Advantage card is a individuals and their advisers when reviewing their combined instalment and loyalty card that can be choice of which banks to entrust with their assets.
19 Description of Business continued used at over 5,000 points of sale in Turkey.
HSBC has grown to be one of the leading distributors of retail fund products in Hong Kong.
In Hong Kong 2002s uncertain investment market, HSBC achieved significant growth in the sale of unit trusts through Hong Kong contributed US$3,710 million, or 38.4 the promotion of 14 guaranteed capital-secured funds per cent, of HSBCs profit on ordinary activities designed to meet customers demands to protect their before tax in 2002 compared with US$3,883 million investment capital.
In the low interest rate in 2001. environment, HSBC also introduced a range of HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Hong alternative deposit products to provide customers Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking with more investment choices.
There was strong Corporation and Hang Seng Bank, in which HSBC growth in funds under management.
The Hongkong and Hang Seng Bank also continued to widen its Shanghai Banking Corporation is the largest bank investment and insurance product range to enhance incorporated in Hong Kong and HSBCs flagship its wealth management services.
The launch in 2002 bank in the Asia-Pacific region.
It is one of the Hong of 30 retail capital-guaranteed funds was well Kong SARs three note-issuing banks, accounting for received and increased the total number of retail more than 62 per cent by value of the Hong Kong funds in the Hang Seng Investment Series to 60.
The banknotes in circulation in 2002 and it is also the series of capital-guaranteed funds offered by Hang agent bank for the issuing and handling of the Hong Seng Bank is the largest in Hong Kong in terms of Kong SAR Governments newly launched HK$10 number of funds.
HSBC has a substantial market share and operational network in the Hong Kong SAR, The insurance business remains a key focus in including 199 outlets of the Hongkong and Shanghai HSBCs wealth management strategy in Hong Kong.
Banking Corporation in 159 locations, and 138 Hang Significant growth in personal insurance was Seng Bank branches.
achieved, outpacing market growth and giving HSBC a larger market share of new business.
There Both banks offer personal customers an was increasing use of telesales and the internet for extensive range of financial services with the aim of insurance business.
Corporate insurance profitability satisfying customers needs to grow, manage and improved and the retirement business continued to protect their wealth.
To meet the demands of a develop, both through new sales and the transfer to growing client base and to offer tailored wealth HSBC of Pacific Century Insurance Company management solutions to HSBC Premier customers, Limiteds Mandatory Provident Fund MPF HSBC now has 34 HSBC Premier Centres and 400 business.
personal bankers in Hong Kong.
In another year of fierce competition for quality HSBCs customer relationship management assets and increasing consumer loan write-offs in processes and systems were further developed in Hong Kong, HSBC maintained a strong 2002 to provide a comprehensive view of all aspects performance.
Including cards issued by Hang Seng of every customers relationship with HSBC.
This Bank, HSBC remained the largest credit card issuer has led to new business opportunities and enhanced in Hong Kong with 2.8 million cards in circulation HSBCs ability to offer tailored solutions to meet and led the market in cardholder spending and individual customer needs.
The implementation in 2001 of an Hang Seng Bank opened a further 26 Prestige enhanced card processing system and continued Banking Centres for affluent customers in 2002, migration of work to HSBCs Group Service Centre bringing the total to 59.
Stamina Banking, offering in Guangzhou has enabled operational efficiency to customers comprehensive banking, investment and be further improved.
financial services and a wide variety of lifestyle HSBC provides a comprehensive range of privileges, and ezLink Financial Services, catering banking products and services to meet the needs of for the financial needs of customers commuting large and small businesses in Hong Kong.
To meet between Hong Kong and the mainland of the the needs of small and medium-sized businesses, Peoples Republic of China mainland China, were HSBC introduced enhanced services and products, also launched in 2002. launching its Business Internet Banking service in 20 August and further enhancing the service later in the online banking market share in Hong Kong with over year with the addition of online trade functionalities.
470,000 registered users up by 60 per cent over The initial response from customers has been 2001.
The e-channel proposition was enhanced encouraging, with e-channel transaction volumes during 2002 with the introduction of new solutions continuing to rise.
Going forward, HSBC will and applications, and a new investment page, all of continue to devote resources to the further which led to a 33 per cent year-on-year increase in improvement of service levels and enhancement of monthly website visits.
Online@hsbc has won many its product range to meet the investment and awards and has achieved differentiation in the market insurance needs of commercial customers, through its wide range of more than 50 online demonstrating its ongoing commitment to business services, including online share trading, IPO customers regardless of their size.
registration and primary bonds subscription services, instant approval for a range of insurance products, HSBCs Corporate, Investment Banking and and personal loans, electronic bill presentation and Markets business in Hong Kong reported strong payment services.
A diversified portfolio of businesses has helped it ride the economic Hang Seng Banks comprehensive range of downturn well, with strong profits in its treasury internet banking services has similarly become an and capital markets business more than important part of its multi-channel delivery network.
compensating for the slow-down in equity At the end of 2002, more than 250,000 customers markets.
The same low interest rate environment were registered for its Personal e-Banking Services, that has squeezed margins in HSBCs commercial internet transactions had grown to more than 14 per and retail lending business helped the treasury cent of total transactions, and online share trading areas well-positioned balance sheet to post record accounted for 55 per cent of total securities accrual income in 2002. transactions.
Hang Seng Bank continues to enhance its e-banking services to meet customer expectations.
Dealing profits fell, primarily in the area of Business e-banking services, including online fund interest rate trading, against a backdrop of transfers, cash management and trade services, were widening credit spreads and concerns over introduced in 2002 to help commercial customers economic growth.
This was, however, offset by manage their company finances more efficiently.
foreign exchange revenues which remained robust.
In addition, HSBC focused on its ability to Rest of Asia-Pacific including the Middle leverage off its strong and growing customer East franchise, by offsetting thinner trade flows with a stronger emphasis on higher margin derivative The rest of Asia-Pacific region contributed US$1,260 products.
The low interest rate environment has million, or 13.1 per cent, to HSBCs profit on led to increasing customer demand for yield ordinary activities before tax in 2002 compared with enhancement products, and HSBCs wealth US$1,088 million in 2001. management group was well positioned to take advantage of this trend.
HSBC added resources to Asia-Pacific this area to build momentum and increase market Outside Hong Kong, HSBC conducts business in the penetration in 2003.
Asia-Pacific region primarily through branches and HSBCs debt finance group continued to build subsidiaries of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking on its superior distribution capability, successfully Corporation, with particularly strong coverage in completing several high-profile transactions in mainland China, India, Indonesia, Korea, Singapore, 2002 and reinforcing its strong position in the Taiwan and Thailand: through HSBC Bank Australia Hong Kong market.
Limited in Australia: and through HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad, which has the second largest An increasing proportion of HSBCs client presence of any foreign-owned bank in Malaysia.
business in the foreign exchange, fixed income and money markets continues to be migrated to Both The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking electronic dealing channels, improving transaction Corporation and Hang Seng Bank operate in ease and speed and reducing cost.
mainland China, offering personal banking and commercial services.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Surveys indicate that HSBC has the largest 21 Description of Business continued Banking Corporations network in mainland China approval during the year to open a branch in Nanjing spans 11 major cities, comprising nine branches, in and approval to open a sub-branch in Puxi.
Hang Beijing, Dalian, Guangzhou, Qingdao, Shanghai, Seng Securities Limited opened a representative Shenzhen, Tianjin, Wuhan and Xiamen, a sub-branch office in Shanghai in August 2002, and Hang Seng in Puxi, Shanghai, and representative offices in Investment Management Limited obtained approval Chengdu and Chongqing.
The Hongkong and in September 2002 to open a representative office in Shanghai Banking Corporation was one of the first Shenzhen.
As part of HSBCs development of Group foreign banks to be allowed to provide renminbi Service Centres to improve operational and cost services to customers who are not citizens of the efficiency, HSBCs Guangzhou Service Centre has Peoples Republic of China, through its branches in been operating since 1995.
In mid-2002, as further Shanghai and Shenzhen.
In addition The Hongkong opportunities to migrate data processing activities and Shanghai Banking Corporation is a member of were identified, a second centre became fully the Shanghai ATM network, which comprises 17 operational in Shanghai.
domestic and foreign banks and offers services HSBCs strategy elsewhere in Asia-Pacific has through more than 2,000 ATMs throughout the city.
historically emphasised service to corporate and In November 2002, HSBC acquired a 10 per commercial banking customers with a strong trade cent equity stake in Ping An Insurance Company of services element augmented by an increasingly China Limited.
Established in Shenzhen in 1988, important treasury and capital markets business.
In Ping An Insurance is the second-largest life insurer recent years, HSBCs strategy has evolved to and has the third-largest insurer in mainland China, promote an increased focus on providing products with over 25 million policyholders, some 21,500 and services that meet the wealth management employees and over 200,000 licensed agents.
Ping requirements of the mid and upper personal customer An Insurance also engages in investment trust and segments.
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking securities business.
Corporations approach is to differentiate its products from those offered by the local competition by HSBCs strong presence in mainland China is leveraging HSBCs worldwide experience and supported by a wide range of business capabilities in expertise.
This strategy continues to be pursued commercial and corporate banking as well as aggressively across the region, with ongoing personal financial services.
With further investment in upgrading and expanding HSBCs liberalisation of Chinas financial market, banking personal banking and cards operations.
regulations have been relaxed to permit foreign banks to provide foreign currency services to The year 2002 saw the continued expansion of mainland Chinese companies and individual Chinese internet banking services across the region with citizens.
HSBC became the first foreign bank to offer substantial increases in both online customer activity foreign currency services to local citizens and and the range of services offered.
The number of companies, at 10 locations across the country, and personal internet banking customers rose to over launched online personal banking services to local 300,000, a seven-fold increase over 2001, and 15 per citizens and international customers in mainland cent of the personal banking customer bases in 12 China in December 2002. countries across the region can now bank online.
Further countries will be brought online in 2003.
Hang Seng Bank operates branches in Online services were expanded to include an Guangzhou, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Fuzhou and enhanced credit card offering, bill payment representative offices in Beijing and Xiamen.
Its capabilities and a SMS alert service which will be Shanghai branch, which moved to new premises in built upon during 2003.
2002 also saw the August 2002, launched renminbi services for introduction of an online service for commercial expatriates and foreign-invested enterprises, and the customers in India, Malaysia and Brunei which is Guangzhou, Shanghai and Shenzhen branches began utilised at present by some 3,000 customers.
Online offering foreign currency services to mainland trade services and business banking services are Chinese residents and enterprises and opened currently being piloted in Singapore and will be Prestige Banking Centres during the year.
Personal extended to other markets during 2003.
The HSBC internet banking services were launched in Groups strong alliance with Yahoo!
Hang Seng Bank obtained in principle demonstrated in Asia by the joint sponsorship of the 22 FIFA World Cup site in mainland China.
The HSBC HSBCs Corporate Investment Banking and Markets brand was exposed via 560 million page impressions business posted robust results.
during the period of the campaign.
As a result of investment in human resources, Eight new branches were opened in the region marketing and systems development in 2001, HSBC during 2002, including HSBCs first branch in the firmly established itself as a premier provider of Maldive Islands early in the year.
The HSBC higher margin derivative products in 2002.
This was Premier banking service is now available in 11 reflected in strong  countries across the region.
Further expansion of revenues, augmenting accrual income and dealing other service channels, such as ATM and telephone profits.
banking services, also occurred, as well as the use of HSBCs electronic dealing platform now sales agents to reach customers.
Retail customer allows its various branches in the region to access numbers, including cards customers, reached 3.8 liquidity in its major global market-making million by year-end.
Due in part to the expanded centres, thus enhancing speed of delivery, breadth accessibility of HSBCs services, sales of insurance of product offering, and overall service quality.
In and investment products increased significantly addition, many regional centres now allow during the year, and these particular products are customers to deal directly via electronic media.
expected to show rapid growth in 2003.
There will be a greater focus on insurance and asset management Middle East activities across the region in 2003 and HSBC expects the acquisition of Keppel Insurance in HSBCs operations in the region are conducted Singapore will facilitate further regional expansion primarily through HSBC Bank Middle East, HSBC of these businesses in 2003.
Financial Services Middle East Limited, HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. 94.5 per cent owned, British HSBCs credit card business in the rest of AsiaArab Commercial Bank Limited 46.5 per cent Pacific recorded a 25 per cent increase in owned and The Saudi British Bank 40 per cent outstandings in 2002.
HSBC Middle East Finance Company climate, the focus was switched from acquisition to Limited 80 per cent owned and HSBC Insurance usage and retention of customers.
Further expansion Brokers Limited also have operations in the region.
of the credit card business is expected in 2003, with HSBCs network consists of 139 branches and significant investment in staff, training and systems offices, primarily in the United Arab Emirates and to support this growth.
Saudi Arabia, and also in Algeria, Egypt, Bahrain, The focus on increasing the efficiency of the Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Iran Groups operations in the region and reducing costs and the Palestinian Autonomous Area.
In addition to has intensified during the year.
Process reviews of their core commercial and corporate banking several of HSBCs larger operations in the region services, HSBCs Middle East operations focus on have been carried out with a particular emphasis on personal banking, private banking for high net worth streamlining operational procedures, concentrating individuals and the rapidly developing field of processing activities in single sites where economies Islamic finance.
During 2002, data processing was of scale can be achieved, and, where financially integrated in the UK, and certain processing appropriate, moving certain processing activities activities were streamlined by moving them to the offshore to the major Group Service Centres in India Group Service Centre in Hyderabad.
IT systems and mainland China.
Japan, Singapore and the development for the Middle East is now also sourced Philippines have migrated operations offshore during from India.
the year, and further migrations are planned for 2003.
In aggregate the Group Service Centres in India and North America mainland China now employ 4,720 people, an North America contributed US$1,238 million, or increase of over 2,700 since December 2001.
To 12.8 per cent, of HSBCs profit on ordinary activities facilitate further growth and diversity in locations, a before tax in 2002 compared with US$503 million in new processing site in Malaysia will be opened in the 2001.
HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in first half of the year.
North America are HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank In the Asia-Pacific region outside Hong Kong, Canada and GFBital.
23 Description of Business continued United States development facility based in New York, launched business applications in Asia, North America and At 31 December 2002, HSBC Bank USA had assets Europe: implemented an improved internet service of US$89 billion and deposits of US$59 billion and for Global Treasury and Capital Markets customers: was the eleventh-largest US commercial bank, launched new web sites for Group businesses in ranked by total assets, and the third-largest North America and Europe: and provided a global depositary institution in New York State, serving service for processing internet credit card over two million customers.
com made significant progress in HSBC Bank USA is engaged in general fulfilling its mission of providing a common commercial banking business.
Through HSBC Bank presentation layer browser capability for all USA, HSBC has the largest branch network in New HSBCs global products and services.
This e-channel York State, where it has over 400 branches, as well delivery program, when completed, will provide as two branches in Pennsylvania, eight in Florida and HSBCs customers with access to all Group products three in California.
Selected commercial and in all the countries and territories in which HSBC has consumer banking products are offered on a national a presence, as well as reducing costs through the basis, including mortgage servicing to over 3,000 economies of a single technical platform.
At 31 December 2002, HSBC Considerable infrastructural work was also Bank USAs customer base included more than 2.3 successfully completed in 2002, providing the million personal and 190,000 commercial and foundation for migrating all existing systems and institutional customers.
applications to this platform over the next 5 years.
As a result of the acquisition of RNYC in Canada December 1999, HSBC provides the fifth-largest factoring service in the US.
The acquisition also HSBC Bank Canada had assets of US$22 billion as helped to double assets under administration and at 31 December 2002 and was the seventh-largest greatly enhanced HSBCs global treasury and foreign bank in Canada.
With over 160 branches and exchange businesses.
HSBC is now also a world subsidiary offices and a staff of over 4,900, HSBC leader in banknotes and precious metals trading.
Bank Canadas operations are customer-driven and integrated both across service and product lines and Through its participation in the joint venture through HSBC's international network.
HSBC Bank Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank with Wells Fargo Canada offers a wide range of products and services Bank, HSBC offers trade-related financing to targeted customer segments.
As at 31 December throughout the western US.
Through HSBCs 2002, HSBC Bank Canada had approximately international network, HSBC Bank USA offers its 890,000 customers across all business segments.
customers access to the global markets and services of HSBC.
Through HSBCs international network, HSBC Bank Canada has a strong market share of Asian banking.
HSBC Bank USA also has a considerable HSBC has the largest market share in Canada for presence and is the largest lender to corporations in Import Documentary Credits and ranks second based Panama with 15 branches.
on industry statistics as compiled by the Canadian As part of its strategy of providing customers Bankers Association for the 12 months ended 31 with multiple choices for product and service October 2002 in terms of combined Import Export delivery, HSBC Bank USA offers a comprehensive Documentary Credits.
At 31 December 2002, In 2002, HSBC Bank Canada was rated highest more than 405,000 customers had registered for the for overall quality of customer service among the service, up from approximately 275,000 at 31 banks included in the 2002 Customer Service December 2001.
The HSBC Bank USA web site, Index, an independent study conducted annually by us.
com, where customers can apply for Market Facts of Canada.
HSBC Bank Canada accounts, conduct financial planning and link to introduced clientConnect, a sales and service online services, receives approximately 50,000 visits initiative designed to improve client relationships.
The bank also completed the rollout of a Call In 2002, hsbc.
com, HSBCs internet Management strategy, designed to remove routine 24 tasks from branches, enabling staff to concentrate on banks in Brazil, as a platform to expand personal deepening relationships with customers.
banking services and cross-sell other products and services, particularly insurance, funds management Electronic Documentary Credit Advising, an and leasing services.
internet based trade services product, was launched in 2002.
In addition, there was a major overhaul of HSBC operates the seventh-largest insurance the hsbc.
ca website and Business Internet Banking business in Brazil, offering a broad range of was launched.
As part of HSBCs overall crossselling strategy, most of the staff of HSBC Bank Mexico Brasils insurance and banking offices are being located together in order to maximise cross-sale GFBital, which is headquartered in Mexico City, has opportunities.
nation-wide coverage from a network of 1,350 branches and nearly 4,000 automatic teller machines HSBC Bank Brasil also manages HSBC servicing the bank's customers, which, numbering Investment Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo nearly five and a half million, represent the largest formerly known as Banco CCF Brasil S. A, which personal customer base of any banking institution in is owned by CCF.
HSBC plans to use this network and HSBCs capital markets and insurance operations customer base to expand personal banking services and has brought significant additions to HSBCs and cross-sell other products and services, private banking and asset management operations in particularly leveraging the important position now Brazil.
Total assets under management were US$5.9 held in all of the North American Free Trade billion at 31 December 2002, making HSBC the Agreement countries Canada, the US and Mexico.
fifth-largest fund manager in Brazil.
Through its subsidiary Banco Internacional S. A. Argentina GFBital provides comprehensive retail and consumer banking products and services using its branches and Argentina has undergone significant financial turmoil state of the art internet and tele-banking facilities.
In in 2002, with a consequent adverse impact on the addition, Casa fide Bolsa Bital, a brokerage house, economy.
It remains unclear when this position will offers investment banking and fund management improve.
HSBC in Argentina has a total staff of over products and services, through the branch network.
4,100 employees and a total of 115 sales points, of which 58 are bank branches and 57 are insurance, GFBital has a joint venture insurance and pension, annuities and health care outlets.
HSBC pension investment with ING, offering life, auto, Bank Argentina S. A. is the seventh-largest privatelyproperty, health insurance and pension products owned bank in Argentina in terms of deposits and through branches.
sixth-largest in terms of assets and loans.
HSBC also has one of the largest insurance businesses in South America Argentina, HSBC La Buenos Aires, and through its South America contributed a loss of US$58 million subsidiaries HSBC Mxima and HSBC New York to HSBCs profit on ordinary activities before tax in Life offers pensions and life assurance.
HSBCs 2002 compared with a loss of US$1,016 million in Argentinian health care subsidiary, HSBC Salud, 2001.
HSBCs operations in South America provides pre-paid medical services and is the fourthprincipally comprise HSBC Bank Brasil and HSBC largest pre-paid health care company in Argentina in Bank Argentina S. A. with small operations in Chile, terms of membership and the leading one in the Uruguay and Venezuela.
Brazil Competitive environment HSBC Bank Brasil, which is headquartered in HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries face keen Curitiba, has an extensive domestic network, with competition in all the markets they serve.
HSBC over 1,500 branches and offices, 3.5 million personal competes with other major financial institutions, customers and over 250,000 business and including commercial banks, savings and loan institutional customers.
HSBCs goal is to use this associations, credit unions, consumer finance network, the third-largest of the privately-owned companies, major retailers, brokerage firms and 25 Description of Business continued investment companies providing commercial services to challenge traditional banks.
banking products and services, and with investment In March 2002, the Competition Commission banks and the investment banking operations of Report on the supply of banking services to small commercial banks providing investment banking and medium sized businesses was published.
Report prescribed several remedies including a Transitional Remedy which allowed the banks the Global factors choice of paying interest on current accounts at a minimum of 2 per cent below base rate or Consolidation in the banking industry providing free money transmission services to The trend towards bank consolidations, at both the businesses with up to 25 million turnover.
During national and international levels, is creating a broader the year, discussions took place with The Office of range of banks capable of competing directly with Fair Trading OFT following the completion of the HSBC in an increasing number of markets Competition Commissions report on the provision worldwide in which previously only HSBC and a of banking services to small and medium-sized few other global banks offered the full range of businesses.
HSBC Bank plc has developed an banking services.
enhanced package of initiatives for customers, estimated to be worth US$125 million per annum.
Limited market growth Interest on current accounts has been paid automatically to all qualifying customers with effect In HSBCs largest current markets, the UK, France, from 1 January 2003.
Further initiatives include the the US and Hong Kong, there is limited market introduction of a new instant access savings account growth in the provision of basic financial and and improved terms for start-up businesses.
There is, however, growth potential in the provision of a full range of financial services.
In November 2002, OFT announced that in early 2003 it is to launch a new market investigation Advances in technology looking into payment systems developments.
It has stated that this will pave the way for its prospective Technological innovations, including new and powers to promote effective competition in payment expanding information and communication systems.
On 11 February 2003, OFT announced its technologies, are altering radically HSBCs range of preliminary conclusion that an agreement between competitors, as specialist providers and non-financial MasterCards UK members which includes HSBC organisations begin to offer financial services Bank plc on a common interchange fee charged on without the need of a traditional physical branch transactions made in the UK by credit and charge network.
Such innovations increase the pressure on cards infringes the Competition Act 1998.
OFT has traditional banks to maintain and enhance service given MasterCard a further opportunity to justify the quality and also to make the investments required to existing agreement or suggest changes to it so that it offer similar services.
HSBC is actively adapting its will meet the conditions for an exemption under the business to allow customers to access its full range of Competition Act.
A final decision on this issue is services in the manner they wish: through the expected in the spring of 2003. internet, interactive TV, mobile phones, WAP, telephone banking as well as the branch system.
France Regional factors Like the other western economies, the French banking sector was affected in 2002 by the poor UK economic environment and the equity market turmoil, but benefited from high volumes of sight Although market growth in the UK has remained deposits and slightly improved lending margins.
A limited, competition continues to increase.
The debate has been opened on the legal prohibition of market has seen an array of new entrants, new remuneration for sight deposits.
The trend towards channels and new products.
Such new entrants have consolidation in the sector is expected to continue.
included insurance companies, supermarkets, clothing and grocery retailers, car manufacturers and utilities, each providing a variety of products and 26 Hong Kong competition from a large number of non-bank suppliers of financial services that have found new Competition from locally incorporated and foreign and effective ways to meet the financial demands of banks remains strong, particularly for quality customers.
Many of these institutions are not subject customers and quality assets.
Competition for credit to the same laws and regulations imposed on HSBC cards and consumer assets has remained intense, but Bank USA.
The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act GLBA banks in general have tightened their credit enables banks, securities firms and insurance acceptance procedures and limits due to the growing companies to enter into combinations that permit a numbers of bankruptcies.
This trend is likely to single financial services organisation to offer a more continue through 2003.
To generate income to cover complete line of financial products and services.
credit loss and mitigate the reduction in mortgage revenue, banks have diversified into growing their In Canada, the financial services industry is insurance and investment businesses.
HSBC has more centrally regulated relative to the US and other grown its securities trading market share by 40 per parts of the world.
The financial services industry cent, although weak demand for individual equity continues to be dominated by the five largest banks products continues to put securities trading revenues in the country but the market remains highly under pressure.
As market leaders, The Hongkong competitive.
In anticipation of potential fideand Shanghai Banking Corporation and Hang Seng regulation, there has been consolidation in the Bank are well placed to meet these competitive insurance and wealth management sectors over the challenges.
The large banks, however, have been unsuccessful to date in gaining approval from the Rest of Asia-Pacific including Middle East federal government to merge.
Growth picked up in general across the rest of AsiaIn Mexico, the banking environment has seen Pacific in 2002, spurred by a rebound in trade and significant concentration in recent years with over economic activity.
An improvement in consumer 70% of banking assets and 75% of deposits owned spending, supported by more flexible monetary by subsidiaries of four major foreign banks HSBC, policy and the willingness of banks to extend credit BBVA, Citibank and Santander.
Given that Mexico to the household sector, was also seen in certain has a population of 100 million of which an economies, notably in Malaysia.
estimated 80% do not use the banking system, the growth opportunities in the retail sector are The competitive environment varies greatly favourable in the medium to long term.
GFBital, across the region, depending on the level of with its extensive branch network, solid regulation, number of entrants and the maturity of technological infrastructure and growing young the markets.
Following the economic slowdown in customer base is well positioned to take full 2001, a greater accommodation towards foreign advantage of the economic and competitive banks has emerged in some countries as local banks environment.
suffer from the burden of extensive non-performing loans.
HSBCs strong reputation for prudent risk HSBC's expertise and global customer base will management is invaluable as new opportunities arise.
help position GFBital to compete more effectively in Additionally, in most countries in the region, the trade finance, Corporate, Investment Banking and relatively young population and maturing Markets and Personal Financial Services.
Mexico's sophistication in financial services are expected to economy is very closely linked to that of the US and provide further growth opportunities for HSBC.
Canada: over 90% of Mexico's exports stay within the North American market.
HSBC's growing In the Middle East, competition remains intense, presence in the region provides a competitive with a large number of banks serving relatively small advantage.
South America North America There are over 180 banks in Brazil operating through In the US, mergers and acquisitions in the banking, a network of over 24,000 branches and offices.
insurance and securities industries have brought Consolidation in the local banking industry is consolidation, conglomeration and a blending of underway, increasingly involving foreign banks at services.
HSBC Bank USA also faces vigorous 27 Description of Business continued the end of 2002 there were 53 banks in Brazil with HSBC is proud of its diverse workforce that is foreign ownership interests.
With a population of able to communicate with HSBCs customers in the 175 million and an estimated 63 per cent of the local languages and dialects across 80 countries and population unbanked, growth opportunities in the territories.
A continued focus on policies that retail sector, in particular, appear favourable in the encourage an inclusive working environment and the medium to long term.
In comparison with more development of career opportunities for all, developed markets, insurance penetration in Brazil is regardless of ethnicity, gender or grade, is a key part fairly low, especially in the life business sector.
of HSBCs employer of choice philosophy.
Emphasis HSBCs ability to cross-sell both life assurance and is also placed on identifying, developing and general insurance products through its extensive retaining the very best talent that exists around the branch network means that it is well placed to take globe.
advantage of this economic and competitive environment.
Regulation and supervision In Argentina, international financial groups are HSBCs operations throughout the world are the main competitors as most major banking and regulated and supervised by the relevant central insurance players in the market are foreign banks and regulatory authorities in each of the controlled.
jurisdictions in which HSBC has offices, branches or The crisis in Argentina over the past year has subsidiaries.
These authorities impose certain reserve had a profound impact on the financial services and reporting requirements and controls for market and HSBC is now one of a few participants example, capital adequacy, depositor protection, and still able to provide the full range of financial prudential supervision on banks.
In addition, a services to its customers.
The financial services number of countries in which HSBC operates impose industry however remains unprofitable pending the rules that affect, or place limitations on, foreign or necessary economic, fiscal and political reforms foreign-owned or controlled banks and financial required to recover confidence in the countrys institutions, including: restrictions on the opening of prospects.
HSBC will carefully monitor local offices, branches or subsidiaries and the types developments, particularly following the presidential of banking and non-banking activities that may be election due in April 2003, to evaluate the conducted by those local offices, branches or opportunities and risks within the financial services subsidiaries: restrictions on the acquisition of local industry in Argentina.
banks or requiring a specified percentage of local ownership: and restrictions on investment and other financial flows entering or leaving the country.
Employees Changes in the supervisory and regulatory regimes of As at 31 December 2002, HSBC had approximately the countries where HSBC operates, particularly in 192,000 employees including part-time employees Asia, will determine to some degree HSBCs ability worldwide of whom approximately 54,000 work in to expand into new markets, the services and the UK, 14,000 in France, 24,000 in Hong Kong, products that HSBC will be able to offer in those 14,000 in the US, 21,000 in Brazil and 15,000 in markets and how HSBC structures specific Mexico, compared with approximately 180,000 at operations.
31 December 2001 and 172,000 at 31 December The UK Financial Services Authority FSA 2000.
HSBC estimates that approximately half of its supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis.
labour force worldwide is unionised.
Most Additionally, each operating bank within HSBC is significant concentrations of union membership regulated by local supervisors.
Thus, The Hongkong occur in Brazil, France, Indonesia, Malaysia, Malta, and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Mexico, Philippines, Spain, and the UK.
Hang Seng Bank are supervised by the Hong Kong Management believes that the current relationship Monetary Authority the Monetary Authority, between HSBC and its employees is harmonious, as HSBC Bank plc by the FSA, CCF by the French it has been in the past.
HSBC has not experienced Banking Commission and HSBC Bank USA by the any material strikes or work stoppages within the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board past five years.
the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit 28 Insurance Corporation the FDIC and the State of HSBC as a whole.
Further details on capital New York Banking Department.
measurement are included in Capital Management on pages 140 to 142.
United Kingdom regulation and supervision HSBC Bank plc is HSBCs principal authorised UK banking and financial institutions are subject to institution in the UK.
HSBC Investment Bank plcs multiple regulations.
The primary UK statute is the business was subsumed into HSBC Bank plc in Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA.
In addition, other UK primary and secondary Depositors and investors are covered by the banking legislation is derived from European Union Financial Services Compensation Scheme which EU directives relating to banking, securities, deals with deposits with authorised institutions in the investment and sales of personal financial services.
UK, investment business and contracts of insurance.
The FSA has been responsible for authorising Institutions authorised to accept deposits and conduct and supervising UK banking institutions since 1 June investment business are required to contribute to the 1998, when the Bank of England Act 1998 funding of the scheme.
In the event of the insolvency transferred to it responsibility for, among other of an authorised institution, depositors are entitled to things, banking supervision from the Bank of receive 100% of the first 2,000 US$3,224 of a England.
The FSA regulates all investment business claim plus 90% of any further amount up to 33,000 in the UK from retail life and pensions business to US$53,189 the maximum amount payable being custody, branch share dealing and treasury and 31,700 US$51,094.
Payments under the scheme capital markets activity.
in respect of investment business compensation are limited to 100% of the first 30,000 US$48,354 of FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for a claim plus 90% of any further amount up to authorisation for banks and investment businesses in 20,000 US$32,236 the maximum amount payable the UK.
They also set out reporting and, as being 48,000 US$77,366.
applicable, consent requirements with regard to large individual exposures and large exposures to The European Union is currently in the process related borrowers.
The FSA may obtain independent of finalizing a new directive regarding the taxation of reports, usually from the auditors of the authorised savings income.
Under the current proposal, each institution, as to the adequacy of systems governing Member State other than Austria, Belgium, and internal control as well as systems governing records Luxembourg would be required, beginning in 2004, and accounting.
The FSA may also object, on to provide the tax authorities of each other Member prudential grounds, to persons who hold, or intend to State with details of payments of interest or other hold, 10 per cent or more of the voting power of a similar income paid by a person within its financial institution.
jurisdiction to individuals resident in such other Member State.
Beginning on the same date, Austria, The regulatory framework of the UK banking Belgium, and Luxembourg would impose a system has traditionally been based on co-operation withholding tax on such income.
The withholding tax between the FSA and authorised institutions.
The rate would initially be 15 per cent, increasing to 20 FSA monitors authorised institutions through per cent after 2006 and 35 per cent after 2009.
If and interviews and the review of periodically required when i the European Union enters into exchange of reports relating to financial and prudential matters.
information agreements with Switzerland, The FSA meets regularly with HSBCs senior Liechtenstein, Monaco, Andorra, and San Marino executives to confirm that HSBC adheres to the and ii the Council of the European Union confirms FSAs prudential guidelines.
The FSA and senior that the United States is sufficiently committed to executives in the UK regularly discuss fundamental exchange of information pursuant to bilateral matters relating to HSBCs business in the UK and agreements, Austria, Belgium, and Luxembourg internationally, such as strategic and operating plans, would cease to apply the withholding tax and would risk control, loan portfolio composition and instead comply with the automatic exchange of organisational changes.
information rules applicable to the other Member In its capacity as supervisor of HSBC on a States.
Although some issues regarding the proposal consolidated basis, the FSA receives information on remain to be resolved notably, a precondition that the capital adequacy of, and sets requirements for, Switzerland agree to a withholding tax regime 29 Description of Business continued similar to that applicable to Austria, Belgium, and deemed to be fit and proper, or if they may otherwise Luxembourg, the Council of the European Union threaten the interests of depositors or potential intends to finalize and approve the directive on depositors.
Holders should consult their own The Monetary Authority may revoke tax advisers regarding the implications of the authorisation in the event of an institution's nondirective in their particular circumstances.
compliance with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
These provisions require, among other Hong Kong regulation and supervision things, the furnishing of accurate reports.
Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions of The Banking Ordinance requires that banks the Banking Ordinance of Hong Kong Chapter 155 submit to the Monetary Authority certain returns and the Banking Ordinance, and to the powers, other information and establishes certain minimum functions and duties ascribed by the Banking standards and ratios relating to capital adequacy see Ordinance to the Monetary Authority.
The principal below, liquidity, capitalisation, limitations on function of the Monetary Authority is to promote the shareholdings, exposure to any one customer, general stability and effective working of the unsecured advances to persons affiliated with the banking system in Hong Kong.
The Monetary bank and holdings of interests in land, with which Authority is responsible for supervising compliance banks must comply.
with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
The Chief Executive of Hong Kong the Chief Hong Kong fully implemented the capital Executive has the power to give directions to the adequacy standards established by the Basel Monetary Authority, which the Banking Ordinance Convergence Agreement in 1989.
The Banking requires the Monetary Authority and the Financial Ordinance currently provides that banks incorporated Secretary to follow.
in Hong Kong maintain a capital adequacy ratio calculated as the ratio expressed as a percentage of The Monetary Authority has responsibility for its capital base to its risk-weighted exposure of at authorising banks, and has discretion to attach least 8 per cent.
For banks with subsidiaries, the conditions to its authorisation.
The Monetary Monetary Authority is empowered to require that the Authority requires that banks or their holding ratio be calculated on a consolidated basis, or on companies file regular prudential returns, and holds both consolidated and unconsolidated bases.
If regular discussions with the management of the circumstances require, the Monetary Authority is banks to review their operations.
The Monetary empowered to increase the minimum capital Authority may also conduct on site examinations of adequacy ratio to up to 12 per cent for fully-licensed banks, and in the case of banks incorporated in Hong banks and 16 per cent for deposit-taking companies Kong, of any local and overseas branches and and restricted-licence banks, after consultation with subsidiaries.
The Monetary Authority requires all the bank authorised institutions to have adequate systems of internal control and requires the institutions external US regulation and supervision auditors, upon request, to report on those systems and other matters such as the accuracy of information HSBC is subject to extensive federal and state provided to the Monetary Authority.
In addition, the supervision and regulation in the US.
Banking laws Monetary Authority may from time to time conduct and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, the tripartite discussions with banks and their external FDIC and the State of New York Banking auditors.
Department govern many aspects of HSBCs US business.
The Monetary Authority, which may deny the acquisition of voting share capital of over 10 per cent HSBC and its US operations are subject to in a bank, and may attach conditions to its approval supervision, regulation and examination by the thereof, can effectively control changes in the Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a bank ownership and control of Hong Kong-incorporated holding company under the US Bank Holding financial institutions.
In addition, the Monetary Company Act of 1956 the BHCA as a result of its Authority has the power to divest controlling ownership of HSBC Bank USA.
HSBC Bank USA, interests in a bank from a person if they are no longer as a New York state-chartered bank, is a member of 30 the Federal Reserve System and subject to The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and regulation, supervision and examination by both the Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 the Riegle-Neal Federal Reserve Board and the State of New York Act permits a bank holding company or foreign Banking Department.
The deposits of HSBC Bank banking organisation, with Federal Reserve Board USA are insured by the FDIC and are subject to approval, to acquire a bank located in a state other relevant FDIC regulation.
than the organisations US home state, subject to certain restrictions, and a national or state-chartered The BHCA and the International Banking Act of bank to merge across state lines or to establish or 1978 IBA impose certain limits and requirements acquire branches in other states, subject to various on the US activities and investments of HSBC and state law requirements or restrictions.
In general, the certain companies in which it holds direct or indirect Riegle-Neal Act provides a non-US bank with investments.
HSBC is generally prohibited from interstate branching and expansion rights similar to acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control those of a US national or state-chartered bank of more than 5 per cent of the voting shares of any located in its home state.
company engaged in the United States in activities other than banking and certain activities closely The US is a party to the Basel Convergence related to banking.
HSBC has elected to be treated as Agreement and US banking regulatory authorities a financial holding company under the GLBA, have adopted risk-based capital requirements for US enabling it to offer a more complete line of financial banks and bank holding companies that are generally products and services.
HSBCs ability to engage in consistent with the agreement.
In addition, US bank expanded financial activities as an FHC depends regulatory authorities have adopted leverage capital upon HSBC meeting certain criteria set forth in the requirements that generally require US banks and BHCA, including requirements that its principal US bank holding companies to maintain a minimum depository institution subsidiary, HSBC Bank USA, amount of capital in relation to their balance sheet and its forty per cent owned subsidiary, Wells Fargo assets measured on a non-risk-weighted basis.
HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. be well capitalized and The Federal Reserve Board has determined that, well managed, and that they have achieved at least a as a general matter, a US bank holding company that satisfactory record of meeting community credit is owned and controlled by a foreign bank that is a needs during their most recent examination pursuant financial holding company that the Federal Reserve to the Community Reinvestment Act.
In general Board has determined to be well capitalised and well under the BHCA, an FHC would be required, upon managed, will not be required to comply with the notice by the Federal Reserve Board, to enter into an Federal Reserve Boards capital adequacy guidelines.
agreement to correct any deficiency in the HSBC may rely on the Federal Reserve Boards requirements necessary to maintain its FHC election.
flexibility with respect to the capital adequacy Until such deficiencies are corrected, the Federal requirements applicable to such US bank holding Reserve Board may impose limitations on the companies.
conduct or activities of an FHC or any of its affiliates as it deems appropriate.
If such deficiencies are not HSBC Bank USA, like other FDIC-insured timely corrected, the Federal Reserve Board may banks, is required to pay assessments to the FDIC for require an FHC to divest its control of any subsidiary deposit insurance under the FDICs Bank Insurance bank or to cease to engage in certain financial Fund calculated using a risk-based assessment activities.
HSBC is also generally prohibited from system.
These assessments are based on deposit acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control levels and other factors.
of more than 5 per cent of any class of voting shares The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of, or substantially all the assets of, or exercising Improvement Act of 1991 FDICIA provides for control over, any US bank or bank holding company extensive regulation of depository institutions such without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve as HSBC Bank USA, including requiring federal Board.
However, as a qualifying foreign banking banking regulators to take prompt corrective action organisation under Federal Reserve Board in respect of FDIC-insured banks that do not meet regulations, HSBC may engage in the United States minimum capital requirements.
For this purpose, in certain limited non-banking activities and hold FDICIA establishes five tiers of institutions: well certain investments that would otherwise not be capitalised: adequately capitalised: undercapitalised: permissible under US law.
31 Description of Business continued significantly undercapitalised: and critically banks, U. S. broker-dealers and numerous other undercapitalised.
As an insured banks capital level entities.
The U. S. Treasury Secretary delegated this declines and the bank falls into lower categories or authority to a bureau of the U. S. Treasury if it is placed in a lower category by the discretionary Department known as the Financial Crimes action of its supervisor, greater limits are placed on Enforcement Network FinCEN.
its activities and federal banking regulators are Many of the new anti-money laundering authorised and, in many cases, required to take compliance requirements of the Patriot Act, as increasingly more stringent supervisory actions, implemented by FinCEN, are generally consistent which could ultimately include the appointment of a with the anti-money laundering compliance conservator or receiver for the bank even if it is obligations that already apply to HSBC Bank USA solvent.
In addition, FDICIA generally prohibits an under the Bank Secrecy Act and applicable Federal FDIC-insured bank from making any capital Reserve Board regulations.
These include distribution including payment of a dividend or requirements to adopt and implement an anti-money paying any management fee to its holding company laundering program, report suspicious transactions and if the bank would thereafter be undercapitalised.
If implement due diligence procedures for certain an insured bank becomes undercapitalised, it is correspondent and private banking accounts.
Certain required to submit to federal regulators a capital other specific requirements under the Patriot Act restoration plan guaranteed by the banks holding involve new compliance obligations.
The guarantee is limited to 5 per cent of the Patriot Act and other recent events have resulted in the banks assets at the time it becomes heightened scrutiny of the Bank Secrecy Act and antiundercapitalised or, should the undercapitalised bank money laundering compliance by federal and state fail to comply with the plan, the amount of the bank examiners.
HSBC Bank USA is in the process of capital deficiency at the time of failure, whichever is implementing a program to ensure that it is in full less.
If an undercapitalised bank fails to submit an compliance with all such requirements.
acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were significantly undercapitalised.
Significantly undercapitalised Certain U. S. source payments to foreign persons banks may be subject to a number of requirements may be subject to U. S. withholding tax unless the and restrictions, including requirements to sell foreign person is a qualified intermediary.
A qualified sufficient voting stock to become adequately intermediary is a financial intermediary who is capitalised, requirements to reduce total assets and qualified under the Internal Revenue Code and has restrictions on accepting deposits from correspondent completed the Qualified Intermediary Withholding banks.
Critically undercapitalised depository Agreement with the Internal Revenue Service.
This institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver regulatory regime requires us to incur additional or conservator.
compliance expenses and creates another risk of noncompliance which may have significant adverse As at 31 December 2002, HSBC Bank USA was consequences.
well capitalised under Federal Reserve Board regulations.
The U. S. Treasury has proposed amendments to the regulations under section 163 j of the Internal On 26 October 2001 the USA Patriot Act Revenue Code that would limit deductions for Patriot Act became effective.
The Patriot Act interest expense paid to certain related parties.
imposed significant record keeping and customer Treasurys proposal is subject to the uncertainties identity requirements, expanded the governments inherent in the legislative process and it is impossible powers to freeze or confiscate assets and increased to predict whether and in what form the proposal will the available penalties that may be assessed against be enacted.
If the amendment is enacted as proposed, financial institutions for violation of the it may reduce the amount of U. S. tax deductions we requirements of the Patriot Act intended to detect and are able to take for interest paid in respect of certain deter money laundering.
The Patriot Act required the related-party debt.
U. S. Treasury Secretary to develop and adopt final regulations with regard to the anti-money laundering French regulation and supervision compliance obligations on financial institutions a term which includes insured U. S. depository French banking law the Banking Law sets forth institutions, U. S. branches and agencies of foreign the conditions under which credit institutions, 32 including banks, may operate in France and vests statement, and certain additional data relating to related supervisory and regulatory powers in certain operations such as the number of employees, client administrative authorities: the National Credit and accounts and branches.
Securities Council, the Banking and Financial All credit institutions operating in France are Regulatory Committee, the Credit Institutions and required by law to operate a deposit guarantee Investment Firms Committee and the Banking mechanism for customers of commercial banks, Commission.
except branches of European Economic Area banks The Banking Commission, which is chaired by which are covered by their home countrys guarantee the Governor of the Bank of France, is responsible system.
The contribution of each credit institution is for the supervision of credit institutions and certain calculated on the basis of the aggregate deposits and investment firms and the enforcement of laws and one-third of the gross customer loans held by such regulations applicable to them.
Banks are required to credit institution.
This contribution is weighted by submit periodic either monthly or quarterly solvency criteria.
In the event of the insolvency of an accounting reports to the Banking Commission authorised institution, the limit on compensation for concerning the principal areas of their activity.
Banking Commission may also request additional French credit institutions are required to information which it deems necessary and may carry establish appropriate internal control systems, out on-site inspections.
The reports permit close including with respect to risk management and the monitoring of the condition of each bank and also creation of appropriate audit trails.
The institution facilitate computation of the total deposits of all must prepare an annual report for review by the banks and their use.
Where regulations have been institutions board of directors and the Banking violated, the Banking Commission may act as an Commission regarding the institutions internal administrative court and impose sanctions which procedures and the measurement and monitoring of may include deregistration of a bank, resulting in the institutions exposure.
The Banking Commission also has the power to appoint a temporary administrator to manage provisionally a bank which it deems to be mismanaged.
The principal regulations applicable to deposit banks such as CCF are minimum capital ratio requirements, equity and permanent resources certain long-term assets denominated in euros ratios, risk diversification and liquidity, as well as monetary policy, restrictions on equity investments and reporting requirements.
CCFs commercial banking operations in France are also significantly affected by monetary policies established from time to time by the European Central Bank in coordination with the Bank of France.
French credit institutions are required to maintain on deposit with the Bank of France a percentage, fixed by the European Central Bank and calculated monthly, of various categories of demand and short-term deposits and are prohibited from paying interest on certain demand deposits and on deposits with a maturity of less than one month.
Credit institutions must make periodic reports to the Banking Commission summarising their activities during the relevant period with detailed breakdowns by category, including an income 33
