ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 1 ICAP is the worlds largest interdealer broker.
The Group is active in the wholesale market for OTC derivatives, fixed income securities, money markets, futures, foreign exchange and energy and equity derivatives with daily transaction volumes in excess of $300 billion.
More than 2,000 staff worldwide create a strong presence in each of the three major financial centres, London, New York and Tokyo, together with a local presence in 15 other financial markets.
In electronic broking, ICAP has established its system in the fixed income markets and is extending the number of products covered.
It is a powerful hybrid that uses the established liquidity from our leading voice broking business and allows both voice and electronic access to all deals.
The Group also has a strong information sales business which supplies data direct and via vendors, including Reuters, Bloomberg and MoneyLine Telerate.
More detailed information is available on the website at www.
com ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 2 Voice Broking Electronic Broking Technology plays a critical role in the rapidly The Group is the worlds largest interdealer evolving OTC derivative and bond markets.
By broker in interest rate derivatives, fixed income creating a hybrid of voice and electronic broking securities, money markets, futures, foreign we cover the entire spectrum from highly liquid to exchange and energy and equity derivatives.
Information Services Market data from our broking activities is used to create a variety of information products that are distributed to market participants, data vendors and professional service providers.
Developments revenues had returned to 60% of previously 2001 The ETC system was extended to add a budgeted levels and by January 2002 had April hybrid of voice and electronic broking in recovered to 90%.
ICAP commissioned Computershare to develop Australian Government Bonds.
November the iswap platform for derivatives.
February TFS-ICAP combined with Volbroker to create July Electronic broking for the Euro Eurobond an interdealer broking consortium that ICAP purchased from the Prebon Group the market was added to the ETC system.
The brings together the strengths of voice 52% of the Spot Foreign Exchange businesses system is capable of handling both the broked liquidity with the market leading, in London and New York it did not already own.
benchmark issues and the less liquid bonds FX Options electronic broking platform.
December The entire New York offices of ICAP located March The Harborside Financial Center in Jersey City on three floors of the World Trade Center ICAP acquired a 30% stake in TriOptima, a was chosen as the new North American were destroyed on 11 September.
Miraculously, private Swedish company that has headquarters.
It is expected to be ready for all but one of ICAPs staff survived the attack.
developed a system which greatly reduces occupation by October 2002.
By 20 September, temporary facilities had the costs of managing an interest rate swap 2002 been established in the New York area and portfolio.
January support staff, together with the majority of A Letter of Intent was signed with First ICAP launched an electronic matching facility broking desks, were able to restore limited Brokers Securities Inc, the leading New York for crossing forward rate agreements over broking operations.
ETC was restored to interdealer broker in US$ denominated the internet www.
Transactions operational status to the majority of our corporate debt, which eventually led to ICAP worth $100bn have since been matched.
Within four weeks of the attack acquiring this company on 30 April 2002.
