ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 14 Directors Report The directors present their report and the directors in the Companys shares are the audited Financial Statements of the shown in the Remuneration Committee Group for the year ended 31 March 2002.
Activities, business review and In accordance with the Companys development A full review of business Articles of Association, Charles Gregson, activities and future developments of the Stephen McDermott, William Nabarro, Group is given in the Chairmans Statement, Jim Pettigrew and Paul Zuckerman will Group Chief Executive Officers and Group stand for re-election at the forthcoming Finance Directors reviews on pages 4 to 11.
The name of the Company was changed from Garban-Intercapital plc to ICAP plc Employee involvement and at the Annual General Meeting held on employment practices The Group 25 July 2001. is committed to achieving the highest standards in its workplace.
The policies Related party transactions Details of and practices in place within the Group related party transactions are set out in to deter acts of harassment and note 30 to the Financial Statements.
The Group maintains a zero tolerance Results and dividends The results of policy concerning sexual harassment, the Group for the year are set out in the discrimination and retaliation against consolidated profit and loss account on individuals who report problems in the page 28.
Following payment of the interim Groups workplace.
dividend, details of which are set out in note 9 to the Financial Statements, the The Group recognises the value of directors recommend a final dividend of communication with employees at all 18 pence per share for the year ended levels and incentive schemes and share 31 March 2002 to be paid on 30 August ownership schemes which are run for 2002 to shareholders on the Register on the benefit of employees.
2 August 2002 ex-dividend date being 31 July 2002.
After allowing for the Equal opportunities The Group payment of the proposed dividend, the pursues a policy of providing the same profit for the year transferred to reserves employment opportunities to disabled was 28.6 million.
Directors and directors interests Environment policy Recognising that Biographical details of the current ICAPs operations are themselves of directors who held office throughout minimal environmental impact, ICAPs the year are given on pages 12 and 13 policy is to operate, as far as practicable, with the exception of Jonathan Robson environmentally friendly policies and meet who resigned on 27 November 2001. the statutory requirements placed on the Details of the service contracts of the Group.
current directors and of the interests of ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 15 Substantial shareholdings As at 15 May 2002, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary share capital: Number of % of ordinary shares ordinary shares held held Mr & Mrs M A Spencer, together with 25,996,091 25.87 Incap Netherlands Holdings B. V. and Intercapital Private Group Limited Zions Bancorporation 5,266,080 5.24 Caledonia No.
1 Settlement Trust 3,847,629 3.83 Barclays plc 3,095,008 3.08 Liontrust Investment Services Limited 3,009,780 3.00 Mr and Mrs Michael Spencer own approximately 42% of IPGL which in turn owns approximately 98.8% of INHBV.
Accordingly, Mr and Mrs Spencer are deemed by the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in all the shares held by IPGL 886,950 and INHBV 25,109,141.
Charitable donations During the year Annual General Meeting The fourth the Group donated 2.8 million 2001 Annual General Meeting of the Company 2.0 million to charitable organisations, will be held on Wednesday, 17 July 2002. of which 2.0 million 2001 1.0 million The Notice of meeting is set out on pages was donated to charitable organisations 64 and 65. registered in the UK.
In addition to the ordinary business of Political donations The Group made voting upon receiving the Annual Report, a donation to Business for Sterling of declaring a dividend, the re-election of 52,875 2001 25,000. directors and the reappointment of auditors, the following special business Creditor payment policy The Groups will be considered: policy with regard to the payment of its suppliers is to agree the terms of Resolution 10 will be proposed as an payment at the start of business with Ordinary Resolution.
It is to authorise each supplier, ensure that the suppliers the directors to allot ordinary shares of are made aware of the terms of the Company to an amount equal to payments and pay in accordance with approximately one third of the existing its contractual and legal obligations.
The Company does not have any trade Resolution 11 will be proposed as a creditors.
It is to authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares, otherwise Changes in share capital All changes than on a pro rata basis to existing in share capital are detailed in note 24 to shareholders in connection with any the Financial Statements.
As at 31 March future rights issue or for cash, up to 2002, options existed over 5,780,667 an aggregate nominal amount of of the Companys ordinary shares of 2,510,352 being approximately 5% 50 pence in relation to employee share in value of the existing share capital.
Of this figure 981,057 are options over existing shares which Each of the authorities in Resolutions 10 are held in Trust and the remainder are and 11 lasts for a period of five years, in expected to be satisfied by new issues of accordance with institutional guidelines.
Changes in options under the The directors have no present intention various schemes are detailed in note 25 of exercising these authorities.
These are to the Financial Statements.
normal authorities for boards of public companies to have, in order to take advantage of market opportunities as they arise.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 16 Directors Report continued Resolution 12 will be proposed as a Statement of directors responsibilities Special Resolution.
It will empower the for the Financial Statements Company to purchase its own ordinary Company law requires the directors to shares by market purchases not exceeding prepare Financial Statements for each approximately 10% of the Companys accounting period that give a true and issued share capital as at 28 April 2002. fair view of the state of affairs of the The directors will only exercise this Company and Group as at the end of authority if they were satisfied that a the financial period and of the profit or purchase would result in an increase in loss of the Group for the period.
The expected earnings per share and would directors confirm that suitable accounting be in the interests of shareholders policies have been used and applied generally.
There is no present intention consistently and reasonable and prudent of exercising this authority and the judgements and estimates have been authority given in the resolution will made in the preparation of the Financial expire at the conclusion of the Annual Statements for the year ended 31 March General Meeting to be held in 2003.
The directors also confirm that applicable United Kingdom Accounting Resolutions 13 and 14 will be proposed Standards have been followed.
as Ordinary Resolutions to approve the making of political donations and incurring The directors are responsible for keeping of political expenditure by the Company proper accounting records, for taking and its subsidiary Garban-Intercapital reasonable steps to safeguard the Groups Management Services Limited of up to assets and to prevent and detect fraud an aggregate amount of 100,000 in the and other irregularities.
period to the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held in 2003.
The Political Going concern The directors are satisfied Parties, Elections and Referendums Act that the Company and the Group have 2000, contains restrictions on companies adequate resources to continue to operate making donations to EU political for the foreseeable future and confirm organisations or incurring EU political that the Company and the Group are expenditure without prior shareholder going concerns.
By order of the board Auditors  were reappointed auditors to the Company on E. C. Pank 25 July 2001.
A resolution to reappoint Company Secretary them and authorise the directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
