2 1 3 4 Sky Sports 33,000 hours of sport broadcast to dedicated fans.
Sky Movies 2,000 lm titles shown across 12 separate screens.
7 8 5 6 9 13. service which so far has attracted Skysports.
com recorded a 50% more than 2 million votes.
For people increase in unique users in the first on the move, Sky News introduced half of 2002 and set a new record of SMS News Alerts via mobile phones, unique users and page impressions in and a million unique users a month June.
An online Video Lounge featuring accessed www.
com news Premiership highlights proved a great during the year.
These innovations, attraction and the technology has combined with an unrivalled expertise been tailored to support nine different in breaking news as it happens, Premier League club websites.
reinforce the channels position in the front rank of news broadcasting Looking ahead, the new football in the years ahead.
season sees Nationwide League and Worthington Cup football return to Sky Sports Sky Sports, September brings golfs In the year to 30 June 2002, Sky premier event the Ryder Cup live Sports gave UK subscribers more and interactive, Englands cricketers Behind the scenes at Sky Sports our staff are dedicated to live sport than ever across its five travel to Australia for the Ashes series in providing our customers with dedicated channels.
the autumn and our new international the best action, angles and interactivity.
Rugby deal starts with South Africa, Among the most memorable moments Australia and New Zealand live at were: Englands 5-1 triumph over Twickenham in November.
Germany, Arsenals title-winning Premiership victory at Old Trafford, Sky Movies and Sky Box Ofce Englands Rugby Union successes The popularity of Sky Movies and over South Africa and Australia, and Sky Box Ofce has continued to the England cricket tours of New increase this year, thanks largely to Zealand and India.
the services commitment to quality Sky Sports and choice.
The addition of Sky Movies With the best in live sport, awardwinning interactivity and a great A number of major contracts were Active and a comprehensive movies season ahead, Sky Sports is the renewed, including Englands autumn website skymovies.
com to this choice of the true sports fan.
Rugby home internationals, the compelling offering, as well as a domestic Zurich Premiership, live new on-air look, has also helped to domestic cricket and England Onestrengthen customer loyalty and to Day internationals, live Scottish increase revenues.
international and Cup football, and live tennis from the US Open.
Sky Movies prides itself on providing the biggest and best selection of lms Sky Sports News audiences increased on TV.
In the past year, it has shown 35% year-on-year as the channel broke more than 2,000 titles on its three major football stories such as David dedicated movie multiplexes, Sky OLearys sacking from Leeds United, Movies Premier, Sky Movies Max Sol Campbell joining Arsenal from and Sky Movies Cinema, and a further Spurs, and Roy Keanes expulsion 200 titles on the Sky Box Ofce service.
Sky Movies and Box Ofce from the World Cup Finals.
Outside the US, this remains the most The biggest and best choice of lms gives our customers what comprehensive movie offering on any they want.
Our award-winning interactivity was TV service in the world.
added to two new sports NFL and Formula One taking the total Sky Movies Premier Sky Movies enhanced to ten.
Interactive football agship channel offers five screens, was further improved with new graphics including a widescreen option.
and a new audio option and live tennis The channels objective is to screen was offered with a choice of up to five blockbuster movies that represent live matches at any one time.
the cream of the Hollywood crop.
Top 5 Movies June 2001-2002 season 1 Gladiator 2 End of Days 3 Mission Impossible 2 4 X-men 5 The Green Mile 1 Tyson vs. Lewis Sky Box Ofce 2 England vs. Germany Sky Sports 3 Arsenal Premiership Champions Sky Sports 4 Shrek Sky Movies 5 Cast Away Sky Movies 6 Gladiator Sky Movies 7 Chocolat Sky Movies 8 Hannibal Sky Movies 9 Captain Correllis Mandolin Sky Box Ofce British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
