Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report on Community activity has become more focused.
process and subsequently, to ensure that disabilities the affairs of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc All activities, donations and sponsorships aim to are not barriers to employment.
In the event of BSkyB, the Company and its subsidiary deliver on our objective of supporting young people members of staff becoming disabled, every effort undertakings the Group, together with the in achieving the best they can with their futures.
is made to ensure that their employment with the Accounts and Auditors Report for the year ended BSkyBs Reach for the Sky initiative is our direct Group continues and that appropriate training or 30 June 2002. contribution to this.
This year, we have: re-training is arranged.
BSkyB upholds the principles of the Disability Discrimination Act by ensuring Activities expanded the Reach for the Sky initiative: equal training, career development and promotion The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, the secured government funding for the Reach for opportunities for all employees irrespective of Chief Executives Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Sky initiative: disability.
BSkyB actively participates in the the Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 9 launched Reach for the Sky On Tour, a roadshow Broadcasters Disability Network, which aims to report on the principal activities of the Group, its for excluded young people, delivered by a charity, promote equality of opportunity for disabled people financial and operating performance during the Weston Spirit, and co-funded by the Learning and both on screen and in the workplace.
year and the future development of the business.
Skills Council: continued our careers-focused initiative, Reach BSkyB also participates in the Cultural Diversity Results and dividends for the Sky Live, now delivered in partnership Network, which aims to promote equality of opportunity The loss on ordinary activities after taxation for with TVYP Television and Young People : within the broadcast industry for people of all races, the year ended 30 June 2002 was 1,382.6 million adopted a youth-focused charity of the year, faiths and ethnic backgrounds.
On 5 May 1999 it was Weston Spirit: announced that the Board had decided to suspend sponsored Business in the Communitys Award Health and safety dividend payments to shareholders.
Accordingly, for Excellence, the investing in potential award The health and safety of the Groups employees is no dividend is proposed.
with the Department for Education and Skills : a matter of primary concern.
Accordingly, it is the supported a series of youth focused initiatives Groups policy to manage its activities so as to avoid Payment policy such as the Guardian Student Media Awards causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risk to The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment with Sky News : the health and safety of its employees.
Compliance with suppliers prior to entering into a contractual provided free televisions and Sky subscriptions with our policies is checked regularly via regular relationship.
In the absence of a specic agreement to all the NSPCC youth centres in England.
assessments and audits, supported by appropriate it is the policy of the Group to pay suppliers on a training courses and our high standards are monthly basis.
The Group had 19 days purchases Crucial to our success in this area is the involvement recognised by external bodies such as the British outstanding at 30 June 2002 2001: 10 days based of our staff.
This year, we have: Safety Council, which has awarded our London on the total amount invoiced by non-programme site with a four-star rating.
The fall protection trade suppliers during the year ended 30 June 2002. launched a staff volunteering scheme: system which we have developed to safeguard our Programme creditors include significant balances established employee forums in our sites in nationwide eld installations engineers has gained which are not yet contractually due.
In respect of Scotland with devolved community budgets: national recognition within our industry in relation to amounts both contractually due and invoiced the promoted and nancially matched payroll safe ladder-work since its introduction at BSkyB outstanding number of days purchases is below giving as well as match-funding other employee in February 2001, no accidents involving falls from 30 days 2001: 40 days.
The Company has no trade fundraising activities: heights have been recorded.
creditors, so the number of creditor days outstanding provided opportunities for involvement as at 30 June 2002 was nil 2001: nil.
advisers working with young people on Reach Our goal in relation to overall accident statistics is for the Sky Live.
to achieve a year-on-year reduction of 10%.
In 2001 Share capital we exceeded this target, achieving a reduction of Details of changes in the share capital during the We are confident that we are delivering a more 15% compared to 2000.
We set similar targets in year are disclosed in note 23 to the accounts.
On focused and effective community programme relation to the number of Employer Liability Claims 30 July 2002 the following companies, or their both for the business and the community.
against the Company, and have experienced over subsidiary undertakings, held more than 3% of the the last year a decrease of more than 30%.
Companys share capital: Charitable contributions of the Group in the UK amounted to 948,000 during the year 2001: Employee involvement and communication BSkyB Holdco, Inc 36.23% 566,000, and BSkyB has given additional value It is the policy of the Group to develop employee inkind through staff involvement, donations to involvement throughout the organisation and to On 23 April 2002, as part of a group reorganisation, schools and Sky merchandise and products.
ensure that employees are aware of the financial Sky Global Operations, Inc. transferred its Political contributions of the Group in the UK and economic factors affecting the Company shareholding in the Company to BSkyB Holdco, Inc. amounted to nil during the year 2000: nil.
Communication meetings between management and employees Corporate governance Directors representatives are held typically on an informal Details concerning the Groups arrangements The Directors who served during the year are listed basis where matters of specic interest are relating to corporate governance and its compliance on page 18. discussed.
Consultation with employees occurs with the Combined Code of Best Practice and the Best on a regular basis covering a broad range of areas Practice Provisions annexed to the Listing Rules of Tony Ball, Allan Leighton and John Thornton retire such as pension provision and health and safety, the Financial Services Authority are given on pages from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, offer and their views are taken into consideration 20 and 21.
The Report on Directors Remuneration is themselves for re-election.
The Group publishes on pages 22 to 24. an employee magazine covering a wide range Employment policies of employee issues.
Charitable and political contributions and The Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares and community activities options of the Company are disclosed within the Report Training and development BSkyB developed a two-year corporate responsibility on Directors Remuneration on pages 22 to 24.
Employees have the opportunity to participate in strategy, launched in October 2001.
The goal of the a range of training programmes in the elds of strategy is to enhance the reputation of the Group Equality of opportunity technology, the broadcast industry, professional through: BSkyB is an equal opportunities employer and skills and management and personal development.
takes steps to promote equality of opportunity within The Company is represented at Board level within community activities: the workforce for all areas of society, regardless of the Broadcast Industry Sector Skills Council, Skillset, a commitment to managing environmental gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnic background, which promotes training and development impacts, and: faith or disability.
managing the business in a responsible manner.
Applications for employment by disabled persons Financial participation BSkyB is a member of the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones are always fully considered, bearing in mind the The Group operates a Sharesave discounted share Sustainability Index.
The Group continues to look at respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants purchase scheme, a Company dened contribution ways to develop and report on its business operations concerned.
Adjustments, where reasonable, are pension scheme, and also a stakeholder pension in the context of its commitments as a corporate citizen.
made by BSkyB to ensure access to the selection scheme for the benefit of all eligible employees.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
