Programming and Content Sky One Sky News page 10 2 Sky Sports Sky Movies and Sky Box Ofce page 12 Sky digital page 14 1 3 Channel line-up 4 page 16 Sky One A 13% increase in audience share.
Sky News Britains most popular 24 hour news channel.
8 5 6 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 7 11.
Sky One its schedule the top-rated US shows Sky Ones strong performance over Enterprise, Alias, and Scrubs.
Magician the last year has once again enabled David Blaines most daring stunt to date it to confirm its status as the core Vertigo aired exclusively first in the entertainment channel in the multiUK on Sky One, which will also show channel environment.
To put this the final ever series of the X Files.
achievement into perspective, it should be remembered that just three years As a result of Sky Ones innovative Sky One ago Sky One was competing with attitude to programming, audience The mix of innovative original entertainment and first run shows 77 channels: today, that gure has ratings particularly among the key from the US makes Sky One a risen to over 200 channels.
16-34 age group have increased leader in its market.
By commissioning innovative original productions and acquiring the best Sky News of US programming first, Sky One Since its launch in 1989, Sky News increased its audience share by 13% has established itself as a formidable year-on-year in the first quarter of 2002 and innovative force in the world of more than any terrestrial channel.
It is Britains most This success is also replicated in the popular news channel.
core 16-34 age group, amongst whom Sky Ones audience share increased Valued for fairness, balance and by over 9% again more than any journalistic objectivity by both viewers terrestrial channel despite direct and regulators, the channel has Sky News competition from niche channels.
earned a reputation for the speed of Innovations, combined with an its 24-hour coverage and exibility in unrivalled expertise in breaking news, reinforce Sky News In the first half of 2002, Sky One reporting live news.
position in the front rank of rejuvenated and re-branded its news broadcasting.
Sky Ones schedule now During 2001-2002, Sky News won offers a wide range of innovative its first BAFTA for its coverage of entertainment, original drama, the 11 September terrorist attacks.
compulsive factual programming, It was also singled out for praise by and the best from the US... first.
the Independent Television Commission for the most comprehensive coverage The channels ongoing commitment of 11 September, as well as being to original programming in peak-time named Royal Television Society News Our understanding of our customers means we provide across all genres, with offerings such Channel of the Year 2001. more of what they want, whether as Dream Team, The Villa, Kirstys its light entertainment or hard hitting news from the Sky centre.
Home Videos and Uncovered, has The awards underline Sky News ensured critical acclaim.
This year, reputation as the channel of choice new long-running programmes such for breaking news: it was the first as Behaving Badly and Temptation British broadcaster to break the news Island UK instantly scored with of the terrorist attacks on America, audiences.
These titles will be returning the subsequent US coalition bombing for new series alongside a range of new of Afghanistan and the death of the factual entertainment and drama titles.
Sky One continues to maintain its In terms of interactivity, Sky News reputation for delivering the best Active has doubled its screens to acquired programming.
The Simpsons, eight, providing viewers with even more Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Angel and choice of how and when they watch Malcolm in the Middle were all brought the news.
Pioneering Active chats were to the UK first by Sky One.
introduced and look set to prove as This year Sky One has added to popular as Sky News Actives voting 1 Angel Sky One 2 Buffy the Vampire Slayer Sky One 3 Scrubs Sky One 4 The Simpsons Sky One 5 The West Bank Sky News 6 Sky News chat Sky News Active 7 Sky News Bafta Award 8 Golden Jubilee Procession Sky News British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
