The Portfolio Portfolio spread by country Italy 1% Belgium 1% UK 36% France 35% Denmark 6% Norway 1% Switzerland 1% Germany 7% Sweden 6% Netherlands 2% Ireland 4% New loans and investments During the year, ICG made the following loans and investments: Baxi is a manufacturer of domestic hot water and central heating boilers and products based in the U. K. ICG took a participation of 10m in the mezzanine facility required to assist in the buyout.
Cantrell & Cochrane is a leading Irish manufacturer, wholesaler and distributor of alcoholic and nonalcoholic drinks.
In November 2001 ICG assisted in renancing the company by arranging an additional e35m.
mezzanine facility of Courtepaille is a leading chain of grill restaurants in e10.6m in the France.
ICG took a participation of mezzanine facility required to assist in the buyout.
Craegmoor is a UK operator of homes in the long term care market.
ICG took a participation of 6m in the mezzanine facility required to assist in the buyout.
Duni AB is a leading supplier of tabletop products for retail, professional and travel markets based in Sweden.
ICG co-arranged a mezzanine facility e44.5m to assist in renancing the company.
of 11 Intermediate Capital Group The Portfolio continued Eliokem based in France, is a leading international manufacturer and marketer of speciality chemicals used in paints, masonry coatings, rubber, plastic, printer toners, textiles and latex.
ICG arranged and e20.7m mezzanine facility to assist in provided a the buyout.
ERM is a leading global provider of environmental consultancy and risk management services for both the private and public sectors.
ICG arranged and provided a mezzanine facility of $25m to assist in the buyout.
Eurogestion, an existing borrower, is a French company with a leading position in pest control for the housing and commercial building sectors.
ICG FF46m to assist in arranged a mezzanine facility of the purchase of the market leader in Italy for pest control services.
Geror based in France, is the number two in Europe in the manufacture of PVC ooring.
ICG took a FF170m in the mezzanine facility participation of provided to assist in the buyout.
Leisure Link manages a wide range of both gaming machines and other entertainment machines.
ICG arranged the mezzanine facility of 37.5m required to assist in this secondary buyout.
Malmberg is a leading publisher of educational material in the Netherlands and Belgium.
ICG e12.5m of the mezzanine facility to provided assist in the buyout.
Picard is a leading French manufacturer, distributor and retailer of frozen foods.
ICG arranged a e164m required to assist mezannine facility of in the buyout.
Pinewood an existing borrower based in the U. K. is the leading lm studio complex in Europe.
ICG arranged and provided a mezzanine facility of 3m to assist in the acquisition of Shepperton Studios.
12 Intermediate Capital Group Portfolio spread by industry Other less than 5% Brewers & distillers 5% Shipping and transport 3% Building materials 13% Publishing and printing 3% Business services 7% Motor parts 6% Metal forming 4% Chemicals & plastics 2% Mechanical engineering 2% Conglomerates 5% Leisure 4% Insurance 2% Consumer products 10% Health 2% Drapery and stores 2% Food manufacturing Electrical 10% and retailing 9% Financial services 4% Entertainment 2% Plastimo an existing borrower based in France, is a manufacturer and distributor of recreational marine equipment.
ICG arranged and provided a mezzanine FF53m to assist in the purchase of a U. K. facility of nautical equipment distributor.
Retif is the leading French wholesaler and retailer of equipment and display units used by small retail outlets, restaurants and hotels.
ICG arranged and e21.4m to assist in provided a mezzanine facility of the buyout.
Sebia is a French based company operating in the clinical diagnostic market, developing and producing equipment and reagents.
ICG arranged and provided e11.5m to assist in the buyout.
a mezzanine facility of 13 Intermediate Capital Group The Portfolio continued Repayments During the year, loans and investments of 81m in respect of 12 companies were repaid or prepaid.
These companies were: Name Country Form of realisation Cartiere del Garda Italy Renancing County Hotels UK Renancing CPL Aromas UK Trade sale Healthcall UK Trade sale Holding Sia France Buyout IPC UK Trade sale Landal Greenparks Netherlands Renancing Meneba Netherlands Renancing Netlon UK Renancing PHS UK Flotation Regal Hotels UK Renancing TGE Group UK Trade sale In addition to the capital gains made on many of the exits above, during the year ICG also made capital gains on shares in companies where its loan had been repaid in previous years.
These companies were: Name Country Form of realisation The Stationery Ofce UK Trade sale Wightlink UK Trade sale Current portfolio At 31 January 2002, in addition to the new loans and investments listed above, ICGs portfolio consisted of the following companies: Name Country Business Accord UK Outsourcing to local authorities Adco and Dixi Germany Hirer of portable toilets Allex France Animal identication tags Asco UK Provider of logistic services for oil industry Automotive Products UK Automotive clutch and brake manufacturer Best UK IT recruitment agency Blagden Belgium Steel drum supplier Cantrell & Cochrane Ireland Manufacturer, wholesaler and distributor of drinks Charter UK Engineering and manufacturer of fastenings and components Clydesdale Financial Services UK Finance company Coal Products UK Producer of smokeless solid fuels fide Dietrich France Manufacturer of heating, railway and processing equipment DSV Denmark Transportation and logistics Edrasco France Manufacturer of educational equipment Electrokopper Sweden Manufacturer of copper wire rod and winding wire Elis France Textile renting and cleaning business Elmville UK Hotel operator Empe Germany Manufacturer of interior trim for automotives Eurogestion France Pest control Focus UK DIY stores Frans Bonhomme France Distributor of plastic pipes and couplings Grand Vins fide Gironde France Wine trading company Helly Hansen Norway Producer of outdoor clothing HLF Insurance UK Insurance broking HMY France Manufacturer of supermarket equipment 14 Intermediate Capital Group Name Country Business IBS Brocke Germany Manufacturer of automotive components Jallatte France Manufacturer and distributor of protective footwear Kiekert Germany Automotive equipment manufacturer Latium Group UK Manufacturer and retailer of UPVC windows Le Figaro France Newspaper publisher Maccess UK Wholesaler and distributor of car accessories Meyn Netherlands Manufacturer of poultry processing equipment MGE France Manufacturer of UPS equipment Nobia Byginterior Sweden Kitchen manufacturer Norcros UK Manufacturer and distributor of showers and tiles Nycomed Norway Pharmaceuticals Ore France Wholesaler of industrial items Oriame Sweden Direct selling of cosmetic products Pets at Home UK Retailer in domestic pet market Pinewood UK Film studios Plastimo France Manufacturer of recreational marine equipment Porcelain & Fine China Companies UK Manufacturer of china and porcelain Portman Travel UK Travel agent Premier Oileld Services UK Hirer of North Sea oileld equipment Presspart UK Manufacturer of anodised aluminium Saveurs France Producer of ingredients for food industry Servicetec UK Computer services and maintenance Sound Holdings Denmark Hearing aid component supplier Steiner Industries Austria Plastic packaging and garden furniture producer Sublistatic France Manufacturer of textile printing paper transfers Takko Germany Fashion retailer Target UK Express delivery services Tata Tea UK Tea company TMD Friction Germany Manufacturer of brake pads for automotive industry Tunstall UK Manufacturer and maintenance of social alarm systems Unipoly UK Manufacturer of building products and other industrial components Vantico Switzerlaand Speciality chemical manufacturer Victorvox Germany Service provider for mobile and xed telecommunication industry William Cook UK Manufacturer of steel castings The portfolio of warrants and unquoted shares At 31 January 2002 ICG had unquoted shares and warrants in most of the unquoted companies in its loan portfolio, as well as in the following companies which have prepaid their loans to ICG in full: Name Country Business Calvet France Wholesale wine merchant Cartiere del Garda Italy Manufacturer of coated woodfree papers Convenience Food Systems Netherlands Supplier of equipment for the preparation, processing and packaging of food CPL Aromas UK Designer and manufacturer of fragrances and avours IPT UK Textile fabrics Landal Greenparks Netherlands Holiday park operator Meneba Netherlands Producer of our, bakery and animal feed products Neste OY Finland Manufacturer of epoxy resin TGE UK Fluid processing technology and control information 15 Intermediate Capital Group
