Sir David Kinloch, Bt, CA Age 61 4.
Chairman and Independent Director Independent Director Sir David, a chartered accountant, joined the board in Mr Gray joined the board in May 1999.
Until November September 1994 and has been its Chairman since 1999, he was Business Development Director of September 1995.
He is also Deputy Chief Executive of Scottish and Southern Energy plc, having previously Caledonia Investments plc, chairman of The Fleming been Finance Director of Scottish Hydro-Electric plc.
Chinese Investment Trust and a director of Amerindo He is a director of DTZ Holdings plc, chairman of DTZ Internet Fund plc, Sterling Industries plc and British Pieda Consulting Ltd and a board member of Scottish Empire Securities and General Trust plc.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Independent Director Mr Jemmett joined the board in February 1998.
Mr Inglis, an actuary, joined the board in May 1999, Mr Jemmett was appointed as an independent, having previously served as chairman of Fleming non-executive director of Friends Provident plc in June Investment Management Limited.
He is a director of 2001 having been an independent, non-executive The Law Debenture Corporation plc.
director of Friends Provident Life Ofce from 1997 until ` 6.
Keith Satchell, BSc, FIA, Age 51.
He is a member of the Council of The Crown Agents Foundation and a former director and member Mr Satchell, an actuary, joined the board in February of the executive committee of Unilever plc and Unilever 1998.
Mr Satchell was appointed Group Chief Executive NV.
Mr Jemmett was appointed Deputy Chairman of and an executive director of Friends Provident plc in ISIS Asset Management plc in May 1998.
June 2001, having been an executive director of Friends Provident Life Ofce since 1992 and its Chief 3.
Keith Bedell-Pearce, LLB, MSc Age 57 Executive since 1997.
He is also a member of the Independent Director senior board of Banco Comercial Portugues SA Mr Bedell-Pearce joined the board in December 2002. incorporated in Portugal and a board member of Until December 2001, Mr Bedell-Pearce was an Swiss Mobiliar Cooperative Company incorporated in executive director of Prudential plc with over thirty years Switzerland and European Alliance Partners AG which experience in the financial services industry.
He is is incorporated in the Netherlands.
currently non-executive chairman of Norwich & 7.
Brian Sweetland, LLB, Solicitor, ACol Age 57.
Peterborough Building Society and executive chairman of The Student Loans Company Limited a part-time Mr Sweetland, a solicitor, joined the board in February public appointment.
Mr Sweetland was appointed an executive director of Friends Provident plc in June 2001, having been an executive director of Friends Provident Life Ofce since 1995 and its secretary since 1983.
He is a non-executive director of Benchmark Group PLC.
24 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002
