32 We enter 2003 with real confidence in our ability to deliver future growth in our chosen business sectors.
Principal activities and business review Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a holding company, the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of which are engaged in insurance & reinsurance broking and employee benefits.
A review of the Groups trading activities and prospects is included in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Operational Reviews on pages 2 to 17 and should be read as part of this report.
Results and dividends The financial statements deal with the results of the Group for the year ended 31st December, 2002 which are shown on pages 46 to 85.
The profit attributable to shareholders amounted to 67,449,000 2001: 50,607,000 - as restated for FRS 19.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 11.0p net per share which, together with the interim dividend of 7.5p net per share paid in October 2002 amounts to a total dividend of 18.5p net per share 2001: 16.0p net per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 2nd May, 2003 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 4th April, 2003.
Fixed assets Details of the changes in the fixed assets of the Group are shown in notes 16 and 17 on pages 62 to 63.
Substantial shareholders At the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following major interests, each representing 3% or more of the existing issued ordinary share capital see table below.
JMH Investments Limited, Matheson Insurance Investments Limited, Boxwick Limited and Matheson & Co. Limited are wholly owned subsidiaries of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, which has a total interest in 63,764,916 ordinary shares being 31.88% of the issued capital of the Company.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Shareholder Ordinary shares % Held Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings JMH Investments Limited 28,757,494 14.37% Limited under Section 203 2 b of the Companies Act 1985.
Matheson Insurance Investments Limited 19,518,149 9.76% Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group Boxwick Limited 4,094,400 2.05% Matheson & Co. Limited Trading : during the year the Group continued to have a number 11,394,873 5.70% of arms-length trading and non-trading links with Jardine Matheson Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited 63,764,916 31.88% Group companies, the financial implications of which are given in SIACI SA 10,346,159 5.17% note 34 on page 84. directors report Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 33 Report & Accounts 2002 Business services : Jardine Matheson provides internal audit Unissued and unreserved capital at 31st December, 2002 and certain other services to the Group on an arms-length basis.
Trademark : The Company has entered into a licence agreement Employee share schemes with Jardine Matheson Bermuda Limited permitting the use of the The Company has established various executive and all employee Thistle trademark.
Jardine Matheson has the right to terminate sharesave option schemes for the benefit of employees within the the agreement if its interest in the share capital of the Company Group based both in the UK and certain other jurisdictions.
Details of the options outstanding over 7,281,936 ordinary shares of Directors 5p each in the capital of the Company under the various executive The directors shown on pages 30 and 31 held office at and sharesave option schemes are set out in note 26 on page 69. the date of this report.
In addition the Group operates a scheme under an employee On 1st January, 2002, Ken Carter was appointed Chairman in benefit trust: the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Restricted Share Scheme place of John Barton and Steve McGill was appointed as The Scheme.
The Scheme operates on a discretionary basis Chief Executive in place of Ken Carter.
Executives are granted awards, consisting of options to purchase shares in the Company, normally for a nominal On the same date, Tony Hobson, Geoffrey Howe and Bob Scott consideration.
Options under the Scheme may normally be exercised were appointed as non-executive directors and John Lloyd and in full up to seven years from grant but different vesting periods Vyvienne Wade as executive directors.
Claude Chouraqui continues and conditions may be applied in respect of particular awards.
on the board as a non-executive director.
The Scheme is also used as deferred bonus vehicle for executives Claude Chouraqui, Dominic Collins, Rodney Leach and Richard at subsidiary company level.
Sermon will retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of At 10th March, 2003, being the latest practicable date prior to the Association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, posting of this report shares held under this scheme were as follows: being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Ordinary shares The service contracts for Messrs Chouraqui, Leach and Sermon are Total held by trustees 6,349,057 subject to a three month notice provision.
The Company is required of which allocated 3,904,219 to give 364 days notice under the service contract with Mr Collins.
unallocated 2,444,838 Full details of the directors remuneration and interests are shown in the Remuneration Report.
During the period, no director had As part of these schemes, the Company operates a partnership any material interest in a contract, disclosable pursuant to s. 317 plan which is a long term incentive scheme in which the directors Companies Act 1985, to which the Company or any of its of the Company are not eligible to participate.
Participants who subsidiary undertakings was a party.
are employees of certain subsidiaries of the Company share in a proportion of incremental profit growth achieved by both the Group Share capital and by the business unit which employs the participant, together Movements in share capital of the Company during the year with a discretionary element which is based on individual ended 31st December, 2002 are set out in note 25 on page 68. performance.
The resultant award may be exercised on a phased At 31st December, 2002, the authorised share capital of the basis, between two and seven years after the date of award.
Company was 12,500,000 of which 9,980,890.15 had been The plan utilises the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Restricted Share issued.
Of the remaining unissued capital, 364,096.80 has been Scheme by awarding JLT shares under the employee benefit trust.
reserved for the exercise of options under the Companys various In addition, it utilises a deferred compensation scheme also executive and sharesave share option schemes detailed in operating under an employee benefit trust for granting awards in note 26 on page 69. the form of cash and other securities.
34 The Group has adopted Inland Revenue approved All Employee The Audit & Compliance Committee consists entirely of Share Plans for the Company and certain of its UK subsidiaries.
non-executive directors and its membership during 2002 was Tony Hobson Chairman, Geoffrey Howe, Simon Keswick, The schemes operate under the Rules established by the Rodney Leach and Richard Sermon.
The Terms of Reference of the Finance Act 2000 and utilise JLT shares purchased in the market.
committee include all matters indicated by the Combined Code.
At the date of this report 370,355 shares are held by the trustees in respect of the schemes established in December 2000 The Committee meets at least four times per year.
It meets with and April 2001. executive directors and management, as well as separately with both the external and internal auditors, to: During the year, 839,630 ordinary shares were subscribed for by the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Qualifying Employee Share review and advise the board on the Groups interim and annual Ownership Trust the QUEST at a market value of 5.0m.
financial statements, its accounting policies and on the control These shares are to be allocated to employees in satisfaction of of its financial and business risks: options that may be exercised under the Jardine Lloyd Thompson review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the Sharesave Schemes.
The Company provided 5m to the QUEST external and internal auditors, the results of this audit work and for this purpose.
The cost of this contribution has been transferred of the response of management: by the Company directly to the profit and loss account reserve.
make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of Corporate governance external auditors and to monitor the performance of the auditors: Compliance with Combined Code : during the year the monitor the independence of the auditors and, specifically, to Company has complied with the provisions set out in the establish a policy for the use of the auditors for non-audit services.
Combined Code the Code except to the extent disclosed in the Compliance Statement.
The Committee reviews the auditors' independence on an annual basis.
The board is reviewing the implications of both the Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors and of During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised Rodney the Smith Report on audit committees, the recommendations Leach Chairman, Tony Hobson, Geoffrey Howe, Simon Keswick, of which will be incorporated into the Combined Code for Bob Scott and Richard Sermon.
The Remuneration Committee is Corporate Governance later in 2003. responsible for setting the remuneration and terms and conditions of employment of the executive directors of the Company.
We will report on these issues in the Annual Report for next year.
It also approves the allocations under all long term incentive Compliance statement schemes and share option schemes.
The board : at the date of this report the board is comprised of During the year, the Nominations Committee comprised Rodney seven executive directors, including the Chairman and Chief Leach Chairman, Ken Carter, Claude Chouraqui, Tony Hobson, Executive, and seven non-executive directors.
There are Geoffrey Howe, Simon Keswick, Bob Scott and Richard Sermon.
established formal procedures for the structure and authorities Its purpose is to make recommendations to the board on the through which the board discharges its responsibilities for the appointment of directors of the Company.
direction and management of the Group.
The board meets regularly to review the performance of the Group and to discuss The Group Executive Committee : is responsible for the matters which it has reserved to itself for decision, as well as any management of the Groups operations.
It is comprised of six other matters that are referred to it.
It has established a number of executive directors and one non-board appointee.
standing committees including an Audit & Compliance Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
directors report Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 35 Report & Accounts 2002 The board acknowledges that it has not complied fully with the At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairmen of the Audit & Code during the year with regard to the composition of the Compliance, Nominations and Remuneration Committees will be Remuneration Committee.
In the context of the Code and its definitions, one half of the board is Accountability and audit non-executive and a majority of the non-executives are independent.
Directors responsibilities : the following statement should be The four independent non-executive directors are Tony Hobson, read in conjunction with the Auditors report on page 45.
Geoffrey Howe, Bob Scott and Richard Sermon.
A majority of the The directors are required to present for each accounting period Audit & Compliance Committee is independent as required by the financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of Code.
Whilst a majority of the Remuneration Committee is affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial year independent, it is not wholly comprised of independent directors and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
These statements and in this respect the Group does not comply with the Code.
are prepared on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to Rodney Leach deputy Chairman and Simon Keswick both presume that the Group will continue in business.
The financial served on these committees during the year and both are directors statements must be prepared in compliance with the required formats of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited which has a 31.88% and disclosures of the Companies Act 1985 and with applicable interest in the Company.
It is also the responsibility of the directors to ensure that arrangements are made for the maintenance of adequate The board believes that the continued presence of Messrs Leach accounting records, to safeguard the assets of the Group and to and Keswick on the board and its committees subject to re-election prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
under the Articles is appropriate and in the interests of the shareholders generally.
The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements The non executive directors bring to the board a wide range of and estimates, have been used in the preparation of the experience and expertise and the knowledge held by Messrs Leach financial statements and that applicable accounting standards and Keswick from the long standing relationship between Jardine have been followed.
Matheson and JLT is particularly valuable.
Operating Company controls : the identification and mitigation of The relationship with Jardine Matheson is maintained on an major business risks is the responsibility of operating management.
arms-length basis as detailed in note 34 on page 84.
Each operating company maintains controls and procedures Richard Sermon is the Senior Independent Director.
appropriate to its own business environment while conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
Directors remuneration : full details of directors remuneration and a statement of the Companys remuneration policy is set These include procedures to identify and then investigate all out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 44. types of risk.
The board believes that the composition of the Remuneration Compliance and legal : the groups legal, compliance and quality Committee is appropriate to the circumstances of the Company control departments establish compliance policy and carry out regular and the continued membership of Jardine Matheson directors is audits.
The scope of work includes ensuring compliance with laws, not regarded as detracting from independence of judgement on regulations and conduct of business which is reported to the board any relevant issue.
Relationship with shareholders : The board endeavours to maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders and carries out a programme of meetings and presentations each year following the publication of interim and final results.
36 Going concern : the directors consider that the Group and the Audit & Compliance Committee.
Monitoring procedures include Company have adequate resources to continue in operational detailed reviews of operating company systems which are routinely existence in the foreseeable future.
Consequently, the financial undertaken by internal audit.
The responsibility for internal controls statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
within associated undertakings rests essentially with the senior management of those operations, the role of the Group being to Internal control : the directors acknowledge that they are monitor its investments and to exert influence, normally through responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and for board representation.
Internal financial controls : the present framework of financial Risk management controls : in accordance with the Code, controls may be summarised under the following headings: a process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in Organisational structure : there are clearly defined areas of place for the full financial year and up to the date the financial responsibility and limits of authority within the Group.
Financial reporting : annual budgets are approved by the board The Group conducts a formal annual risk profiling review to following detailed reviews by management.
Group results are identify and profile the significant risks, both operational and reviewed against budget and reported to the board on a regular basis.
strategic, faced by the Group and to review the effectiveness of Treasury : treasury policy is reviewed and approved by the board risk management controls including loss prevention and recovery and a review group reporting to the Finance Director and Audit planning.
This exercise involves the senior management across & Compliance Committee is responsible for monitoring treasury the Group and covers a broad range of risk, including operational, activity and performance.
The Group has policies to cover the key financial treasury, information technology, health & safety, treasury activities of investment of funds, counterparty risk, foreign human resource and legal areas.
exchange and interest rate risk.
Monitoring of risk is facilitated internally by functional management Cash and investments mostly consist of money market deposits, and assurance gained through financial, compliance and quality commercial paper, certificates of deposit and money funds with based auditing.
Significant failures are reported to the executive prime banks and institutions.
directors to ensure remedial action is taken.
The Group maintains a counterparty policy based on published rating The Groups procedures for the management of risk have been criteria to limit the concentration of funds and the exposure with any reviewed by the board during the year.
The annual risk profiling one party.
Monetary limits are assigned to each counterparty based report has been reviewed by the Audit & Compliance Committee on an agreed scale in relation to their rating.
on behalf of the board which is satisfied that appropriate The Group adopts a prudent approach to the management of its processes and procedures are in place in order to identify and US dollar foreign exchange exposure by maintaining a hedging manage the significant risks faced by the Group.
programme based on the use of forward foreign exchange contracts As noted above, the overall responsibility for internal controls and, to a lesser extent, options with the objective of selling forward a within the Company and its subsidiary undertakings rests with minimum of 50% of US dollar income projected to arise during the the directors of the Company.
Reviewing and monitoring the following 12 months and 25% of that expected to arise over the effectiveness of such controls forms part of the duties of the subsequent 12 months.
directors report Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 37 Report & Accounts 2002 Interest rate risk arises on the interest earnings from both own and Donations fiduciary funds held in the Group.
The Group policy is to protect its During the period the Group made charitable donations totalling 175,000 2001: 202,000.
No political donations were made sterling and US dollar interest earnings by maintaining on a rolling 12-month basis a minimum hedged position.
Depending on market by the Group.
conditions this minimum can alter between 25% and 75% of projected Annual general meeting interest earnings during the following 12 months and zero and over The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held on the subsequent 12 months.
30th April, 2003 at 12 noon at 6 Crutched Friars, London EC3N 2PH is contained in the circular accompanying this report.
Investment appraisal : major items of capital expenditure require board approval.
The special business comprises the renewal, within prescribed limits, The board is also responsible for the overall strategy of the Group, of: i the authority of the directors to allot securities of the Company including acquisitions and related due diligence requirements.
up to the available unissued capital: ii the disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights: iii the authority of the Company to The systems of internal control and risk management procedures purchase, for cancellation, its own shares by way of market are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and it should be purchases: and iv a waiver of the requirement arising under recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable not Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, that absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, together with parties deemed Employment policies to be acting in concert with it, be required to make a general offer It is the policy of the Group to provide an environment in which for the Company by reason of the change in its percentage holding individual talents can excel.
Employee involvement is encouraged in the capital of the Company arising from any such purchase with wide share ownership and participation in share option schemes.
Employees are kept informed of the performance of the Group and Save for the allotment of shares under the Companys share option all matters affecting them as employees by means of regular schemes or as may arise with the acquisition of minority interests, briefings and consultation.
the directors have no present intention of utilising the authority under i and ii above.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and bases all decisions on individual ability regardless of race, religion, gender, The directors will only consider making purchases of the age or disability.
Companys shares if they believe that it would be in the best interests of shareholders and would result in an improvement in Applications for employment by disabled persons will always be fully earnings per share.
considered, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Should employees become disabled, every effort will be made to Auditors ensure that their employment with the Group continues and, in the The auditors,  LLP, were appointed by the event that they are unable to continue to work, that their financial board in January 2003 to fill the vacancy arising by the resignation interests are safeguarded.
It is the intention of the Group that of , by reason of the conversion of opportunities for training, career development and promotion of  to a Limited Liability Partnership from disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with those 1 January, 2003.
Accordingly, Special Notice having been given to for other employees.
the Company pursuant to S. 379 and 388 3 Companies Act 1985, it is proposed that  LLP be reappointed Suppliers auditors of the Company, having signified their willingness to continue The Group agrees payment terms with suppliers when it enters in office, and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put into contracts for the purchase of goods or services and seeks to to the Annual General Meeting.
abide by those terms when it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed By order of the board terms and conditions.
At 31st December, 2002 the Company did not have any direct external supplier creditors.
The Group does D J Hickman Secretary not have a standard or code which deals specifically with the 10th March, 2003 payment of suppliers.
