Board of Directors Nicholas J Cosh FCA Chairman $ Born 1946 Chairman since 1997 and a Director since 1983 He was formerly finance director of a number of international financial and media services public companies including MAI plc now merged with United News & Media plc and JIB Group plc now Jardine Lloyd Thompson plc.
He is a non executive director of Bradford & Bingley plc, ICAP plc, Computacenter plc, Hornby plc, Stace Barr Angerstein plc and other companies.
Hamish N Buchan $ Born 1944 A Director since 2000 He is currently a director of Aberforth Split Level Trust plc, Collective Assets Trust plc, Personal Assets Trust plc, Shires Income plc, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust plc.
He has been involved in the investment trust sector for over 30 years, mainly as an investment trust analyst and is currently a deputy chairman of the Association of Investment Trust Companies and chairman of its statistics committee.
George P Greener $ Born 1945 A Director since 1999 He is Chairman of the British Waterways Board, chairman of The Big Food Group plc and a director of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
He was formerly Chairman of Allied Dunbar Assurance plc, Eagle Star Holdings plc, Threadneedle Asset Management Limited and a director of BAT Industries plc.
Roger JHD Palmer $ Born 1947 A Director since 1998 He is a director of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and was their senior US portfolio manager between 1976 and 1989 and their chief investment strategist between 1989 to 1993.
He is also a director of Deutsche Latin American Companies Trust plc.
Iain OS Saunders Born 1947 A Director since 1990 He is currently chairman of Fleming Funds, Fleming Series II Fund, Fleming Frontier Fund, Fleming Frontier Russia Cyprus Limited, Fleming Flagship Portfolio Fund, J. P. Morgan Currency Strategies Fund, J. P. Morgan Fleming Investment Funds, J. P. Morgan Universal Fund, J. P. Morgan Fleming Liquidity Funds and the Czech and Slovak Investment Company as well as being a director of JPMorgan Fleming Indian Investment Trust plc, Baring Emerging Europe, Chase Manhattan Vista Funds plc, Deutschland Investment Corporation Inc, Equitalia Limited and Fleming US Discovery Fund II.
Formerly an executive director of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited, deputy chairman of Robert Fleming Asset Management Limited and chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Management Limited.
Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee $ Considered Independent of the Manager 20 JPMorgan Fleming American
