Directors Report Business of the Company Investments The Company carries on business as an investment The investments were valued at 363,620,000 at trust and was approved by the Inland Revenue as 31st December 2002.
The notes to the accounts an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 show the basis on which this valuation was made.
A of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for list of the Companys investments is given on pages the year ended 31st December 2001.
In the opinion 17 to 19. of the Directors, the Company has subsequently Going Concern conducted its affairs so that it should continue to After making enquiries, the Directors consider that qualify.
The Company will continue to seek the Company has adequate resources, an approval under Section 842 of the Income and appropriate financial structure and suitable Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
management arrangements in place to continue in Approval for the year ended 31st December 2001 is operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For subject to review should there be any subsequent these reasons, they continue to adopt the going enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Company is an investment company within the Directors meaning of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors of the Company who held office at the The Company is not a close company for taxation end of the year, together with their beneficial purposes.
interests in the ordinary share capital, were: A review of the Companys activities and prospects 10th March 31st December 1st January 1 2003 2002 2002 is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 1 and 2 and the Investment Managers Report on NJ Cosh 6,400 5,800 5,400 pages 4 to 8.
HN Buchan 10,000 5,300 5,000 GP Greener 1,764 1,278 1,000 Revenue and Dividends RJHD Palmer 1,500 1,500 500 Gross revenue for the year totalled 6,481,000 and IOS Saunders 4,597 2,995 1,000 distributable revenue amounted to 2,872,000.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.8p 1 Latest date prior to the printing of this report.
This distribution will absorb 2,830,000 Other than as disclosed above, no changes in the and 42,000 will be transferred to the revenue above holdings have been recorded to the date of reserve.
The revenue reserve after this transfer will this report.
Mr Cosh has indicated that he will retire as a Director The dividend will be paid on 2nd May 2003 to after the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with shareholders on the register at the close of the Articles of Association the Directors retiring by business on 4th April 2003. rotation at the Annual General Meeting will be Mr N Cosh, who will not be offering himself for re-election, Change of Name and Mr H Buchan, who, being eligible, will be The name of the Company was changed from The seeking re-election by shareholders.
Fleming American Investment Trust plc to the An insurance policy is maintained by the Company current form with effect from 26th April 2002. which indemnifies the Directors of the Company Payment Policy against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms their duties.
for all business and therefore there are no Directors Fees standard payment terms.
In general the Company With effect from 25th April 2002, it was decided agrees with its suppliers the terms on which that where the Audit Committee Chairman is not business will take place and it is our policy to the Chairman of the Company he will receive an abide by these terms.
As at 31st December 2002, additional Directors fee of 2,500 per annum.
the Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
JPMorgan Fleming American 21 Directors Report continued Acquisition of the Companys own shares current liabilities.
If the Company invests in funds Further to a resolution passed on 25th April 2002, managed or advised by JPMFAM, or any of its the Company purchased 2,426,000 ordinary shares associated companies, they are excluded from the for cancellation during the year, representing 4.0% calculation and therefore attract no fee.
In addition of the Companys issued share capital, for a total a performance fee may be payable.
The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, of the difference between the capital return of the under the resolution of 25th April 2002 to net asset value and the capital return of the S&P purchase up to a further 6,713,960 ordinary shares 500 Composite Index expressed in sterling terms.
It for cancellation within the terms of the resolution.
is based on the net assets at the year-end.
The This authority expires at the earlier of 24th October performance fee due in respect of any single year is 2003 or at the conclusion of the Companys Annual divided into equal parts payable over three years.
General Meeting which is expected to be held on Any negative fee resulting from underperformance 23rd April 2003. is deducted from any unpaid fees carried forward A resolution to renew the authority is due to be put from prior years with any remaining amount of the to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General negative fee carried forward to be absorbed in Meeting.
The full text of the resolution is set out in future years.
the Notice of Meeting on page 27.
The amount paid in any one year for the basic Issue of Shares management fee plus the above performance fee During the year, the Company issued a total of will not exceed 0.75% of assets with any unpaid 195,945 new ordinary shares for cash for a total excess being carried forward until paid in full.
Since the year end, In the year ended 31st December 2002 the the Company has issued no further new ordinary Companys net assets underperformed the S&P shares for cash.
At the Annual General Meeting of 500 Composite Index expressed in sterling terms the Company held on 3rd May 2001, shareholders by 5.5 percentage points on the above basis.
This granted the Directors authority to issue up to results in a negative performance fee calculation of 3,002,868 new ordinary shares for cash otherwise 1,605,306, which when added to the negative than by pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
balance of 2,095,744 which had been carried This authority expires on 2nd May 2006 unless forward from previous years underperformance, previously revoked, varied or renewed by the will mean that a negative fee of 3,701,050 will be Company in general meeting.
As at the date of this carried forward to be offset by any outperformance report, a total of 1,112,294 new ordinary shares in future years.
had been issued pursuant to this authority, leaving Notifiable Interests in the Companys Shares the Directors authority to issue 1,890,574 new At the date of this report, the following ordinary shares, equivalent to approximately 3.3% had declared a substantial interest the Companys of the Companys issued share capital at the date issued ordinary share capital: of this report.
Shareholders Number of shares held % Management The Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management Natwest Group 6,527,755 11.2 UK Limited JPMFAM is a wholly-owned Old Mutual 5,655,166 9.7 subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which through JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4,489,025 7.7 other subsidiaries also provides banking, dealing Included within this is: and custodian services to the Company.
JPMorgan Fleming Managed Growth plc1,838,3263.2 Management and Performance Fees 1 Henderson Nominees 2,229,030 3.8 JPMFAM is employed under a contract which is Standard Life Assurance 1,771,657 3.0 subject to one years notice of termination.
The basic management fee is calculated monthly and 1 Held on behalf of JPMFAM Share Plan, PEP and ISA paid quarterly in arrears and is charged at a rate of participants.
0.5% per annum of the Companys assets less 22 JPMorgan Fleming American Directors Report continued Charitable Contributions the Companys Manager.
Accordingly, the Board The Company has agreed to make a charitable does not believe that it is necessary to appoint a donation of 13,500 2001: 13,500.
This amount is senior independent Director.
included in other creditors as shown in note 10 on All Directors submit themselves for re-election at page 38. least every three years.
Annual General Meeting A management agreement between the Company A resolution relating to the following item of and JPMFAM sets out matters over which the special business will be proposed at the Manager has authority.
All other matters are forthcoming Annual General Meeting: reserved for the approval of the Board.
a Repurchase of the Companys Shares The Board meets regularly during the year and At the Annual General Meeting held on 25th April between these meetings there is regular contact 2002, shareholders gave authority to the Company with the Manager who provides the Board with to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued share appropriate and timely management information.
At that time shareholders were informed JPMFAM also provides company secretarial advice that this authority would expire on 24th October and services.
The Directors also have access, 2003 and could be renewed by shareholders at any where necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, time at a General Meeting of the Company.
The to independent professional advice at the expense Directors consider that the renewal of the authority of the Company.
would be in the interest of shareholders as a whole Board Committees as the repurchase of shares at a discount to the The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the underlying net asset value NAV would enhance Nomination Committee which meets when the NAV of the remaining shares.
The Directors necessary to select and propose suitable therefore recommend that shareholders vote in candidates for appointment to the Board, and of favour of the resolution.
The full text of the the Remuneration Committee, which reviews resolution renewing the share buy-back authority Directors fees.
is set out as Resolution number 6 in the Notice of Meeting on page 27.
To ensure its independence from the Manager, the Audit Committee excludes from membership all Corporate Governance Directors who are employed by, or who are former To ensure the appropriate level of corporate employees of JPMFAM, or any of its subsidiaries or governance, the Board has put in place associated companies.
arrangements which it believes are suitable for an investment trust and enable the Company to The Audit Committee meets at least twice each comply with the Principles of Good Governance year.
The Committee reviews the terms of the and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code, management agreement and examines the published by the Committee on Corporate effectiveness of the Companys internal control Governance in June 1998.
The Board considers, systems, receives information from the Managers except as noted below, that the Company has compliance department and also reviews the complied with the provisions contained within scope and results of the audit, its cost Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the effectiveness and the independence and year ended 31st December 2002 and the following objectivity of the external auditors.
The Directors describes how the relevant principles of statement on the Companys system of internal governance are applied by the Company.
control is set out on the following page.
The Board Relations with Shareholders The Board consists solely of non-executive At the Companys Annual General Meeting the Directors, the majority of whom are independent of Directors and representatives of the Manager are JPMorgan Fleming American 23 Directors Report continued available in person to meet and answer Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive shareholders questions.
In addition, a review by the Board of key investment and presentation is normally given by the Investment financial data, including management accounts, Manager, reviewing the Companys activities.
revenue projections, transaction analysis and During the year the Companys Brokers, the performance comparisons.
Investment Manager and JPMFAM hold regular Management Agreement Appointment of a discussions with institutional shareholders.
The manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Directors are made fully aware of their views and Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities responses are tailored as necessary.
The Chairman are clearly defined in a written agreement.
and Directors make themselves available as and Management Systems Regular and when required to address shareholder queries.
comprehensive reviews conducted on behalf of the Internal Control Board on the Managers system of internal control.
The Combined Code requires the Directors at least The Managers system of Internal Control includes annually to conduct a review of the effectiveness of organisational agreements which clearly define the the Companys system of internal control and to lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control report to shareholders that they have done so.
These are monitored by has extended the previous requirement which JPMFAMs compliance department which regularly focused mainly on internal financial control, and now monitors compliance with FSA rules.
encompasses a review of all controls, which the Investment Strategy Authorisation and Board has identified as including business, financial, monitoring of the Companys investment strategy operational, compliance and risk management.
and exposure limits by the Board.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of system of internal control which is designed to the Companys system of internal control by safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper monitoring the operation of the key operating accounting records and ensure that financial controls of the Manager and its associates as information used within the business, or follows: published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the Board, through the Audit Committee, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives reviews the terms of the management and therefore can only provide reasonable but not agreement and receives regular reports from absolute assurance against fraud, material JPMFAMs internal compliance department: misstatement or loss.
the Board reviews the report on the internal Since investment management, custody of assets controls and the operations of the custodian, and all administrative services are provided to the JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is independently Company by JPMFAM and its associates, the reviewed: and Companys system of internal control mainly the Directors review every six months an comprises monitoring the services provided by independent report on the internal controls and JPMFAM and its associates, including the operating the operations of JPMFAM.
controls established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness The key elements designed to provide effective of the Companys system of internal control for the internal control are as follows: year ended 31st December 2002.
24 JPMorgan Fleming American Directors Report continued Socially Responsible Investment Whilst generally supportive of management, The following, which has been reviewed and our pro-active approach seeks general approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs adherence to the principles set out in the policy statement on socially responsible Combined Code.
Our policy is to vote on all investment: company resolutions and we therefore seek full voting discretion from our clients.
It is our Unless instructed otherwise, we believe it is practice to liaise with clients to discuss our primary duty to act in the best financial potentially contentious issues and to keep interests of our clients and to achieve good them in touch with corporate governance financial returns consistent with an acceptable issues generally.
level of risk in the management of our clients investments.
A company run in the long-term Compliance with the Provision of The Combined interests of its shareholders with the objective Code of enhancing shareholder value over time will Subject to the special circumstances of the need to manage effectively relationships with Company as an investment trust, the Company has its employees, suppliers and customers, to complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the behave ethically and to have regard to the Combined Code during the financial year.
environment and society as a whole.
In our Auditors pursuit of good financial returns for our clients, Following the conversion of our auditors our investment managers take account of  to a Limited Liability these and all other factors affecting the Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, valuation of the companies in which they are  have informed the currently invested or considering investment Directors that they intend to resign following on behalf of clients.
approval of the accounts and the Directors Corporate Governance and Voting Policy intend to appoint their successor, The following, which has been reviewed and  LLP as auditors.
approved by the Board, is a summary of JPMFAMs Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint their statement on corporate governance and voting successor,  LLP as policy: auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
JPMFAM vote on all resolutions and seek to promote good practice on all corporate governance issues, with the overall aim of By order of the Board minimising corporate mismanagement and FW Easton, for and on behalf of failure.
We also keep in close touch with J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, similarly interested parties at other major Secretary investment institutions.
