Investment Managers Report Market Review The following table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total return.
2002 proved very disappointing for U. S. equity investors as the major indices succumbed to Performance attribution for the year to 31st December 2002 another year of declines.
Though 2002 was not the 1 Year worst year in US stock market history, it proved % very frustrating as investors had a great deal to fret Net asset value total return in sterling terms 35.7 Benchmark total return in sterling terms 29.8 about, including corporate scandals and Relative return 5.9 governance issues, economic uncertainty, and Analysis of relative return mounting geopolitical risks.
We started the year Large cap portfolio 0.8 with some optimism, as 2001 ended on an Small cap portfolio 1.8 impressive market rally and the economy seemed Gearing Cash effect 2.1 to be gaining strength.
However, during the first Management fee and other expenses 0.6 half of the year a plethora of corporate scandals Buybacks Issues 0.3 Residual item 0.9 came to the fore and drove stock prices down.
All Total 5.9 of these events contributed to the sense of Source: Frank Russell JPMFAM Fundamental Data.
betrayal and distrust felt by retail and institutional Definition: Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its investors and left them perplexed about the state benchmark.
Gearing cash effect: Measures the impact of returns on borrowings or, cash balances and cash substitutes on the Faced with such fundamental uncertainty, there is Companys relative performance.
Management fee and other expenses: The payment of fees little surprise that by the summer the market had and expenses reduces the level of total assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative performance.
fallen below its September 2001 lows.
In addition, Buybacks Issues: Measures the net effect on relative yield spreads on corporate bonds widened to near performance of decreasing and increasing the number of shares in issue.
record levels, and investors fled into the presumed Residual item: Arises when there is a divergence between safety of cash and Treasuries.
At their most total return as calculated by the AITC Fundamental Data, and total return as calculated by the attribution generating debilitating, these uncertainties took the S&P 500 system.
This is a result of methodology differences with respect to the treatment of income and cashflows, and timing Composite Index down by almost 20% from the differences.
4 JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Managers Report continued Stock prices lifted again in August, albeit slowly, as However, geopolitical concerns, in the form of a corporate America moved towards correcting past potential war with Iraq, resurfaced by early deficiencies in corporate governance.
Investors got December and the markets slumped once more.
In some assurance from the Securities Exchange addition, a flurry of disappointing economic data, Commissions SEC insistence that corporate in the form of weak Christmas retail sales and executives make themselves personally liable for unemployment figures, began to undermine their companys books.
However, as the crescendo sentiment.
At the end of the year a weak of corporate governance concerns subsided, manufacturing report suggested that the U. S. September brought with it new fears, including the economy had failed to pull itself out of its soft spot durability of an economic recovery, corporate profit and the markets ended the year on a sour note.
shortfalls, and the potential of war with Iraq.
All of It was a disappointing year for the Company and this raised investor uncertainty and sparked the markets as a whole with the Companys NAV another bout of selling in the U. S. equity markets underperforming its benchmark.
The two main which brought stock prices in early October to drivers of that performance were the use of more depressed lows than those in July.
gearing in a declining market and the allocation to And then, investor sentiment changed.
As actual small cap assets which had a very difficult year, in third quarter earnings reports for 2002 came in, both absolute and relative terms.
the mixed bag of hits and misses was not the After three years of significant market declines, disaster many had feared and stocks began to rally valuations still appear high in absolute terms.
when looked at relative to the very low inflation The rally continued in November as the Federal levels and low bond yields valuations for the US Reserves 50 basis point rate cut provided a market look much more attractive.
We believe that positive start to a month in which the fears of a the type of companies that we invest in those with double-dip recession appeared to subside as the predictable earnings, high free cashflow yields and economic debate turned more positive.
In addition, reasonable yields will lead the recovery and in the proposed reductions on the tax paid on dividends long term we will be rewarded for our patience.
JPMorgan Fleming American 5 Investment Managers Report continued enhancing opportunities ensured that Gannett Large Companies Portfolio continued to grow its earnings in 2002 even The large companies portfolio performed broadly though advertising spending, which comprises in-line with the market for 2002.
There were a approximately 78% of its revenue, declined.
number of positive contributors to relative performance, including an underweight in Portfolio holdings in the industrials sector, information technology and positive stock however, did not fare well during the year.
The selection in consumer staples.
Within consumer portfolios top detractor was Tyco International, staples, the dominant food and beverage names which we had highlighted as a controversial such as Kraft Foods, Anheuser Busch, and Brown holding in last years report.
The companys shares Forman, which are seen as relative safe heavens in declined during the year as a host of issues came times of increased market volatility, had positive to the fore including mounting liquidity concerns returns for the year and aided the portfolios and a Securities and Exchanged Commission performance in the sector.
investigation of its accounting methods.
Despite these issues, we continue to own Tyco Another bright spot during the year was the International as we believe that the new portfolios diversified media names, particularly management team has made significant Gannett and Washington Post, which were among improvements to shore up the companys balance the top performers in the portfolio for 2002. sheet and its internal accounting review alleviated Washington Posts investments in its cable and some of the immediate concerns relating to the education divisions in the last few years paid off in companys aggressive accounting.
Tycos renewed 2002 as they contributed to strong growth for the focus on organic growth and aggressive costcompany.
We believe the outlook for the company cutting initiatives should help reignite the is very favorable as we anticipate that these companys growth.
divisions will continue to grow in 2003 and additionally, that newspaper results should During the year we added a number of new names improve.
Gannett operates a portfolio of dominant to the portfolio, including ADP, Cardinal Health, local newspapers and broadcasting franchises that and Medtronic.
ADP is a leader in payroll generate above average returns and margins.
processing and has a commanding market share in Managements focus on execution, cost controls, the US and increasingly around the world.
The and redeployment of free cash flow to growth 6 JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Managers Report continued companys stock was trading at a multi-year Small Companies Portfolio valuation low earlier in the third quarter.
Cardinal In the context of a year in which the S&P 500 Health manufactures a variety of pharmaceutical Composite Index delivered a third consecutive products and is one of the largest drug distribution decline, and with increasing momentum, it is not companies in the US.
A long time leader in medical surprising that defensive areas once again products innovation, Medtronic researches, outperformed strongly.
The primary small develops, manufactures, and sells devices to aid capitalisation benchmark did marginally the heart and alleviate other chronic ailments of outperform the S&P 500 Composite Index, but the body.
once again the value components massively outperformed the growth components in which a Stocks sold from the portfolio during the year large proportion of the Companys small cap assets included Hartford Financial Services, Payless are invested.
Exacerbated by a very difficult ShoeSource, Solectron and Worldcom.
Hartford external environment, our own performance was Financial Services, a property-casualty insurer, was disappointing in 2002.
All this added up to a sold based on a reassessment of our valuation in negative contribution to the net asset value, after light of its exposure to variable annuity sales.
three years of positive results.
Payless ShoeSource, a footwear retailer, was sold based on the continued pressures the company The biggest problem for small cap stocks, as for faces from discount retailers as well as the the market generally, was the stalled economic continued softness in the retail marketplace.
recovery, and the stagnation of corporate Solectron, a provider of electronics manufacturing spending.
This affected a wide variety of industrial services to original equipment manufacturers, was sectors including media and enterprise software.
sold due to its dependence on the PC and telecom The corporate scandals and capital market markets.
Worldcom, a provider of communication paralysis also contributed: bankruptcy of cable TV services, was sold in April as the companys company Adelphia had spillover effects throughout fundamentals continued to deteriorate.
In July, the cable industry and its supply-chain, and the Worldcom filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy bankruptcy of Worldcom drove the market to protection.
abandon all valuation methodologies except the plainest vanilla.
In the midst of all this turmoil, JPMorgan Fleming American 7 Investment Managers Report continued valuations of some of our holdings, such as cable and we have begun to see some selective interest company M Me ed di ia ac co om m became deeply depressed in smaller growth stocks once again, as investors although there has since been some recovery.
reassess which asset-classes can support their Almost any contrarian attempt to identify survivors long term investment goals in such a low interest in the markets more embattled sectors proved to rate environment.
As at all inflection points, the be a losing strategy in 2002. consensus has swung to an extreme position this time a negative one and opportunities exist.
It In spite of all the obvious external negatives will, however, take courage and a slightly longer business investment is in fact showing early signs perspective to see past the obvious near-term of recovery, there is strength in many commodity worries and risks.
prices and corporate earnings are coming off the bottom: third and fourth quarter earnings for the companies within the portfolio have generally been Garrett Fish encouraging.
The period of acute outperformance Timothy Parton 10th March 2003 by defensive value stocks appears to have abated, 8 JPMorgan Fleming American Report & Accounts.
