DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting their purchased any of its own shares pursuant to give details of corporate and staff matters annual report and the audited financial statements to the existing authority which is due to expire together with a number of subsidiary or of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual business area publications dealing with for the year ended 31 December 2002.
The directors again propose activities in specific parts of the Group.
to seek a similar authority this year.
Principal activities and developments It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants The principal activities of the Group are set Directors should be considered for employment and out on the inside front cover of the Annual Mr C A Banks was appointed to the Board career development on the basis of their Review and Summary Financial Statement.
on 1 June 2002 and, being eligible, offers aptitudes and abilities.
Employees who The Chairmans Statement, the Operating Review himself for re-election at the forthcoming become disabled during their working life and the Financial Review on pages 4 to 17 and Annual General Meeting in accordance with will be retained in employment wherever 20 to 21 of the Annual Review and Summary the Articles of Association.
All of the other possible and given help with rehabilitation Financial Statement give details of the Groups directors, who are named on page 19 of and training.
activities, developments and performance the Annual Review and Summary Financial for the year and an indication of likely Statement, served throughout the year.
Mr L C McQuade will retire from the Board As at 24 February 2003 the directors had immediately after the conclusion of the been notified by the following shareholders Results Annual General Meeting.
that they were each interested in 3% or more A summary of the Groups results is set out in of the issued share capital of the Company.
Note 1 to the financial Mr A J Habgood, Mr P G Lorenzini and The notifications listed below are those which statements sets out a segmental analysis of Mr S G Williams retire by rotation at the have been most recently received for the operating results.
A financial review of the year Annual General Meeting in accordance with named shareholders.
is set out on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual the Articles of Association and, being eligible, Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Date of % of issued Shareholder notification share capital Going concern Directors interests in ordinary shares are Scottish Widows The directors, having made appropriate shown in Note 21 to the financial statements.
Investment enquiries, consider that the Group has adequate Partnership Ltd 31.01.03 4.07 resources to continue in operational existence Information relating to the directors Deutsche Bank AG for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the remuneration for the year and details of the including directors believe it is appropriate to continue directors share options under the Companys non-material to adopt the going concern basis in preparing share option schemes and awards under the interests 9.01.03 11.38 the financial statements.
Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Prudential plc 26.11.02 3.36 Share Bonus Scheme are set out in the Directors Dividends Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 33.
Legal & General An interim dividend of 3.65p was paid in Investment respect of the year and the directors recommend Research and development Management Ltd 2.01.02 3.11 a final dividend of 7.55p per share, making It is the Groups policy to commit sufficient Barclays PLC 31.05.01 3.05 a total for the year of 11.2p 2001: 10.35p.
funds to enable it to keep abreast of all Dividend details are given in Note 5 to the relevant product, process, market and system financial statements.
Subject to confirmation by developments in the fields in which it operates.
Corporate governance the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting The Company is committed to high standards on 14 May 2003, the final dividend will be paid Employment policies of corporate governance and supports and on 1 July 2003 to those shareholders on the The employment policies of the Group has complied throughout 2002 with the register at the close of business on 9 May 2003. have been developed to meet the needs principles contained in the combined code Shareholders will again be able to elect to receive of its different business areas and the locations on corporate governance the Code and additional shares in the Company in lieu in which they operate worldwide, embodying which are annexed to the Financial Services of the cash dividend through the Companys the principles of equal opportunity.
The Group Authoritys Listing Rules.
Further details will has a statement of business standards with be circulated to shareholders with the notice which it expects its employees to comply.
The Board currently comprises three executive of the Annual General Meeting.
Bunzl encourages involvement of its employees and six non-executive directors all of whom in the performance of the business in which have wide experience and, leaving aside Share capital they are employed and aims to achieve Mr L C McQuade who will retire at the Details of the Companys share capital, a sense of shared commitment.
In addition forthcoming Annual General Meeting, are including shares issued during the year, are to a quarterly magazine and the Companys considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in Note 17 to the financial statements.
intranet, which provide a variety of information set out in the Higgs report to be independent.
on activities and developments within the Group Mr J F Harris has been designated as the Purchase of own shares and incorporate interim and annual financial senior independent non-executive director.
As at 24 February 2003 the Company had not reports, newsletters are periodically circulated Information relating to the conduct of Board Bunzl plc 1 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED meetings and the procedures implemented designed to manage rather than eliminate the a detailed procedures manual covering to ensure that the Board retains overall control risk of failure to achieve business objectives treasury operations.
and accountability for all strategic, financial, and can only provide reasonable and not operational and compliance issues are set absolute assurance against material Some of the procedures carried out in order out in the internal control report below and misstatement or loss.
to monitor the effectiveness of the internal in the Financial Review on pages 20 and 21 control system are listed below: of the Annual Review and Summary Financial In 1999 the Turnbull Committee published Statement.
The Board has Audit, Remuneration guidance on the wider aspects of internal central management holds regular meetings and Nomination Committees which comply control.
In accordance with this guidance with business area management to discuss with the provisions of the Code.
The Chairman, the Company established the procedures strategic, operational and financial issues Mr A J Habgood, continues to act in the capacity necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing including a review of the significant risks of Chief Executive.
The Board recognises the process for identifying, evaluating and affecting each of the business areas and concerns, expressed in a general context, about managing significant risks to the Group.
the policies and procedures by which these the possible negative effects of a concentration The Board confirms that such procedures risks are managed: of power through a combined Chairman and have been in place for the year ended Chief Executive role but believes these do not 31 December 2002 and up to the date an Executive Committee, consisting of the presently apply to the Company for a variety of of approval of these financial statements Chairman and the Finance Director and other reasons.
The Board has a majority of independent and have been reviewed during the year.
functional managers, meets twice per month non-executive directors who chair the relevant and reviews the outcome of the discussions Board Committees, constitute the entire The Board meets regularly throughout the held at business area meetings on internal membership of the Audit and Remuneration year and has formally adopted a schedule control issues: Committees and represent a majority of the of matters which are required to be brought Nomination Committee.
None of the Companys to it for decision.
This ensures that the the Board in turn reviews the outcome non-executive directors had any previous directors maintain overall control over all of the Executive Committee discussions connection with the Company or its executive significant strategic, financial, operational on internal control issues which ensures directors on appointment to the Board.
The Board has a documented and auditable trail addition, the Groups operations are devolved delegated to management the responsibility of accountability: and the Group benefits from the presence for establishing a system of internal control of strong senior line management in those appropriate to the business environments actual results are reviewed monthly operations.
The Deputy Chairman, Mr A P Dyer, in which the Group operates.
against budget, forecasts and the previous is a former non-executive Chairman of the year and explanations obtained for all Company.
The Boards firm view is that the The principal features of this system include: significant variances: Group does not suffer from a damaging concentration of power and is well protected a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness the Groups bank balances around the from such a possibility.
Furthermore, it believes of the internal control system through world are monitored on a weekly basis and that the current arrangements are in the best a tiered management structure with clearly significant movements are reviewed centrally: interests of the business and of shareholders.
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to the appropriate level the internal audit department periodically Detailed information concerning directors of management: reviews individual businesses and procedures, remuneration is given in the Directors makes recommendations to improve controls Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 33. clearly defined authorisation procedures and follows up to ensure that management for capital investment and acquisitions: implement the recommendations made.
The Chairman and Finance Director have The internal audit departments work is regular meetings with representatives of strategic plans which are prepared annually determined on a risk assessment basis and institutional shareholders and all shareholders by the business areas and approved by their findings are reported to Group and are encouraged to participate in the Annual the Board: business area management: General Meeting.
comprehensive budgets which are prepared the external auditors are engaged to express In relation to all provisions of the Code, annually by the business areas and approved an opinion on the financial statements.
They the Company complied throughout the by the Board: review and test the system of internal financial period under review.
control and the data contained in the financial a formal code of business standards based statements to the extent necessary for Internal control on honesty, integrity and fair dealing: expressing their audit opinion on the truth The directors acknowledge that they have and fairness of the financial statements: overall responsibility for the Groups system a well established consolidation and of internal control and for reviewing its reporting system for the statutory accounts every six months the Audit Committee, effectiveness.
However, such a system is and monthly management accounts: and which is chaired by Mr J F Harris, the senior 2 Bunzl plc independent non-executive director, London W1H 7EH on Wednesday reviews the findings of the external and 14 May 2003 at 11.00 am.
The notice internal auditors and approves the future convening the Meeting is set out in a work plans of the internal audit department: separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which explains the items regular meetings are held with insurance of special business.
and risk advisers to assess the risks throughout the Group: Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the the Group Health and Safety Committee forthcoming Annual General Meeting for sets relevant policies on health and safety the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc issues, based on the special advice of the as auditors of the Company at a rate Technical Sub-Committee, and monitors of remuneration to be determined by their implementation: the directors.
risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress against objectives P N Hussey established by each business area are Secretary periodically carried out: 24 February 2003 the Group Environment Committee periodically reviews environmental practices across the Group: and developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation during 2002.
Creditor payment policy Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with them, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers outstanding at the end of the financial year was 30 2001: 30.
Donations During 2002, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Group contributed 185,000 to UK charities 2001: 192,000.
No contributions were made for political purposes.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Thistle Marble Arch, Bryanston Street, Bunzl plc 3
