Law Debenture Management team Executive Management Caroline Banszky Robert Williams Commercial Trusts New Business Trust Management Denyse Anderson David Norris Julian Mason-Jebb Abigail Holladay Clive Rakestrow Trudi Elkington-Poole Richard Rance Stephen Norton Bill Rowland Treasury Management Peter Skeggs Pension Scheme Trusteeships Richard Thomas Andy Gibson Eddie Thomas Georg Inderst Bruce McNess Mike Leeson Mark Ashworth Antony Macwhinnie Steve Balmont Richard Main David Barrow Charles Morgan John Bloxsome Robert Thomas David Felder Corporate Services Service of Process Ian Bowden Anne Hills Sharon Tyson Administration Finance Compliance & Information Company Secretarial Technology Peter Skeggs Ian Bowden David Toombs David Evans Adeyemi Johnson Overseas offices New York Hong Kong Jersey Nancy Jo Kuenstner Christina Lee John Honey 8 Law Debenture Operating review - Investment Trust Economic and market review It seems difficult to believe that 2002 started off rather well.
Financial markets were looking forward to a vigorous recovery in the US economy and a possible rise in short term interest rates.
Economic forecasts for the UK and Europe were for real GDP growth of over 2% with Japan recovering and China growing at 8%.
For the first three months of the year, equity markets made gradual progress with our net asset value showing a 4.5% rise to the end of March.
After the 5% growth in US GDP reported for the first quarter, the US recovery ran out of steam and investors began to worry about the US experiencing a double dip recession.
The export dependent German and Japanese economies were in no state to take up the running.
Equity markets began a gentle decline, which accelerated in June and July as US investors began to question the quality of reported earnings.
From the end of March to the end of September, our net asset value declined by 30.1%.
October and November provided some much needed relief with a strong rally in global equities led by deeply oversold technology sectors, which outperformed the rest of the market.
In the light of continuing weak economic indicators, the Federal Reserve made its first cut in interest rates of the year in early November, with the Federal funds rate declining by 50 basis points to 1.25%, the lowest level for 40 years.
The increasingly cautious European Central Bank followed shortly afterwards, cutting interest rates from 3.25% to 2.75%, but the UK Monetary Policy Committee kept rates steady at 4% as the weak manufacturing sector was offset by a buoyant consumer sector, supported by rising house prices.
December was another disappointment, oil prices soared and equities lost ground as the economic and political uncertainty caused by an increasingly probable war with Iraq became a much bigger problem for the markets to absorb.
Asset allocation and performance Law Debenture Total Return Performance asset allocation Law Market 31.12.01 31.12.02 Debenture Relevant index %% % % UK 68.5 71.8 -14.8 -22.7 Europe ex UK 14.5 14.6 -21.3 -27.0 North America 10.0 6.4 -31.4 -29.5 Japan 2.8 2.9 -18.5 -18.0 Pacific ex Japan 4.2 4.3 -16.8 -17.6 UK: FTSE All Share.
North America: FTSE North America.
Pacific: FTSE Pacific ex Japan Source: WM Regrettably 2002 marked the third consecutive year of negative equity returns for the indices in the UK, Europe, the US and Japan.
Currency movements had a meaningful impact on returns with a 32% fall in Europe, reduced to 27% by a strengthening euro.
The reverse was true in the USA, where a 22% decline to local investors was converted into a 29.5% decline for sterling investors.
Ratings on Wall Street still appear too high and we have switched resources away from the USA to the UK, during a year when we marginally reduced our market exposure with a slight overall net portfolio disinvestment.
The table above shows that we outperformed in our two major areas of investment.
There has been disappointing performance in North America, and a neutral performance in Japan and the Pacific.
The whole portfolio, before the impact of gearing, showed a negative total return for the financial year of 16.7% against 22.7% for the FTSE All Share Index.
However, our decision to maintain a geared position in equities reduced the benefit of good overall asset allocation and stock selection.
9 Law Debenture Operating review - Investment Trust continued United Kingdom The UK economy grew by 1.7% in 2002 with inflation averaging 2.2%.
Growth was below the USA but considerably better than Europe and Japan.
Unemployment has remained low and despite the weakness in equity markets, consumer spending has been strong supported by rising house prices.
Manufacturing, particularly for export, has been very weak with an increase in companies moving their production facilities overseas.
Government spending on schools, hospitals and infrastructure will become a feature in 2003 which will help to offset any slowdown in consumption.
Investors were concerned about asset and income safety which favoured large, defensive companies with strong balance sheets and secure dividend yields.
The top 100 stocks led by tobacco, food, water and property sectors, outperformed the mid 250 and smaller companies.
Information technology, electronics, insurance and telecom were the worst performing sectors.
We have been quite active with 5 net new investments, bringing the total number of UK holdings to 95.
There was a decline in corporate activity but cash bids were accepted for Enterprise Oil and Powergen, and we sold British Airways, Cable & Wireless and mmO.
We added to the housebuilding sector with purchases of 2 Wimpey and Barratt, increased our media exposure via BSkyB and Johnston Press and added to the water sector switching Pennon into Severn Trent and purchasing United Utilities.
We reduced HSBC in favour of Standard Chartered, and bought two low yielding growth stocks, Wellington Holdings and Galen.
With 1 billion in cash and no bank debt, we thought Colt Euro bonds were mispriced, providing an income yield of 16% and redemption yield of 24%.
Europe Europe has performed very poorly with the two largest markets, Germany and France declining by 44% and 31% respectively.
However we have been partially rescued by the 6.5% increase in the euro versus sterling.
Tim Stevenson, our European portfolio manager, has done a splendid job avoiding most of the big losers and our large property weighting has also contributed to our performance.
Equities both in Europe and the UK have been further depressed by forced selling by life insurance and pension funds to protect their solvency margins.
The major disposals were mostly transacted in February with well timed sales of Siemens, Ahold, Securitas, KPN, Deutsche Bank and J C Decaux.
The new purchases were Wereldhave, a Dutch property company yielding 7%, Deutsche Brse, Fresenius, Adecco and Sandvik.
A switch from Lufthansa into Ryanair was very successful.
After the very large equity market falls during the summer, some major companies were forced to have rescue rights issues at deeply discounted levels.
We accepted sub-underwriting for new issues in Ericsson, Zurich Financial and Swiss Life, earning significant levels of commission.
North America We have found it increasingly difficult to add value in the US and Canada, which is most frustrating.
Large capitalisation growth stocks have been battered by hedge fund shorting and mutual fund redemptions.
Investor confidence was severely shaken by the collapse of Enron and Worldcom, the discovery of creative accounting at Tyco and Xerox, and widespread evidence of corporate greed at the expense of shareholders.
Although the authorities have acted quickly to restore confidence in the accounting process and the conflicts regarding broker recommendations, the wounds will take some time to heal.
Ann Hall replaced Chris Galleymore as manager of our North American portfolio at the beginning of the year and consequently turnover has been high as she re-shaped the portfolio.
Out of our original portfolio of 22 stocks at the start of the year only 9 holdings remain, and our very large position in AIG was halved to reduce stock specific risk.
New holdings were established in 12 companies, the four largest being Deere, Philip Morris, AmerisourceBergen and Eaton.
10 Law Debenture Operating review - Investment Trust continued Japan Japanese equities made steady progress until May on hopes of a strong US economic recovery.
The rise in the TOPIX Index of 8.4% was the best performing major market in the world for the first five months of the year.
Unfortunately as the outlook for both the US and world economy started to deteriorate, fears of a further year of no economic growth and 1% deflation brought about a sharp reversal.
Foreign investors lost confidence both in the stockmarket and the currency and the equity market dropped to an 18 year low in December.
Our modest exposure in Japan is held through the Henderson Japan Capital Growth Fund, which is well diversified and performed in line with the market last year.
Although the economic outlook is for a further year of zero growth with 1% deflation, many companies are coping very well with the continuing recession with profit margins continuing to rise from low levels.
Pacific Like Japan, the Pacific Region was one of the better performing areas during the first five months of our year.
Strong growth in China and Korea was offset by the very poor economic outlook in Hong Kong and a rapid slowdown in Taiwan which is heavily dependent on high technology exports to the US.
The equity markets in the Pacific Rim are closely correlated with the US and this year proved no exception with the FTSE Pacific ex-Japan Index declining by 17.6% for sterling investors.
We are almost exclusively invested in the Henderson Pacific Capital Growth Fund which provides a diversified portfolio spread throughout the region and which slightly outperformed the Index.
There was a very wide disparity of country performance which on balance reflected the economic fortunes of the region.
Thailand was the best performing market with a rise of 10.4% contrasting with Taiwan, which declined by 31.7%.
11 Law Debenture Top 20 holdings by value 2002 2001 Rank Company Value % of % of Rank 000 portfolio portfolio 1.
Unibail 2,210 0.95 0.60 56 42.13 The top 20 individual holdings by value at 31 December 2001 accounted for 40.23% of the investment portfolio.
