Law Debenture Sector analysis Portfolio by sector - 2002 Resources 12% Basic Industries General Industries 6% 33% Cyclical Cons Goods 5% Non-Cyclical Cons Goods 1% Cyclical Services Non-Cyclical Services Utilities 19% Information Technology 1% 3% Financials 5% 15% % change in investments by sector 3 2 1 0 -1 -2 01 -3 02 -4 Resources Basic General Cyclical Non-Cyclical Cyclical Non-Cyclical Utilities Information Financials Industries Industries Cons Goods Cons Goods Services Services Technology 17 Law Debenture Operating review - Trustee and related services Results 2002 saw challenging market conditions, but in spite of this, income from trustee and related services increased by nearly 14% over the previous year.
Profitability was adversely affected by a number of one-off costs, including some investment for the future, which we expect to pay good dividends in later years.
These one-off costs relate to unrecovered costs incurred in respect of debt defaults, overseas office restructuring and duplication of managing director costs.
Law Debenture's expertise and independence are valued and enable us to continue to develop profitable lines in fields related to our existing businesses.
Commercial trusts The commercial trusts area remains the largest contributor to income in our trustee and related services business.
Whilst the capital markets continue to provide the majority of the work for our team, other corporate finance transactions are becoming more important.
There is an increasing demand in many areas for an independent third party to hold assets on behalf of others and our expertise has enabled us to expand the range of transactions in which we are involved.
Such transactions range from simple escrow arrangements to complex voting trusts.
Significant new capital markets deals in which we have been involved during 2002 include debt issues for EMI, First Group, HBOS, Lloyds TSB and Royal Bank of Scotland and convertible issues for Aegis, Anglo American, Corus and Friends Provident.
More complex issues include funding for the A28 toll road project in France and the securitisation of BUPA's private hospital business.
An example of corporate finance transactions would be a special voting arrangement for Xstrata to protect the entrenched rights of shareholders on the company's change of domicile from Switzerland to the UK.
In the present financial environment, it is unsurprising that we have been involved in a number of defaults and restructurings, including Railtrack and Marconi, where we have an established reputation for dealing with difficult issues in an effective and pro-active way.
Regrettably involvement in this area has led to the incidence of costs, certain of which have been provided against as non-recoverable.
A further development in an area which has always been difficult is the growing influence and involvement of the US based hedge funds or vulture funds.
The principal aim driving these funds is to maximise their return on distressed or undervalued debt.
To this end they adopt an aggressive approach towards all parties, including the trustee.
Pensions and Charities Pensions issues are rarely out of the news these days.
The continuing searchlight on companies' responsibilities to their schemes, the cost of providing pensions and the security or otherwise of the pensions promise have together created a climate in which the value of our service is more and more appreciated.
We have a high quality client list and this provides a firm foundation for our business, leading us to believe that there is long term growth both in services to existing clients and in new business.
We saw significant growth in our portfolio of pension schemes last year, with new appointments from existing clients as well as new ones.
The schemes we took on were large and small, ongoing, closed and in wind up, final salary and money purchase, and both tax approved and unapproved.
We were particularly pleased at being appointed to the schemes of a major consultant to the pensions industry, a substantial fund manager, and a leading business school.
The other companies who appointed us are plcs ranging from very large to medium sized, and a substantial privately owned firm.
We think that this variety demonstrates well the benefits of the professionalism that we can bring, and shows that the advantages of using us are appreciated both inside the industry and outside it.
18 Law Debenture Operating review - Trustee and related services continued It is too early to say how the latest Green Paper on working and saving for retirement will affect us, but our preliminary view is that its focus on the protection of members' benefits should enable us to win more appointments.
We remain convinced of the value of the services we can provide to charities and we continue to seek new opportunities.
The present economic climate is, however, causing problems for many charities and, in the short term, we do not expect to secure any significant number of profitable appointments.
Corporate services Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited has two income streams.
The first is our long-established and very highly-regarded service of process business.
This goes from strength to strength, dealing with appointments from all parts of the world.
The second income stream is the provision of company secretarial services and corporate directors to third parties, principally for the purposes of securitisations and corporate finance transactions.
Although comparatively small at the moment, we expect this business to increase significantly, both through working with our commercial trust business and increasingly in offering services independent of the trustee area.
Treasury management Although we have been involved in the management of trust related cash for many years, we are expanding our capabilities to enable us to handle cash and short term investments in other situations.
We have installed a new treasury management system which enables us to handle far greater numbers of transactions with even higher control standards.
In addition we now offer a money market fund which offers good security and flexibility for invested cash.
These developments should enable us to expand our operations in this area significantly in future years.
Investor services We have now upgraded our software, which will enable us to take on share savings schemes for third parties in addition to our own.
This software can also be adapted for similar activities, such as dividend payments and voting trusts.
19 Law Debenture Operating review - Trustee and related services continued Overseas New York Law Debenture Trust Company of New York was licensed by the New York Department of Banking on 8 May 2002 and since then has taken on successor trusteeships for issuers in financial difficulty, where the original trustee finds itself with a conflict of interest, for 20 issues totalling about US$ 15 billion.
Our entry into this marketplace as an independent trustee was well timed to take advantage of the conflicts of interest which inevitably arise in the US market, where there has been significant consolidation of corporate trust providers.
Marketing of our services in other areas of the trustee markets has begun and we have high hopes for significant new business in 2003.
Law Debenture Corporate Services Inc. has been very successful in offering service of process agency, particularly in connection with the US Patriot Act.
We have a rapidly growing customer base where we offer a personalised and efficient service.
Hong Kong We have restructured the Hong Kong office to reduce costs and have every expectation of satisfactory returns in the future.
Most of the work in Hong Kong derives from the capital markets.
The most significant appointment in 2002 was as Security Trustee for Cyberport, a major development of residential and hi-tech space involving the Hong Kong Government.
The Hong Kong office continues to provide support and assistance to the London office in connection with the refinancing of defaulted debt in the region.
Notwithstanding the difficult economic conditions facing Hong Kong and South East Asia, we remain committed to developing further new business in the region.
Encouragingly, the HKSAR Government plans to develop Hong Kongs small bond market by making it easier for local and regional issuers to raise funds at competitive rates by introducing new measures such as simplified prospectus requirements.
We are also tracking developments in the financial centres of China in the context of new trustee laws and where we anticipate that new opportunities will arise in the future.
Channel Islands Law Debenture Channel Islands has now received its formal licence to undertake trust company business having previously operated under the transitional regulatory regime.
The Channel Islands continue to provide a stable base for transactions where an offshore centre close to the UK and mainland Europe is required.
Cayman Islands Law Debenture Cayman is a registered trust company which provides a useful location for offshore transactions.
