Building Financial Reporting therefore transitional arrangements are being 14 Finance Directors Review The Modied Statutory Solvency MSS basis developed for application in 2005.
We is the current primary reporting method in the recognise that, during the transitional period UK for long term insurance business and it and beyond, the primary financial statements builds on the statutory requirements designed may give an incomplete view of a companys to demonstrate solvency.
It defers the performance and we believe that supplementary recognition of profit and does not fully AP information will therefore continue to play recognise the shareholders interest in an important role.
the in-force long term business.
Financial Strength The focus in the Operating and Financial Despite recent difficult equity market conditions, Review is on operating profit on the Achieved we remain nancially strong.
Legal & General profits AP basis which has been developed Assurance Society Limited Society, the Groups by the ABI as a more realistic method of main operating subsidiary has recently had its accounting for long term business.
The profits financial strength rating reafrmed by all three reect the change in embedded value and of its credit rating agencies.
Standard & incorporate risk assumptions which are Poors and AM Best have awarded their consistent with pricing bases over time.
highest ratings, AAA and A respectively, Andrew Palmer, Group Director Finance whilst Moodys has awarded its second Operating profit on the AP basis excludes highest rating, Aa1.
Standard & Poors and investment return variances and the effect AM Best have assigned a negative outlook of economic assumption changes and better reecting continued turbulence in worldwide reects underlying trends.
It also includes equity markets, while Moodys has assigned a longer term investment return on the a stable outlook.
capital regarded as supporting the business, which is based on the appropriate solvency Superior financial strength is a valuable margin.
The exclusion of short term competitive advantage for the Group and investment uctuations reects the manner provides a source of considerable security in which insurers price and manage their and confidence for policyholders.
A longer term investment return on maintain the level of capital support to the shareholders funds held outside the long term business which gives us greater UK Long Term Fund LTF is also included in investment freedom, thus providing the Other operational income.
For General Insurance, potential for enhanced returns.
operating profit is shown before any transfers The UK Long Term Fund to or from the equalisation provision.
The LTF consists of those assets of Society In 2002, the EU Commission resolved that which are attributed to the long term all EU listed companies should adopt insurance business.
The market value of International Financial Reporting Standards the assets representing the LTF was 37.1bn for their consolidated accounts for accounting at the end of 2002 2001: 38.5bn.
The most significant IN 2002 WE HAVE A simplied representation of the LTF area of impact for Legal & General will be ows is shown in Figure 14.
CONTINUED TO WRITE the proposed changes to accounting for insurance contracts.
The International Part of the LTF is attributed to with-profits NEW BUSINESS WHICH Accounting Standards Board has indicated business.
The balance of the LTF assets, less DELIVERS REAL VALUE that a standard for insurance accounting is an amount to cover the liabilities of the nonFOR SHAREHOLDERS.
unlikely to be issued before 2007 and profit business, represents the Shareholder LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 on a proven Prudent Capital Management Turbulent conditions in world equity markets have put the balance sheets of many financial institutions under evident strain.
Though a problem for weaker companies, these same conditions provide opportunities for the stronger industry participants to take market share and to consolidate their market position.
Supported by the funds raised in last years Rights Issue, our financial position is strong relative to our competitors.
We are therefore well positioned to continue pursuing the business strategy which has proved so successful for us over the past ten years.
Jemini Patel Senior Manager, Corporate Financial Management
