CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CIRQUE DU SOLEIL SALTIMBANCO Legal & General made it possible for almost 1,000 children, some from schools in Education Action Zones Case Studies surrounding our main ofces and some young carers known to The Princess Royal Trust for Carers, to see the spectacular Cirque du Soleil show Saltimbanco, at the Royal Albert Hall.
David Prosser, Group Chief Executive, is seen here welcoming some of the children to the show.
ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS Creating employment opportunities for deaf 21 Targets 2002 Status Targets 2003 and hearing impaired people in Cardiff.
Direct Direct In 2002, building on a successful Reduce fixed site carbon dioxide emissionsReduce energy consumption by 10% on 2001 relationship with the Royal National to below 100kg CO per square metre at baseline at target properties by end of 2004.
2 Institute for the Deaf, Legal & Generals our operational properties.
Cardiff ofce recruited six deaf and hearing Reduce operating stock of HCFC-R22 Reduce stock of HCFC-R22 by 25% at impaired employees.
We realised that, by 5% at operational properties.
operational properties on 2001 baseline despite having a strong equal opportunities by the end of 2004. recruitment policy, our usual forms of recruitment advertising were bypassing Ensure that less than 40% of waste Ensure that less than 35% of waste produced at target sites is disposed produced at target sites is disposed the deaf community.
To rectify this, of directly to landfill.
a project in Cardiff introduced Deaf 3 awareness training, covering communication Reduce water consumption to 14.75m per Reduce water consumption by 4% per person per year at our Kingswood person on 2001 baseline by the end and working environments and the use of and Hove sites.
interpreters for interviews and training purposes.
We began a proactive recruitment Reduce consumption of copier paper per Reduce consumption of copier paper per programme, tailored our emergency person by 5% on 2001 consumption.
procedures and re-assessed Health and Legal & General Property to audit 100% of 100% of target properties to be in full Safety issues.
24 first line managers their directly managed property portfolio.
compliance with the environmental have also been trained to Basic Level 1 monitoring procedure.
Legal & General Property to ensure the Ensure that 37% of target properties internal Environmental Management System are fully compliant with the Environmental is compliant with the ISO 14001 standard.
Re-launch of the interactive website for The Princess Royal Trust for Carers Achieve ISO 14001 certification at Increase provision of recycling facilities As part of our support for The Princess Bucklersbury House and Brakespear Park to 37% of target properties from the 2002 for facility management operations.
Royal Trust for Carers, a team from Legal & General helped the charity to Remove all halon 1301 from relaunch their interactive website in 2002. operational properties.
The website is not only a source of Indirect Indirect information and advice for carers but it also Ensure at least 75% of our key suppliers Ensure at least 80% of our key suppliers are provides a forum for discussion between are in full compliance with the requirements in full compliance with the requirements of carers, whose commitment to looking after of our Environmental Purchasing Policy.
their loved ones can leave them feeling Legal & General Investment Management Legal & General Investment Management isolated.
Legal & General provided will seek to identify environmental risks and will seek to identify environmental risks and managerial support for the development opportunities in all major UK holdings and opportunities in all major UK holdings and to influence companies through the use of to influence companies through the use of its phase of the project, incorporating input its vote at general meetings.
The aim is to vote at general meetings.
The aim is to cover from carers we employ at Legal & General.
cover the top 350 over a five year period.
the top 350 over a five year period.
Our involvement in the project continues Other Other and we are now funding a website marketing Legal & General Group Plc will adopt the Further engage all our stakeholders in manager.
The website was re-launched in Association of British Insurers disclosure Legal & Generals environmental activities.
May 2002 by HRH The Princess Royal.
Prior to the launch, the number of page Work with key stakeholders to review views was 26,000 per month.
Page views Legal & Generals significant in December 2002 reached 166,000. environmental risks.
To view the website, go to www.
