25 RNS the UKs leading distributor of company news RNS is the UKs leading distributor of company news and aims to deliver even more value in a new competitive environment.
RNS is our company news service for RNS Reach our investor communications companies traded on our markets.
We service for non-regulatory announcements.
publish several hundred regulatory disclosure RNS Alert an e-mail-based service that announcements each day to a global audience customers use to target key industry of 250,000 investor terminals, as well contacts and send them details of the as key financial websites.
We also target announcement at the same time as it information geographically within the UK is published to the market.
RNS Mediastream enables video Until April 2002, RNS was the sole distributor and audio content to be communicated of companies regulatory announcements in the alongside RNS announcements.
Since April, the market has been opened RNS Insight a web-based service up to commercial service providers approved that companies, media and analysts by the Financial Services Authority.
use to monitor, search and analyse RNS announcements.
By ensuring that RNS responds positively to the needs of customers and continues to be Meeting customer requirements the leading source of company information, we The reliability, speed and proven track record are transforming a well-respected service into of RNS give its customers confidence that a valuable new revenue stream.
Our unrivalled their announcements are in safe hands.
UK market expertise, high quality service and By continually developing the service in integrated investor relations products position response to customer requirements, we us strongly to succeed in the new environment.
aim to further develop our market-leading position in the new commercial environment.
Introducing new services We have introduced a package of services to complement the core regulatory disclosure service.
These enable customers to deliver marketing messages, target their most important audiences and ensure that webcasts gain the attention of the investment community: DEVELOPING A GLOBAL MARKETPLACE 26 Corporate and social responsibility Working with the community We set out the breadth of our corporate responsibilities, both in our approach to our employees and in our broader interaction with the surrounding community.
We are committed to maintaining positive Our people policies to promote equal opportunities in We continue to invest in the development employment, including the employment, training of our people, providing them with structured and retention of disabled people.
Our internal training to achieve a broad base of skills and communications approach makes information on knowledge.
We promote a working environment matters of concern freely available and readily that encourages everyones abilities and accessible to our employees through a variety talents.
All employees undergo an induction of paper-based, electronic and oral media.
programme, which includes training on their roles and responsibilities on health, safety The environment and security matters.
All of our managers Although the environmental impact of our attend regular formal training events as operations is in itself limited, we are committed part of their ongoing development.
to the reduction of waste across our business We have launched a new appraisal system and to promoting energy efficiency.
We recycle that provides a simple, effective review all glass and paper used in our property and we of the performance of our people and give careful consideration to the environmental links individual contribution to the overall performance of our suppliers as part of our objectives of the business.
Over 90 per cent selection and purchasing process.
We are of our employees are now members of continually improving our energy efficiency, share schemes, enabling them to further while maintaining effective and safe operational share in the success of our business.
conditions for staff and market services.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 27 Architects impression of our new headquarters in Paternoster Square.
New headquarters Partnership with The Trident Trust We will be relocating our headquarters in This year, in addition to the CPB programme, 2004 to purpose-built premises in Paternoster we formed a partnership with The Trident Trust, Square, near St Pauls Cathedral.
This visible an educational charity based in the City of location, at the heart of the City, will keep us London and active across the country.
Trident close to our customers.
We are designing an improves the employment opportunities of attractive, modern and efficient working school children mainstream and those with environment, which is being built to exacting special needs through personal development standards and will offer easy access to all staff programmes and work experience.
In keeping with our drive to for Trident has been the focus of our 200th improve energy efficiency, the building will be anniversary celebrations with events held designed, for example, to minimise carbon throughout the year.
Staff, customers and emissions and incorporate energy recovery suppliers have worked closely together to techniques for winter operation.
We offer our congratulations and thanks to all those who Investing in the community have worked extremely hard to make such a success of our partnership with Trident.
We have an active and successful community programme.
We currently donate 100,000 per FTSE4Good year to charity projects through our Community We are a member of FTSE4Good, the index Programme Board CPB, which is chaired by for socially responsible investment created our Deputy Chairman, Ian Salter.
As a member, we are committed, for part of the programmes responsibility is to example, to developing positive and constructive support the fundraising efforts of our staff by relationships with our stakeholders.
In recent years, the CPB has focused its support on some of the UKs most deprived areas which surround the City of London.
