20 Technology Increased revenue through technology services The ongoing development of our trading and information systems and network supports an increasing flow of trading, and allows us to increase the number of different overseas markets that harness our technology.
SEQUENCE world-class trading platform Technology sales Our trading platform called SEQUENCE We continue to sell access to our supports a wide range of market models, SEQUENCE trading platform, including such as the SETS electronic order book SETS, on an Application Service Provider and the SEAQ quote-driven system.
It also ASP basis to other exchanges globally.
supports trading in all currencies.
In December, ASP enables us to benefit from economies we upgraded SEQUENCE to new Compaq of scale through using our existing technology Tandem hardware, which trebled our trading and operations to process trades from capacity.
This allows us to accommodate other markets.
Our offering is attractive to the continued growth in trading volumes on customers, not only in terms of the stability, our markets.
It also enables us to grow our reliability and functionality that SEQUENCE technology sales by leasing extra capacity provides, but also in terms of its to overseas markets.
Introducing the IP network A unique selling point of our technology offering is the potential for customers to We have installed a high-capacity Internet derive business-related synergies.
These Protocol IP network, which will communicate include reciprocal arrangements relating our market data more efficiently.
The IP to remote access and market information network increases the capacity, flexibility dissemination.
The shared infrastructure and reach of SEQUENCE.
It also provides will, for example, increase the choice of the key component of Extranex, our new markets available and reduce the costs global information network service, which of accessing information.
The new IP-based communication infrastructure will also increase Since May 2002, we have been running and the attractiveness of SEQUENCE to overseas operating the JSE Securities Exchange South markets looking to connect to London.
Africa equity market through our trading systems in London.
The venture is expected to generate 11.2 million in revenue over the next five years, with an opportunity to earn in excess of this figure depending on transaction volume growth.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 21 THE JSE EQUITY MARKET YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2002 Number of listed companies 535 Market capitalisation of listed companies 117 billion Value of domestic trades 38 billion Number of equity transactions 3,992,579 The JSE Securities Exchange South Africa building in Johannesburg.
