16 Broker Services Leading the way in fast, efficient, cost-effective trading We are continually upgrading our product and service offering to a wide range of customers from the largest investment bank to the private investor.
The Broker Services division develops our 81.2 million.
The daily average number of trading markets and related products and equity bargains rose 25 per cent to 200,000. services, and attracts and admits new Our trading systems, with uninterrupted customers to our markets.
These customers access, proved resilient in a year of volatile are wholesale and retail broking firms from global trading conditions.
Broker Services principal Rapid growth in electronic trading revenue stream is earned from the processing of trades between members, and admission The SETS electronic order book, which trades and service fees.
the most liquid UK securities, has been central to the rapid growth in trading activity.
The daily We currently have 298 member firms from average number of SETS trades was a record 13 different countries and overseas territories.
69,000, outstripping the previous years 37,000 During the last year, we attracted members by 86 per cent.
Since its introduction in 1997, from two new countries, Italy and Switzerland.
SETS has greatly reduced the cost of trading, The expanding range of new tailored products for example by halving the spread between and services being introduced, such as the buy and sell orders.
RSP Gateway, will support the anticipated increase in trading volumes and help underpin To support this growth and ensure that revenue growth by meeting the future needs customers continue to get the high performance of our customers.
and reliability standards that are so critical to The division enjoyed a year of strong growth, electronic trading, we increased SETS trading increasing annual revenue by 26 per cent to capacity threefold during the year.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 17 MONTHLY UK EQUITY TRADING VOLUMES revenue YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2002 250 4 200 3 81.2m 150 2 100 1 50 0 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 NUMBER OF ORDERS ENTERED ONTO SETS FTSE 100 AVERAGE VOLUME WEIGHTED SPREADS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2002 THOUSANDS ENTERED ONTO SETS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2002 150 80 120 60 90 40 60 20 30 0 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Increasing access to the central market Delivery of new products In June 2002, we are introducing the Retail We are planning to launch a covered warrants Service Provider RSP Gateway.
It will benefit market in the UK.
A covered warrant is an existing and new entrant RSPs by significantly instrument issued on an underlying security reducing their costs of access to the central or market that gives the holder the opportunity market.
Brokers will benefit through greater to gain or lose from market movements in choice from consolidated technical access the underlying.
Revised regulations from the to RSPs and the competition of more price Financial Services Authority FSA mean that makers.
The service will be free to brokers covered warrants can now be offered costand RSPs will pay an annual access fee, while effectively to retail investors, and are eligible overall lower industry costs should help to for settlement in the CREST settlement service increase the number of bargains executed.
In order to maximise revenues, we will ensure that there The RSP Gateway infrastructure has the is strong retail participation in the new market.
potential to be extended to service the needs of institutions and investment banks and to support markets beyond UK equities opportunities we will actively explore in the year ahead.
DEVELOPING A GLOBAL MARKETPLACE Order book trades Value traded bn 3 month moving Bargains m average shown Average spreads bps 3 month moving average shown 18 Broker Services increase in revenue 26% For retail investors, the IRS supports trading in Reducing settlement costs nearly 300 international blue-chips, including 50 Our commitment to reduce settlement costs, US stocks.
Over 165 of our members currently both domestic and cross-border, will help to subscribe and the service has ensured that drive overall trading levels on our markets.
the cost of investing in international stocks CRESTCo settles trades in both UK and Irish has been substantially reduced.
From May 2002, we have chosen to become a CREST network provider and to offer Promoting high quality regulation our customers access to the CREST settlement We run well-regulated markets with high service at highly competitive rates.
We can standards of fairness and integrity.
This is deliver the CREST network service on an crucial in providing the necessary confidence extremely cost-efficient basis, allowing and protection to those who invest through competitive pricing.
The new service will our markets.
provide significant cost savings for many of our customers.
Over the past year, we have worked with the FSA to integrate these high standards into We will also make the clearing and settlement the new regulatory environment, established of SETS trades more efficient.
Building on following the introduction of the Financial the successful introduction of the central Services and Markets Act in December.
The counterparty with CRESTCo and LCH we Act consolidates and enhances the framework plan to introduce a netting capability in summer of financial regulation in the UK, in particular 2002.
This will allow our customers to have creating a new market abuse regime.
We have just one net settlement per security per day, worked with the FSA to ensure that a coirrespective of the number of trades dealt on ordinated approach is applied in the event of SETS.
It will reduce their administrative costs breaches by market participants.
As a Recognised Investment Exchange, we are In addition, we are planning to offer our subject to, and impose, high quality regulation customers the opportunity to settle trades across our markets.
This enables us to remain for both UK and non-UK securities in Euroclear, a market leader in terms of price transparency the Brussels-based settlement organisation.
and disclosure of corporate information.
By This will complement the service already using state of the art technology, we are able provided by CRESTCo.
The new service to provide unobtrusive and cost-effective will help reduce costs for cross-border real-time monitoring of market activity.
This transactions and increase choice and ensures that all participants operate on a competition for settlement services.
Cutting the cost of cross-border The next year will see further changes investment to the European regulatory landscape as Through the International Order Book IOB the European Union looks to develop and and the International Retail Service IRS, introduce a range of directives in relation we provide increasingly attractive low-cost to the securities markets.
We have worked international markets.
with customers, practitioner groups and the The IOB offers electronic trading to European Commission to promote open and professional investors in our most liquid accessible trading practices and internationally international securities and now provides respected standards of market regulation.
a total of 88 stocks from 12 countries.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 19 DEVELOPING A GLOBAL MARKETPLACE
