22 Information Services Information and networks that power trading across the globe We are committed to enlarging the pool of investors, information vendors and companies that access our data and networks.
We invest heavily in our information infrastructure to create the capacity to increase the number of products we can deliver.
Accurate, real-time price data is essential Provision of market data for the users of our markets and a valuable The Exchange has over 300 vendors of its resource for the Exchange.
The Information real-time and delayed data.
These vendors Services division sells price data and other supply real-time information to customers in specialist securities information to companies, 100 countries from Australia to Korea and investors and information vendors.
The total number of terminals enables customers to access our technology receiving our data has been broadly maintained networks, including the new Extranex network, at 105,000 during a year of volatile market as well as the STX private telephone service conditions.
The number of those terminals used for market participants.
Information Services by professional investors stayed at 96,000. revenue rose by nine per cent to reach 94.9 million in 2002.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 23 COUNTRIES RECEIVING DATA FROM THE LONDON revenue STOCK EXCHANGE HIGHLIGHTED IN CORAL 94.9m data provided to terminals in 100 countries Extranex a global network service Extranex Virtual Private Network 64 to 2000 for international customers who require In April 2002, using new Internet Protocol an alternative means of connecting to the IP technology, we introduced Extranex, our Exchange.
It provides the performance of new global information network service.
a high capacity, dual circuit connection, Customers can choose from different access using dedicated capacity within a shared levels when they subscribe to Extranex: global IP network.
Extranex 64 for customers who require access to current trading services only, Extranex has increased the information although it can support a number of new product range we can develop and widened trading and settlement services.
the customer base to which we can sell it.
While the current X25 Communications Extranex 128 to 2000 for customers who have a greater capacity need and require Service is 90 per cent UK-based, the new current, new and enhanced information network gives us the ability to provide services and who may also require trading more cost-effective services to any and or settlement services.
recognised financial centre in the world.
DEVELOPING A GLOBAL MARKETPLACE 24 Information Services increase in revenue 9% Added value real-time information services cumulative volumes showing the cumulative number and volume of automatic and We already provide added value information manual trades to our customers in the form of closing prices, snapshots, mid-prices and the Daily Official uncrossing Price and Volume, indicating List price, via our London Market Information both the uncrossing price and volume Link LMIL.
Extranex will enable us to respond corresponding to that price.
further to the demand for additional data on By developing these services, we aim to our markets by offering: meet the needs of our customers to save Volume Weighted Average Price VWAP time, increase efficiency and improve their messages which are based on SETS order information product range.
We have also book trades and broadcast to the market been active in developing: throughout the trading day new packages of stock situation and an Enhanced Best Price message which, valuation data in addition to providing the best bid and an online calendar, which will allow mid-prices, also details the number and customers to track all forthcoming volume of orders at best price corporate events affecting UK securities traded on the Exchange a tick data service, which provides historical intra-day tick-by-tick trading data time and sales information.
com selling products online The popularity of our website continues to grow appreciably, with the number of hits rising from 363 million to 847 million during the year.
com can now be accessed by customers wishing to purchase from our range of information products or subscribe to RNS Insight online to search and analyse two years of regulatory announcements.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002
