12 Issuer Services Selling our markets to companies around the world We provide a wide range of markets and services to attract and support UK and overseas companies wishing to raise capital and have their securities traded on a world-class market.
The Issuer Services division manages our During the year, we introduced new markets relationship with the companies traded on our and products, such as techMARK mediscience markets.
It also seeks to attract companies and Retail Depositary Receipts.
from the UK and overseas that wish to have The divisions revenue is derived from fees paid their shares traded on an equity market, and by issuers for initial admission to trading and develops new markets and services to meet subsequent issues of securities.
All companies the needs of issuers.
The division offers two on our primary markets also pay annual fees.
primary markets: Issuer Services generated 26.9 million of The main market offers trading in the revenue during the year, down 16 per cent securities of 2,238 companies, including on the previous year.
The decline resulted 447 overseas issuers from 60 countries.
from the reduction in the number of Initial Public The main market provides the majority of Offerings IPOs and new issues of securities, Issuer Services revenue.
a result of the difficult stock market conditions AIM is our international market for smaller, seen throughout the world.
growing companies with 641 constituents, Despite these conditions, a total of 196 billion including 42 overseas companies.
We attracted 289 In addition, Issuer Services offers a range of companies to our markets, including 141 IPOs.
attribute-led markets, such as techMARK, our This accounted for 66 per cent of all IPOs market for innovative technology companies.
in Western Europe, up from 47 per cent the previous year.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 13 PERCENTAGE OF WESTERN EUROPEAN PERCENTAGE OF WESTERN EUROPEAN IPOS YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2002 % IPOS TRADING IN LONDON % London AIM Euronext main market Borsa Italia 7 Deutsche Brse 9 66 40 26 Other Western Europe Source: London Stock Exchange, 11 Thomson Financial IFR Platinum and individual exchange websites NUMBER OF AIM COMPANIES revenue YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2002 750 600 641 26.9m 550 450 385 300 310 311 269 150 136 0 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 specialist pharmaceuticals, diagnostics, drug AIM leading the IPO market delivery and medical technology industries.
We AIM is the most dynamic market for smaller have supported this initiative with a new index companies in the world.
While its competitors from FTSE.
techMARK mediscience helps to have suffered from the global downturn, AIM focus even greater investor attention on one has continued to attract new companies.
The of the worlds leading healthcare sectors.
market attracted 170 companies, including 85 IPOs.
AIM accounted for 40 per cent of all landMARK providing a regional focus Western European IPOs.
In December alone, landMARK, our market for regional companies, 14 UK and three international companies joined.
was successfully launched across the UK techMARK mediscience the worlds and Ireland in the summer.
It is dedicated to first healthcare market highlighting the potential of quoted companies and encouraging growth in the liquidity of techMARK has consolidated its position their shares.
Since its launch, the dedicated as Europes premier market for innovative landMARK website has become established technology companies.
as a key source of information about local To continue the development of techMARK, we companies and the professional community launched techMARK mediscience in November that supports them.
to create the worlds first market specifically for healthcare companies.
The market includes listed companies from the biotechnology, DEVELOPING A GLOBAL MARKETPLACE 7 14 Issuer Services The London Advantage attracting Accessing North America international companies We have 88 companies from the US and We have 489 international companies Canada on our international market and we including AIM, more than any other stock continue to promote our markets widely in exchange.
Over the year, we have continued North America.
Three companies joined in to promote our markets worldwide.
In October, we welcomed US focused our efforts on those countries with Bancorp Piper Jaffray Capital Markets Ltd as strong growth potential, particularly Japan, our first US Nominated Adviser Nomad on India, China, South Africa and Australia.
AIM and Canaccord Capital Europe Ltd in During the year, we attracted 26 international December as our first Canadian Nomad.
companies, including seven from Australia and three from Japan.
By introducing innovative products such as Retail Depositary Receipts RDRs, we will continue to increase international participation in our markets.
RDRs are certificates which represent ownership of shares in a company and which can be listed and traded independently from the underlying share.
In particular, they offer international investors a higher level of investor protection Yoshinori Uda, COO of NTT DoCoMo, Inc, one of with more rigorous listing rules than the Japans leading mobile communications operators, conventional Global Depositary Receipt.
at the London listing ceremony in March.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 15 Gateway to Europe The City Media Centre Our broadcasting and presentation facilities There are 188 non-UK European companies are located in the City Media Centre.
During the year we attracted profile continues to grow with companies, 10 European companies and, in March, investors and viewers of financial news.
Swiss natural resources group Xstrata plc This will continue to develop as it attracts chose London for its primary listing.
We also more customers, such as BBC, CNN and completed a series of successful roadshows CNBC demanding a higher number of and seminars throughout Europe, highlighting broadcasts.
During the year, there were the benefits of listing in London.
In particular, 6,852 broadcasts 571 per month which we are dedicated to exploring the huge represented 136 per cent annual growth.
growth potential of the Nordic region, where The Presentation Suite, launched in January enthusiasm for the AIM market is high.
2001, is now viewed as one of the premier We have campaigned in Europe to ensure that City locations to hold briefings or announce directives introduced to accelerate completion results.
It hosts companies such as Smith of the European single market in securities & Nephew plc, Taylor Nelson Sofres plc, trading support and promote our markets.
In Chubb plc, Bradford & Bingley plc, Allders particular, we have so far lobbied effectively plc and Avis International plc.
to amend the proposed Prospectus Directive.
The associated services we offer to companies continue to grow.
We now offer courses on media training, presentation skills and the workings of the equity markets.
