10 Management team Managing for growth Our new management team, led by Clara Furse, is focused on growing the business, drawing on wide-ranging experience of the securities industry.
1 Martin Wheatley 3 Jonathan Howell Deputy Chief Executive Director of Finance Martin Wheatley 43 oversees Strategy Jonathan Howell 39 is responsible for Finance, and Corporate Development.
He joined Investor Relations and Business Operations.
the Exchange in 1985 and has since played Appointed Director of Finance in 1999, Jonathan played an integral role in the Exchanges a leading role in the development of our transition to a fully listed company and is trading markets.
He was the driving force responsible for the development of the behind the introduction of the SETS companys financial strategy.
He joined the electronic order book to the London Exchange in 1996 from .
The success of SETS has had a significant impact in 4 Marc Bailey positioning the London Stock Exchange Director of Business Development at the forefront of the worlds securities markets.
Marc Bailey 37 leads the Issuer Services and Broker Services divisions.
2 Phil Bruce He is also responsible for the Marketing Head of Corporate Strategy department and for developing, marketing Phil Bruce 47 plays a leading role in shaping and selling the ever growing range of Exchange the Exchanges strategy and has specific products and services.
Marc joined the Exchange responsibility for formulating our position in 2001, having accumulated senior level on clearing and settlement infrastructure.
experience in a range of financial markets Before joining the Exchange in 2001, he including equities, fixed income and derivatives.
was Managing Director of Strategy and He has worked at CIBC, where he was Executive Development at the London Clearing House Director of the Global Trading Group and LCH.
Before that, he spent 14 years at JP Morgan, where he developed a successful LIFFE in leading policy and strategy roles.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 11 12 34 5 6 7 5 David Lester 7 Nick Gammage Chief Information Officer Director of Communications David Lester 35 is responsible for the Nick Gammage 43 is responsible for Media Information Services division and Technology.
Relations, Public Affairs and the City Media Centre, the Exchanges broadcasting and He oversaw the recent implementation presentation facilities.
He joined the Exchange of the upgrade to the SEQUENCE trading in 2001 from the Consumers Association platform and the introduction of the new where he was responsible for media relations, Internet Protocol communications network.
He held David is also managing the provision of a number of senior communications posts in technology services to the JSE Securities Whitehall departments, before moving to Exchange South Africa.
Before joining the the telecoms regulator OFTEL as Director Exchange in 2001, David gained considerable of Communications.
He began his career experience in financial technology and as a newspaper journalist.
information with the Primark Corporation.
6 Andrew McStravick Director of Operations Andrew McStravick 38 is in charge of the A strong executive management team Exchanges Market Regulation division.
He has also led the transformation of RNS, the committed to taking the company forward.
UKs leading distributor of company news, into a new commercial environment.
Andrew has over a decade of experience in the Exchanges regulatory division and was instrumental in developing IMAS, our electronic real-time trade surveillance system.
