Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 28 Directors Report The directors submit their report, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 March 2002.
Principal activities and future developments Man Group plc the Company is the holding company for the Man group the Group.
A detailed review of the Groups activities and financial performance is given in the Operating Review on pages 8 to 17 and in the Finance Directors Review on pages 18 to 23.
The Groups strategy and likely future developments are discussed in the Chief Executives Strategic Review on pages 4 to 7.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on page 70.
Results and dividends The audited accounts of the Group appear on pages 42 to 69.
The Group profit after taxation but before ordinary dividends amounted to 193.1 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.1 pence per ordinary share giving a total of 18.6 pence per ordinary share for the year.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 18 July 2002 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 June 2002.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 26 June 2002.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan first introduced for the 2001 interim dividend will be available again in respect of the 2002 final dividend.
The retained profit transferred to reserves amounted to 103.7 million.
Share capital Details of movements in the share capital of the Company are given in note 22 to the accounts.
During the year, the Company purchased in the market for cancellation 400,000 of its ordinary shares of 10p each at a total cost of 4.0 million.
This was done to return excess capital to shareholders at share prices that were earnings enhancing.
These transactions represented some 0.15% of the issued ordinary share capital at 31 March 2002.
As at 23 May 2002, the Company has an unexpired authority to repurchase further shares up to a maximum of 26,352,017 ordinary shares.
Resolutions relating to the Companys share capital and the Groups new US employee stock purchase plan are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Further details are given in the accompanying letter from the Chairman.
At the date of this report the Company had been notified of four holdings of 3% or more, in its share capital, being that of FMR Corp and Fidelity International Ltd Group 6.16%, Prudential plc 3.98%, Barclays PLC 3.04% and D H Rosenblum, a former director of the Company 4.16%.
Post balance sheet events The Company announced on 23 May 2002 the proposed acquisition of RMF Investment Group, subject to the necessary regulatory approvals, for consideration of 571 million in cash and shares.
It also announced an associated Placing underwritten by Merrill Lynch, to raise net proceeds of $260 million 178 million to fund part of the cash element of the consideration.
Further details are given in the post balance sheet events note to the Accounts.
Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the need for clear standards to be laid down to safeguard the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the Company applies the principles of corporate governance and how it complies with the provisions of the Combined Code, and the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
28 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 29 Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year, except for the period between 6 July 2001, when Garth Ramsay resigned as a non-executive director, and 29 January 2002, when Dugald Eadie was appointed as a non-executive director.
Between these dates the number of non-executive directors deemed to be independent did not constitute a majority of the non-executive directors.
The Board of directors As at 31 March 2002, the Board comprised three executive directors and five non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
There have been no changes to the Board since the year-end.
However on 6 July 2001, Garth Ramsay resigned as a non-executive director and on 29 January 2002, Dugald Eadie was appointed as a non-executive director.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 25.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Dugald Eadie, Stanley Fink and Stephen Nesbitt will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
Details of the directors interests in the share capital of the Company and details of directors share options are set out in the Remuneration Report.
There have been no changes in the directors share interests between 31 March 2002 and the date of this report.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with responsibilities divided between them.
Non-executive directors represent the majority of the Board.
Of the five non-executive directors, Alison Carnwath, Dugald Eadie and Glen Moreno are considered to be independent non-executive directors.
Glen Moreno is recognised as the senior independent non-executive director.
Harvey McGrath and Stephen Nesbitt, the other two non-executive directors, are not considered to be wholly independent under the provisions of the Combined Code, having both previously held executive office.
All directors are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
Any directors appointed by the Board are subject to re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Peter Clarke, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that there is compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
In addition, the Board has established a procedure that enables any director to have access to independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
The Board holds meetings on a regular basis, at least six times per year and additionally for specific purposes as and when required.
During the year there were nine Board meetings including a four day strategic planning session attended by senior executives below Board level from across the Groups activities.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively, all directors receive appropriate and timely information with briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings.
All new directors receive an appropriate introduction to their responsibilities and the Groups operations, by way of a detailed briefing pack and meetings with senior management.
The Board determines the strategic direction of the Group and is ultimately responsible to shareholders for the good corporate governance and the proper management of the Groups businesses.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision and has adopted written delegated authorities providing for a tiered approval process for decisions below Board level.
The levels of delegated authority are kept under continual review.
The Board formally delegates certain of its responsibilities to committees by way of written terms of reference.
Details of each committee, its membership and the terms of reference are summarised below.
29 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 30 Directors Report continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four of the non-executive directors: Alison Carnwath Chair, Dugald Eadie appointed 29 January 2002, Harvey McGrath and Glen Moreno.
Garth Ramsay was a member, and Chairman, until his resignation from the Board on 6 July 2001.
The majority of its members are independent and its terms of reference include the duties set out in the Combined Code.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The Committee monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls and compliance procedures, reviews the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board and makes recommendations to the Board regarding the auditors and their terms of appointment.
The Committee monitors the risk and control evaluation process performed by the business and validated by Internal Audit.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of Internal Audit, discusses reports on internal control procedures and monitors any required actions.
All audit reports both internal and external are made available to the Audit Committee.
The proceedings of the Audit Committee are reported to and discussed by the Board.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director attend Committee meetings by invitation but are not members.
All directors are welcome to attend.
The Groups external auditors and the Head of Group Internal Audit also attend meetings.
The Committee has a discussion with the external auditors at least once a year without executives present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors: Glen Moreno Chairman, Alison Carnwath and Dugald Eadie appointed 29 January 2002.
Garth Ramsay was also a member until his resignation from the Board on 6 July 2001.
The Committee has responsibility for determining the remuneration policy for executive directors and the administration of the Groups long-term share based incentive schemes for directors and senior employees.
All non-executive directors have the right to attend its meetings.
The Chief Executive is generally invited to attend meetings, but is excluded when his own performance and remuneration is being reviewed.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 34 to 39 and includes a statement of the Companys remuneration policy and the procedures for determining executive directors remuneration.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors and is chaired by Harvey McGrath.
Garth Ramsey resigned from the Committee on 6 July 2001 and Dugald Eadie was appointed to the Committee on 29 January 2002.
The Committee meets as and when required, and met once during the year.
Its purpose is to make recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment of new Board directors.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems aim to safeguard assets, and ensure proper accounting records are maintained so that the financial information, used within the business and for publication, is reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key risks rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board operates an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and Board Committees, and accords with the guidance in the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance.
The directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to maintaining a control conscious culture.
The embedded internal control system is constantly being refined in order to remain relevant 30 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 31 over time in a continually evolving business environment.
Many of the Groups activities are the subject of regulatory oversight, particularly in the UK and the US.
This includes reporting obligations, minimum capital requirements and periodic audit by regulators.
The key elements of the system of internal control are summarised below: an organisational structure established by the Board, with clearly defined policies, written delegated authorities and lines of responsibility.
Risk and compliance matters are a standing item on the agendas of the divisional and Group Boards.
a medium and long-term planning and annual budgeting process requiring approval by the Board, with specific procedures for the review and approval of significant capital expenditure and other major investments and business developments.
monthly financial reporting to the Board by the Finance Director, including comparisons against budget and forecasts for the full financial year, together with a review of key performance indicators.
The monthly reporting includes liquidity, risk and compliance information and updates.
Forecasts for the year are updated monthly.
Business updates on the Groups operations are provided monthly by the Chief Executive.
a risk management and compliance system incorporating clearly defined limits established by the Board and Audit Committee, and regular reporting of risks against the associated limits to the Group Risk Committee.
Careful attention is given to segregation of duties.
The Group Risk Committee comprises the executive directors and other senior executives, including treasury and internal audit personnel, and sets and monitors credit, counterparty and position limits within the limits established by the Board.
a central service Group Treasury function arranges borrowings to finance the Groups capital requirements and hedges foreign exchange and interest rate risks on behalf of the individual businesses.
Treasury activities centrally and within the businesses are governed by clearly defined operational policies.
A Banking and Guarantees Committee approves the documentation supporting the Groups funding arrangements and the entering into of any guarantees.
a process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks facing the business on an enterprise wide basis.
This has been reviewed and updated during the year, together with the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed, benchmarking it to UK and international risk practices.
It provides a systematic context for identification, understanding and treatment of risk.
The process of risk and control assessment workshops, which was initiated last year, has been expanded and deepened to incorporate a broad spread of business activities and locations.
in the case of companies acquired during the year, including Ord Minnett Jardine Fleming Futures, which was acquired on 30 April 2001: and Union Cal, which was acquired on 30 June 2001, the internal controls in place in these companies have been reviewed as part of the due diligence process prior to their acquisition and they are being integrated into the Groups systems.
a planned programme of internal audit reviews focused on the areas of greatest perceived risk to ensure regular review of the system of internal control.
The Audit Committee approves this plan annually.
Internal Audit provides objective reports to the Audit Committee and the Board on the effectiveness of controls and procedures, recommends corrections to any weaknesses identified, and develops controls to match changing circumstances.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Compliance with the system of internal control is monitored by line management, regular reporting through subsidiary boards and Board Committees, and through the internal audit programme.
31 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 32 Directors Report continued The Board receives annual written confirmation from subsidiary directors and divisional management that the Groups approach to, and required standards for, risk management and internal control is understood and that risk is managed in accordance with the Group risk framework.
A process of control self assessment reporting has been established that provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability.
These procedures provide for assurance to be given at higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by Internal Audit who also provide a degree of assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal control and the self assessment process.
Internal Audits programme of independent review is driven by the results of the risk identification process and work performed includes a detailed examination of related key controls.
The results of internal audits and investigations are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and reports to the Board.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss and cash flows of the Group for the financial year.
The directors, in preparing the accounts set out on pages 42 to 69, consider that the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors also have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group website.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the Accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
It should be noted that information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries, some of which have different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements.
Going concern After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
32 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 33 Investor relations The Company enters into a dialogue at appropriate times with its institutional shareholders, whilst having regard to the UK Listing Authoritys guidance on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
Copies of all results announcements are carried in full on the Companys website www.
com as soon as they are published, together with announcements required to be made in accordance with the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and other investor presentation material.
The Company encourages analytical coverage of its business activities by institutional and retail stockbrokers and for this purpose makes available the time of the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Full use is made of the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors.
The Company will continue the practices of making available at the Annual General Meeting the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, despatching the notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers more than 20 working days before the meeting, and proposing each substantially separate issue as an individual motion.
It is intended that all members of the Board will, as usual, attend the 2002 Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions both during and after the Meeting.
Payment of suppliers It has long been the Groups policy to honour all of its contractual commitments and this includes paying suppliers according to agreed payment terms, which are agreed when negotiating transactions.
The Company had no external trade creditors at 31 March 2002 or 31 March 2001.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11 am on 10 July 2002, at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Auditors  have indicated their willingness to continue in office and resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration for the current year.
The Board and the auditors as a matter of professional practice maintain safeguards to avoid the objectivity and independence of the auditors becoming compromised.
An aspect of the Boards approach to this is the careful monitoring of the type of non-audit work and the level of non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors.
In both 2002 and 2001, non-audit fees represented less than 10% of the audit fees.
Further controls over the relationship of the Group with the auditors are operated by Audit Committee and are noted above.
By Order of the Board Peter Clarke Company Secretary 23 May 2002 33 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002
