Ten Largest Investments continued 30 September 2002 Roche 3.4% of portfolio, the Swiss pharmaceutical group, has seen its share price outperform the stock market significantly during the period.
Recent management changes and a restructuring program should lead to rising margins over the next three years.
Some concerns remain regarding sales growth and newsflow on drug development will be a key driver of the share price.
The companys existing franchise in the oncology market cancer treatment drugs such as Retaxin is strong, however, and the shares are attractively valued compared to peers.
UniCredito Italiano 2.7% of portfolio, the Italian retail bank, has delivered a solid share price performance relative to the market during the period.
The company is well managed, benefiting from being based in the more prosperous northern part of Italy, and is leading consolidation in the Italian banking sector.
The recent acquisition of the minorities in Rolo Banca should lead to further efficiency gains as full control of operations is established.
Going forward, much will depend on the performance of the overall economy, and in particular the quality of their loan book.
Telefonica 2.5% of portfolio, the Spanish telecoms operator, delivered a disappointing share price performance during the period, as concerns about Latin American investments increased.
At the current valuation, we believe that these concerns are overdone, and are encouraged by the companys withdrawal from onerous capital expenditure commitments in Germany.
In Spain, Telefonica retains its dominant market position in the provision of both fixed and mobile telecoms services.
Cash generation is strong and the balance sheet looks robust.
However, uncertainty over Latin America may prevent the share price from rallying in the short-term.
E. On 2.4% of portfolio, the German utility company, continued its strategy of refocusing on the core electricity and gas business.
The share price performance over the past six months has reflected the markets growing confidence in this strategy, as well as the security of the companys earnings, despite weak economic growth.
With German electricity prices rising, the core business is performing better than expected.
Reinvestment risks regarding future acquisitions remains a key concern for investors, but are more than reflected in the current share price.
Aventis 2.3% of portfolio, the French pharmaceutical company, has seen its share price perform well relative to the market.
The sale of the agro-chemical business to Bayer should allow the management to focus on growing Aventis core business.
The restructuring implemented over the past two years is bearing fruits on both revenues and earnings.
The shares look attractively valued and concerns surrounding the competitive threat to Allegra, an anti-histamine, are most likely overdone.
