Independent Review Report to Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc Introduction We have been instructed by the Company to review the financial information for the six months ended 30 September 2002, which comprises the Consolidated Revenue Account & Statement of Total Return, Summarised Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Reconciliation of Net Return before Finance Costs and Taxation to Net Cash Flow from Operating Activities and the related notes 1 to 10.
We have read the other information contained in the interim report and considered whether it contains any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial information.
Directors responsibilities The interim report, including the financial information contained therein, is the responsibility of, and has been approved by, the directors.
The directors are responsible for ensuring the preparation of the interim report in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, which require that the accounting policies and presentation applied to the interim figures should be consistent with those applied in preparing the preceding annual accounts, except where any changes, and the reasons for them, are disclosed.
Review work performed We conducted our review in accordance with guidance contained in Bulletin 1999 4, Review of Interim Financial Information, issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
A review consists principally of making enquiries of management and applying analytical procedures to the financial information and underlying financial data and based thereon, assessing whether the accounting policies and presentation have been consistently applied unless otherwise disclosed.
A review excludes audit procedures such as tests of controls and verification of assets, liabilities and transactions.
It is substantially less in scope than an audit performed in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards and therefore provides a lower level of assurance than an audit.
Accordingly we do not express an audit opinion on the financial information.
Review conclusion On the basis of our review we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the financial information as presented for the six months ended 30 September 2002.
Ernst & Young LLP London 29 October 2002 Interim Report 30 September 2002 19
