Investment Managers Report European equity markets fell sharply over the six months to 30 September 2002, with the FTSE World Europe Ex UK Index declining 35.4% in sterling terms.
Confidence collapsed as economic momentum slowed in Europe and the USA.
Within Europe, Germany experienced the sharpest deterioration in its economy and equity market, negatively impacted by the European Central Bank ECB delaying interest rate cuts, in an effort to contain inflationary pressure in smaller countries such as Ireland and Spain.
Accounting scandals, increased credit risk and heightened tension in the Middle East introduced new uncertainties.
In addition, downwards pressure came from the need of domestic insurers to withdraw assets from equity markets to protect their solvency ratios as falling stock markets reduced the value of their assets.
The equity market downturn spread during the period from the technology, media and telecoms sectors to the financial sectors.
The strain of falling equity markets and reduced confidence hit the insurance sector hard, as the impact of the decline in the value of equity investments on balance sheets was reflected in dividend cuts, rating downgrades and equity issuance.
The banking sector, which had outperformed steadily through the early stages of the downturn, was not immune as the impact of asset price deflation began to feed through to the real economy.
Weakness in Latin America produced additional pressure on European companies with exposure to the region, in a broad range of sectors from food retailers to banks and telecoms.
The correction in technology valuations continued as capital expenditure remained under pressure.
Unsurprisingly, defensive sectors with stable earnings streams were re-rated during the period, and shares in the pharmaceuticals, tobacco, beverage and food sectors have performed well.
Since the Companys year end, investment performance has been disappointing and has lagged the stock market, with the diluted net asset value per share falling by 36.4%.
The main cause of this underperformance was the impact of gearing in a declining market.
The Companys effective gearing remained above 7% for most of the period, peaking at 10% when the stock market reached it lowest point.
The Company was not optimally positioned for the crisis of confidence which developed, as the portfolio was constructed on the premise that the valuation of the stock market had fallen to levels which substantially discounted economic risks, in particular the recession in technology-driven sectors.
However, the subsequent market fall has made the valuation argument more compelling: at the time of writing, the European equity market has fallen by more than 50% from its peak.
Financial risk, however, has increased and structural problems, particularly in Germany, exacerbate the risks.
We do not believe we can predict the timing of a recovery with confidence, but will retain some gearing to reflect our view that the current market weakness represents an attractive opportunity to invest in European equities.
4 Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc
