Investment Managers Report continued At the sector level, our bias towards companies expected to benefit from economic recovery, in sectors such as insurance, support services and software, was unhelpful.
The Companys performance was aided, however, by the focus at the stock level on businesses with clear competitive advantage, strong balance sheets and experienced management teams.
The best performing stocks in the portfolio were Bank of Ireland, DSM, a chemicals company, and Gucci, the luxury goods group.
Performance was damaged by two notable disappointments where our confidence in management proved misplaced and led to a subsequent reduction in our holdings.
The disclosure by MLP, the German financial services company, that they had changed a significant accounting policy without informing investors brought management credibility into question, and may impact MLPs franchise in the short-term.
St-Gobain, the French construction company, also released new information that indicated larger exposure to asbestos liabilities than the market was previously led to believe.
Investment Activity As it became clear that short-term expectations for earnings across the stock market were too high, exposure to more defensive areas was increased.
We purchased new holdings in non-cyclical consumer goods industries such as Orkla, the Norwegian food and brewing conglomerate, Carrefour, the food retailer and Givaudan, the fragrances and flavours manufacturer.
We also added to holdings in the energy sector, with purchases of Royal Dutch and IHC Caland, the oil services company.
Profits in the oil sector, driven by continued OPEC discipline, look robust and valuations do not look stretched.
Clearly, we will review this position as events in the Middle East develop.
As we increased positions in defensive sectors, we reduced exposure to insurance, selling holdings in Converium and Mediolanum and reducing the position in Allianz.
We believe that in an environment of lower investment returns, profits in the insurance sector will remain depressed, and the possibility of equity issuance across the sector may cap share prices, despite low valuations.
In the case of Allianz, the German re-insurer, deterioration in the German economy has added to the difficult task of restoring profitability in Dresdner, its banking subsidiary.
There have been signs of irrational selling in the markets, and this has led to some shares falling to levels which we believe offer significant upside given any improvement in investor confidence.
We are slowly increasing our positions in some of these shares.
For example, we have built a position in Orange, the European mobile operator that is Interim Report 30 September 2002 5
