Ten Largest Investments 30 September 2002 TotalFinaElf 4.8% of portfolio, the global oil producer, has seen its share price outperform the market during the period as OPEC constraints on oil supply and MiddleEastern tensions have pushed the oil price upwards.
The company has a strong production profile, is ahead of cost cutting targets and has begun a share buy-back programme.
We would expect the stock to continue to perform well, as the current valuation assumes a much lower oil price than todays and the outlook for the oil price remains positive in the short-term.
Moreover, the company recently announced its short list of buyers for its paints business worth E1.7bn, which should lead to a further improvement in returns.
Nestle 4.6% of portfolio, the Swiss food manufacturer, has seen its share price perform well relative to the stock market over the past six months, although it has fallen 16% in absolute terms.
We have held the stock due to its stable earnings stream and dominant market positions that are generating strong organic volume growth for the group.
Going forward, profitability should improve with continuous focus on cost reductions as well as better use of existing capacity.
Should the economic outlook improve, however, we would expect the share price performance to lag that of more cyclical companies whose profit growth would accelerate in a stronger economy.
Novartis 4.3% of portfolio, the Swiss pharmaceutical company, has delivered strong share price performance relative to the stock market which it has outperformed significantly, falling by 11% in absolute terms.
Profits have proved resilient despite the weakness in the global economy, given an excellent product pipeline and minimal patent risk.
Future share price performance is likely to reflect further newsflow on drug development and the companys ability to manage the cost of marketing as new drugs are launched.
Royal Dutch 4.3% of portfolio, the global oil major, has seen its share price fall in value in line with the stock market over the past six months.
As for the oil sector in general, the continued strength in the oil price has been supportive for the earnings outlook.
Some technical factors, however, weighed on the stock as the company was removed from the S&P 500 Index in the US.
Despite some concerns about financial discipline after the successful bid for Enterprise early this year, we continue to find the stock attractive on valuation grounds.
Nokia 3.4% of portfolio, the mobile telecoms manufacturer, has continued to suffer as demand for handsets remained subdued and leading telecoms operators reduced capital expenditure budgets further.
The shares have performed poorly in absolute and relative terms over the period, although the past couple of months have seen some recovery in the share price.
The company remains the market leader and is one of the only companies in the industry to be making good returns in the downturn.
Cash generation remains enviable and the balance sheet is strong.
The outlook, however, is uncertain, with success this year heavily dependent on new products such as camera phones and colour-screens.
8 Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc
