The Investment Process Philosophy and Style Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Group AAM has, as its sole objective in managing Murray International Trust, to deliver consistent outperformance against benchmarks for all funds under its management, based on the concept of seeking growth at a reasonable price.
To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been developed.
However, to meet the different performance objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built-in flexibility.
Key decisions are implemented consistently across all funds and portfolio risk limits are set and closely monitored.
A continuous watch is kept over critical factors that influence investment decisions, so that when views change, action is taken swiftly and decisively to reposition portfolios.
Asset Allocation Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy Committee, and after consultation with relevant AAM area specialists, the investment manager of Murray International Trust, David Briggs, recommends asset allocation to the Board.
There is a strong top down influence to establish the economic overview and to identify potential investment themes.
The approach is highly focussed and portfolios are tightly constructed to provide the greatest scope for outperformance within the agreed risk parameters.
For Murray International Trust, regional allocation of funds in line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy Committee is the first stage of the portfolio construction process.
At this stage, house views on specific global sectors are also taken into account.
Established themes and trends are considered within the process of country allocation, which is also influenced by analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and monetary factors, value and performance.
Country selection is driven overall by short and medium term estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, and the market implications of those.
Stock Selection The investment manager, David Briggs, has responsibility for portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working closely with the relevant underlying desks in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, which are then used as the investment universe.
If a stock no longer meets the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is sold within 30 days.
This process enables the investment manager to better reflect top down themes that emerge from the global equity strategy and investment themes meetings that take place monthly.
Risk Controls Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their mandate.
As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by strict adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Company is given in Note 20 to the financial statements on pages 49 and 50.
