Murray International Trust PLC Company Profile Murray International Trust has been investing in international markets since 1907.
It is an investment trust traded on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
The bulk of its shareholders are private investors of which there are some 25,000.
Murray International Trust is differentiated from other investment trusts in that it offers the advantages of exposure to world markets while maintaining the higher income generally associated with the UK equity market.
Usually 100% of net assets is invested in a diversified portfolio of international equities and around 25%, financed by borrowings, in lower risk fixed income securities.
Objective Capital Structure The primary aim of Murray International Trust is to The Companys issued share capital as at 14 March achieve a total return greater than its benchmark by 2003 consisted of 86,370,984 Ordinary shares of 25p investing predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within each and 1,136,666 B Ordinary shares of 25p each.
this objective the Manager will seek to increase the Companys revenues in order to maintain an above Summary Management Agreement average dividend yield.
The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of International Benchmark Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of The Companys benchmark is a composite index made management services for a fee, as detailed in the up as to 40% of the FTSE World-UK and 60% of the Directors Report on pages 22 to 25 and in Note 3 on FTSE World ex-UK.
Share Dealing Board of Directors Shares in Murray International Trust can be bought in A Board of Directors, the majority of whom are the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also independent of the Investment Manager, supervises the be purchased through Aberdeen savings schemes and management of the Murray International Trust and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA looks after the interests of shareholders.
AITC Murray International Trust PLC is a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
