Investment Managers Overview Background 2002 saw a third consecutive annual fall in world stockmarkets with a decline of 25.3% total return in Murray Internationals benchmark index expressed in sterling terms.
This is not only in itself a very unusual occurrence historically but it has occurred against a background where consensus forecasts for the major economic powers were in fact remarkably accurate, with the exception of the USA where growth substantially exceeded forecasts.
The key factors afflicting markets have thus related to some aspects of valuation levels, further significant weakness in the technology arena, concerns over the true level and quality of reported profits and, of course, the seemingly inexorable drift towards a war with Iraq.
The risk of war has assumed immediate importance but the fundamental issue remains that profits are the lifeblood of a market economy and have been in short supply, given a general absence of pricing power, and or of dubious quality.
All major equity markets lost ground, with the technology heavy NASDAQ once again amongst the worst performers.
The FTSE World Japan index returned -18.0%, ahead of the UK at -22.3%, with Europe-ex UK and North America bringing up the rear at -27.0% and -29.5% respectively.
The smaller Pacific-ex Japan region, where Murray International is substantially overweighted, fared rather better than the benchmark at -17.6%.
Asset allocation overall was thus favourable for Murray International which remained very underweight the USA, neutral in the UK, and overweight Japan, Europe and Asia.
On a sectoral basis the resources area, for the second year running, was the top performer with basic industries and non-cyclical consumer goods also outperforming.
As already remarked, information technology fared badly, as did telecom services albeit with signs of having reached a valuation trough in the case of the latter.
This was a pattern that could be observed across all global markets.
Performance The Net Asset Value total return for the year to 31 December 2002 with net dividends reinvested was -21.6% compared with a return on the benchmark index of -25.3%.
Asset allocation was favourable contributing approximately one third of the relative outperformance whilst stock selection was also positive overall with strong contributions from Europe, Japan and Asia.
The outperformance of the UK portfolio was entirely due to the significant rise in the value of the holding in Atrium Underwriting.
A positive contribution, in a good year for high quality sovereign bond markets, was also obtained from the geared bond portfolio which largely comprises investment grade corporate paper financed by long term yen borrowings despite a tendency for spreads, even on high grade corporate bonds, to widen during the year.
USA Financials 4.3% Utilities 3.7% Information Technology In our commentary last year we concluded that Non-Cyclical Services 3.1% 11.7% economic recovery in some degree looks certain Cyclical Services 9.9% given the scale of Fed.
easing during 2001, but the Resources 14.2% structural imbalances which gave rise to this unintended recession are largely unchanged, so the relatively sharp bounce in activity which we should Non-Cyclical Other Equity Types Consumer Goods 23.5% 14.2% see......... will moderate again in line with aggregate demand and this seems to have been a reasonably Basic Industrials 3.1% General accurate prediction.
After a sharp bounce in growth Industrials 12.3% earlier in the year, latest data has confirmed some slowdown in the rate of growth whilst leading Performance USA Portfolio 30.2 % indicators point to a continuing loss of momentum.
against benchmark index of 29.5 % 12 Murray International Trust PLC Investment Managers Overview continued The world economy needs an engine for growth, which is a role that the US has fulfilled admirably in recent years.
In the process however, a number of imbalances in the economy have developed, chief amongst which are a very low personal savings rate, a large and rising current account deficit, excess capacity post the millennium investment boom and a high level of household and corporate debt.
Whilst it will undoubtedly try, the scope for the US to continue to fulfil this role therefore looks limited.
The Bush fiscal package will undoubtedly help but if it is the case that fundamental imbalances exist, sooner or later they have to be addressed and their very existence almost certainly constrains the efficacy of fiscal or monetary policy measures.
The Japanese experience might be a case in point.
Once again there appear to be some highly optimistic forecasts for US corporate profits in 2003.
If it is the case that economic growth remains subdued, then the outlook for corporate profits becomes clouded, as is always the case when growth is below potential.
In this case the expected margin improvements can only be delivered by cost cutting which in turn can threaten consumer confidence at a time when the consumer is in any case looking overstretched.
UK Information Technology 0.3% Forecasts for the UK economy must, as with the USA, centre on the outlook for the consumer.
The UK has Resources 20.8% Financials 33.3% outperformed the eurozone, largely because it has offset Basic Industries 1.3% the sharp downturn in investment with a consumer General Industrials 1.9% boom, much of it on credit either through the normal credit channels or through mortgage equity withdrawal.
Utilities 4.4% Non-Cyclical A booming housing market is, of course, a sign of Consumer Goods 20.4% confidence but, like anything else, when carried to Non-Cyclical Services 10.4% Cyclical Services 7.2% excess it can increase vulnerability.
Most observers of the debt and house price boom phenomenom focus on Performance UK Portfolio 20.7 % affordability which looks good because interest rates against benchmark index of 22.3 % are low but in a disinflationary environment the quantum of debt is also hugely important.
Security of employment and the avoidance of a house price set-back will thus be important for the UK economy - there is, for example, little doubt that the monetary policy committee of the Bank of England would already have eased monetary conditions but for fears of stoking the fire of house price inflation.
On the fiscal side the Chancellor has already announced a sharp deterioration in the public finances, due to a more subdued global environment, to the tune of 20bn over the next four years.
This forecast is highly sensitive to the Chancellors expectation that growth will rebound strongly in 2004.
If consumer indebtedness, housing market vulnerability and the risk of global stagnation suppress this rebound, net borrowing would accelerate significantly.
Thus the apparently widely held view that the UK economy is an oasis in a bit of a global desert is not one that the Manager shares.
On the other hand, from a stock market perspective, the FTSE World - UK Index is dominated by just three sectors with oils, pharmaceuticals and banks accounting for around 50% of the index, which is sufficient reason for the Manager to wish to retain a neutral weighting.
Murray International Trust PLC 13 Investment Managers Overview continued Europe Cyclical Consumer Goods 5.6% Resources 12.5% It is interesting to note that, notwithstanding a universally hostile press on almost every policy structural General Industrials 7.6% variable imaginable from the one-size-fits-all monetary Financials 21.4% policy imposed by the euro to the inability of corporates Non-Cyclical Services 10.4% meaningfully to restructure, the euro has appreciated against the worlds major currencies in 2002 - for Utilities 6.3% example by 6.5% against the pound and by 17.8% Non-Cyclical Consumer against the dollar.
This, unfortunately, is more a case of Goods 18.1% Cyclical Services 11.8% faute fide mieux than evidence of global economic Basic Industries 6.3% leadership passing to the eurozone.
In fact each of the Performance: Continental Europe Portfolio 20.7 % three major global currencies has reason to be weak against benchmark index of 27.0 % and it is simply the preponderance of circumstances at any given moment that will determine currency market preferences.
Leading indicators for the eurozone economy are very subdued, implying a low growth environment and little immediate prospect of breaking out of this rut.
A probable outcome of below trend growth could be a breaching of the fiscal constraints of the growth and stability pact which would call for a pragmatic response clearly to tighten fiscal policy into an economic slowdown might not be the wisest policy option.
The solution to that particular issue lies with the member states but at least the eurozone does not suffer from the similar, but not identical economic imbalances that might constrain the US and the UK whilst the European Central Bank can still meaningfully ease monetary policy should it choose to do so.
In terms of valuation, both in the current global context and their own historical perspective, European markets appear reasonably attractive and, despite the increasing correlation of return with the USA in recent years which reduces diversification of risk, this leaves the Manager willing for the time being to maintain an overweight position.
Japan and Asia Information Technology Whilst it is widely averred that the Japanese Financials 7.5% 6.3% Non-Cyclical Services 2.5% deflation could not possibly occur here in the West, Basic Industries 13.7% Cyclical Services 11.3% their experience nonetheless serves as an example of what happens when excessive debt and ultimately deflation get out of hand and when monetary policy ceases to be effective at any level of interest rates General Industrials 22.4% Non-Cyclical Consumer and fiscal policy merely proves wasteful.
The Goods 27.5% standard supply side prescriptions, whilst no doubt an essential element of the package of measures Cyclical Consumer Goods 8.8% necessary to restore economic vibrancy to the Japanese economy, look inappropriate in isolation Performance: Japan Portfolio 11.5 % and a recipe for massive deflation at this juncture.
against benchmark index of 18.0 % Japans problem is one of a deficiency of demand, not supply, which is compounded if not created by an obvious need to restructure many areas of domestic industry and to resolve a massive bad debt problem within the banking system.
To encourage a savings-rich, but deeply concerned, consumer to spend may now require unorthodox policy initiatives which might include monetisation, an inflation target and a safety net to ease the transition for those caught in the fall-out.
At one time the election of Mr Koizumi himself as an agent for change, followed by interesting appointments to the Bank of Japan and the FSA gave the appearance of substantive changes in the wings.
As so often before, however, the Japanese 14 Murray International Trust PLC Investment Managers Overview continued authorities have disappointed and if significant measures Resources 21.7% are in process then they remain a well-kept secret.
Understandably international investors have lost patience and expectations of reform are very low.
It will be Financials 43.3% interesting to see now in a more subdued international General Industrials 13.3% environment on which Japan has relied for too long for such growth as there has been whether action will be Non-Cyclical Consumer Goods 8.3% forced on the authorities.
It would be unwise to hold Cyclical Services 6.7% Cyclical Consumer Goods 5.0% ones breath, but the case for being overweight in Japan Non-Cyclical Services 1.7% has rested on the current very low level of returns earned Performance: Pacific ex Japan Portfolio 8.5 % on invested capital and the current low level of against benchmark index of 17.6 % expectations for the initiatives necessary to release the economys potential.
It is much less difficult to rationalise a continued overweight position in the rest of the Pacific region, notwithstanding a second years outperformance of the global indices and some significant sabre-rattling from North Korea.
Although economic growth is slowing in the region as well, given a deteriorating external environment, the relative position is improved by better inter-regional trade, particularly with China.
Asian valuations remain attractive both in absolute and relative terms, reported earnings have not disappointed and importantly are not reliant on pro forma adjustments to justify ratings.
Outlook There is much of a sombre nature in this overview, but this is the reality of a post bubble environment.
The 1980s and 90s witnessed the largest super bull market in recorded history, both in duration and extent and, over that period, returns from equities compounded at more than twice their historic long-term average.
Conditioned by this happy circumstance many market participants came to regard this as the norm and some still do, even though, when compounded to infinity, the proposition is clearly nonsensical.
History tells us, however, that real returns from equities have, quite logically, a much closer relationship with the real growth rate of the economy and that the expected return from an equity can be expressed as the starting yield plus the real growth rate of that dividend.
Markets seemed to lose sight of the importance of income in total return but this should no longer be the case in an environment of subdued growth and a back to basics mentality.
It is a simple mathematical proposition that the more markets fall the more prospective returns from equities improve.
Markets have now fallen a long way and the market yields in Asia, Europe and the UK are now reasonably attractive in the historical context.
If growth is relatively scarce, then investors should be willing to pay for genuine growth again not necessarily TMT, to look for sectors with at least some semblance of pricing power and for sustained growth in income.
All in all, therefore, provided economic recovery can be sustained and that we therefore see some growth in profits in the main equity markets, there finally should be some prospect of positive returns from equities in the year ahead.
David Briggs 19 March 2003 Investment Manager Murray International Trust PLC 15
