Board of Directors Dr Mike Watts Bill Gammell Norman Murray Kevin Hart Hamish Grossart Malcolm Thoms Ed Story CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 14 Bill Gammell Norman Murray Chief Executive 50 Non-Executive Chairman 55 Bill holds a BA in Economics and Accountancy from Norman was appointed a non-executive director of Stirling University.
He founded Cairn and was Cairn in 1999 and Chairman in May 2002.
He was a appointed Chief Executive on its initial listing in 1989. co-founder and former Chairman of Morgan Grenfell Bill has over 20 years experience in the international oil Private Equity Limited and was also a director of and gas industry and is also a director of the Scottish Morgan Grenfell Asset Management Limited and Institute of Sport and Artemis AiM VCT plc.
He is a past Chairman of the British Venture Capital Association and is currently Chairman of British Linen Advisers Holdings Mike Watts Limited, the advisory board of ISIS Equity Partners plc Exploration Director 47 and The AiM VCT plc.
He is also a director of Glasgow Mike holds a BSc in Geology and a PhD in Structural Income Trust plc, Penta Capital Partners Holdings Geology from Cardiff University.
He began his career in Limited and a number of other private companies.
1980 with Shell International and subsequently worked for Burmah Oil Exploration and Premier Oil.
In 1991 he became Managing Director of Holland Sea Search Hamish Grossart Holding N. V. HSSH, which was acquired by Cairn in Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 45 1995.
Mike transferred to Cairn after the completion of Hamish was appointed to the Board of Cairn in 1994 the acquisition of HSSH and was closely associated and became Deputy Chairman in 1996.
He is currently with Cairns acquisition of Command Petroleum Chairman of Royal Doulton plc, deputy chairman of Limited in 1996.
He was appointed an executive Scottish Radio Holdings plc and Indigo Vision Group director in 1997. plc and a director of Lionheart plc, Martin Currie Income & Growth Trust plc, Sigma Technology Group plc, Artemis Investment Management Limited and a Kevin Hart number of other private companies.
Finance Director 34 Kevin holds a BSc Hons in Physics and Natural Philosophy from Edinburgh University.
Before joining Ed Story Cairn in 1998, Kevin spent nine years in London Non-Executive Director 59 working in investment banking.
He was formerly a Ed was appointed a non-executive director of Cairn in senior associate director of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, 1997.
He is president, chief executive and founder of specialising in oil and gas sector mergers and SOCO International plc and has over 30 years of acquisitions.
experience in the international oil and gas industry.
He is a director of First Banks America, Inc. and Hallwood Realty Corporation.
He also serves as the Honorary Malcolm Thoms Consul of Mongolia in Houston.
Group General Manager 47 Malcolm holds a BSc Hons in Physics from Edinburgh University and an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
He started his career as a field engineer with Schlumberger and subsequently became manager of their businesses in Qatar and Brunei.
He joined Cairn in 1989 where he held a number of senior management positions prior to his appointment as an executive director in 2000.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 15
