Strategic Positioning The Group focuses on material exploration positions Cairns strategy is to Eastern India establish commercial Cairn operates the producing Ravva oil and gas field reserves from strategic and deep water exploration blocks KG-OS 6 and positions in high potential KG-DWN-98 2, all of which are located in the exploration plays in order Krishna-Godavari basin offshore Eastern India.
to create and deliver Following a successful exploration campaign on the shareholder value.
In the deep water blocks, Cairn is seeking a value adding implementation of this partner to optimise forward appraisal and potential strategy, the Group focuses on material positions that development programmes in this area.
are capable of providing significant growth through exploration.
Bangladesh Cairn has an interest in the producing Sangu gas This focus has been further defined by concentrating field, together with exploration interests in blocks 5, on the geographic region of South Asia, where the 10, 15 and 16, all of which are operated by Shell Group holds material exploration and production Bangladesh.
In the event of export of gas from positions in both west and east India and in Bangladesh, Cairns position is ideally situated to Bangladesh.
supply the Indian energy markets.
Western India North Sea Cairn operates Block CB OS-2 in the Cambay basin Cairn also has a number of small producing interests offshore Gujarat, on which it has made several oil in the UK and Dutch sectors of the North Sea.
Of these discoveries, the Lakshmi gas field has already been successfully Outlook developed and commenced production in November Cairns unique strategic position and competitive 2002.
Cairn also operates exploration Block RJ-ONedge in South Asia means that we continue to be 90 1 in the Barmer basin onshore Rajasthan, where it ideally placed to maximise the value of our has made a number of oil discoveries.
have significant remaining potential and an extensive exploration and appraisal drilling programme is Bill Gammell currently underway on each.
Chief Executive North Sea Bangladesh West India East India CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 02 that are capable of providing significant growth WORKING HARD TOGETHER Crew working on rig floor
