Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2002 The Directors are pleased to present their is set out on page 23.
There are no service per share, the market value on the date of report and the audited financial statements contracts in respect of the other Directors grant.
A total of 3.8 million options were for the year ended 31 December 2002. seeking re-election.
Principal activities The interests of Directors in the shares of Employee communications are vital to the the Company at 31 December 2002 and success of the Company, and good staff The principal purpose of the Group is the 25 February 2003 are set out on pages 29 and relations are a key part of managerial provision of housing finance, savings and a 30 of this report.
Employee range of related personal financial and consultation takes place with the national banking services.
The Company also issues Review of business and future The authorised and issued share capital a bi-monthly staff magazine and weekly news developments of the Company are set out in note 30 to bulletins.
A review of the business and future The Company is committed to equal developments is given in the Chairman's employment opportunities for everyone, and At the Annual General Meeting on 23 April Statement, the Chief Executive's Report and treats applicants for work solely on their ability 2002, a resolution was passed giving the the Operating and Financial Review.
In line with this policy, the Company the authority to make market Company will, wherever possible, retain purchases of Ordinary Shares up to a Dividends employees who become disabled, either in the maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
An interim dividend of 6.5p per share was paid same job or, with the aid of retraining and A further resolution was passed providing for on 31 October 2002.
The Directors propose a provision for special needs, in a suitable the Company to enter into a contingent share final dividend of 13.7p per share 2001 11.4p alternative position.
purchase contract with The Northern Rock per share to be paid on 30 May 2003 to Foundation to repurchase Foundation Shares shareholders on the register at the close of Charitable contributions in the same proportion and at the same price business on 2 May 2003. as the Ordinary Shares repurchased.
These The Company made a contribution of 7.6 authorities expire at the Annual General million under a deed of covenant to The Tangible fixed assets Meeting in 2003 when a resolution will be Northern Rock Foundation in October 2002 Land and buildings, which are included in the proposed for their renewal.
and is committed to a further contribution of balance sheet at cost less accumulated 8.7 million, based on its profits in 2002, to be depreciation, amounted to 59.9 million at Substantial shareholdings paid in May 2003.
In the Directors' opinion, At 25 February 2003, the following notifiable based on valuations carried out by the Group's Auditors interest in the Company's Ordinary Shares had qualified Chartered Surveyors, the total market Following the conversion of our auditors been reported to the Company: value of these assets was not significantly  to a Limited Liability Barclays PLC 3.15% different.
Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, Legal & General Investment  resigned on Details of changes to tangible fixed assets are Management Limited 3.01% 28 January 2003 and the Directors appointed provided in note 20 to the accounts.
Morgan Stanley Securities Limited 3.03% its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint Prudential plc 3.96% Post balance sheet events  LLP as auditors to Fidelity International Limited 4.22% The Directors are of the opinion that there the Company will be proposed at the Annual have been no significant events which have General Meeting.
Creditor payment policy occurred since 1 January 2003 to the date of The Company's policy with regard to the this report that are likely to have a material By order of the Board payment of suppliers is to negotiate and agree effect on the Group's financial position as C Taylor, Company Secretary terms and conditions with all its suppliers, disclosed in the accounts.
25 February 2003 which include the giving of an undertaking to Directors pay suppliers within an agreed payment period.
The current composition of the Board of Directors together with brief biographical The average creditor payment period at 31 details of each Director is shown on page 12.
All Directors have served on the Board throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 Employees except for Sir Ian Gibson who was appointed Northern Rock's desire to involve employees to the Board on 10 September 2002. as financial stakeholders in the Company continued in 2002 with further awards of Sir Ian Gibson, having been appointed during shares under the Approved Profit Sharing the year, retires at the Annual General Meeting Scheme.
Under this scheme, shares to the and offers himself for re-election.
Mr R F Bennett, Sir George Russell and value of 2.5 million were given to employees Mr D Wanless retire by rotation at the Annual during the year.
In addition, all employees General Meeting and, being eligible, offer were granted options under an Inland themselves for re-election.
The unexpired Revenue approved share option scheme term of the service contract for Mr R F Bennett during the year at an exercise price of 6.41 42
