The Northern Rock Foundation After five years of operation to support rural redevelopment and their grant programmes to offer applicants more of a challenge to make The Northern Rock Foundation has repair of the social destruction real change to the circumstances of now awarded grants worth more than wrought by the disease.
Grants to help those they help.
They have elected to 47 million to charities in the Northern people to help themselves are fund only in the North East and Region of the United Kingdom.
In 2002 particularly favoured, as are those that Cumbria in the hope that resolute and the Trustees made grants worth over take an inventive view of how deepconsistent grant-making can bring 13 million to more than 360 seated social problems might be about a serious and discernible organisations.
In common with many trusts, difference over the next years.
when Northern Rock converted from a the Foundation urges communities to building society into a public limited identify and address their own In 2003 the Trustees will also offer a company, was recognised for its difficulties and offers them as much second large capital programme to performance by Charity Finance when support as possible to do so.
arts, cultural and sporting it received the best grant-maker organisations whose activities bring Recognising that money alone is not award.
This prestigious award was prestige and enjoyment to our region.
always the best form of help, the presented to the Chairman and Foundation provides opportunities for Further details of the Foundation and Director in June 2002. training and learning from others and how to apply for a Grant can be expert consultancy where necessary.
obtained from: Northern Rock covenants 5% of its The Northern Rock Foundation, pre-tax profits each year to the In 2002 the Foundation made the first The Old Chapel, Woodbine Road, Foundation.
The Foundation holds a of its Writer's Awards.
The winner was Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne special category of shares which are the extremely accomplished author and NE3 1DD.
Tel: 0191 284 8412, non-dividend bearing and non-voting.
The jury Email:generaloffice@nr-foundation.
uk In the event of a change of control of consisting of the Poet Laureate, Andrew or by consulting the website: the Company over which the Motion, novelists Pat Barker and Helen http www.
uk Foundation has no influence, the Dunmore, poet Jo Shapcott and Peter covenant would cease.
The Grant Programmes 2002 Kemp, Fiction Editor, The Sunday Times, approved amounts Foundations shares would then were unanimous on their choice of convert into 15% of the Companys Anne Stevenson and were delighted to Ordinary Shares.
In this way an be able to offer her the award.
In a book endowment would be created to enable written for her to celebrate her it to fulfil its purpose in perpetuity.
"seventieth birthday by authors including Andrew Motion, Seamus The Company has donated almost Heaney, Dannie Abse and Helen 58 million to the Foundation since Dunmore, editor John Lucas says: its launch, with a further 8.7 million to be paid in May 2003 as the balance ""Poet for the discriminating, the prizes of its contribution from Northern Rock have generally passed her by, bringing Awards Programme plc's 2002 profits."
These amounts and to the award in her seventieth year of 000 the percentage of profit they represent the largest literary prize in the United 2,281 Empowering People with Disabilities make Northern Rock plc the second Kingdom - the first Northern Rock 3,006 Urban and Rural Regeneration most generous corporate donor in 856 Helping the Very Young Foundation Award for writers in the the UK.
"1,370 Quality of Life in the Third Age North East of England - a measure of 743 Creative Communities poetic justice. """
The Foundation's Trustees have 295 Outside In continued their policies of trying to The Trustees took the opportunity 2,103 Living in the North-East help those in greatest need during their fifth year of grant-making 1,000 Ideas Fund particularly in the North East of to look critically and constructively at 1,094 Exceptional Grants England.
Following upon their work their work and to revise their funding 284 Grants for Small Organisations with organisations and communities programmes.
They will continue to 37 Community Training Awards affected by the Foot and Mouth fund many of the areas in which they 294 Other disease in 2001, they have continued have specialised but they have revised Total 13,363 33
