The Board Sir John Riddell, Bt.
CVO, MA, CA Institute of Bankers.
He is also a trustee of the Executive Director for over 6 years.
In his International Centre for Life Trust.
Sir Ian The Chairman, Sir John Riddell, Bt.
present role he is responsible for the was previously president of Nissan Europe aged 69, after qualifying as a chartered effective and efficient direction and and Senior Vice President Nissan Motor accountant served in the I.
B. R. D. in management of the Company's operations Company and was Deputy Chairman of Washington DC 1969-1971 and in the and in particular, Retail Savings, Credit, Asda plc.
Sir Ian is a Member of the Audit First Boston Corporation in New York, Customer Services, Premises and Legal and Committee, Risk Committee and the Tokyo and London 1972-1978.
Mr Baker is Chairman of The Remuneration Committee.
appointed director, then deputy chairman, Newcastle Employment Bond Limited.
of Credit Suisse First Boston 1978-1995 N Pease, BA Mr Baker is a Member of the Chairman's and was for a period of 5 years private Committee and the Risk Committee.
Nichola Pease aged 41, is Chief Executive secretary and treasurer to the Prince and of J O Hambro Capital Management Princess of Wales.
Sir John is Chairman of R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA Limited and Chairman of Balfour Capital both the Chairman's Committee and the The Group Finance Director, Bob Bennett Limited and a Director of Grainger Trust Nominations Committee and has been a aged 55, is a Chartered Accountant and PLC.
She is a former Managing Director of Director of Northern Rock plc since has been an Executive Director for over Smith New Court Europe and Director of November 1996.
Sir John was appointed 9 years.
In his present role, he is Smith New Court plc.
She was also as a Non-Executive Director of Northern particularly responsible for Finance, European Asset Portfolio Manager for Rock Building Society in 1990.
He is also Treasury, Securitisation, Internal Audit, Risk Rowe Price Fleming before joining J O a Trustee of the Northern Rock Pension Management and Institutional Relations.
She joined the Board of Scheme.
He is Chairman of Govett Mr Bennett is a Member of the Chairman's Northern Rock plc as a Non-Executive Strategic Trust plc.
Committee, and the Risk Committee.
Ms Pease Dr M W Ridley, BA, D. Phil is a Member of the Audit Committee, Mr Bennett is also a Trustee of the Risk Committee and the Remuneration Northern Rock Pension Scheme.
The Deputy Chairman and Senior Committee.
Non-Executive Director, Matt Ridley Sir David Chapman, Bt.
DL, B. Comm aged 45, was formerly American Editor Sir George Russell, CBE, D. Eng.
aged 61, has been of The Economist and is a well-known Sir George Russell aged 67 is a Director of Northern Rock plc since scientific writer.
He is Chairman of the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Taylor November 1996 having been appointed to International Centre for Life Trust.
His other Woodrow plc and Deputy Chairman of Non-Executive Directorships include the Board of Northern Rock Building Granada Group plc and was until recently Northern Investors Company PLC, Northern Society as a Non-Executive Director on the Non-Executive Chairman of 3i Group 2 VCT plc, Lycett Browne-Swinburne and 1 October 1994.
A former Vice President plc and Camelot Group plc.
Sir George was Douglass Limited and P A Holdings with Merrill Lynch International Bank, appointed a Director of Northern Rock plc Limited.
Dr Ridley was appointed a Director Sir David is now a Consultant to Laing and in November 1996 having previously of Northern Rock plc in November 1996 Cruickshank Investment Management joined the Board of Northern Rock Building having previously joined the Board of Limited.
He is a former Board Member of Society as a Non-Executive Director in Northern Rock Building Society on 1 June the London Stock Exchange and was a 1985.
Sir George is Chairman of the 1994.
He is Chairman of both the Audit member of the Greenbury Committee on Remuneration Committee and is a Member Committee and the Risk Committee and is Directors' Remuneration.
Sir David is a Nonof both the Audit and Risk Committees.
a Member of the Remuneration, Executive Director of a number of Chairman's and Nominations Committees.
companies including High Gosforth Park D Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS Limited, North East Regional Investment A J Applegarth, BA Derek Wanless aged 55, joined the Board Fund Limited, Northern Business Forum as a Non-Executive Director in March 2000.
Adam Applegarth aged 40, has worked Limited and Zytronic plc.
He is President of He was previously Group Chief Executive of for Northern Rock for 19 years and was the North East Branch of the Securities National Westminster Bank plc from appointed as the Company's Chief Institute and Deputy Chairman of the 1992-1999.
He is Chairman of the Financial Executive in March 2001.
He has been CBI - North East previously Chairman.
Services National Training Organisation an Executive Director for over 6 years.
Sir David is a Member of the Audit and a Director of Forces Group Ltd and of Mr Applegarth is a governor of the Royal Committee, Remuneration Committee and Business in the Community.
He is a Grammar School, Newcastle upon Tyne.
He is also a Trustee of Commissioner with the Statistics Mr Applegarth is a Member of the The Northern Rock Foundation.
Commission and a Trustee of the National Chairman's, Nominations and Risk Endowment for Science, Technology and Sir Ian Gibson, CBE Committees.
Mr Wanless is a Member of the Sir Ian Gibson aged 56 was appointed to D F Baker, BSc, FCIB Audit Committee, Risk Committee and the the Board as a Non-Executive Director in Remuneration Committee.
David Baker aged 49, was appointed as September 2002.
He is a member of the the Company's Chief Operating Officer in Court of the Bank of England and his other 2001.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered non-executive directorships include BPB plc 12
