30 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Substantial shareholdings Group, together with the financial statements and auditors reports, On 15 November 2002 the Company had been notified, in for the year ended 30 September 2002. accordance with Section 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of Principal activities the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Percentage Percentage The principal activity of the Group continues to be research, of issued of issued development and exploitation of products in the field of molecular Number Number share share engineering.
A review of current operations and expected future of shares of shares capital capital developments is given on pages 1 to 25.
15.11.2002 26.11.2001 15.11.2002 26.11.2001 Results and dividends FMR Corp. Fidelity International Ltd and The Groups loss for the year amounted to 28,207,000 i Edward Johnson 4,378,789 3,847,817 12.09 10.93 2001: loss 11,771,000 and will be transferred to the profit and loss reserve.
The Directors do not recommend the payment Human Genome of a dividend.
Sciences Inc. 1,670,000 1,670,000 4.61 4.71 i As the Group is involved in the early stages of developing Oracle Partners L. P. 1,246,445 1,246,445 3.44 3.52 biopharmaceutical products, it is unlikely that dividends will be paid i Capital Group Inc 1,089,995 1,065,004 3.01 3.00 for a number of years.
Legal & General Supplier payment policy Investment The Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers Management 1,102,025 ii 3.04 when agreeing the terms of each transaction to ensure that i Includes interests of associated funds or funds managed.
suppliers are made aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
The Groups trade creditors at the year end were equivalent to US shareholdings 35 days of purchases 2001: 12, based on an average over the year.
The Company had no trade creditors 2001: nil.
The Directors estimate that approximately 28.6% of shares are held by US shareholders.
Directors Corporate Social Responsibility CSR The Directors, all of whom served during the year are as follows: The Board is mindful of the guidelines produced by the Association Executive: Non-Executive: of British Insurers entitled Investing in Social Responsibility and the J C Aston U Bicker increase in attention being paid to CSR issues by the investor and i P A Chambr J L Foght wider stakeholder communities.
Moreover, the Board recognises the ii D J Chiswell P B Garland commercial and ethical imperative of developing and maintaining a D R Glover Sir Aaron Klug culture of continuous improvement in CSR issues, to the extent that K S Johnson P A Nicholson such issues are relevant to the activities of the Group, and accepts J W Stocker that over time the implementation of a system for measuring and reporting on key CSR indicators may be appropriate.
i Appointed as Director 8 April 2002 ii Resigned as Director 31 March 2002 Whilst no formal CSR policy currently exists, and no mechanism for Details of Directors interests in, and options over the share capital reporting on CSR issues has been introduced by the Group to date, of the Company and a description of the share schemes operated the Board is confident that existing policies and practices provide a by the Company are given in the Remuneration Report on firm basis on which a comprehensive CSR strategy can be pages 32 to 35. developed over time.
However, in recognition of the prevailing interest, the Board outlines below its position with regard to some areas related to CSR: Employment: policies, training and benefits CAT is committed to providing equal opportunities and it is CATs policy to treat all employees, and applicants for employment, in the same way, regardless of age, gender, nationality, race, marital status, sexual orientation or disability.
CAT has in place a public interest disclosure policy whereby procedures to deal with any alleged malpractice or impropriety can be reported by employees to a member of the Executive Group without fear of reprisal or prejudice and a harassment policy for the protection of employees.
31 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc CAT recognises that its people are fundamental to its future success Political support CAT did not support, or make any donations and therefore strives to provide an environment which attracts to, political parties in the year 2001: nil.
and retains the best staff.
All staff are eligible for a number of Stakeholder communication CAT has a dedicated in-house remuneration-related benefits, including private health care, the corporate communications team responsible for ensuring the timely, grant of options, the partnership and matching elements of the consistent and comprehensive dissemination of information to the Share Incentive Plan and, after a qualifying period a personal Companys various stakeholders.
It also serves as a first point of pension, and participation in the free share element of the Share contact for stakeholders wishing to contact the Company.
Additionally, the Company subsidises a sports and established procedures to ensure that news announcements are social club that organises a range of sporting and social events.
widely distributed and, in particular, are sent to all those who have CAT encourages the development of all staff, offering structured expressed an interest.
In addition, the Company has developed a training, development and career opportunities, implemented via a website and has applied web-based technology, such as web-casting, comprehensive appraisal system.
In addition, CAT seeks to keep its to facilitate communication with those who have access to the employees informed on a range of subjects that may affect them, internet.
In particular, CAT obtained shareholder consent to amend such as Company performance and developments in the scientific its Articles of Association at its Annual General Meeting in February and professional fields in which they operate.
In order to strengthen 2002 to allow communication with and voting by shareholders via and facilitate communication throughout the Company, an employee electronic means.
Accordingly CAT intends to offer electronic proxy forum, constituted of a majority of elected staff representatives and voting to all shareholders in respect of the forthcoming Annual some senior managers, has been established in the last year.
General Meeting which is scheduled for February 2003.
Details of this will be sent with the notice of Annual General Meeting.
At a strategic level, employment issues are the concern of a group of senior managers, with accountability to the Board through the The Board member with responsibility for stakeholder Chief Financial Officer, John Aston.
communication is the Chief Financial Officer, John Aston.
Health and Safety CAT is committed to providing a safe Business ethics CAT has a written business ethics policy and environment for its employees and visitors, and aims to eliminate strives to carry out its business in an ethical manner, treating its accidents and occupational related ill-health by reducing hazards, partners, clients, suppliers and other business contacts fairly providing appropriate instruction and training, and by identifying and and courteously.
The Group has an established health Litigation and safety policy and retains the services of a health and safety adviser who works with the Groups health and safety committee to A full report on the litigation in which the Group is currently develop and implement best practice in all aspects relevant to the involved is given in note 26 to the Financial Statements.
This includes compliance with established Annual General Meeting standards such as good laboratory practice.
The Board member with particular responsibility for matters of health and safety is the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and explanatory notes are Chief Medical Officer, David Glover.
given in a separate notice to shareholders.
The Environment CAT is committed to protecting the Auditors environment, for the benefit of its employees and the public at During the year, the Directors exercised their powers under the large.
The Group seeks to minimise the environmental impact of Articles of Association of the Company to appoint Deloitte & its activities and strives to exceed the environmental regulations Touche to fill a casual vacancy occasioned by the resignation of imposed by the Government wherever possible.
The Group has Arthur Andersen.
The appointment of Deloitte & Touche followed a an established environmental policy and applies this to all aspects competitive tendering process.
The Directors will place a resolution of its operations.
In particular, the Group has taken care to ensure before the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche that the design of its new facilities reflects best practice in terms as auditors for the forthcoming year.
of building design and functionality.
The Board member with responsibility for such operational concerns is the Chief Financial By order of the Board Officer, John Aston.
Diane Mellett Community support CAT endeavours to support the wider Secretary community in which it operates, providing open days for students 15 November 2002 considering scientific careers and offering a number of places to industrial placement students.
During the year the Company made charitable donations of 266 2001: 935.
The Board member with responsibility for community support is the Chief Financial Officer, John Aston.
