06 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Review of the Year Product development September 2002 Abbott started recruiting patients to a Phase II III clinical trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Humira as a TM TM Humira Humira D2E7, adalimumab, a human monoclonal treatment for Crohns disease, a chronic inflammatory disorder of antibody that neutralises TNF, is being developed by Abbott as a the gastrointestinal tract.
Crohns disease affects around half a million treatment for rheumatoid arthritis RA, juvenile rheumatoid patients in Europe and North America.
arthritis JRA and Crohns disease.
October 2002 Further promising Phase III data were presented April 2002 Abbott simultaneously filed Humira with the US Food at the American College of Rheumatology ACR meeting, and Drug Administration FDA and the European Agency for the particularly the slowing of progression of joint disease Evaluation of Medicinal Products EMEA for marketing approval.
Humira remains under review and results of both filings are expected in the first half of 2003.
If approved, Humira will be CAT development programmes Encouraging clinical data the first human monoclonal antibody therapy on the market.
on CAT-152 lerdelimumab, a human anti-TGF monoclonal 2 Rheumatoid arthritis is a condition which affects an estimated antibody being developed by CAT as a treatment to prevent five million patients in Europe and the US, of whom around post-operative scarring in patients undergoing surgery for glaucoma one million of the most severely affected could potentially trabeculectomy, were presented this year.
CAT estimates up to benefit from treatment with Humira.
250,000 patients per year undergoing an operation for glaucoma in the US and Western Europe could potentially benefit from June 2002 Encouraging Phase III data were presented at the treatment with CAT-152.
European League Against Rheumatology EULAR meeting.
The trial results showed Humira improved signs and symptoms November 2001 Six month follow-up results from a Phase II of RA in up to 50% of patients and was safe and well tolerated clinical trial using CAT-152 in patients undergoing combined surgery at the doses used.
for glaucoma and cataract phakotrabeculectomy presented at an American Academy of Ophthalmology meeting.
September 2002 Abbott began enrolling patients into a Phase III clinical trial to assess the efficacy of Humira to treat patients February 2002 Phase II III clinical trial commenced in six European with JRA.
JRA causes swollen and tender joints and can lead to countries to investigate CAT-152 in conjunction with first time permanent joint damage.
It affects around 90,000 children in Europe trabeculectomy.
07 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc May 2002 Encouraging 12 month follow-up results of the Phase II CAT-192 metelimumab, a human anti-TGF monoclonal antibody 1 phakotrabeculectomy trial of CAT-152 were presented at the being jointly developed by CAT and Genzyme as a potential Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology ARVO treatment for scarring and fibrotic conditions, including scleroderma, meeting.
The results support findings from the earlier clinical trial of continues its progress in trials.
CAT and Genzyme estimate that CAT-152 in trabeculectomy, and demonstrate that the benefits of around 300,000 patients worldwide suffer from diffuse progressive CAT-152 treatment have become more apparent with longer term scleroderma, a chronic, life-threatening autoimmune disease follow-up: patients treated with CAT-152 achieved lower intraocular that causes inflammation and pain in the muscles, joints and pressure IOP and fewer needed to return to topical medication.
October 2002 Enrolment commenced for an International Phase III November 2001 CAT-192 commenced European Phase I II clinical trial of CAT-152 in Europe and South Africa in patients undergoing trials in patients with scleroderma to assess safety and efficacy.
December 2001 Pre-clinical data for CAT-192 in pulmonary November 2002 Investigational new drug IND application fibrosis were presented at the British Pharmacological Society BPS.
submitted to the FDA to start clinical trials in the US.
January 2002 Orphan Drug status in the US was awarded to Recruitment of patients for the European Phase II III and CAT-192 as a treatment for scleroderma.
International Phase III clinical studies of CAT-152 continues, with February 2002 Orphan Drug status in Europe was awarded to enrolment in the European trial expected to be complete in the CAT-192 as a treatment for scleroderma.
June 2002 Successful IND application for CAT-192 to start Data from these clinical trials is expected to be available towards Phase I II clinical trials of CAT-192 as a treatment for scleroderma.
CAT has commenced discussions with a number Patient recruitment is now underway.
of potential partners, with a view to the partner marketing and selling CAT-152.
The timetable for future product licence Results of the Phase I II clinical trials are expected to be available applications of CAT-152 remains on schedule.
08 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Review of the Year First submission for marketing approval for CAT-derived antibody TM Humira D2E7 isolated and optimised by CAT in collaboration with Abbott was simultaneously submitted by Abbott for a Biologic Licence Application BLA to the US Food and Drug Administration FDA and for a Marketing Authorisation Application MAA to the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products EMEA.
These submissions seek approval to market Humira, the worlds first human monoclonal antibody treatment for rheumatoid arthritis.
09 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc 10 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Review of the Year Good progress was also shown this year in trials of CAT-213, a J695, a human anti-IL12 monoclonal antibody being developed human anti-eotaxin monoclonal antibody being developed as a by Abbott and Wyeth Research continues to be tested in 1 treatment for allergic disorders.
multi-centre Phase II clinical trials as a potential treatment for RA and Crohns disease.
December 2001 Data from a Phase I clinical trial of CAT-213 in TM healthy volunteers were presented at the BPS.
LymphoStat-B, a human monoclonal antibody against B-Lymphocyte Stimulator BLyS being developed by Human April 2002 Recruitment to a single-dose Phase I II allergic rhinitis Genome Sciences, Inc. HGSI entered a Phase I clinical trial to challenge study completed.
determine its safety and pharmacology in patients with systemic August 2002 Preliminary results of the challenge study released, lupus erythematosus SLE.
showing that CAT-213 has a significant positive effect upon nasal TRAIL-R1 mAb, an agonistic human monoclonal antibody that patency and reduces the numbers of tissue eosinophils and mast recognises TRAIL-Receptor-1 TRAIL-R1 expressed on a number cells associated with allergen challenge.
The data also show that of solid tumour and haemotopoetic cancer cells, is being evaluated CAT-213 by nasal aerosol generally produced greater effects than as an anti-cancer treatment by HGSI.
TRAIL-R1 mAb was isolated by intravenous injection.
directly from CATs libraries without needing further optimisation November 2002 CAT began recruiting patients for a Phase I II and it was delivered to HGSI just six months from the start of the challenge study of CAT-213 in allergic conjunctivitis.
This is the first CAT-derived human monoclonal antibody directed to a cell-surface receptor protein to enter clinical trials and The results of the allergic rhinitis challenge study have been acts as an agonist for apoptosis ie, triggers cancer cells to undergo submitted for presentation at the American Academy of Allergy, programmed cell death.
Asthma and Immunology AAAAI meeting in March 2003.
Data from the allergic conjunctivitis challenge study are expected January 2002 HGSI exercised an option for an exclusive licence to be available in the third quarter of 2003. on TRAIL-R1 mAb.
Licensed programmes As well as Humira, described April 2002 Pre-clinical data presented by HGSI at the American above, CAT has a number of partners who have taken licences Association for Cancer Research AACR meeting demonstrated to CAT antibodies under arrangements whereby they have total that TRAIL-R1 mAb has anti-tumour activity in animal models of responsibility for the pre-clinical clinical development and marketing human breast, colon and uterine cancers.
April 2002 HGSI was granted regulatory clearance to begin Phase I clinical trials of TRAIL-R1 mAb in the US in patients with advanced cancer.
11 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc August 2002 HGSI granted Takeda Chemical Industries an option TRAIL-R2 mAb is an agonistic human monoclonal antibody, which to develop and commercialise TRAIL-R1 mAb in Japan, while recognises the TRAIL-Receptor-2 TRAIL-R2 expressed on the retaining development and commercialisation rights for the US, surface of some types of cancer cell.
Early pre-clinical data Europe, and the rest of the world.
presented at the AACR meeting in April 2002 shows that TRAIL-R2 mAb has anti-cancer activity, and in May 2002 HGSI Pre-clinical development programmes There are currently exercised an option for an exclusive licence to TRAIL-R2 mAb.
five CAT-derived human monoclonal antibodies in pre-clinical HGSI hopes to file an IND application for TRAIL-R2 mAb in the first development, both at CAT and at CATs collaborators, including: half of 2003.
It is the third human monoclonal antibody to come The GC1000 series are human monoclonal antibodies against from CATs collaboration with HGSI and is the second CAT-derived TGF that are being jointly developed by CAT and Genzyme human monoclonal antibody candidate directed to a cell-surface for non-ophthalmic indications.
Several candidates with differing receptor protein rather than a soluble cytokine.
specificities and potencies have been identified and assessments of In June 2002 CAT granted Wyeth Research an exclusive product the potential medical and commercial opportunities they present licence to a human antibody identified by CAT against a disease are currently being evaluated.
Pre-clinical studies of GC1008 have target supplied by Wyeth.
There is considerable interest in the role played by TGF in tissue repair, with overproduction of TGF inducing the In September 2002, CAT granted HGSI an option for an exclusive deposition of excess extracellular matrix, the hallmark of tissue licence to an antibody to an undisclosed target, the fourth human fibrosis and scar tissue.
The development of fibrosis in internal monoclonal antibody to come from CATs collaboration with HGSI.
organs can give rise to conditions such as pulmonary fibrosis, Discovery stage antibody programmes CAT is currently liver cirrhosis and diabetic nephropathy where progressive fibrosis working on 15 drug discovery projects.
Of these, CAT funds or leads to organ dysfunction and ultimately organ failure.
More than co-funds around one-third: the remaining projects are collaborator 100 other indications where anti-TGF antibodies may have an funded.
The active programmes include Anti-IL-18R with Amgen, important role to play, including Acute Respiratory Distress a programme with Elan and one proprietary programme at a Syndrome ARDS, glioma and the treatment of burns, have been late-stage of drug discovery.
CAT believes that up to five of these identified.
Overall, fibrotic diseases account for a large number of antibodies may enter pre-clinical studies in 2003. cases of morbidity and mortality, with many millions of patients affected worldwide.
Together, CAT and Genzyme believe they have a significant lead over other competitive approaches in the development of new treatments for this major area of medical need that is poorly served by existing medicines.
12 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Review of the Year 13 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Five new licences granted to partners Five exclusive product licences granted: to HGSI three, Amgen and Wyeth Research.
CAT received licence fees and will also receive clinical development milestone payments and royalties on any sales from the licensed drug candidates commercialised by these partners.
14 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Review of the Year Drug discovery programmes are also underway at those CAT August 2002 CAT expanded its existing relationship with Xerion partners who have licensed CATs libraries for their own use, Pharmaceuticals into a research collaboration to evaluate a cell enabling CAT to broaden the application of its technologies for surface protein involved in allergic reactions.
CAT and Xerion jointly the creation of antibody therapeutic candidates.
own any intellectual property generated.
October 2001 CAT entered a collaboration and licence agreement September 2002 CAT signed a research agreement with Chugai, with Merck & Co. Inc. for the research and development of one of Japans leading pharmaceutical companies, to license products specific for a key target involved in disease mediated CATs libraries for discovery and development of potential human by HIV.
December 2001 CAT entered a co-development collaboration October 2002 CAT entered into a second agreement with with Amrad to develop human monoclonal antibodies against the Merck & Co. Inc, granting Merck a licence to CATs libraries.
receptor for  colony stimulating factor The libraries will be used by Merck to support and promote GMCSF-R as a potential therapeutic for RA, with CAT and discovery research and development across a broad range of Amrad jointly funding development up to completion of Phase II therapeutic areas.
After this, CAT will have responsibility for further trials and In order to secure CATs human monoclonal antibody drug pipeline commercialisation.
Amrad retains an option to receive milestone into the future, CAT continues to develop its pool of drug targets.
and royalty payments or participate jointly in development As part of this process, CAT has built a team which focuses on and commercialisation.
identifying and validating novel drug targets against which to develop January 2002 Amgen exercised an exclusive licence option to new antibodies.
To further this goal, CAT is using its own technology develop and commercialise human monoclonal antibodies raised to and also seeking access to external databases of targets or potential an undisclosed disease target.
CAT received a licence fee and will targets.
To this end, in December 2001, CAT licensed Incyte obtain milestone and royalty payments on any therapeutics Genomics LifeSeq Gold database and sequence-verified human commercialised by Amgen.
cDNA clones, thus adding an additional source of potential genomics-derived targets for antibody drugs and complementing the access CAT already has to HGSIs proprietary genomics database.
15 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Operations The quality of CATs science has been internationally recognised during the last financial year with CAT having three papers published During the year, work continued on CATs new facilities, the in prestigious peer-reviewed journals.
In addition, CAT had 14 Milstein Building at Granta Park.
This new 66,000 sq ft building posters accepted for presentation and has been invited to provide comprises laboratories and offices and will be occupied during expert opinion at over 30 major scientific technology conferences.
December 2002, at which point the Companys Melbourn premises will be vacated.
CATs patent estate of approximately 30 patent families demonstrates CATs world-leading position in antibody display CAT announced in November 2001 that it had signed a long term technology.
CAT protects this position through prompt patent agreement with Lonza Biologics to manufacture clinical trial supplies filing and, where necessary, legal defence.
A detailed account of of antibody drugs to CAT for up to five years.
This secures CAT the status of all current litigation is included in note 26 to the access to manufacturing capacity for both ongoing programmes and Financial Statements.
This year CAT has extended its skill base and expertise by attracting Intellectual property: scientific leadership and expertise and recruiting high calibre scientists and professional staff from CATs scientific leadership is built around three core tenets: its major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies as well as world-leading phage display technology, its extensive scientific from leading academic institutions.
These talented individuals bring expertise and its strong patent estate.
All seven CAT-derived a wealth of experience which, combined with CATs established therapeutic candidates in the clinic or beyond are human know-how in developing human monoclonal antibodies as drugs, is monoclonal antibodies derived from the Companys proprietary creating the success CATs programmes are currently enjoying and phage antibody libraries that now contain more than 100 billion strengthens the Company for the achievement of the ambitious different phage antibodies.
The high quality of CATs libraries has goals that lie ahead.
been demonstrated this year with TRAIL-R1 mAb entering Phase I clinical trials less than a year after being directly isolated from one of CATs libraries.
16 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Review of the Year Strengthening of world-leading antibody pipeline Strong product pipeline with seven CAT-derived human monoclonal antibodies now in clinical trials.
CAT-152 lerdelimumab, a human monoclonal anti-TGF antibody being developed as a treatment 2 to prevent post-operative scarring in patients undergoing surgery for glaucoma, produced encouraging Phase II results and has now entered Phase III clinical trials.
CAT-213, a human monoclonal anti-eotaxin antibody, showed promising results 1 as a potential treatment for allergic disorders.
TM LymphoStat-B, a human monoclonal antibody against B-Lymphocyte Stimulator, commenced Phase I clinical trials conducted by HGSI in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, and TRAIL-R1 mAb commenced Phase I clinical studies also conducted by HGSI as an anti-cancer treatment.
17 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc
