26 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Board of Directors Professor Peter Garland MA MB PhD FRSE CBE 68 John Aston MA ACA 47 Chief Financial Officer left Non-Executive Chairman left John Aston joined the Board as Finance Director in September Appointed to the Board of CAT in 1990, Peter Garland became 1996 and subsequently saw CAT through a successful flotation in Chairman in September 1995.
Until 1999 he was Chief Executive March 1997.
Previously, John was a director in corporate finance Officer of the Institute of Cancer Research, where he continues to with J Henry Schroder & Co Ltd.
He qualified as a chartered work as a Visiting Research Fellow.
During his career he has held a accountant with Price Waterhouse and worked at the British number of other senior posts within academia and industry, Technology Group.
including Professor of Biochemistry at the University of Dundee, David Glover MA MB Bchir MRCP FFPM 50 Principal Scientist and Head of Biosciences at Unilever Research Chief Medical Officer middle Colworth Laboratory and Director of Research at Amersham David Glover joined the Company in June 1994 as Vice President International plc.
In 1999 he was awarded the CBE for his services Medical Development and was promoted to the Board in July to cancer research and biotechnology.
Davids pharmaceutical industry experience began in 1984 Peter Chambr 47 Chief Executive Officer right when he joined Merck Sharp and Dohme as a Clinical Research Peter Chambr joined CAT as Chief Executive Officer in April 2002.
Physician, rising to Director of Medical Affairs before moving to Previously, Peter was Chief Operating Officer at Celera Genomics Schering-Plough Ltd as Medical Director.
He has broad expertise Group and, prior to this, held the position of Chief Executive Officer in drug development, regulatory affairs, clinical research and at Bespak PLC, the drug delivery group.
Peter has considerable medical marketing encompassing several therapeutic areas.
experience of senior management roles, both in the UK and the Prior to 1984, he held a series of hospital positions in general US, where he led these companies in their development toward medicine and cardiology including a clinical research fellowship the biopharmaceutical market.
Peter has also held positions at at the University of Birmingham.
David also sits on the Board Bain & Company, the strategy consultancy, and Unilever PLC.
of Management of the ABPI Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry.
Kevin Johnson BSc PhD FRSA 42 Chief Technology Officer right Having joined CAT in 1990, Kevin Johnson was appointed to the Board in July 1997.
In 2000, Kevin became Chief Technology Officer responsible for exploitation and development of CATs technology platforms.
Previously, he held positions in the Company as Research Director, Vice President Research and Head of Research.
Prior to 1990, he was a fellow of the University of Melbourne, Australia and a John Lucas Walker Senior Student at the University of Cambridge, where he originally gained his PhD.
27 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Professor Uwe Bicker MD PhD 57 Non-Executive Director left Paul Nicholson MB BS FFPM 65 Non-Executive Director right Uwe Bicker joined the Board of CAT in February 1999.
He is Paul Nicholson was appointed to the Board of CAT in February Member of the Board of Trustees of the Aventis Foundation, 1999.
Paul is a qualified physician with extensive experience of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Dade Behring Holding the pharmaceutical industry.
Most recently he was Senior Vice GmbH, and a member of the Board of the University Marburg.
President of Worldwide Development at SmithKline Beecham.
Previously he was a board member of the Behringwerke AG, board Prior to this, he held senior positions at Monsanto, Hoechst and member of HoechstMarionRoussel AG and a board member of Sterling Winthrop.
Paul serves as a board director for a number Boehringer Mannheim GmbH.
He is a qualified physician, holds of bioscience companies including Xantos AG, Biovex Ltd, doctorates in medicine and chemistry and is a professor at the Biomedicines Inc, Matrix Therapeutics Ltd, BioScience VCT plc, University of Heidelberg.
He is a member of the Novartis Science Board.
Professor Sir Aaron Klug OM FRS ScD HonFRCP HonFRCPath John Stocker AO MB BS BMedSc PhD FRACP 57 Nobel Laureate 1982 76 Non-Executive Director middle Non-Executive Director left Sir Aaron Klug has been on the Board of CAT since the Company John Stocker was appointed to the Board of CAT in March 1995. was founded in 1990.
Prior to his retirement in 1996, he was John is Chairman of the Sigma Company Ltd. and a Director of Honorary Professor of Molecular Biology at the University of Telstra Corporation Ltd. Nufarm Ltd. and Circadian Technologies Cambridge and Director of the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Pty.
Ltd. all of which are listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Sir Aaron continues to lead an MRC research group on He was formerly Chief Scientist of Australia, Chief Executive of the regulation of gene expression.
He is a Foreign Associate of CSIRO Australia and Director of Pharmaceutical Research at the US National Academy of Science and was President of the Hoffmann-La Roche and Co in Basel.
John is also Chairman of Royal Society 19952000.
James Foght PhD MS BS 66 Non-Executive Director right Jim Foght has been on the Board of CAT since 1996.
He is currently Managing Director of Foght Enterprises, LLC.
focused on international business advisory services, and also Managing Director of Vector Securities International, LLC.
Jim has considerable experience of the pharmaceutical and diagnostic industries having spent 23 years with El du Pont fide Nemours in management and research, latterly as Managing Director of DuPont UK.
Jim also serves on the Board of Directors of Acrux Limited and is a member of the Board of Advisors of Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
