28 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Senior Executives Scientific Advisory Board Daily management of the group is the responsibility of the During the year, members of the Scientific Advisory Board were: Executive Group, comprising the executive directors and the following Dr John Stocker AO MB BS BMedSc PhD FRACP members of the senior management team: Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Board and Non-Executive Jason Avery BSc Senior Vice President Business Alliances left Director of CAT.
Jason Avery joined CAT in September 1996.
Prior to this, Jason was Dr David Clough BSc PhD with Ernst & Young in Palo Alto, California, where he advised and Director of Research, Roche Discovery Welwyn.
assisted companies with corporate finance and business development.
He had previously also established and developed Ernst & Youngs UK Professor Jon Cohen FRCP FRCPath FRCPE Life Sciences Corporate Finance and Advisory practice.
Professor of Infectious Diseases, Imperial College School of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital, London.
Nigel Burns BSc PhD Senior Vice President Pre-Clinical Development left middle Professor Douglas Fearon MD FRCP Nigel Burns joined CAT in October 1997.
Previously, Nigel was with Wellcome Trust Professor of Medicine, University of Cambridge.
British Biotech where he headed the Process Technology Division Professor Sir Aaron Klug OM PRS ScD HonFRCP HonFRCPath and played a significant role in developing their biotechnology-based Nobel Laureate 1982 products.
Prior to this, he held scholarships at the Central Drug Non-Executive Director of CAT.
Research Institute, Lucknow, India and at the Californian Institute of Technology.
Dr Csar Milstein CH FRS HonFRCPath Nobel Laureate 1984 Formerly Deputy Director of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Alex Duncan BSc PhD Vice President Drug Discovery right middle Cambridge.
Alex Duncan has been with CAT since 1994.
Prior to his appointment as Vice President Drug Discovery, Alex held the Dr Gwyn Morgan BVSc PhD MRCVS position of Head of Antibody Engineering.
Before joining CAT, he Dr Michael Neuberger FRS was a Research Fellow at the University of California and, prior to Senior staff member of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, that, a Lucille P Markey Visiting Fellow also at the University of Cambridge.
In addition, he is an MRC graduate from the Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge.
Dr Hugh Pelham FRS Head of Cell Biology at the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Diane Mellett LLB JD General Counsel right Cambridge.
Diane Mellett joined CAT in October 1997.
Prior to this, Diane was with a US law firm, Sonnenschein.
Diane previously qualified as a Professor Sir Keith Peters FRS FRCP FRCPath solicitor in London in 1986 before moving to Sonnenschein in Chicago Regius Professor of Physic, University of Cambridge.
and then later returned to become a founding member of their UK office.
She is also qualified as a US attorney admitted to the Illinois Bar.
