Directors Report Principal Activity and Business Review Employees Prudential plc is the Group holding company and the principal The following information is given principally in respect of activity of its subsidiary undertakings is the provision of financial employees of the Group in the United Kingdom.
The policy services in Europe, the US and Asia.
Particulars of principal towards employees overseas is the same but the practical subsidiary undertakings are given in note 30 on page 79.
The application of the policy varies according to local requirements.
Groups business and likely future developments are reviewed in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, the Group Chief Equal Opportunity Executives Review on pages 4 and 5, the Business Review on Prudential recognises, respects and values difference and pages 6 to 13 and the Financial Review on pages 14 to 25. diversity.
Its equal opportunities policy is to be fair, responsible and caring in all aspects of the business.
The Group seeks to Financial Statements and Supplementary Information ensure all employees and applicants to its businesses are given The consolidated balance sheet on pages 50 and 51 shows the equal opportunity in all aspects of employment to ensure that state of affairs of the Group at 31 December 2002.
The Companys the Groups businesses attract, retain and promote the best balance sheet appears on page 53 and the consolidated profit available talent.
All the businesses work to embed these principles and loss account on pages 47 to 49.
Information prepared on in all aspects of their management practices and to ensure that the achieved profits basis of financial reporting is provided on this is evident to employees in their day-to-day work.
A summary of the statutory basis results is shown on page 46.
There is a five year review of the Group It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration and on pages 87 and 88. encouragement to the employment of applicants with suitable aptitudes and abilities, and to continuing the employment Dividends of staff who become disabled, and to provide training and The directors have declared a final dividend for 2002 of career development opportunities to disabled employees.
17.1 pence per share payable on 28 May 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 March 2003.
Employee Involvement The dividend for the year, including the interim dividend of The Group has effective communication channels through which 8.9 pence per share paid in 2002, amounts to 26.0 pence per employees views can be sought on issues which concern them.
share compared with 25.4 pence per share for 2001.
The total Throughout the Group there is close consultation between cost of dividends for 2002 was 519 million.
management and other employees on appropriate matters of concern, with a view to keeping employees informed about Payment Policy the progress of the Groups business and the economic factors It is the policy of the Group to agree terms of payment when affecting it.
Communication with employees is achieved in a orders for goods and services are placed and to pay in accordance number of ways, including staff briefings and through the Groups with those terms.
Trade creditor days, based on the ratio of intranet site.
Prudentials European Employee Forum provides trade creditors at the year-end to the amounts invoiced by an opportunity for elected staff representatives to consult with trade creditors during the year, were 22 days.
senior management on strategic European business issues.
Each Prudential business in Europe is represented on the Forum.
Directors M&Gs Staff Consultative Committee promotes communication The present directors are shown on pages 28 and 29.
Clark throughout M&G and is the forum for dialogue on a range of Manning and Bart Becht were appointed as directors on issues of interest to staff.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Bart Becht will retire and offer In 2002 employees were again invited to participate in the himself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
Sir Roger Prudential Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
The Scheme Hurn resigned as Chairman on 30 November 2002.
David has now been operating for over 19 years and a majority of UK Clementi was appointed as Chairman on 1 December 2002 staff currently participate.
The Prudential International Savingsand, in accordance with the Articles of Association, he will retire Related Share Option Scheme ISSOS for employees has been and offer himself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
operating since 2000 in Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore, Michael McLintock, Sandy Stewart and Roberto Mendoza and since 2001 in Taiwan and India.
On average 22 per cent of will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and offer employees in those countries covered by the ISSOS currently themselves for re-election.
Details of directors interests in the participate.
share capital of the Company and its listed subsidiary, Egg plc, are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 40 and 41.
The trustees of each of the Groups UK pension schemes include elected individuals.
44 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 Donations Prudential is committed to supporting the communities where it is an employer.
In 2002 the Company spent 3.3 million on community support activity, including in-kind donations and staff time.
Within this, direct donations to charitable organisations amounted to 1.6 million, of which 1.1 million came from EU operations.
This is broken down as follows: Education 675,000: Social and Welfare 315,000: Environment 83,000: Children and Youth 31,000: Medical and Other 31,000: and Arts and Heritage 8,000.
The total aggregate figure for charitable donations from Prudentials non-EU subsidiaries Jackson National Life and Prudential Corporation Asia amounted to 0.5 million.
Jackson National Life made political donations of $15,500 in 2002.
However, the Groups policy not to make donations to EU political parties or to incur EU political expenditure, within the normal meaning of those expressions, has not changed and the Group did not make any such donations or incur any such expenditure in 2002.
Auditors A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders The number of accounts on the share register at 31 December 2002 was 86,400 2001 84,936.
Further information about shareholdings in the Company is given on page 103.
At 14 March 2003 the Company had received notification in accordance with Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 from The Capital Groups Companies Inc. of a holding of 4 per cent of the Companys share capital, from Fidelity Investments of a holding of 3.96 per cent of the Companys share capital, and from Legal and General Investment Management Limited of a holding of 3 per cent of the Companys share capital.
On behalf of the Board of directors Peter Maynard Company Secretary 21 March 2003 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 45
