20 Capita Health The National Health Service is striving to raise standards of One element of this new flexibility will be to provide poorly service delivery whilst modernising its infrastructure and performing Trusts with access to support from specialist external responding to the Governments commitment to introduce management teams where appropriate.
greater diversity of provision and service solutions.
The major Capita already has numerous relationships across the sector.
challenges faced by the Health Service mean engagement We have provided consultancy on governance, finance and with the private sector is increasing.
We view the health reorganisation for NHS bodies since 1997. sector as an emerging market for us, one that affords future opportunities across our entire service portfolio.
Our Property Consultancy has an established position in the market having played key roles in project management, cost Changing times control, architecture and refurbishment for numerous health The formation of Primary Care Trusts means that over 75% of sector projects.
At the same time Capita Leasing assists a the growing NHS budget will be managed locally, with decisions number of Trusts in the procurement of state-of-the-art on commissioning services from NHS providers, the private equipment, from ambulances to scanners.
sector, or the creation of joint ventures where appropriate, taken Through our Healthcare risk management consultancy, we have by NHS organisations locally.
led a number of large modernisation projects, often assisting The restructuring of the service also places a greater Health Service organisations to break new ground such as emphasis on performance management and standards developing a national e-learning programme for an NHS Agency, assessment, reinforcing the move away from past command a new approach to NHS reorganisation in Wales and and control cultures.
development of a risk management system for an entire Health Board region in Ireland.
Looking to the future we see major opportunities to expand Capitas role in the sector through the provision of strategic advice, consultancy and interim management, as well as the full range of information services, property consultancy services and customer service transformation.
Our strength lies in our South Derbyshire Acute Hospitals The North Eastern Health Board ability to deliver: NHS Trust NEHB Ireland Consultancy support to Trusts in Capita is part of the Skanska Innisfree Over the past three years our Healthcare a wide range of management and consortium appointed in August as risk management consultancy, has clinical areas based on experience in preferred bidder on a major 250m supported a major change programme service delivery not just as advisors PFI scheme for South Derbyshire Acute with the NEHB in the field of clinical Hospitals NHS Trust.
The development and operation of complex shared services Capita Property Consultancy is The NEHB directly manages all health architect and health planner on the and social care services for the North Specialist support in the development scheme that involves the remodelling East region of the Republic of Ireland, of governance and risk management and redevelopment of the existing Derby including five acute hospitals, mental systems City General Hospital to create a new health services, community and welfare Support to senior management acute hospital and specialist care services, social services and ambulance teams to assist them in achieving diagnostics centre.
services serving a population of some their targets 350,000 over 6,500 sq km.
The scheme will provide a modern, A comprehensive range of property energy efficient environment to support With strong support from the Boards management services to improve patient care and staff from all clinical Chief Executive Officer and senior hospitals and infrastructure departments have been heavily involved management, Capita was able to assist throughout the development and a process of culture change within the The introduction of Customer evaluation process.
organisation, developing systems and Relationship Management methods processes to deliver improvements in to improve access to services Partly reusing the existing building and clinical governance.
incorporating a large new-build IT Services to support the Delivering development, the design team has 21st Century IT initiative created a bold but sensitive public Training of healthcare staff with building providing a focal point for the Capitas long established programmes Trust whilst being reassuring to patients of conferences and courses and a pleasant working environment for staff.
Finance services to support the proposed NHS bank Work is expected to start on site late in 2003 with completion scheduled for the Recruitment and search and selection end of 2008. services for management staff Leasing services for state-of-theart equipment.
