36 Capita Group Board Rodney Aldridge OBE Paul Pindar Gordon Hurst Paddy Doyle Executive Chairman 55 Chief Executive 43 Group Finance Director 41 Group Operations Director 52 Responsible for the strategic Paul is responsible for Gordon joined the Group in Paddy joined Capita in 1992 direction of the Group along managing and developing January 1988 from Sun Micro and was appointed to the Board with managing external Capitas operations to achieve Systems Ltd.
He is responsible communications and the Groups strategic objectives.
to the Board as Commercial for the ongoing operational relationships, Rod has led the He has specific responsibility Director in February 1995 and management of the Groups Group since formation in 1984. for managing the Groups as Group Finance Director in business units.
His background He spent ten years in Local acquisition activity.
He qualified as a is in IT and outsourcing, Government before joining the adviser to Capita on its chartered accountant with previously with Hoskyns now Chartered Institute of Public management buy-out and Coopers & Lybrand now Cap Gemini Ernst & Young, Finance and Accountancy joined the Group in 1987 from  in and AIG American International CIPFA in 1974.
In 1984, 3i where he was an investment 1986.
In addition to his Group Group, where he was he became Managing Director director.
He qualified as a Finance Director responsibilities, responsible for all aspects of IT of CIPFA Computer Services, chartered accountant with Gordon is also Company operations throughout Europe.
which subsequently became Coopers & Lybrand now Secretary.
Gordon has Board Paddy has overall responsibility the Capita Group following a  in responsibility for Capitas for HR across the Group.
1984 and is an associate Corporate Social Responsibility He is a qualified member of member of the Institute of policy.
Chairman of the CBI Public Services Strategy Board.
37 Capita Group Board Peter Cawdron Robert Alcock Eric Walters Senior Non-Executive Director 59 Non-Executive Director 61 Non-Executive Director 58 Peter Cawdron joined the A chartered accountant, Eric Walters was appointed Group in September 1997.
Robert Alcock joined the as non-executive Director in From 1983 to 1997, he was Group in November 1993.
October 2000, effective from at Grand Metropolitan Plc now He is non-executive Deputy 1st January 2001.
He joined Diageo, serving as the Group Chairman of Incepta Group Plc, the Group from Alchemy Strategic Development Director a non-executive director Partners, a private equity firm, from 1986.
Prior to 1983, he of Anglo & Overseas Trust and where he was a senior partner was Chief Financial Officer of an independent director on the involved in a number of high DArcy MacManus & Masius Board of Next Pension Trustees profile and complex Worldwide Inc. and held Ltd.
Previously he held positions at S. G. Warburg and Group Managing Director of senior positions with Schroder Peat Marwick Mitchell now Norcros Plc, European Finance Ventures, Grand Metropolitan KPMG.
A chartered Director of RJR Nabisco Inc, Plc now Diageo and Lex accountant, he is Chairman Chief Financial Officer and Services plc.
Eric also holds of Capital Radio.
Other nonSenior Vice President of Black & non-executive director positions executive directorships include: Decker Inc. and Director of with Vislink Plc and a number Christian Salvesen, Compass Strategic Planning for Gulf Oils of unquoted companies.
Eric is Group, Johnston Press, Express international operations.
Robert a member of the Audit and Dairies and ARM Holdings.
He is Chairman of the Audit Remuneration Committees.
is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of and Remuneration Committees the Remuneration Committee.
and a member of the Audit Committee.
