03 Capita Conversations with Capita Rod Aldridge, Executive Chairman right and Paul Pindar, Chief Executive talk about Capita, its successful growth record and the strategy and drivers that will sustain profitable growth going forward.
04 Capita Conversations with Capita UK Business Process Outsourcing market potential 1 8 65bn 2 7 3 6 4 5 1 Central Government 20bn Capita 2 Local Government 4bn Capita and LGC 3 Education 5bn Capital Strategies 4 Health 4bn Capita 5 Transport 6bn Capita 6 Insurance 4bn Capita, Datamonitor and ABI 7 Life & Pensions 5bn Troika 8 Other Financial Services & Private Sector 17bn Capita Source How would you summarise Capita and its business?
The business drivers for the public sector to engage with external partners have been enormously strong for some time RA While it is difficult to summarise a business as diverse as now, based on a recognition that there are some things they ours, we can certainly start by saying were a company thats cant do themselves.
innovative and at the leading edge of transforming the way services are delivered.
Whats changed, certainly in the last two years, is that the private sector, where our particular focus has been on the As a strong partner, what we bring is an enormous skill base, insurance, life & pensions and the financial services sectors, which our customers can then apply to achieve organisational has become equally aware of the need to change.
Our services are comprehensive we can look after the driven by the recent economic downturn, as well as the freedom entire back office of an organisation, which can range from IT of choice demanded by todays customers.
to finance, through to HR and property, as well as handling front end services too, such as designing, building and operating If you consider the back office and customer service infrastructure customer contact centres.
of organisations from both sectors, there are many similarities.
What they share is an acceptance that they cant actually deliver Weve evolved our business model over the last decade, and we the change themselves without the help of an external partner.
are now in a very powerful position to apply it to organisations both in the public and private sectors.
The common thread is Across the private and public sectors, which market areas that they are all going through change and our role is to help do you currently focus on?
them successfully manage this to meet the needs of their RA At Capita we talk about our nine target markets and there customers and communities.
is enormous activity in all of them, ranging from those weve Is it right to view this as a business that is constructed been in for some time, like local government, to those that around a few, large contracts?
weve really moved into strongly in the past couple of years, like insurance.
PP The business is probably far more widely spread than people appreciate.
Every day we are running literally hundreds We are also developing a strong offering for what we call our of contracts and they could range in size from 50,000 to emerging markets, like transport where we are managing 50m a year.
Transport for Londons TfL Congestion Charging Scheme, and have a growing transport infrastructure consultancy or health, So you can see, if you look across the portfolio of contracts where our management consultancy and property consultancy we have, theres no one individual customer that is are already actively involved.
disproportionately large relative to the whole.
We are therefore in a great position to move around markets.
How important is your public and local authority work relative It means we can be selective about what we bid for and who to the private work for the business as a whole?
RA The good thing about Capitas model is that its flexible.
Because of our infrastructure, our business centres and the broad skills of our people, we are equally able to work in the public and the private sectors.
RA Rod Aldridge, Executive Chairman PP Paul Pindar, Chief Executive 05 Capita Conversations with Capita Every day we are running literally hundreds of contracts and they could range in size from 50,000 to 50m a year.
Capita market positioning 2002 IT and BPO market Rank 2002 Market share% Rank 2001 Market share% BPO Market Overall BPO market 1 23.7 1 19.3 Central Government 2 23.0 2 20.3 Local Government 1 32.9 1 26.4 IT & BPO Market Overall IT & BPO market 4 8.2 4 6.2 Insurance 1 20.4 1 29.7 Finance excluding insurance 5 5.8 unranked n a Other private sector 4 5.0 unranked n a Source: HI Europe formerly Total Romtec UK IT and BPO Report 2003 You mention that you can be choosy about the work you take.
Capita is renowned for delivering an impressive growth rate Very few businesses can take such an attitude and many will year on year.
fight hard for any business they can get.
How is it you can RA To grow our business, both aggressively and safely, we be so selective?
are currently focusing, in particular, on the organic side as there RA Well partly because the markets were in are very large is an enormous amount of development that can come from our with considerable potential.
If you consider how we grow through large contract wins, We have over 20,000 different customers and weve got 300 organically within our separate service streams, and by small, major long-term contractual relationships.
Naturally weve begun strategic acquisitions our model can be applied to a range of to examine how we can develop them further, exploring circumstances in different markets.
opportunities for cross selling and introducing useful products and services from different parts of the Group.
This is an industry where you can be a busy fool its very easy to grow a top-line business, but if you dont grow your Combine this approach with our commitment to winning major profits at the same time it makes little sense.
long-term contracts and making strategic acquisitions and it becomes a very efficient way of driving the business forward.
We place high importance on assessing the contractual conditions that potential customers ask us to bid under, and How can you sustain this growth?
we are quite certain about areas we do not wish to move into.
PP There is a combination of factors behind our growth.
I think For example, we dont want or need to be an international first and foremost is the quality of the team that we have within company.
And we will not bear or take risks we consider Capita.
Weve been fortunate over the last 15 years in the fact unreasonable.
that weve built a team from 30 employees to 17,000.
And the By going about our business with such a selective approach it team of people at the top of the organisation have been very means we are able to identify opportunities which may be stable.
Their calibre both from a professional and a cultural inappropriate for the Group and we do not need to take on perspective is very important.
So I would put people at the top projects we are not comfortable with.
While were discussing the size of our market, it is worth Secondly, I think we have identified a range of services where mentioning how difficult it is to accurately measure its true size were in the right place at the right time.
The market for what for the things we do partly because the span of activities that we do is very broad and continues to be very buoyant.
We are we have is now quite broad, and partly because companies and currently winning one out of every two of our bids, against an public sector bodies are continually pushing at the boundaries of internal target of one out of three and an industry average of what theyre prepared to outsource.
Things are being outsourced one out of five.
now that five years ago wouldnt have been dreamt about.
It helps that weve got processes and controls within the If you do try and segment the market and look at the nine areas in business which create a happy balance not excessively which we operate, we estimate, at the moment, that the market bureaucratic, but sufficient to make sure that we can manage potential for what we do in the UK is somewhere around 65bn and control the business in a professional way.
If you look at our current revenues and City expectations of our revenues for 2003 in excess of 1bn, it would suggest weve got a fair degree of headroom at the moment.
06 Capita Conversations with Capita This year we maintained a customer retention rate of over 90%.
People keep coming back to Capita because we continue to deliver significant service improvements and service quality.
What role do acquisitions play in your growth strategy?
Another area, which we are particularly excited about at the moment, is in the financial services arena.
Both in the general PP Over the years weve made a number of acquisitions, albeit and commercial insurance market and also in life & pensions small ones.
These have allowed us to both build a considerable weve gone from no business in this sector to being the UK service capability, in terms of the span of the things that we do, market leader in just three and a half years.
and broaden Capitas customer base to the extent that we now operate with many of the biggest public sector bodies and In 2003 we will probably turn over in excess of 200m from private companies in the UK.
this area, because the insurance industry is under considerable pressure at the moment to cut costs.
That pressure is causing Its fair to say that we are now in a position where our focus is management to make decisions, which historically they may not going to shift gently towards a greater degree of organic growth have made, and to seek external partners.
This presents us with and less focus on acquisitions.
Partly because we no longer a very long list of prospects, giving us a lot of optimism that need to make acquisitions at the pace we did in the past and, 2003 and beyond will be buoyant in that particular market.
secondly, because the organic opportunities at the moment are probably stronger than at any time in our history.
In other more traditional markets, where we have operated for some time, we continue to build relationships.
Local Government, Which sectors do you see as fuelling your growth in for example, is a very orderly market and because of our track the future?
record, there may be five or six strong opportunities that will arise PP We continue to see opportunities for future growth across in a year.
all our markets and are particularly excited about prospects in So the shape of our bid list will be very much split into two a number of them.
the markets weve been in for some time and the new, emerging For example, we decided to bid for TfLs Congestion Charging areas requiring innovative solutions.
Scheme because we could see a future business there.
If you How important is it to have a balance of absolutely new look at transport management statistics and government policy service contracts, which you call greenfield sites and it is clear that a series of major initiatives are being planned to existing service contracts that are transferred from other control traffic and improve transport infrastructure across the UK.
Combine that demand with the infrastructure we have built PP Its helpful to have a mix of both.
If you look at the evolution for London and you have a fully adaptable model.
The of the business, its probably fair to say that the majority of what infrastructure and computer system we have created are very weve done is through taking over brownfield operations.
And we scalable and we already know of 35 local authorities that have like doing that because it involves taking on something which is registered an interest in schemes of this type.
usually relatively low risk it could well be an operation which It is possible that, in five years, transport management could may not run brilliantly, but at least its up and running and we be an area of business larger than Capita is today.
And yet five know a lot about what weve got to do to improve it.
years ago we never would have known of it.
Thats whats so Greenfield contracts will tend to have a higher degree of risk exciting about what weve got.
We can move into a market because, by definition, they involve creating something which very quickly and achieve a dominant position.
So that is has not existed before.
That has a certain degree of uncertainty, certainly one area of growth.
particularly around the creation of a new IT infrastructure.
07 Capita Conversations with Capita Capita revenue split 2002 % 1 2 3 4 1 Central Government 19% 2 Local Government 18% 3 Education 16% 4 Private Sector 47% Source: Capita Naturally were still very happy to take on such projects, but it Your customers keep coming back whether your projects has to be balanced because they require greater resource for are low profile or conducted in the media spotlight.
As such they have a different risk profile.
They also carry a different reputational profile to the extent that RA To achieve and maintain the strong position we have, we they often operate under a media spotlight.
All those things need must continue to deliver well, which I think is something which to be considered in deciding what were going to bid for and we should never lose sight of.
This year we maintained our customer retention rate of over You mentioned the media, which has recently generated 90%.
People keep coming back to Capita because we continue some quite hostile coverage.
How do you feel when you to deliver significant service improvements and service quality.
see the business represented in that way?
We are a company thats enormously excited by winning, and PP Unfortunately it is inevitable that we generate such diverse we continue to be equally excited by delivering.
Thats why coverage, because we do quite tough things things which customers come back to us.
For example around housing benefits, if somebody is trying to claim housing benefit to which they are not entitled then we would stop it.
If people are not paying their television licence it is our responsibility to ensure they do.
As an organisation that takes on tough projects, I think the relationship weve got with the press is pretty good, and we work very hard at it.
We are very open as a company and that has been helpful in our attempts to get fair coverage.
But at the same time I am passionate about our business and believe in what we do.
And I dont like it when people dont have the correct facts and make assumptions about things.
I suppose its going to be inevitable that we will get more of this attention, because of the prominence we now have.
But the acid test to me is that our customers dont believe all the hype.
