10 Capita Central Government Government departments and agencies are changing the way they do business, increasingly working across traditional departmental boundaries and striving to modernise services.
But improving the infrastructure that supports central public services is not simple.
Capitas partnership approach to the project was underlined by their teams total integration into our own practices and working arrangements.
Throughout the contract they established themselves among our employees at grass roots level, enabling us to enjoy shared success Tony Cooper Department for Work and Pensions 11 Capita Central Government Department for DWP Office Services Pension Credit project Winter Fuel Work and Pensions DWP Capitas three year contract to Capita has also been working with the Winter Fuel Payments schemes, As one of the core providers of support administer office services to the DWP Pension Service on the development providing financial help with heating to the DWP through the BA Area across 250 sites in the North of and implementation of the Pension bills to the over 60s population has Director Partnerships ADAPT England, which commenced in April Credit project, which will replace been administered by Capita on behalf framework, Capita continues to assist 1999, has been extended for a further Minimum Income Guarantee MIG.
of the DWP since 2000. in the Departments modernising two years.
The total value of the Capita Consulting played a key role in Our approach to setting up the new programme.
extension to the contract is 46m.
developing the application, customer service and efficiently processing In April 2002 Capita became the channels and administration processes payments to around two million people sole provider of office services in the for issuing Pension Credits.
A range of has earned us a contract extension North West, North East and the application and support products and until May 2005.
Midlands, a responsibility which services were developed in consultation Capita processes claims forms and resulted in a further transfer with interested parties across all calculates entitlement, enabling the of 1,400 staff.
The transition was stakeholders, including special interest DWP to make accurate payments.
completed in just ten weeks with no groups such as Help the Aged and The service handles around 800,000 disruption to services.
Partnership Against Poverty, the Social enquiries each year.
Using our own Security Advisory Committee and customer-focused service delivery model customers.
from the outset, Capita has fulfilled the A major part of the project has been DWPs challenging service levels.
ensuring that the Pension Credit products, including training, guidance and the paper-based and electronic application packs, are fit for purpose.
Service modernisation The Criminal Records Bureau CRB Our multiple contacts and contracts across Central Government The CRB is a unique service which helps employers and enable us to play a core role in the reform of public services, voluntary organisations make more informed recruitment meeting e-government targets, implementing the Better Quality decisions.
Service programme, joining up government initiatives and Since we launched the partnership with the CRB Agency achieving a cultural change in service delivery.
to deliver the Disclosures in March 2002, the service has Capitas breadth of expertise positions us well to assist with already reached a number of significant milestones: meeting these challenges.
We are equally strong in both Over 1.1m Disclosures have been issued with an accuracy transforming established services and in creating new service rate of over 99% infrastructures to deliver new policies and programmes.
Such contracts are invariably fairly complex and large scale, Twice as many children and vulnerable adults are protected as they often have national coverage and require integration of by Disclosure checks than under the previous arrangements technology, processes and customer contact solutions.
We also The CRB issued 500% more Disclosures in the last six have a long history of delivering in-depth consultancy advice months of operation 1m than in the first five and discrete support services across government.
Average turnaround time is currently less than five weeks As service providers to government we help agencies, departments and offices improve the way they operate In a recent survey, one fifth of Registered Bodies asked established services and deliver new, modern services.
said that they had not recruited someone due to the information supplied on a Disclosure Understanding Government practice In the same survey, 65% said that the service had Like Capita itself, many of our skilled staff find their origins notably improved.
It is their public service professional commitment and understanding of public policy issues and Office of the Deputy Prime Minister ODPM practice that enable us to deliver relevant service solutions In November 2002 the ODPM launched a new web site to government.
uk, designed and developed by Capita.
We maintain regular contact with policy advisors in government The site sits at the heart of the new National Strategy for and agencies such as CIPFA and the Employers Organisation.
Local e-Government and uses information, practical tools and In 2002 we contributed to government working groups, advisory best practice recommendations to help local councils make bodies and think tanks including the IPPRs Commission on e-government a reality in their communities.
PPPs and educational policy work with the Social Market Foundation.
In December we began contributing to the Capitas Consulting and IT Services businesses worked in work of the newly created CBI Public Services Strategy Board, close partnership with the ODPM on the project, adhering to which is chaired by Rod Aldridge, Capitas Executive Chairman.
the governments e-Government Interoperability Framework The Board aims to lead the private sectors engagement with e-GIF and e-Government Metadata Standard e-GMS for government and others on public service reform policy, and all government and public sector systems.
development of good practice and guidance.
As future phases are developed and rolled out, the website will become an increasingly valuable tool for implementing Local e-Government strategy.
