21 Capita Transport The Governments Transport 2010 10-year plan recognises Transport management the impact of expansion across road, rail, sea and aviation on Capita is well positioned at the forefront of this market, having the UKs transport infrastructure and industry.
delivered the infrastructure for the London Congestion Charging Congestion is getting worse, with public transport under Scheme.
This proprietary model is tested and scalable and we increasing pressure.
Although transport is moving up have already been approached by a number of other local the political agenda, the current infrastructure in the UK authorities interested in transport management schemes of cannot support the forecast growth.
Enforcement service Driving ahead The Police have significantly reduced their role in the Total transport spending over the first ten years of the new enforcement of parking and other motoring restrictions millennium is set to amount to 180bn, with almost throughout England, forcing local authorities to engage specialist three-quarters of this coming from the public purse.
suppliers of transport-related enforcement services.
Capitas expanding expertise spans transport, environment, Government is pushing to increase the number of speed regeneration and infrastructure consultancy services, back cameras, the monitoring of bus lanes and priority routes, and office processing, enforcement and customer service capability.
fixed cameras at traffic light systems across the country.
Our people can see transport projects through from feasibility Capitas transport team can advise on where to set up cameras studies, to design and construction, to the implementation of and controlled zones, install the communications infrastructure, innovative maintenance strategies a complete end to end introduce and operate transport schemes, manage the back solution delivered to meet ever-increasing challenges.
The size office processing operation and the penalty enforcement process.
of our potential addressable transport market stands at 6bn.
Carlisle Northern Highways Strategic Alliance Capita Gwent Consultancy Development Route Durham County Council recently The joint venture company was Capita is acting as Technical Adviser announced the creation of a new launched this year to support transport to Cumbria County Council for the Highways Strategic Alliance to handle infrastructure initiatives, regeneration 70m Carlisle Northern Development 53m worth of projects over the next and to deliver professional support Route project.
five years, with Capita providing the services.
Jointly owned by Capita and highway design and transportation four local authorities, it is the largest The project is unique in its sector as expertise in the consortium.
consultancy of its type in Wales.
it includes the maintenance and operation of 155km of principal road The Council has adopted a partnership The practice was already market leader network and the design, construction approach and is using new partnering before the joint venture agreement and and maintenance of a bypass.
contracts for the first time for this kind is well positioned to access new of work.
This partnership model has opportunities in Wales and beyond.
With work being undertaken within been recognised as an example of best The consultancy complements Capitas an area hosting a World Heritage Site, practice by the Office of the Deputy other infrastructure services across a Site of Special Scientific Interest and a Prime Minister.
Candidate Special Area of Conservation, environmental expertise and planning The partnership enables Capita to build diligence have been key to the success a regional business in the North East, of the project.
This included Capita delivering services to local authorities successfully managing the project and regeneration companies as well as through a public inquiry process.
the Highways Agency in its expanding road building programme.
