14 Capita Education The recent acceleration Education remains a key priority for in the pace of progress Government.
In 2002 it received larger gives grounds for optimism for the future.
The current increases in funding than other essential arrangements constitute public services.
Haringeys best hope of recovery.
A focus on high aspirational targets, OFSTED report on Haringey LEA high performance standards for local less than 12 months into authorities and increasing school its strategic partnership with Capita autonomy continues to generate opportunities for private sector involvement.
The recent publication of the Government White Paper, The Future of Higher Education, presents further challenges and opportunities.
Capitas breadth of services and our strong existing links with the majority of schools and LEAs places us in a unique position to support the drive for standards improvement and further extend our activities across the education sector.
15 Capita Education Project management of Academies Gloucestershire LEA New product development SIMS Electronic Registration Solution Capita has been selected by the DfES In February 2002, following criticisms to project manage the first stage of in the LEA OFSTED report, In December 2002 Capita launched Academies in Bradford, Leeds and Gloucestershire County Council its Electronic Registration solution.
This provides a wonderful appointed Capita to provide interim This latest module of Capitas market opportunity to showcase our management of the education leading SIMS school management commitment to supporting the department and strategic support.
software suite supports the development of buildings which enable Governments new measures to tackle Capita advised on the management learning success, by providing our absence and truancy in UK schools.
structure of the service and strategies education and property experts as a for special educational needs and The software collates statistics for holistic offer to Local Project Boards.
Our staff also submission to the DfES, parents and Academies are a new type of school.
reviewed the education services governors and is closely linked to our They bring a distinctive approach to ICT strategy and its property Lesson Monitor module, which analyses school leadership, drawing on the management service.
and reports on patterns of absence.
skills of sponsors and other supporters.
Additionally we were commissioned to The system enables curriculum leaders Located in areas of disadvantage, coordinate an organisational to make key management and planning Academies either replace one or more development programme for senior decisions, with minimal impact on the existing schools facing challenging education managers and members.
workload of teachers and support staff.
circumstances or are established where there is a need for additional Gloucestershire LEA began the year school places.
with a judgement from OFSTED that it was performing its education functions unsatisfactorily.
By the end of the year the Audit Commission had given it the highest rating 4 4 in the Comprehensive Performance Assessments of local authorities for its education functions.
The market Quality Mark for Teacher Agencies Our roots in the education sector lie in the supply and support of In September the Recruitment and Employment Confederation management information systems to the UKs schools and Local awarded the first Quality Mark for Teacher Agencies on behalf Education Authorities LEAs, where we remain the markets of the Department for Education and Skills.
From this strong base, we have introduced a Capita Education Resourcing was one of the four agencies wider range of our services further software, ICT solutions, selected, following a rigorous examination of recruitment strategic consultancy, property consultancy and managed support and interview methods, staff management, staff checking services, recruitment and other HR support and advisory services.
procedures and understanding of ongoing changes in the Strategic support teaching sector.
We are seeing an increasing demand from LEAs for strategic The introduction of the Quality Mark provides necessary interim management and consultancy services.
In 2002 we reassurance to parents and schools about the way in have successfully grown this area of our business and have which supply teachers are provided.
major contracts in Leeds, Haringey and Gloucestershire, and New absence monitoring service a significant presence in Barnet, Waltham Forest and Luton.
We also undertook a major project for the DfES involving a Several Capita companies have teamed up to extend our large number of LEAs.
Additionally, we have developed new, innovative e-enabled Tackling absence starts with prevention and Capita is offering school improvement products, which are already achieving specialist training, seminars, distance learning and helplines to strong interest.
school staff, to enhance levels of attendance.
An independent unit will handle the process of managing and monitoring Capitas School Self-Evaluation tool is a web-based interactive absence.
School staff will be asked to telephone the unit rather programme.
Using the OFSTED inspection framework it gives than the school when they are absent.
By speaking to a house schools a powerful tool for assessing their own performance specialist, decisions on length of absence, or whether to utilise and planning improvements.
supply staff can be made efficiently.
This model will initially be Data to Action D2A is a web-based data analysis service for offered to the education sector but is equally relevant to any schools, based on National Curriculum test results.
Resourcing absence management Capita is the single biggest provider of both teacher supply services and staff absence management services, including insurance services.
The continuing teacher shortage and need for schools to manage funds efficiently are driving the longerterm market for these services.
