18 Capita Insurance and Life & Pensions Competitive and economic pressures on insurance, financial services and investment companies have built up steadily in recent years.
Some of Europe's biggest players have been forced to announce sizeable losses, sweeping reforms and heavy job cuts.
As margins continue to be squeezed, outsourcing-led business solutions are playing an increasingly important part in shaping the sector.
The business process outsourcing BPO market potential for Insurance and Life & Pensions services in the UK is estimated to be around 9bn.
We selected Capita because we wanted our administration in the hands of a proven industry leader that we could rely on to be here in ten years time.
Michael Tallett-Williams Managing Director Lincoln Financial Group 19 Capita Insurance and Life & Pensions Zurich Financial Services ACE Global Markets New Service Capita Repair Network During 2002 we have continued to ACE Global Markets AGM is the Lloyd's Capita Repair Network CRN is a new develop our Complex and Major Loss underwriting operation of the ACE Group surveyor-led repair service launched by Adjusting Team and have handled an of companies, one of the largest providers Capita in the marketplace.
Until recently increasing range of appointments.
of insurance, reinsurance and financial the Capita service, in line with more services in the global market.
traditional market offerings, allowed the Our loss adjusting agreement with validation, scheduling and pricing of Zurich Financial Services has enabled In August 2002, AGM appointed Capita smaller building damage covered by Capita to work closely with the client Insurance Services as an outsourcing insurance policies to be undertaken and Zurichs own Major Loss Team on partner for a number of key services on by the contractor allocated to perform a number of projects, including a major its Lloyd's 1999 and prior book of the repairs.
The general market multi million pound claim involving a business.
experience of such processes is one serious fire at a Yorkshire pudding We are responsible for the processing of of excessive leakage.
premiums and claims, which our teams CRN uses its own qualified assessors The claim followed a similar incident at monitor closely to maximise reinsurance to validate insurance claims.
They visit a bakery in Trafford Park, Manchester, recoveries.
Capita analyses the data and the scene to validate the loss, and then for which Zurich also appointed Capita.
reports on management information, compile a priced schedule of work to Working in partnership with Zurichs while supporting AGM in its credit be undertaken, which is passed to an in-house team, we agreed the multi control and debt collection activities.
million pound loss within just 12 weeks The three year contract has demanding of the incident.
With the CRN approach, the customer performance requirements and contact, branding, interpretation of Capita continues to meet its key insurance cover, scoping of repair works performance indicators.
and pricing procedures are consistent and accurate.
Using Capitas bespoke IT system, the dedicated claim handler stays in regular contact with the policyholder and each step of the process is measured against demanding service levels.
The CRN has demonstrated considerable reduction in claims leakage, lower average repair costs, and increased repudiation rates.
Insurance Services Contract development Norwich Union Volatile global markets and the worst run on the UK stock Increasingly, insurance companies offer value added services market for many decades have impacted the investment to their core policies in order to differentiate their products.
returns major insurers have come to expect as part of their Norwich Union chose Capita Insurance Services to help them annual revenues.
Unable to count on these returns while markets are in downturn, Capitas legal advice lines are helping increase customer loyalty organisations have been forced to examine new ways to protect by providing legal expenses insurance and a legal and medical profits and cut costs.
Increasingly companies are outsourcing key helpline facility to Norwich Unions household insurance policy administration elements such as policy and claims management, clients.
enabling them to focus on their core sales propositions.
Customers can telephone Capita Assistance for advice 24 hours Capita has a unique outsourcing offering within the insurance a day, 365 days a year.
Capitas lawyers give confidential advice marketplace and is firmly positioned as market leader.
by telephone on a range of legal issues.
The market potential for outsourcing within the insurance Customers benefit from 24 hour access to helpline facilities, services sector is 4bn per annum.
providing peace of mind and reassurance in the event of a claim.
The benefit to Norwich Union is an additional no-risk Contract update Abbey National revenue stream, helping to differentiate their product from a Our 323m contract with Abbey National to develop, manage competitor that does not offer these add-ons a vital ingredient and administer the systems development and core-processing in todays marketplace.
activities of their general insurance business, moved into a Life & Pensions new phase during 2002.
Life & Pensions third party administration is a newly emerging We achieved improved service delivery during the transitional market for Capita with significant growth opportunities.
Demand period using legacy systems, achieving Service Level Agreements is high for outsourcing-led business solutions.
in excess of 90%, whilst reducing headcount.
In the summer of 2002 Capita was awarded a ten-year contract During 2002, we released two phases of the Consumer Direct worth 160m to administer Lincoln Financial Groups UK system, which has extended the panel of insurers, introduced portfolio of around 900,000 life and pensions policies for half the motor product and extended the distribution channels a million customers.
We also acquired the Life & Pensions available from the internet-based service to the Abbey National administration assets and infrastructure of Lincoln to provide telesales units.
a firm platform for Capita to grow the business in this area.
In line with the contract, further development is ongoing, 41% of Capitas General Insurance clients also have a Life & including conversion of the motor portfolio from the old Pensions business.
Through sharing client knowledge and Legacy system to the new Consumer Direct system.
relationships across the Group, Capita is strongly positioned in The release of Phase 3 is planned for mid 2003, when this market for further growth.
all 800 Abbey National branches will have access to The market potential is estimated to be 5bn per annum.
Consumer Direct a major transformation of Abbey Nationals general insurance operational and customer services infrastructure.
