38 Capita Executive Management Board Group Board Executive Directors Rodney Aldridge OBE Paul Pindar Gordon Hurst Paddy Doyle Executive Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Operations Director Divisional Structure Commercial Sevices Professional Sevices Integrated Services Business Services Corporate Sevices David Rigby Simon Pilling Bob Martin Peter Kelly Maggi Bell Insurance Services Consultancy and Advisory Local Government Services Integrated HR Services Sales & Support Services Life & Pension Services Central Government Services Resourcing Legal & Commercial IT Services Property Consultancy Database Services Pay & Pensions Marketing Software Services BBC TV Licensing Learning & Development Human Resources internal Print Services Criminal Records Bureau Registrar & Financial Services Corporate IT Congestion Charging Divisional Board Executive Directors David Rigby 42 Simon Pilling 40 Bob Martin 48 Peter Kelly 54 Maggi Bell 47 David joined Capita in 1994 Simon joined Capita in Bob joined Capita in 1996 Peter joined Capita in February Maggi joined Capita in January as a Director in the Property 1999 from Sema now from Cap Gemini.
Prior to this he was a 1999 from Manpower where Consultancy business.
In SchlumbergerSema where promoted to the Executive Divisional Director of Cap Gemini she was UK Operations Director.
January 1997 he became he held a number of senior Management Board in 2000, UK and Hoskyns.
He was She ran the Groups recruitment Managing Director of the positions in the public sector responsible for the Business Managing Director of our local businesses until she was Education Software business outsourcing and systems Services Division.
He took over government software business promoted to the Executive until 1998, when he moved divisions.
In 2000 he took over as Executive Director of the and subsequently head of our Management Board as Executive to head up the Groups responsibility for Capitas IT Commercial Services Division Software Services Division.
In Director of the Business Services Management Consultancy Services business.
In February when it was established in 2000 he was promoted to the Division in June 2001. activities.
At the end of 1999, 2002 he was promoted to the May 2001.
Since July 2002 Executive Management Board In February 2002 she took he was appointed Managing Executive Management Board he has headed up the with responsibility for the over as Executive Director of Director of the Property as Executive Director of the newly formed Integrated Professional Services Division.
the Corporate Services Division, Consultancy Division until being Professional Services Division.
In February 2002 he took over with overall responsibility for promoted to the Executive as Executive Director of the business development activity Management Board in July 2002 Business Services Division.
as Director of the Commercial Services Division.
The Executive Management Board consists of the Group Board Executive Directors and five Divisional Board Directors.
The business is managed internally in this manner to ensure clear focus and accountability, but we deliver services seamlessly across the Group to match our clients needs.
