12 Capita Local Government It is over a decade since Capita was awarded the first managed services contract in Local Government.
Since then the market has matured greatly.
Each local authority differs in terms of size, responsibility, local challenges and objectives.
Our unique strength is our ability to respond to their individual requirements at all levels.
We do this through open and honest partnership, building strong and durable relationships throughout Local Government.
Our approach clearly works in some way, shape or form we have provided products, services and strategic advice to over 75% of authorities nationwide.
We would not have been able to deliver our vision for e-government without Academy and Capita.
The partnership is vital to us achieving our IEG Implementing Electronic Government commitments.
Chris Lofts Deputy Chief Executive South Northamptonshire Council 13 Capita Local Government Dartford Brent Helena Housing In August 2002 Dartford Borough In December 2002 the London Borough Helena Housing was established as a Council, one of Capitas existing of Brent selected Capita as preferred local housing company to accept the housing and cash receipting customers, supplier for the administration of transfer of approximately 14,000 selected the Capita Direct suite of Council Tax, Business Rates and properties from St. Helens Metropolitan e-government software to help provision of IT support.
modernise service delivery and further As part of the agreement, Academy To raise funding the company appointed its achievement of IEG2 Implementing Information Systems has been Sector, Capitas Treasury Management Electronic Government targets.
appointed to replace the Boroughs specialist, to assist with the business By placing all Dartfords housing business rates system.
planning, finance structure and support services online, the Capita Direct CRM in preparation for the transfer.
The contract is for an initial five years, and housing software will provide a with the possibility of additional Capita worked in close cooperation with single point of entry into rents, repairs opportunities and extensions.
30 staff Helenas solicitors, valuers and business and allocations.
This will enable the will transfer to Capita when the contract planners.
We provided training to Board citizen to take care of matters such as starts in May 2003. members and advised on interest rate paying rent, viewing personal account management strategy.
details, tracking progress on a repair request or submitting a housing Our comprehensive approach assisted application.
Helena Housing in obtaining low borrowing costs and a flexible package Academy Information Systems, of loans, enabling the transfer to take Capitas Local Government software place on schedule, with savings against specialist, is currently engaged in the business plan.
the implementation of this range of complementary software modules for the Council.
Partnership The Audit Commissions report, A picture of performance assessment, setting out early lessons from comprehensive Customer expectation of service quality and flexibility is higher performance assessment stated: than ever.
Partnerships are designed not only to provide services but also To deliver responsive public services, many authorities are facing to tackle wider social issues.
For example a ground-breaking the major challenge of re-engineering their entire organisation.
public private partnership with Capita is delivering both service Authorities rarely have sufficient capacity, experience or expertise improvements and wider community benefits, such as to achieve this magnitude of service transformation on their own.
This PPP also demonstrates that the They are increasingly engaging with external partners.
Council Blackburn with Darwen BC is prepared to be As a company that has worked with most of the UKs local innovative and take bold steps in order to realise its ambitions.
authorities at various levels, we recognise their need to work Business Centres within budgetary constraints, meet demanding CPA and government targets for e-delivery and address community issues, The Government is increasing funding to encourage and support whilst addressing Best Value and striving to modernise.
Some joint service centres and, over the next three years, expects to have sought support for specific services.
Others have sought give credit approvals worth 175m to local authorities providing Public Private Partnerships PPPs to deliver change in a diverse range of services at a single location.
a co-ordinated fashion across multiple public services.
We have carefully laid the building blocks to meet this vision.
As the best partnerships continue to deliver measurable change, Wherever Capita has entered into long-term strategic increasing numbers of authorities are exploring ways to adopt partnerships with authorities, we have, from the outset, placed and replicate successful partnership models.
high importance on developing an infrastructure flexible enough to host an authoritys core services at the same time as Strategic partnerships bring high mutual benefits.
They can delivering other complementary public services.
secure economies of scale and make better use of scarce resources and expertise.
They can achieve significant service These now form part of our network of Business Centres transformation, assimilating multiple back office processes and centres of service excellence, which can deliver remote services providing unified, flexible customer services.
They can assist in for multiple authorities and public bodies.
Our network of managing investment more efficiently and can help to address a business centres can be found on page 26. communitys specific economic and regeneration challenges.
A strong core partnership enables further expansion of the relationship both within the authority and the local community.
Our partnerships with authorities such as Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council and Norfolk County Council are widely recognised as pioneering and are being promoted as model partnerships.
