39 Capita Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Group accounts for the year ended 31st December 2002.
Group activities The Capita Group Plc is a UK leading provider of integrated professional support services solutions to organisations across local government, central government, education and the private sector.
On behalf of our clients we aim to improve service quality, to reduce their costs of delivery and to enable them to transform the way they deliver services to their customers.
The services we provide are essential to the smooth running and success of our clients operations.
Our strength is our ability to draw on a wide base of professional expertise to generate, successfully implement and deliver tailored services.
Capitas service capabilities encompass customer services, financial services, human resource services, software services, systems and strategic support and property services.
Our principal activities are managed through four divisions comprising business services, commercial services, professional services and integrated services.
A review of the development of the Group and its business activities during the year is contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 28 to 35.
Profits and dividends The Group profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted to 78,069,000 2001: 53,100,000 restated.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.0p per share 2001: 1.5p per share to be paid on 7th May 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 11th April 2003.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 3.00p per share 2001: 2.25p per share.
Directors The Directors of the Company currently in office are listed on pages 36 and 37.
Mr P M Doyle, Mr G M Hurst and E Walters retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
None of the Directors of the Company had a material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings and no Director has a service contract exceeding one year.
Directors interests The interests all beneficial of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company were as follows: 31st December 2002 31st December 2001 Ordinary shares of 2p Ordinary shares of 2p R H Alcock 28,810 28,810 R M Aldridge OBE 18,794,000 18,794,000 P E B Cawdron 24,000 24,000 P M Doyle 25,000 25,000 G M Hurst 28,221 28,221 P R M Pindar 3,050,000 3,000,000 E Walters 5,000 5,000 The Directors have no interests in the share capital of any other Group undertaking.
The interests of the Directors under the share option schemes and the Long Term Incentive Plan of the Company are shown in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
There is no change to Directors interests during the period 1st January 2003 to 19th February 2003.
Substantial shareholders On 19th February 2003 the Company had notifications that, other than Directors listed above, the following were interested in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: Number of shares Percentage Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 39,856,350 5.96% Barclays Plc 25,691,232 3.84% Putnam Investment Management LLC 20,707,990 3.10% Legal & General 20,105,094 3.01% Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
40 40 Capita Capita Directors report The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Group Board have a reasonable expectation that the Group and its Group holding company The Capita Group Plc have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Disabled persons It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for employment of disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible to participate in all career development opportunities available to staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled to continue in their employment or to be retained for other positions in the Group.
Employee involvement The Group is committed to involving all employees in the performance and development of the Group.
Our approach to staff development offers continual challenges in the job, learning opportunities and personal development.
Capita supports staff through a comprehensive range of Key Business and Management Skills courses and an annual management development programme.
The Group encourages all our employees to participate fully in the business through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of the Group through recap, the Groups newsletter, frequent email notices, internal notice board statements, Capita Online, a regular communication from the perspective of the Directors, and a review of the Groups financial position half yearly.
The ongoing development of CAPITAconnect, a Group-wide corporate intranet service, to facilitate greater communication within the Group, continued during 2002.
The service enables staff to share information within and between business units and encourages staff to contribute news, views and feedback.
The Group maintains a strong communications network and employees are encouraged, through our open-door policy, to discuss with management matters of interest to the employee and subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
The share option schemes have been a key factor in attracting, retaining and motivating senior employees across the Group.
The Group grants share options to senior employees, on a discretionary basis, in order to reward their long-term commitment to the Group.
The granting of all share options is subject to the approval of the Remuneration Committee.
In addition the Group operates the Capita Sharesave Scheme, an employee save as you earn scheme and the Capita Share Ownership Plan, a share incentive plan.
Payment of suppliers The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the suppliers contract terms.
The Company had an average of 41 days purchases 2001: 40 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Charitable and political donations During the year charitable donations amounted to 181,000 2001: 117,000.
No political contributions were made.
Auditors In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its relationship with external auditors and the key safeguards are: The Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the external audit fee against other comparable companies both within and without its sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process.
The Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit fees accruing to the external auditor, and specific assignments are discussed in advance with the external auditor and flagged for the approval by the Audit Committee as appropriate.
The Audit Committee reviews, in aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature on an annual basis and considers implications for the objectivity and independence of the relationship with the external auditor.
Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criteria in the selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group is involved.
Such conflicts may arise across public or private sector customers and key supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in the award process for external audit assignments.
By order of the Board Gordon Hurst Company Secretary 19th February 2003
