16 Capita Private Sector Outsourcing catalyst for change Media BBC TV Licensing Capita has actively grown its activities Now, operating in an increasingly tough During 2002 Capitas contract to deliver across a wide variety of private sectors economic and competitive business the TV Licensing service has progressed environment, our customers are significantly.
Already the revamped and now 47% of our revenues are derived increasingly seeking more extensive service is delivering increased revenue business transformation partnerships.
and better operational efficiency than from this customer base.
Our activities in Many customers are turning to under the previous provider and has outsourcing solutions to act as a reduced evasion.
the Insurance sector, described overleaf catalyst for change and a key platform In July 2002 over 1,400 staff transferred for future business success.
on pages 18 and 19 are increasing to Capita.
The transfer was undertaken Investment banking global financial with no disruption of service, moving a rapidly, but we also provide single and organisation complex set of financial and technical systems and providing six new regional Our client, a leading global financial multiple services to a large number of offices.
Since July the staff have been organisation, is a company that places relocated to new buildings, fully kitted out a high value on its workforce of over the UKs leading companies.
with the latest in desktop technology, and 7,000.
In September 1999 it undertook supported by new call centre equipment.
a strategic review of its HR function, We have built up a comprehensive which broke down their HR services and Through the installation of improved assessed their outsourcing potential.
facilities, we have begun to change the portfolio of advisory and delivery services culture of the organisation and have The decision was taken to phase made clear improvements in outsourcing using an external provider that match the common facets of any performance.
Over the first six months and Capita was selected as their partner.
of the contract, Enquiry Officer organisations administration and Over the past two years Capita has efficiency has improved, with more been engaged in a joint implementation effective visits resulting in an increase customer service infrastructure.
with our client involving detailed in licences issued.
Even with a 10% process mapping, development and increase in calls to the contact centre, We provide discrete, single services or testing of new IT solutions: creation of agents have met or exceeded all their processes and governance systems: targets for grade of service.
Additionally, integrated service solutions enabling recruitment, training and finally response rates in the back office have controlled migration and transformation Go Live.
During 2002 several new improved to less than a five day phases of the implementation have turnaround with incoming post volumes of services.
We focus on reducing an seen the service evolve.
Although cost was not the principal One of the main benefits of the organisations cost base and increase driver there have been reductions both partnership is that we have been able in terms of headcount and overheads to to work with the BBC and AMV to fully service efficiency and quality, to assist the organisation.
support, through improved service in maintaining or enhancing its efficiency, more sales campaigns.
Since the partnership began the This leads ultimately to a greater number standard of service has shown market position.
of licences issued and renewed.
All of measurable improvement and the which means that we are well on track HR Service Centre team has enjoyed to deliver above business plan and further lower levels of turnover.
17 Capita Private Sector Share plan awards Capita Registrars Automotive Society of Motor Retail ASDA Wal-Mart Throughout 2002 Capita Manufacturers and Traders SMMT Property Consultancy has In December 2002 several clients of Capita has enjoyed a long and fruitful Capita Share Plan Services part of In July 2002 Capita IT Services was relationship with ASDA Wal-Mart continued to work closely Capita Registrars won ProShare awarded a contract extension for the following the appointment in 1996 of with T-Mobile in the rollout awards at the share plan industrys ongoing provision of Information MPM Capita the Groups project of our UK network.
Communication Technology ICT management specialist as partner been impressed with the level services to the SMMT.
project manager to the retail giant.
These awards reflect Capitas position of of commitment and high market leadership in share plan Celebrating its centenary year, the Since then, Capita has successfully standard of service administration, which has seen the SMMT exists to promote, support and completed in excess of 300m of new business grow by over 250% in 2002. represent the British motor industry store development and refurbishments demonstrated during the Among the clients receiving recognition both in Britain and overseas, on behalf of the company.
past year, and we look were food retailers Somerfield plc, who providing up-to-date information Since the launch of the partnership, forward to continuing this won the Most Improved Plan award.
ASDA Wal-Marts store expansion and relationship in 2003 Capita Share Plan Services specialises The extension means Capita IT Services renewal programme in the North of in offering robust third-party will continue to maintain and develop England and Scotland has moved Jon Chantal administration and the development the SMMTs central information at pace.
Head of Network Build, of proactive communication strategies.
database, which is used to monitor all To date, Capita has been involved in the T-Mobile These core service components assist new vehicle registrations and is development of 18 new stores, and in companies in achieving their corporate recognised as the primary source of excess of 20 store refurbishment and aims and objectives, including automotive data in the UK.
maximising employee share ownership Investment management penetration.
Hotels Threadneedles Capita Financial Leisure The Football Association In August 2002 Capita Property As a chief customer of the financial Consultancy completed one of The Football Association FA has been services sector, the investment Londons most innovative recent undergoing major change over the last management industry has not escaped hotel developments.
Driven by a need to retain the economic downturn.
highly competent staff, it appointed Threadneedles, on the corner of In the current climate, demand for Capita Learning & Development as Threadneedle Street and Finch Lane highly-developed, comprehensive its partner in training provision.
in the heart of the Citys banking administration systems and skills is quarter opened its doors to widespread With a remit to support the high.
Managers of unit trusts and OEICs acclaim as the latest boutique-style implementation, communication and continue to seek ways of trimming costs hotel for Eton Town House Group.
training relating to several new HR and protecting assets, and the initiatives, Capita has worked closely addressable market for providers of The Grade II listed former Midland with the FAs HR Manager and team to support services for all classes of fund Bank HQ has undergone a 14m design and deliver a series of appraisal is growing.
transformation into a five star, 70-bed programmes for all employees.
hotel, with Capita providing a full In April 2002 Capita acquired City multidisciplinary design team on the During 2002 Capita held focus groups, Financial Group, comprising the three-year project, encompassing devised programmes for different levels largest independent collective fund architecture, cost management, of staff and provided face-to-face administrator in the UK.
The new mechanical and electrical engineering, sessions to support HR resourcing organisation Capita Financial acoustic and structural engineering, and information.
provides third party administration and party wall surveying.
services to a range of unit trust The success of the project has led to management groups.
further partnership with the FA as its main training and development provider The acquisition complements Capitas for 2003. existing administration, trust and share plan activities and enables the Group to move forward with a more efficient integrated structure for its regulated activities.
