13 Directors Report The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the Company, covering the year ended 31 March 2002.
STATUS OF COMPANY The Company is registered as a public company.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to qualify for approval as an investment trust for tax purposes, confirmation of which has been received from the Inland Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2001.
Approval for the year ended 31 March 2001 is subject to no subsequent enquiry being made under the Corporation Tax Self Assessment legislation.
The Directors are of the opinion that, since that date, the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, as amended, do not apply to the Company.
The Companys subsidiaries are engaged in investment activities.
The activities of the Group are principally undertaken in the UK.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS RITCP made a profit after taxation of 2.7 million during the year ended 31 March 2002.
The Board recommends the payment of a dividend of 3.1p per share payable on 5 July 2002 to shareholders on the register at 7 June 2002.
This dividend will absorb 4.9 million of distributable reserves.
The movements on capital reserve and consolidated revenue reserve are shown in notes 21 and 22 on pages 43 and 44.
NET ASSET VALUE The net asset value of one ordinary share at 31 March 2002, after deducting the proposed dividend of 3.1p per share, was 483.4p.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS The Company specialises in investments which are held with a view to achieving long-term capital growth.
The fixed asset investments were valued at 31 March 2002 at 769.5 million.
An analysis of these investments is contained in note 10 on page 35.
The Company holds both listed and unlisted investments, mainly in the UK, the USA and Continental Europe.
At the present time, the portfolio meets the requirements to enable the shares of the Company to be included as an investment within an Individual Savings Account ISA.
SHARE CAPITAL AND PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES Details of the authorised and issued share capital appear in note 19 on page 42 of the accounts.
No ordinary shares have been issued during the year.
During the year to 31 March 2002 the Company has not purchased any ordinary shares for cancellation.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 5 July 2001, the Company was given power to purchase up to 23,511,540 ordinary shares, which represented 14.99% of the issued share capital as at that date.
This power expires on 30 September 2002.
Share purchases are only made when they enhance the net asset value per share.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 14 Directors Report SHARE CAPITAL AND PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES CONTINUED A resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to seek power to purchase up to a maximum of 23,511,540 shares, at a price which is not less than 1 per share and not more than 5% above the average middle-market quotations for the preceding five business days.
This represents 14.99% of the present issued share capital.
If the issued share capital is less at the time of the Annual General Meeting by reason of purchases, the maximum will be 14.99% of that issued capital.
The authority now sought would last until 30 September 2003.
The Directors do not intend to purchase shares at more than their attributable net asset value.
SPECIAL BUSINESS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Although the Companys Articles of Association provide that all unissued shares shall be at the disposal of the Directors, Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 requires that the authority of the Directors to allot relevant securities shall be subject to the approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Accordingly, shareholders are being asked at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew, for a period of one year, the Directors authorisation to allot the Companys unissued shares up to a nominal amount of 52,282,722, which is less than a third of the issued equity share capital of the Company at the date of this report.
The Directors have no present intention of allotting shares pursuant to this authority.
The amount specified for the current year follows the ABI guidelines.
The Directors also seek the renewal of the usual authority to enable them, during the period expiring on the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2003, to allot not more than 5% which would correspond to 7,842,408 shares of the issued shares as at 31 March 2002 for cash other than by way of rights.
It is the intention of the Directors, under such authority, not to allot shares at less than their attributable net asset value.
PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS The Directors are aware of the interests as at 20 May 2002 of the following companies, or the groups of which they are a member, in 3% or more of the ordinary issued share capital of the Company.
Number % of Share Shareholder of shares capital Prudential plc 9,165,384 5.84 HBOS plc and its subsidiaries 7,738,758 4.93 Other than the interests of Lord Rothschild, representing 16.17% of the ordinary share capital of the Company at 20 May 2002 as set out on page 20, the Directors are not aware of any other disclosable interest representing 3% or more of the shares of the Company.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of The Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice the Combined Code.
A detailed report was prepared at 30 June 2000 listing the internal control procedures undertaken within the Group.
This report has since been reviewed and subsequently considered by the executive Directors and the members of the Audit Committee.
The methods by which the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code are detailed below and also under the heading Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 17 to 19.
The Directors The Board of Directors currently consists of two executive and seven non-executive Directors whose biographical details are given on page 12.
The Board meets regularly during the year and is provided with detailed and appropriate information concerning the Companys affairs and performance to enable the Directors to discharge their responsibilities in an informed manner.
The non-executive Directors are considered to be of sufficient calibre, experience and number to exercise significant independent judgement on the strategy and financial planning of the Group.
The Board is responsible for the overall investment strategy of the Company although it delegates the majority of the investment management responsibilities to the two executive Directors and to third party managers.
It is also responsible for approving both the annual and interim report and accounts.
The Board has delegated to the two executive Directors and other senior management the day to day responsibilities of budgetary control and administration.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Operating Officer are undertaken by Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge respectively who meet on a regular basis and maintain regular contact with the non-executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited.
In addition, Directors are able to take independent legal advice on the furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense, up to a maximum of 25,000 per annum.
Although there is no formal Nomination Committee, it is the practice that any new nomination to the Board is discussed and agreed by all the Directors, thus ensuring that no one Director or group of Directors is able to exercise any undue influence.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association a third of all Directors are required to seek re-election by rotation at least every three years.
On joining the Board, new Directors are given background documents and information describing the history of the Company and its objectives.
Relations with Shareholders The Board and the directors of the management company maintain a dialogue with both institutional shareholders and analysts and also respond promptly to other shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting and, as far as is practicable, the Chairman of the Remuneration and Conflicts Committee and the Audit Committee is always available at the same venue to answer any questions from shareholders.
The net asset value of the Company is disclosed on a monthly basis to the London Stock Exchange to enable shareholders and analysts to follow the progress of the Company.
The Company also maintains a website at www.
co. uk where the information is regularly updated.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 16 Directors Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Accountability and Audit STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Control The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework applicable throughout the Group.
The Board considers that the necessary procedures have been implemented to satisfy the requirements of the Financial Services Authority with respect to the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999.
The Board considered the need to establish a separate internal audit function.
However, it was decided that the size and nature of the Groups activities do not currently merit the additional expense and operational complexity that an internal audit function would entail.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key systems of internal control in operation during the financial period through the monitoring processes set out below.
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Group has established an organisational structure which allocates defined levels of authority and reporting responsibility in respect of the operational, compliance, financial and taxation affairs of the Group to a small number of senior executives.
An executive committee, which consists of the two executive Directors and senior executives, meets regularly to discuss matters of importance to the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board in conjunction with the relevant executives.
The mitigation and monitoring of risks identified is undertaken by the Board or the executive committee as appropriate.
Detailed portfolio valuations are undertaken every week and these form the basis for risk control decisions regarding equity exposure, liquidity, market price risk and exchange rate risk.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report 17 FINANCIAL REPORTING AND CONTROL PROCEDURES There is a budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the executive management.
Monthly actual results are reviewed and reported against budget and reviewed regularly by the executive management.
The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
Duties are segregated to the extent commensurate with the size of the Groups organisation and business environment.
Audit Committee On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee, which comprises three non-executive Directors, reviews the effectiveness of these systems.
The Committee meets regularly to receive reports arising from the external audit process and to review issues arising therefrom with management.
The Committee also monitors the adequacy of the Groups accounting policies and financial reporting and discusses the results of the external audit of the Groups accounts with the auditors.
The Audit Committee also considers the auditors independence, objectivity and the cost effectiveness of the audit process.
Statement on Going Concern The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
DIRECTORS The present Directors, all of whom are non-executive other than Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge, who are executive, were directors throughout the year.
The Directors are listed on page 12.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Duncan Budge, Andrew Knight and Michael Sofaer will retire by rotation from the Board at the Annual General Meeting and will be proposed for re-election at that meeting.
REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The remuneration packages of individual executive Directors are determined by the Remuneration Committee which comprises Charles Bailey as Chairman and Baron Lambert, both of whom are non-executive directors.
Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge liaise closely with the Committee, although they do not take part in any discussions relating to decisions on their own terms and conditions of employment.
Determination of the remuneration of the non-executive Directors, within the limits imposed by the Articles of Association, is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for the operation of the long-term incentive scheme for executive Directors.
Remuneration Policy The Company complied in the year under review with the provisions relating to Remuneration Committees incorporated in the Combined Code.
The Remuneration Committee aims to set executive remuneration at an appropriate level to attract, retain and motivate Directors of requisite calibre.
Any arrangements made to provide longer term incentives will aim to encourage and reward performance and to benefit shareholders.
In setting policy and making decisions, the Remuneration Committee gives full consideration to the provisions on the design of performance related remuneration set out in Schedule A of the Combined Code.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 18 Directors Report REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Directors Remuneration Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2002 is shown below, with comparative figures for the previous year.
Comparative figures for the individual Directors emoluments are shown in brackets if they differ from the emoluments for the year ended 31 March 2002.
Salaries, bonuses and Pension Other Total fees contributions benefits emoluments Director The Lord Rothschild 340,750 61,800 34,099 436,649 330,850 60,000 33,212 424,062 Charles Bailey 22,500 22,500 Timothy Barakett 15,000 15,000 Mikael Breuer-Weil 20,000 20,000 Duncan Budge 222,535 68,515 28,808 319,858 215,350 66,300 28,931 310,581 Andrew Knight 25,250 25,250 Baron Lambert 15,000 15,000 Jean Pigozzi Michael Sofaer 31 March 2002 661,035 130,315 62,907 854,257 31 March 2001 643,950 126,300 62,143 832,393 In the year under review, no gains were made by Directors on the exercise of options over the Companys shares the Directors do not hold share options of the Company, no compensation was paid on loss of office and no sums were paid to third parties for Directors services.
No payments were made to Directors under the terms of the long-term incentive plan.
Basic Salary, Benefits and Bonus Basic salaries for the executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee and the last review was at 31 March 2002.
For the current year, to 31 March 2003, Lord Rothschilds salary has increased from 309,000 per annum to 318,270 per annum and Duncan Budges salary has increased from 200,850 per annum to 207,700 per annum.
Although there is no formal bonus scheme, the executive Directors may participate, from time to time, in bonus payments at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
A bonus of 21,015 was payable to Duncan Budge and a bonus of 31,750 was payable to Lord Rothschild.
Long-term Incentive Plan Long-term incentive arrangements were approved by shareholders on 10 July 1996, as they constituted related party transactions under Stock Exchange rules.
Under their respective participation in the Share Appreciation Rights plan as at 31 March 1999, Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge were both entitled, at a time of their choice between the third and tenth anniversary of the grant 30 March 1999 to a bonus.
This would be calculated by reference to a notional number of the Companys shares in each case 587,371 at 340.5p.
The amount of the bonus will represent the increase, since the date of grant, in the Companys share price multiplied by the notional number of shares.
This is, however, RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report 19 conditional on any increase in the share price exceeding the increase in the Retail Price Index plus 3% per annum for any three year period between the date of grant and the tenth anniversary thereof.
The Remuneration Committee decided that a further participation in the Share Appreciation Rights plan should be granted to both Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge on 22 March 2000.
The notional number of shares involved was 228,833 at 437p in each case.
As at 31 March 2002 the amount accrued under both participations was 986,784 payable in equal parts to Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge.
This compared with an accrued amount of 1,127,752 as at 31 March 2001 and followed a decrease in the middle-market price of RITCP shares during the period from 436.5p to 424.5p.
Should either participant leave their employment involuntarily at any time, the bonus accrued to the relevant date will be payable, subject to there being no grounds for non-payment arising out of negligence or other misconduct.
Pension Contributions The Remuneration Committees policy is to facilitate a range of pension arrangements for executive Directors which take account of their age, personal circumstances and arrangements in force on joining the Company, but within an agreed cost framework.
Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge are members of the RITCP Pension and Life Assurance Scheme, the RITCP Scheme.
Within the RITCP Scheme, money purchase arrangements have been set up for Lord Rothschild, to which the Company has contributed throughout the year under review at the rate of 20%.
Contributions are based on basic salary only.
Duncan Budge is a defined benefit member of the RITCP Scheme for which the annual contribution rate in the year under review was 34% of basic salary.
Under his defined benefit pension scheme, he would have been entitled to receive an annual pension of 73,901 on retirement based on service to the end of the year and assuming he left service on that date 31 March 2001: 67,155.
The transfer value of the increase in accrued pension during the year was 63,172.
No pension provision is made for the non-executive Directors.
Other Benefits Executive Directors are provided with the use of cars, health care insurance and with other benefits in line with normal company practice.
Non-executive Directors The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined by the Board as a whole, in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association.
Non-executive Directors do not take part in discussions on their own remuneration.
The basic annual fee is 15,000, which the Remuneration Committee believes to be in line with current market practice.
However, this figure is increased in certain cases when the involvement of the non-executive Director in the Companys affairs warrants such increase.
Jean Pigozzi has waived his right to receive 15,000 in respect of the years ended 31 March 2001 and 31 March 2002.
Michael Sofaer has waived his right to receive 15,000 for the years ended 31 March 2001 and 31 March 2002.
Service Agreements It is the Remuneration Committees policy not to grant service agreements with notice periods in excess of one year.
The terms and conditions of the Directors service agreements are reviewed as required.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 20 Directors Report DIRECTORS INTERESTS The interests of the Directors at 31 March 2002 or date of appointment, if later, in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below with comparatives as at 1 April 2001 where different shown in brackets.
Ordinary shares of 1 each % of Share Director Beneficial Non-beneficial capital The Lord Rothschild 18,929,085 6,439,934 16.17 19,077,585 6,638,411 16.40 Charles Bailey 5,500 3,000 Timothy Barakett 30,000 0.02 Mikael Breuer-Weil Duncan Budge 50,139 0.03 Andrew Knight Baron Lambert 2,000 35,000 0.02 Jean Pigozzi 41,010 0.03 Michael Sofaer Included in the total of 18,929,085 shares of the Company owned beneficially by Lord Rothschild are 108,184 shares 31 March 2001: 53,184 held by the RITCP Pension and Life Assurance Scheme, in which Lord Rothschild has a beneficial interest.
Between the end of the year and the date of this Report, there were no changes in the Directors interests.
Requests from Directors and employees of the Group for permission to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company are referred to the Remuneration and Conflicts Committee, except in the case of small volume transactions requested by those other than Directors and senior executives, which are considered by the Companys Compliance Officer.
Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge are directors of J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited JRCM, a subsidiary of the Company, which provides the services described in Management and Administration below.
Except as stated above and in the following as regards Michael Sofaer and Timothy Barakett, no Director has, or has had during the period under review, any beneficial interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries as defined by the Companies Act 1985 or in the terms laid down in the Financial Services Authority Listing Agreement.
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION The investment management and administration functions are undertaken by JRCM.
In September 1999, a significant portion of the portfolio was allocated to Sofaer Capital Inc. an international money management firm whose Principal is Michael Sofaer.
Sofaer Capital Inc. is paid an investment management fee equal to 0.5% of funds under management.
RITCP invested US$30 million in Atticus International Limited on 1 December 2000.
Atticus International is an offshore fund specialising in merger arbitrage.
The investment management for the fund is provided by Atticus Management, Ltd. Timothy Barakett, a director of RITCP, is a general partner of Atticus Management.
Nathaniel Rothschild, alternate director to Timothy Barakett, is also a general partner of Atticus Management.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors Report 21 Prior to making this investment, RITCP had entered into an investment advisory agreement, initially with an annual fee of US$50,000, with Atticus Capital, L. L. C. an entity associated with Atticus Management, Ltd. With effect from June 2000 the annual fee was replaced by a performance fee of 10% of the appreciation in value in any one year.
Payment of this fee was conditional on the growth in value of the assets under management exceeding 6% per annum and was subject to a loss carry forward arrangement.
The fee payable under the terms of this agreement for the period to 30 November 2000, when the agreement ceased, was 508,291.
During this period, Atticus achieved an appreciation in value for RITCP of 31.6%.
A similar fee structure applies to the current investment in Atticus International Limited.
In the year ended 31 March 2002, the amount of 196,990 was paid under the fee structure applicable to the current investment.
Details of other external fund managers are given in note 4 on page 33.
The majority of the remainder of RITCPs investment portfolio is managed by the directors of JRCM.
During the year the Company maintained liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys assets and liabilities include the following financial instruments: investments including equity and non-equity shares and fixed income securities which are held in accordance with the Companys investment objectives: cash, liquid resources and short-term debtors and creditors that arise directly from the Companys investment activities: and derivative transactions which the Company enters into to manage market risks and currency risks.
The main risks arising from the Companys financial instruments are market price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
The identification, mitigation and monitoring of these risks is undertaken by the executive Directors under the authority of the Board.
Market Price Risk Market price risk arises from uncertainty about the future value of the Companys investments.
It represents the potential loss the Company might suffer through holding market positions as the result of price movements and movements in exchange rates.
From time to time, the Company may seek to reduce its exposure to stock markets by taking positions in index futures relating to one or more stock markets.
These instruments are used for the purpose of hedging the existing exposure within the Companys investment portfolio to those particular markets.
Short-term exposure to movements in exchange rates caused by the buying and selling of investments for future settlement is mitigated through entering into forward contracts.
Foreign Currency Risk The Companys total return and net assets could be significantly affected by currency movements as a substantial proportion of the Companys assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
The Company enters into forward currency contracts as a means of limiting its exposure to particular foreign currencies.
These contracts are used for the purpose of hedging the existing currency exposure of elements of the Companys portfolio as a means of reducing risk when this is deemed appropriate.
The Companys foreign currency exposures are analysed in note 27 on pages 46 and 47.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 22 Directors Report DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Interest Rate Risk The Company finances its operations mainly through its share capital and retained profits, including realised gains on investments.
In addition, financing has been obtained through bank borrowings.
The executive Directors continually monitor the Companys exposure to interest rate fluctuations and take appropriate action.
PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best terms for all business.
The Company agrees the terms on which business will take place with its suppliers, and it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS During the year ended 31 March 2002, the Company made no charitable donations or political contributions.
AUDITORS  have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution re-appointing them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Secretary 20 May 2002 RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
