12 Board of Directors The present Directors, all of whom, with the exception of Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge, are non-executive are: THE LORD ROTHSCHILD, GBE ANDREW KNIGHT Aged 66, is Chairman of RIT Capital Partners plc.
Aged 62, he was appointed a non-executive director He was appointed a non-executive director in 1988 in 1996.
He is a director of News Corporation Limited.
and became an executive director in 1996.
He was previously a director of Home Counties Newspapers Holdings plc until its acquisition by Eastern Counties Newspapers.
He is a former Editor CHARLES BAILEY of The Economist and served as Chief Executive of the Aged 67, he was appointed a non-executive director Telegraph group and Chairman of News International.
He is also a director of General Oriental Investments Limited, Antofagasta Holdings plc, Atrium Underwriting plc and St Jamess Place Capital plc.
BARON LAMBERT He is the senior independent director and Chairman Aged 72, he was appointed a non-executive director of the Audit, Remuneration and Conflicts, and in 1988.
He is President of the Board of Global Asset Valuation Committees.
Management Schweiz AG and was President of Banque Bruxelles Lambert Suisse SA and a Member of the Board of Directors of Banque Bruxelles Lambert TIMOTHY BARAKETT SA Belgium until April 1997.
Aged 36, he is the President of Atticus Capital, Inc and Atticus Management, Ltd, two private investment management companies which he founded in 1995.
JEAN PIGOZZI Previously he was a Managing Director at Junction Aged 50, he was appointed a non-executive director Advisers, Inc, a private investment company.
Nathaniel Rothschild acts as his alternate.
MICHAEL SOFAER MIKAEL BREUER-WEIL Aged 44, he was appointed a non-executive director in Aged 38, he was appointed a non-executive director in 1999.
He is Managing Director and Principal of Sofaer 1998.
Since 1994 he has been the principal investment Capital Inc since 1986.
He was previously a securities adviser to philanthropic foundations connected with Lord analyst with Schroders, during which time he established Rothschilds family interests.
Prior to this he spent eight a research department for Schroders Asia in Hong Kong.
years at Mercury Asset Management Group plc as an investment manager, including a period of secondment to Odyssey Partners L. P. in New York.
DUNCAN BUDGE Aged 46, he was appointed an executive director and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in August 1995.
He has been a director of J. Rothschild Capital Member of the Audit Committee Management Limited since 1988 and has represented Member of the Remuneration and Conflicts Committee the Company on the Boards of a number of Member of the Valuation Committee Independent director RITCPs investments.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
