ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 14 Board of Directors R, N A, R, N A, R, N Sir Patrick Gillam John Baker Bob Ayling Chairman until 17 March 2003 Deputy Chairman Age 56.
Director of the Group from April 1993. retiring 31 March 2003 Age 65.
Director of the Group from January 1995.
Director of Dyson Limited manufacturing.
Director and Chairman of the Group from Deputy Chairman from May 2002.
Chairman of the Director of Holidaybreak plc leisure from 1997.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Former Chief Executive of Chairman of Standard Chartered plc international Advisory Director, OFWAT water regulator.
Former Chairman of The banking.
Former Managing Director of The British Deputy Chairman of Celltech Group plc New Millennium Experience Company.
Former Chairman of Asda biopharmaceuticals.
Former Chairman of National Under Secretary at the Department of Trade.
Power plc energy and Medeva plc pharmaceuticals.
A R R, N Stephen Hill Susan Hooper Carole St. Mark Age 42.
Director of the Group from August 2000.
Director of the Group from August 2001.
Director of the Group from Former Chief Executive officer of the Financial Vice President of Avis Europe plc car rental in September 1998.
President and Chief Executive Times Group Limited newspapers & publishing.
Europe, Africa, Middle East and Asia.
Formerly officer of Growth Management LLC business Former Chief Executive officer of the Financial Regional Director, Europe, Africa and Middle East, development & consulting.
Director of Gerber Times Newspaper and Westminster Press of Pepsico International and Non Executive Director scientific Inc computer based systems.
Former Limited and Head of Strategy for Pearson plc of Courtaulds Textiles plc.
President and Chief Executive officer of Pitney media company.
Bowes Business Services business equipment.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 15 A, R E E Nicholas Barber Bob Gunn Julian Hance Acting Group CEO until 2 April 2003 Age 62.
Director of the Group from January 1991.
Appointed to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Director of the Group from June 1999.
Board as Group Finance Director from October of Fidelity Japanese Values plc investment trust.
Appointed Group Chief Operating officer in 1998.
Former Group Chief Accountant and Finance Director of Bristol & West plc financial services.
September 2001 and Acting Group Chief Executive Director of Life and Investment Operations.
Formerly Governor of the London Business School.
Former Chief Executive Former Chief Executive of Exel plc formerly Ocean officer of the Groups Operation in Canada from Group plc shipping & transport.
May 1990, and Group Director of Americas since 1998.
Former Chairman of the Insurance Bureau of Canada and the Insurers Advisory Organisation of Canada.
E Executive Director A Member of Audit & Compliance Committee N Member of Nomination Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee R, N John Napier Andy Haste Chairman from 17 March 2003 Group CEO from 2 April 2003 Age 60.
Director of the Group from January 2003 Age 41.
Director and Group Chief Executive from and Chairman of the Group from March 2003.
Former Chief Executive of AXA Sun Life Current Chairman of Kelda Group plc water utility plc and Director of AXA UK plc life and pensions.
and Non Executive Director of Waste Recycling Former President and Chief Executive Officer of Group plc utility.
Former Executive Chairman Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE Capital UK, and Chief Executive of Kelda Group plc.
Western Europe and Eastern Europe financial Former Chairman of Booker plc wholesale services.
Former President of National Westminster distributor.
Former Managing Director of Banks US Consumer Credit Business retail banking.
Former Managing Director of AGB plc international market research and information services.
