ADVERTISERS Kerry Wilkinson, Head of Client Development asks Martin George, Director of Marketing & Commercial Development, British Airways: Why do you choose to work with Capital Radio?
How long has British Airways worked with The campaign proved hugely successful in Capital Radio?
sustaining bookings through the current World Offers campaign.
Capital also came up with an Weve been working together for 11 years.
More ingenious way of allowing us to mention price recently weve been sponsoring shows.
The first and value for money on air, something that we BA Capital promotion was in February 2001 had been striving to do for a very long time.
when Chris Tarrant broadcast the breakfast show This demonstrated Capitals effectiveness in live from Dubai.
Since then, weve run three delivering more complex marketing messages, more promotions from Spain, the USA and Italy.
which cant always be communicated through traditional advertising.
Why do you choose to spend your marketing money with Capital Radio?
What three words would describe working with Capital Radio?
London and the South East are the main focus for BA, as Heathrow and Gatwick are where Fun, stimulating, rewarding!
most of our commercial leisure business is generated.
Capital covers this area and provides What kind of person works at Capital Radio?
the best and most targeted way of reaching the majority of our customer base.
Most of the people that Ive met at Capital are extremely passionate and committed to The Capital FM Network will also offer us the developing long-term relationships with their ability to run localised campaigns as we focus clients.
They are always keen to push the our strategy on short-haul European routes from boundaries and experiment with broadcasting.
This year alone, we have run promotions from the tops of mountains in Colorado and remote Describe the best campaign Capital Radio has destinations in Italy.
This is testament to developed and the benefits to your business.
Capitals commitment to making programmes that are entertaining for their listeners, Its definitely this years campaign from Aspen, but also meet the objectives of their clients.
Colorado, where Foxy broadcast live.
Not only did we take over the Drivetime show for a week, but BA also featured in every other 95.8 Capital FM show giving away prizes for that week.
com CAPITAL PROVIDES THE BEST AND MOST TARGETED WAY OF REACHING THE MAJORITY OF OUR CUSTOMER BASE Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 23 ADVERTISERS Understanding what our advertisers need and making sure we deliver it 2002 was characterised by falling advertising Helping our advertisers connect with our budgets and an increasingly fragmented media 7.9 million listeners marketplace.
One-off events such as the Queens Advertisers want to get direct contact with the Jubilee and the World Cup distorted normal most commercially attractive listener groups.
In addition, advertisers faced Our sales team focuses on meeting advertisers pressure on profitability and postponed new needs by providing effective, targeted product launches, preferring to concentrate on advertising opportunities on both a national and promoting existing core brands.
Customers continue to praise us for consistently lending our ideas and expertise to Radio is a cost-effective solution for enable them to promote products effectively advertisers in a difficult market while maintaining listener appeal and the The key benefits of radio advertising cannot integrity of our radio brands.
Radio offers access to large commercially attractive audiences that we ENTERTAINMENT CAPITAL WITH BACARDI believe will increase over time.
The cost of RUM HAS REALLY MADE AN IMPACT ON OUR reaching a thousand radio listeners is very BUSINESS BY DELIVERING OUR BRAND ON A competitive compared to TV.
In addition, radio LOCAL BASIS, IN A REAL AND TANGIBLE WAY.
advertisements can be made quickly and at CAPITAL HAS CONTINUOUSLY REFRESHED ITS relatively low production cost allowing ENTERTAINMENT OFFERING ENSURING THE advertisers to exploit the medium for their BEST POSSIBLE OUTPUT FOR THEIR LISTENERS short-term tactical objectives.
The industry has AND MY POTENTIAL CUSTOMERS.
John Burke, also developed highly successful marketing for Marketing Controller, Bacardi Rum radio as a medium and its value is increasingly being recognised by advertisers.
Our bespoke research is highly valued across the industry and has been an important factor in Over the last ten years, radios share of the persuading new advertisers to use our stations.
display advertising market has grown from 2.8% A study proving that radio could increase the to 6.5% and the UK commercial radio industry number of people visiting their stores turned expects to grow its share of display advertising Sainsburys into a top five advertiser for the to 8% by 2010.
This kind of analytical and creative thinking will ensure that Capitals stations are SHARE HAS GROWN DRAMATICALLY OVER THE an integral part of advertisers strategy in LAST TEN YEARS, THANKS IN PART TO THE RAB the future.
BUT ALSO TO THE NEW PROFESSIONALISM OF THE MEDIUM.
IM VERY EXCITED ABOUT THE THEIR INVESTMENT IN A STRATEGIC FUTURE OF RADIO AND SEE NO REASON WHY MARKETING DEPARTMENT DEMONSTRATES RADIOS SHARE OF DISPLAY ADVERTISING A COMMITMENT TO IMAGINATIVE SOLUTIONS.
SHOULD NOT HIT 8% OR EVEN MORE BY 2010.
Justin Sampson, Managing Director, Radio Mark Helm, Head of Radio, Mediawest Advertising Bureau 24 24 | Capital Radio plc | www | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Creating innovative ways for advertisers to Promotion team works closely with our reach their customers Production team to create programmes that can During the last year, Capitals Commercial team be transmitted across different radio networks has been working hard to combat the downturn in order to increase the number of network in advertising revenues by creating innovative sponsorship opportunities for our advertisers.
ways for advertisers to reach their customers.
Successful cross-network examples include: We have focused increasingly on the major Bacardi Entertainment Capital, Nationwide for spending national advertisers who account for Sport and O for Traffic and Travel.
As a result we have increased the number of consumer brands we Capital Radio is performing in line with carry at our development stations: Beat 106, the industry Capital Radio Industry Radio Xfm, and the Century FM Network.
Revenue Revenue Oct 2001 Mar 2002 7% 6% Thirty-two of our top fifty spending clients have Apr Sept 2002 4% 3% increased the proportion of their budget spent Oct 2001 Sept 2002 2% 2% at Capital stations, and reduced their share with other commercial radio operators.
Source: Company data RAB like for like revenues.
CAPITAL IS UNIQUE IN THE MEDIA WORLD.
Over the last five years our total radio revenues YES, THEY MAKE GOOD MONEY BUT, MORE have shown an improving trend in comparison SIGNIFICANTLY, THEYRE INVESTING BACK INTO to the radio industry as a whole.
Over the last THE BUSINESS TO ENSURE THEY ALWAYS STAY 12 months, our advertising revenues have moved AHEAD.
John Blakemore, UK Advertising in line with the industry.
This is a significant Director, GlaxoSmithkline Plc achievement for us as our established radio assets carry a high proportion of national Developing new network programming to advertising, which was hit hardest by the increase Sponsorship and Promotion revenue slowdown.
In future, we will continue to make As a result of more relaxed regulation, our every effort to increase our revenues and, Sponsorship and Promotion revenues have grown over time, we are aiming to grow ahead of at a very encouraging rate.
Our Sponsorship and the market.
This is how our top 15 categories have performed: Year on Year on year growth year growth Category Oct 01 Sept 02 % of total Category Oct 01 Sept 02 % of total 5555555555110111 555555555011115 Retail 7.5% 16.5% Food 18.7% 4.7% Motors 9.9% 14.5% Household Equipment 6.2% 4.2% Entertainment Finance 30.2% 3.3% and the Media 1.8% 12.1% Pharmaceutical 13.6% 2.6% Business & Industrial 14.8% 11.2% Computers 50.0% 2.4% Gov Social Political Drink 45.0% 1.8% Organisation 7.3% 8.2% Cosmetics & Toiletries 14.6% 1.1% Travel & Transport 12.2% 7.9% Household Supplies 4.2% 1.0% Entertainment 9.0% 6.1% 5555555555110111 555555555011115 Source: MMS.
com | 25 PEOPLE, COMMUNITY, ENVIRONMENT Corporate Social Responsibility investing in our communities For nearly 30 years we have been committed to The welfare and well-being of our staff improving the social, economic and environmental continues to be a high priority for us.
We want well-being of the communities we serve.
to make sure that our employees are happy and enjoy their work.
We provide safe and healthy RADIO IS A MASS COMMUNICATION MEDIUM working conditions for all our employees and THAT ENABLES YOU TO TALK TO PEOPLE ON promote a working environment based on A LARGE SCALE.
WE HARNESS THIS POWER TO equality, judging neither by race, nationality, ADDRESS COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL ISSUES.
religion, age, gender, disability, sexual Annabel James, Director of Charities orientation nor political opinion.
In 2002, we completed an internal Corporate We are serious about winning, developing and Social Responsibility CSR Audit to establish the keeping the best people and so have designed activities taking place at each of our stations.
This a performance management system providing assessment of our current practices will be used to a clear communication of corporate goals create a Group-wide CSR policy in the future.
Our and personal objectives, regular performance good work to date has been recognised by our feedback, ongoing personal development and inclusion in the FTSE4Good, an Index set up to competitive reward.
Our Savings Related Share encourage and facilitate investment in ethicallyOption Scheme encourages employees to become conscious companies, for the second year running.
We also reward employees with share options, which helps to ensure People building strong lasting relationships that their interests are closely aligned with We are committed to providing regular, frank, our shareholders.
In addition, we promote a fair and transparent communication to our comprehensive range of practices for individuals shareholders, employees, advertisers and and families to help staff manage the balance business partners.
between their work and home.
ITS GREAT TO GET ALL THE LISTENERS INVOLVED, AND I THINK IT IS IMPORTANT THAT THEY KNOW THAT THEIR STATION CARES ABOUT THE COMMUNITY.
CAPITAL RADIO MAKES A REAL DIFFERENCE AND I LOVE BEING PART OF THIS.
Sarah Hodson, Help a London Child 26 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Community promoting childrens welfare Environment working to reduce our As well as entertaining our listeners, we supply environmental impact community information that provides tangible Although our operational activity does not benefits to our audiences, for example tophave a detrimental impact on the environment, quality local news, weather and traffic reports, we acknowledge the need for responsible helplines and student revision lines.
We are working to establish a partner of choice for many social campaigns.
consistent environmental policy, which will be This year, the Metropolitan Police chose implemented across the Group in 2004.
In the 95.8 Capital FM to help tackle the massive meantime, we will continue with our locallyrise in mobile phone crime in London.
based efforts to reduce our effect on the environment by reducing waste and We are actively involved in fundraising and using energy more efficiently.
the promotion of charities, both locally and nationally.
Our primary focus is promoting the All of our waste is disposed of in accordance welfare of children and young people.
Every with the Environmental Protection Act 1990 summer we host Party in the Park in London in and throughout the Group, where possible, partnership with The Princes Trust.
The profits air conditioning and refrigeration systems run of this event help disadvantaged young people to on CFC-free gases.
Examples of energy savings fulfil their potential, giving them the financial include use of low energy bulbs and the turning assistance they need to achieve their goals.
off of computers, stereos and photocopiers at In addition, our stations Southern FM and the end of each day.
103.2 Power FM have launched SNAP discos for 13-16 year olds that promote drug Promotion of recycling programmes will be awareness from a peer group perspective.
encouraged and developed further in the future.
Current schemes include the use of We have four charities of our own: Help a waste paper by a local dog shelter as bedding: London Child, Cash for Kids in Birmingham, Help toner cartridge reprocessing: plastic bottle and a South Wales Child and Fun-D2000 in Brighton.
aluminium can disposal and the donation of Although our activity is extensive, we do computers to schools and charity organisations.
We have therefore decided to set up a central charity team to organise Group fundraising activities and have appointed Annabel James to direct this effort.
In 2002 we raised 3.7 million in total and 100-102 Century FM won the 2002 Salvation Army award for fundraising.
OUR PRIMARY FOCUS IS PROMOTING THE WELFARE OF CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE Pete Turner, Social Action Team Capital Radio plc | www.
