LISTENERS Xfm listeners, London Beat 106 listener, Glasgow Capital Gold listener, Manchester 6 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Red Dragon listener, Cardiff 100 Century FM listener, Newcastle 95.8 Capital FM listener, London Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 7 Investing in our brands to entertain and inform our loyal listeners We have put our local radio brands at the core of our organisation because we recognise that strong brands are essential for guiding choice in a crowded consumer marketplace.
We hope that our radio networks and stations will continue to enjoy a national reputation and be an assurance of quality for listeners and advertisers.
Shaping our business to stay ahead of the game During 2001 2 we reshaped the way our company was organised.
Prior to the changes, each geographic location was set up to run as a separate business unit.
This local focus helped us to establish a strong business, but it limited our ability to benefit from the Groups scale in sharing best practice, content and skills.
To stay ahead of the game we believed it was essential for our business and management structure to evolve.
We have now reorganised the way we work in order to harness Capitals powerful combination of strong brands, creative talent and commercial insight to entertain our listeners and build loyal audiences.
THE COMPANY CANNOT AFFORD TO BE COMPLACENT ABOUT THE CHALLENGES OF THE FUTURE.
THE RESTRUCTURING SHOWS THAT THE MANAGEMENT TEAM ARE NOT AFRAID TO CHANGE THE WAY WE DO BUSINESS IN ORDER TO MEET THOSE CHALLENGES.
Andrew Freeman, Commercial Marketing Department Creating nationally recognised radio networks By structuring our stations around four consistent brand networks: Capital FM, Capital Gold, Century FM and Xfm, they are now more recognisable to our listeners and our advertisers.
Each network encompasses all complementary activities surrounding the brand: analogue licences, digital licences, interactive platforms, and extensions such as CD compilations and events.
FOR THE CAPITAL FM BRAND, THERE HAVE BEEN LOADS OF BENEFITS OF SHIFTING FOCUS FROM INDIVIDUAL BUSINESSES TO ONE CONSISTENT NETWORK.
THE STATIONS HAVE REALLY PULLED TOGETHER AND NOW SOUND LIKE A NATIONAL BRAND.
Elly Smith, Head of Communications, Group Radio 8 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Sharing content and creative ideas to increase appeal to listeners The reorganisation of our operations means that we are able to offer production and music output of a better and more consistent quality.
It is now easier to share our music content and creative ideas across the Group.
The brand management team sets a network gold standard in scheduling, programming and marketing for local stations.
Group level commitment allows the teams at local stations to concentrate on serving their communities.
Acting as a Group with 7.9 million listeners gives Capital Radio influence with the music industry and with other suppliers who provide exclusive celebrity appearances and money cant buy prizes to gain exposure to our sought after audiences.
Our sales effort has also become more effective.
In the previous organisational structure we had two separate sales teams: one focused on national advertising, the other on local advertising.
We now have one team covering the whole Group, enabling better cross-selling within the brand and regions.
In addition, we have lifted our sales standards across the commercial team and improved the efficiency of booking advertising schedules.
The new structure gives a clear proposition and focus that allows our teams to work more effectively and to respond better to the needs of agencies and advertisers, both on a national and a local level.
This framework helps us to work more efficiently today, and importantly, it also allows easier integration of any newly acquired stations in the future.
Creating a portfolio of complementary radio brands We are aiming to maximise the opportunities that the restructuring presents by creating complementary station portfolios in our key metropolitan areas.
In London, Capital Radio is the only commercial radio group with a complementary group of stations that entertains a wide cross-section of ages and caters for different music tastes.
This portfolio allows us to target additional listeners without directly competing with the other stations in the Group.
We are able to offer both mainstream and niche appeal.
Increased investment in marketing to raise awareness of our brands Over the last year we have improved our presenter line-up across the Group and worked hard to position the brands more clearly to listeners and advertisers.
Despite tough trading, we are reinvesting our operational savings back into the business to raise awareness of our brands.
We are setting aside up to 2 million for selective increases in marketing spend over the next 12 months.
com | 9 Managing our complementary portfolio of brands in the London market female biased younger older male biased In November 2001, we took steps to strengthen our portfolio by purchasing a 19% stake in Choice FM.
This deal allows us to acquire the remaining 81% in a few years time, when the new Communications Bill becomes law.
The new Bill will also offer us the opportunity to acquire other strategically important licences, helping us to replicate our strong position in London wherever we operate.
Considerable progress has already been made in Manchester.
Three years ago we had no presence at all, but today we can offer listeners and advertisers a broad spectrum of stations to suit their needs with 105.4 Century FM and Capital Gold on analogue, and digital stations Xfm, Choice, Life and Capital Disney.
Putting our radio brands on to new platforms to create new revenues We are working hard to extend the Capital Radio brands in inventive and exciting ways that connect us with the communities we serve.
The loyalty of our 7.9 million listeners is being translated into new sources of revenue for the Group.
We have extended into branded publications, digital radio, CDs, co-promoted music events, music TV programming, satellite and cable TV and the Internet.
The strength of this multi-platform offer has made us the partner of choice for many well-known names such as Nokia and O.
2 Our stations run hundreds of listener events which increase public awareness of our stations in key markets, enhance our reputation in the music industry, and 10 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com provide a fun day out for our audiences while raising money for charity.
In 2002, over 300,000 people attended Party in the Park concerts in Birmingham, Cardiff, Hampshire, London, Oxford and Sussex.
In the last 18 months we have sold over 1.4 million copies of the four Capital Gold Legends CDs.
Also, our Party in the Park CD, this year in partnership with EMI, sold around 80,000 copies.
Xfm produced two Remix albums, each selling 12,000 copies, and X-Ray magazine was launched in November.
Exploiting new technologies Over the year we added eight new stations to our portfolio of 43 digital licences across the UK and were recently awarded the digital multiplex for South Hampshire.
The Group now has a potential audience of nearly 40 million adults.
We invested a total of 3.3 million in running costs during 2002, to develop our digital radio business.
Thirteen of our existing analogue stations are simulcast on corresponding digital stations.
Our digital presence enables Xfm to become a quasi-national station, with a network of 15 digital stations across the UK.
In addition, we have created two digital only brands Life and Capital Disney.
Life is the Groups first national licence, broadcasting upbeat music targeting females aged 25-44.
Capital Disney was created in February 2002, making a groundbreaking strategic partnership with Walt Disney International, creating an interactive music-led station.
This new digital brand is targeted to appeal to the under 16s audience, who make up 19% of the UK population.
We continue to invest in this portfolio of digital stations and have set aside 4 million for this purpose in 2003.
We will continue to apply for appropriate new licences as they become available.
We are also working hard to promote digital radio and have formed a partnership with the BBC and DRDB to market the service.
Success will depend on the availability of low cost technology, one of the first being the Evoke 99 digital radio which is now being sold: it is encouraging to hear reports of high levels of demand.
THEY ARE FORWARD THINKING AND INNOVATIVE.
THEY BUY STATIONS THAT THEY ARE SERIOUS ABOUT GROWING AND ARE PREPARED TO INVEST IN NEW IDEAS LIKE CAPITAL DISNEY.
Melanie Brownrout, Group Strategy & Development Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 11 ARTISTS Jeff Smith, Head of Music and Programming Strategy, asks Duncan from Blue: How has Capital Radio supported you in your rise to stardom?
How did you get started in the business?
Do you think the Company helps new talent?
We came together as a four piece band through Speaking from my experience, as a new band my friendship with Antony.
He knew Lee from we only put our first record out 18 months ago the audition circuit and Simon was living at Lee's we received early and sustained support from house.
We decided to form our own band, found Capital.
They have helped us build Blue.
ourselves a manager and quickly got a deal with Innocent records, which is part of EMI Virgin.
Do they have a good relationship with your record company?
How has Capital Radio helped build your career?
I'd have to say that Capital have a fairly unique Capital Radios support has been important for relationship with our record company.
Apart from the massive audience the Capital we are signed to a major, our label is actually Group has helped us reach, they also had the made up of only eight people and they work faith in us to include us in their Capital extremely closely with key people at Capital.
Christmas Live gig last year.
Believe it or not, that event in December 2001 was the very first What is the atmosphere like at Capital?
concert wed ever done with a live band.
It gave us something to aim for and it also helped to Relaxed but professional.
prove to everyone, and ourselves, that we could cut it live.
What do you think of the people at Capital?
Do you think Capital Radio has helped you reach The people have always been great with us.
Theyve never changed from the time that we were an unknown band to where we are now.
Whether it's been doing special I respect that they treated us well from the one-off events, like acoustic shows, charity start.
Not only by playing our records, but also events for Help a London Child, or the Party in on a social level.
I could tell you some stories the Park shows, being involved with Capital about certain Capital people at my birthday has given us an incredible profile.
From left to right: Antony, Duncan, Lee and Simon 12 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com BEING INVOLVED WITH CAPITAL HAS GIVEN US AN INCREDIBLE PROFILE Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 13 Employing the best people who are passionate about our business Capital was set up to encourage a fresh and original approach to broadcasting backed by deep involvement in the community.
As the Company has grown, this has remained our goal.
We want our stations to be catalysts enabling people to talk to each other, so we look for employees who will be a positive voice for the communities they represent.
We promote a dynamic environment that stimulates the design of innovative new programming and promotional concepts that enhance the Capital brands and create new avenues for future growth.
This commitment is well recognised by our customers and audiences.
THE COMMERCIAL TEAM ARE EXTREMELY WELL RESOURCED AND INNOVATIVE, SETTING THE TRENDS THAT THEIR RIVALS HAVE HAD TO FOLLOW FOR FEAR OF BEING LEFT BEHIND.
John Blakemore, UK Advertising Director, GlaxoSmithkline Plc A highly skilled and creative team Our management team and creative talent has developed Capital into the UKs largest commercial radio operator and we are determined not to lose this winning position.
People want to join our team and we continue to attract and retain the best people for the job throughout the Company.
CAPITAL IS FILLED WITH GREAT MINDS AND RADIO INTELLIGENCE SPANNING ALL DISCIPLINES: THERES ALWAYS SOMEBODY YOU CAN LEARN FROM.
Lyn Long, Capital Gold, London In September this year, Ze Ball joined our team of top presenting talent including the Capital FM Networks Neil Fox and Chris Tarrant, Xfms Christian OConnell and Ricky Gervais, as well as Tony Horne and Paul Gough from the Century FM Network.
We welcomed home David Jensen on Capital Gold, and other recent signings for the Group include Andi Peters and Big Brother 3 winner Kate Lawler.
com IVE BEEN ON AIR FOR 15 YEARS AND BROADCASTING EVERY DAY TO LONDON IS STILL A TOTAL BUZZ THEN TO HAVE THE NATIONS EARS FOR THE SUNDAY CHART IS THE ICING ON THE CAKE!
Neil Fox, DJ, 95.8 Capital FM, London In 1996 we set up our record label, Wildstar, a partnership with Telstar Records, to make the most of our skill in identifying exciting new artists that can confidently be added to our stations play lists.
Wildstars core artist is Craig David who sold over six million copies of his first album worldwide.
His second album was released globally on 11 November 2002 and is tipped to repeat this success.
Offering unique insights Creative talent extends right through the Group from presenters to those behind the scenes in production, advertising sales and brand management.
For example, the Capital Sonics team is focused on understanding and applying aspects of music psychology to advertising.
The team gives our customers unique insight into the relationship between music and consumer behaviour, offering national advertisers a tailor-made approach to the use of sound in their advertisements.
The Capital Sonics team also holds regular workshops to promote their work to our clients.
This work has been instrumental in encouraging new customers such as Honda and Mller to use the medium for the first time.
To find out more about Capital Sonics, please visit www.
htm Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 15 Imagining new possibilities Our programming team devises original formats such as Capital Takeover, Hit Music Sunday and the recently launched Steve Penk Show, which breaks new ground in late night radio.
All of these shows are transmitted across the Capital FM Network, providing consistent quality in programming across the brand.
We are also looking to the future and have launched the Capital Lab, a creative department focused on developing new talent, piloting original formats, brainstorming new production methods and developing our digital stations.
This forward thinking attitude creates a dynamic and stimulating work environment, enabling us to get the best from our people.
I DONT THINK I COULD WORK FOR A MORE FORWARD THINKING INNOVATIVE COMPANY.
IT DOESNT MATTER IF YOURE THE RECEPTIONIST OR A MANAGER, IF YOU HAVE AN IDEA OR OPINION, YOU KNOW YOULL BE LISTENED TO.
THEY MIGHT SAY ITS RUBBISH, BUT THEYLL STILL LISTEN.
Anna Beresford, PA to Chief Executive Capital Radio plc | www.
