Schroders 20 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the accounts of the Company for the year make them aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups ended 31st December 2002. performance.
We are reviewing best practice internally and externally to ensure that our internal communications strategy is as effective as it can be.
Principal activities This year we established a new performance management process, which in the Schroders plc is the parent company of an international asset management UK and in Australia was delivered via an online system.
The online system will be group.
A review of the business of the Group during 2002 and of future rolled out globally in 2003.
At the heart of the performance management process prospects is contained in the Management Statement on pages 2 to 4 and in are core competencies or values which apply to employees in all countries at all the Operating and Financial Review on pages 5 to 9. disciplines and levels and which describe the kind of Company we wish to be.
The competencies measure how employees are delivering results, demonstrating Accounts and dividends integrity and accountability, being client and team focused and working with drive The profit after tax of the Group for the year ended 31st December 2002 was and determination.
26.1 million compared with a loss after tax of 20.6 million for 2001.
The Directors recommend the payment on 25th April 2003 of a maintained final We are committed to equal opportunities for both existing employees and dividend of 13 pence per share to shareholders on the register at 28th March applicants seeking employment, and all employees share the responsibility for 2003.
With the interim dividend of 5.5 pence per share paid on 25th October ensuring this happens in practice.
As a sign of our commitment to equal 2002 this makes a total of 18.5 pence per share.
The total dividend will cost opportunities, in 2001 we initiated a programme of legal briefings for all UK 53.3 million 2001: 53.9 million, leaving a revenue deficit of 27.2 million managers.
This continued in 2002 and will continue in 2003.
At the same time, in 2001: 74.5 million, which will be taken from reserves.
the UK we have implemented new family friendly policies in the light of the provisions of the Employment Act 2002.
Investments and disposals Details of investments and disposals are shown on page 9.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes.
Directors For the purposes of training, career development and promotion, disabled staff, The names of the Directors of the Company are shown on page 10. including any who become disabled in the course of their employment, are Mr. J. P. Asquith was appointed a Director on 15th January 2002 and became treated on equal terms with other employees.
Chief Financial Officer on 1st March 2002.
Mr. N. R. MacAndrew resigned as a The Group also promotes high standards of health and safety at work for all Director on 15th March 2002.
Mr. D. F. Swensen was appointed a non-executive employees.
Director with effect from 18th April 2002.
On the same date Baron Daniel Janssen and Sir Ralph H. Robins retired as non-executive Directors.
I. P. Corporate Responsibility Sedgwick retired as non-executive Chairman on 31st December 2002 and on We recognise our responsibility for managing our impact on the community.
the same date Mr. J. Troiano resigned as a Director.
On 1st January 2003 Our links with the local community have continued with, in particular, some Mr. H. M. P. Miles was appointed non-executive Chairman, Mr. R. M. A. Horlick was 60 volunteers from our London office mentoring children and assisting children appointed a Director and Mr. K. A. H. Parry was appointed a non-executive with literacy skills in local schools.
Other employees are serving public Director.
organisations such as regulatory bodies and in local government whilst others sit Directors interests in the Companys shares are shown in the Remuneration on trade bodies.
Only Mr. M. W. R. Dobson has a service contract Schroders also acknowledges that through our own business practices we within the meaning of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority the Listing have an impact on the environment.
We have identified areas where targets Rules.
Details of Mr. Dobsons contract are provided in the Remuneration to minimise our effect on the environment can be set and our performance Report on page 19. measured with reasonable certainty.
More indirectly, we seek to encourage Details of Directors options granted, exercised and lapsed are shown on companies in which we invest to apply the principles of our socially responsible page 18. investment policy.
Copies of our Social and Environmental Report, which explains in more detail our policies and performance in community and environmental Substantial shareholdings issues, and our Socially Responsible Investment policy, are available on our On 20th February 2003, being the date one month prior to the date of the Notice website at http: ir.
Copies are also available from the Company of the Annual General Meeting, the Company had been notified pursuant to Secretary on request.
section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 of the following interests of 3 per cent.
or more in the ordinary shares: Donations The amount paid by Group companies to charitable organisations during 2002 Vincitas Limited - 46,272,073 shares 20.47 per cent.
No political donations were made.
One-Forty-Five Limited - 13,754,311 shares 6.08 per cent.
UK employees are encouraged to make charitable donations through the payroll Englehall Limited - 10,375,504 shares 4.59 per cent.
system and at the end of the year 21 per cent.
of staff were contributing in this The above-named held their interests as trustees of certain settlements made by way.
The Group operates a scheme whereby personal employee donations and members of the Schroder family.
The Company is not subject to the close sponsorships are matched.
company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Creditor payment policy Purchase of own shares The Groups normal practice in the UK is to agree the terms of payment with During the year, the Company purchased 3,732,779 non-voting ordinary shares suppliers at the time of contract and to make payment within the agreed credit of 1 each at a total cost of 19,314,141, at an average price excluding costs of term subject to satisfactory performance.
The Group does not follow any code or 5.17 per share, in accordance with the authority granted at the Annual General standard on payment practice.
At 31st December 2002, the amount owed to the Meeting held on 18th April 2002.
The shares were then cancelled.
The Groups trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 15 days average purchases reflected the maximum number of non-voting ordinary shares which purchases from suppliers.
might be issued in respect of the acquisition in December 2001 of Beaumont Capital Management Limited and represented 5.1 per cent.
of the issued nonAnnual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2 voting ordinary share capital at the beginning of 2002. on 23rd April 2003 at 3 p. m. at which shareholders will be able to raise any Employees issues relevant to the meeting.
Our employees are critical to our current and future success: they are the source Remuneration Report of our competitive advantage and consequently we keep our Human Resources New legislation requires the Company to produce a yearly report on Directors policies under constant review in order to ensure we attract and retain high remuneration and the Companys remuneration policy, and to put an annual calibre employees.
resolution to shareholders for approval of that report.
The Remuneration Report We recognise that communicating in an open and honest way with all our prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations employees is fundamental to ensuring that team and individual goals are aligned 2002 can be found on pages 13 to 19.
Therefore, the notice of meeting on to and support the Companys business objectives.
We employ a variety of page 55 contains an ordinary resolution No.
3 to approve the Remuneration means to ensure we are communicating broadly with our employees world-wide.
It should be noted that the result of this resolution is advisory Such communications include matters which concern individuals as employees, only and will not require the Company to alter any arrangements detailed in that deal with consultation arrangements on matters which affect their interests and report should the resolution not be passed.
Annual Report & Accounts 2002 21 Retirement of Directors Authority to purchase own shares Mr. W. I. M. Turner, Jr. and Mr. A. O.
Way will be retiring at the Annual General Resolution 12 seeks authority for the Company to purchase its own non-voting Meeting and will not be seeking re-election.
This authority relates to 14,750,000 shares, representing approximately 5 per cent.
of the total issued share capital and being some The Companys Articles of Association were amended last year to restate the 21 per cent.
of the issued non-voting ordinary share capital.
The authority sets requirement that each Director should retire and, if desired, present himself for limits on the price to be paid for any shares.
Any purchases would be made by re-election at least every three years in accordance with the Principles of Good market purchases on the London Stock Exchange or so far as required under Governance and Code of Best Practice as incorporated into the Listing Rules.
the Listing Rules by tender or partial offer to all shareholders.
The amendments also removed the requirement for one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each annual general meeting as it is considered that this The previous authority was used during the year to buy back 3,732,779 requirement has been superseded by the requirement that each Director should non-voting ordinary shares which equated to the maximum number of shares retire once every three years.
No Directors are currently approaching the third issued and to be issued in relation to the acquisition of Beaumont Capital Annual General Meeting following their election or re-election, and consequently Management Limited.
The Directors have no plans to use the authority generally no Directors are retiring under Article 88. if renewed.
They do, however, intend that, if the authority is given, the Company should exercise its right to make purchases over an appropriate period so that This being the first Annual General Meeting following their appointments, over the long term the ratio of ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares is Mr. R. M. A. Horlick, Mr. H. M. P. Miles, Mr. K. A. H. Parry and Mr. D. F. Swensen not affected by the issue of non-voting ordinary shares under the Companys retire in accordance with Article 87 and offer themselves for election.
Mr. G. W. Mallinckrodt, and Mr. B. L. Schroder, both having attained the age of 70, If the authority is given, purchases would only be made where the Directors retire and offer themselves for re-election under Article 84.
The Board believes believed that they were in the best interests of the Company, taking into account that it is appropriate for Mr. G. W. Mallinckrodt to be re-elected in view of his other available investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the many years international business experience which is invaluable to the Group.
Purchases would only be made where earnings per share would be Equally, the Board believes that it is appropriate for Mr. Schroder, as increased except possibly in respect of purchases made in conjunction with the representative of our principal shareholder group, to be re-elected to the Board.
issue of non-voting ordinary shares on exercise of options.
Purchases would be financed out of distributable profits and shares purchased would be cancelled.
Auditors Following the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited By Order of the Board Liability Partnership LLP from 1st January 2003,  resigned on 27th February 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, John Bainbridge  LLP as Auditors.
Secretary Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to 31 Gresham Street re-appoint  LLP as Auditors and to authorise the London EC2V 7QA Directors to fix their remuneration.
12th March 2003 Special business The Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 55 includes the following special business:
