Chairmans Statement continued Funds under management at 31 December 2002 I have also previously advised shareholders of amounted to 2.8 billion compared with our decision to curtail, and in due course 3.6 billion at the previous year end a decline discontinue, investments on our own account as of 22%.
Our client base has remained loyal and a separate activity.
Our investments in generally stoic in the face of extremely adverse corporate bonds amounting to 25.4 million conditions and client losses to other managers were transferred into our banking operations at have been at a minimal level.
The net outflow of the start of 2002 with the income therefrom new money, ignoring market movements and with the prior year figures re-stated included the relative performance factor, amounted to in the results of Banking.
The results from our 0.2 billion: this outflow arose principally investments in equities which are now included from the loss of a number of balanced pension with Other Group Income and Costs again with fund mandates.
the 2001 figures restated were a loss of 1.6 million 2001: profit 2.4 million.
The carrying During the year, we have continued to examine value of the Groups equity investments at opportunities for growth through acquisition, as 31 December 2002 was 7.1 million.
We continue to be of the view that, in general, the consideration being sought We continue to focus critically on the level of by vendors does not provide a basis that will our central costs and have achieved a reduction add value for our shareholders, and the decline of 1.8 million from the level in 2001. in profitability in the industry vindicates our decision not to proceed.
It may be that more Carnegie attractive opportunities will arise in the future Carnegie has reported profits before tax of as a consequence of the pressure on 23.4 million for 2002, a decline of 59% profitability in the industry.
A more fertile area compared with the 57.4 million earned in for growth has been the recruitment of key 2001, which were in turn some 48% lower individuals and teams and we have continued than the record level achieved in 2000.
Your to exploit such opportunities during the year Groups share of Carnegies profits amounted most notably by bringing on board in to 7.2 million 2001: 30.3 million.
The September a team from Atlantic Wealth Directors of Carnegie have declared a dividend Management.
for 2002 costing 42.7 million, of which our share amounts to 13.2 million.
Other Activities Because of the downturn in its business I have previously reported our intention to volumes, Carnegies capital adequacy ratio is re-deploy that part of the Banks capital base significantly in excess of the target stated in its which was invested in property.
Our divestment June 2001 prospectus, and the recommended from property, other than in respect of our dividend includes an element which represents owner-occupied buildings, is now effectively a return to shareholders of a portion of that complete and the assets converted into cash, excess.
Our share of that element of the the benefit from which will be reported in the dividend amounts to 7.9 million.
results of our banking operations from 2003 onwards.
In its final year, our property trading and investment business earned profits of 4.7 million before taxation 2001: 8.4 million.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 6
