Carillion plc Report of the Directors The Directors of Carillion plc present their annual report, together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal Activities and Business Review Carillion is one of the UKs leading Business and Construction Services groups, operating throughout the UK and in a number of overseas regional markets.
A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance and future developments is contained in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and Financial Review.
Analyses of turnover, results and net assets by business segment and geographical location are given in Note 2 on pages 54 and 55.
Profits and Dividends The consolidated profit and loss account is shown on page 46.
The profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted to 42.2m 2001 as restated: 34.7m.
An interim dividend of 1.5 pence per ordinary share 2001: 1.38 pence was paid in November 2002 and it is proposed to pay a final dividend of 3.3 pence per ordinary share 2001: 3.02 pence on 27 June 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 2 May 2003.
The payment of these ordinary dividends amounts to 9.9m 2001: 8.9m.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during 2002 are shown on page 36 of the Remuneration Report.
Biographical details for each Director at 31 December 2002 are given on page 26.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Roger Robinson retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Roger has a contract of service that is subject to two years notice of termination by the Company.
The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 41.
Employees Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is given in Note 6 on page 57.
Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and the Group is committed to improving their skills through training and development and nurturing a culture in which employees feel valued for their contribution and are motivated to achieve their full potential.
In addition, Carillions core values of openness, collaboration and mutual dependency have been developed to emphasise the changing working practices required to succeed in an environment where partnership and integrated solutions are becoming the norm.
It is the aim of Carillion to foster a working environment in which all employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion continually strives to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment so that they can continue their employment.
Carillion places great importance on open and regular communication with employees through both formal and informal processes.
As part of this commitment, a Group newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on a regular basis for all employees.
The views of employees on matters affecting their interests were also sought through an initiative known as The Great Debate under which a number of forums were held throughout the Group to encourage employees to express their views on a range of activities relating to their jobs and the Group.
These views will be taken into account in the development of future work related initiatives as part of Carillions strategy to become an employer of choice.
Employees can also exchange best practice information on a Knowledge Management Forum on the Group intranet.
Involvement in the Group is also encouraged through means such as the periodic grant of share options under the Sharesave Scheme which gives all UK employees the opportunity to have a financial stake in the Company.
Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading-edge programmes to integrate safety into everything it does and to improve its environmental performance, including the understanding and application of the principles of sustainability.
Further information on Health and Safety, the Environment and Community is given in the Sustainability Review on pages 22 to 25.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 42 Carillion plc Substantial Share Interests At 12 March 2003, the Company had received formal notification of the following substantial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares held Percentage Schroder Investment Management Limited and its affiliated companies 40,649,662 19.09 Fidelity International Limited and its direct and indirect subsidiaries 31,415,447 14.75 Zurich Financial Services and its Group 8,264,857 3.88 Legal & General Group Plc 6,652,559 3.12 Policy for Payment of Suppliers It is the policy of the Group that each business agrees terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for payment to be made on these terms providing the suppliers meet their obligations to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole therefore does not apply a general recognised code with regard to the payment of all suppliers.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Groups principal trading subsidiaries averaged 64 days at 31 December 2002 73 days at 31 December 2001.
Charitable and Political Contributions Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2002 amounted to 96,000 2001: 123,000.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review.
Annual General Meeting The notice of and related information on the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2003 is included in separate documents posted to shareholders with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Amongst the business to be transacted is a proposal to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2002, the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of 21,272,463 of its own shares.
Auditors Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by order of the Board RF Tapp Secretary 12 March 2003 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 43
