Quality of life In hospitals and secure establishments... On roads and railways...
In offices and universities...
Wherever we operate, we strive to improve quality of life for individuals and communities.
This commitment defines what we do and how we do it.
It means we work with our customers, our suppliers and our partners to provide competitive, high-quality services.
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 12 We have a stable and effective We will continue to implement our strategy strategy, which is delivering sustainable, for growth, using our well balanced profitable growth.
geographical and market positions to target four key areas: transport, health, defence Whether its project finance, buildings or and our international businesses, especially infrastructure, facilities management or in Canada.
support services, we create teams and partnerships to deliver high-quality, At the same time, we will develop our competitive services for our customers.
facilities management business in the UKs private sector outsourcing market, while Our well balanced geographical and market maintaining a strong Construction positions enable us to target growth areas Services business.
while maintaining or developing our positions in other important markets.
Increasingly, we will become a sectorfocused business, using all our skills and resources to provide competitive, highquality, sustainable solutions for our customers.
Carillion we believe in the quality of life Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 13 Our commitment to safety, quality and innovation makes us a leading player in the UKs rail and road sectors.
Currently, we maintain thousands of kilometres of railway, motorway and trunk road nationwide.
We strive to develop new opportunities to enhance the UKs transport infrastructure.
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 14 We have strong positions in UK rail We aim to use our strong market positions and road infrastructure markets.
Carillion to benefit from planned investment under Rail maintains around 20 per cent of the the Governments 185-billion 10-Year UKs heavy rail network and it has an Transport Plan.
We will seek to increase rail extensive portfolio of enhancement volumes, particularly through adding to our projects.
For the second year running, portfolio of rail enhancement projects.
We Carillion Rail was voted best maintenance are also well positioned to take advantage contractor in the 2002 National Rail of PPP rail projects when the Strategic Rail Awards: and it recently won the 2003 Authority brings them forward for tender.
Network Rail Security and Safety Award, reflecting its total commitment to safety, In the roads market, we will be seeking compliance and performance.
to grow our maintenance business by extending the scope of our motorway and Carillion Highway Maintenance maintains trunk road services and by securing new over 20 per cent of the motorway and contracts to maintain large Local Authority trunk road network in England and our road networks.
We also expect more Capital Projects business is a leader in major opportunities to bid for road construction road construction, including PPP projects.
projects as the Highways Agency begins Our success in these markets is due to to accelerate this element of the 10-Year our commitment to safety, innovation Transport Plan.
and the use of new technology to deliver high-quality, value-for-money services.
Transport we help people travel safely and more reliably Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 15 From project finance to design, construction and facilities management, our Healthcare Business is supporting the Governments efforts to improve healthcare in the UK.
Its just another example of how we contribute to improving the quality of life for individuals and communities.
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 16 We are a leader in the provision of new We are seeking to develop our Healthcare hospitals under the UK Governments PPP business by targeting three growth markets: programme.
Our involvement encompasses the creation of 150 Diagnostic and project finance, construction and the Treatment Centres DTC worth around provision of facilities management services.
3.5 billion annually is an important In November 2002, we successfully new market.
Having been awarded our handed over our fifth PPP hospital first single DTC, we are now seeking to Swindons 490-bed Great Western pre-qualify for a batch of 30 more Hospital on time and to budget.
the 6 billion PPP hospital programme will continue to provide growth In addition to providing facilities opportunities for us.
We are already management services to PPP hospitals shortlisted for three more PPP hospitals in which Carillion is an equity partner, we worth around 1.8 billion of construction, are also a leading supplier of integrated maintenance and facilities management facilities management services to non-PPP the publicly funded ProCure 21 hospitals and other NHS Trust properties.
programme will continue to offer hospital construction and refurbishment We have established a new Healthcare opportunities, with up to 12 framework Business led by an experienced and contracts worth some 1.4 billion per highly qualified team to develop our annum due to be let in 2003. health sector activities.
Health we help people lead healthier lives Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 17 In the defence sector, our name is associated with some of the Governments most complex and important infrastructure projects.
We are now preparing to play an even more important role in supporting our customers in this sector.
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 18 Over the years, we have carried out a We are seeking to develop our Defence number of complex, major infrastructure business by targeting three growth markets: projects for the Ministry of Defence.
the MoD has begun an extensive programme of outsourcing worth over Recently, we secured the prestigious 6 billion following the Defence Training PRIME Contract for the construction Review.
Carillion has recently pre-qualified and refurbishment of Lucknow Barracks, with two partners to tender for contracts Tidworth, Wiltshire.
This is our first contract to provide non-military training that will under the PRIME contracting initiative and arise as a result of this review the largest PRIME contract let to date.
the PPP programme will continue to offer long-term concessions, worth We are also an established supplier of around 20 billion, including property management services to the construction, maintenance and facilities Ministry of Defence at numerous locations management.
We are currently shortlisted in the UK.
by the MoD for the Permanent Joint Headquarters, Northwood We have created a Defence Business Unit the PRIME Contracting programme, worth to develop our activities in this sector.
around 5 billion over seven years, involves a series of major design, construction and maintenance contracts, involving the use of whole-life cost models.
Defence we are working to support a secure future Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 19 From Canada to the Caribbean, from Europe to the Middle East... We already have established businesses to provide services that touch the lives of people and communities in these international regions.
Now we are seeking to raise our profile and grow these businesses by fostering long-term relationships with key customers.
International we are determined to build a better world Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 20 Today Tomorrow We have well established businesses in We will continue to seek opportunities Canada, the Middle East, the Caribbean, to export our Business Services and PPP France and the Republic of Ireland.
Our Investment skills to all our International strategy in our International Regions mirrors Regions: and to develop our construction our UK strategy: to develop Business businesses by continuing to build Services and PPP Investment activities relationships with long-term, key customers.
Canada, in particular, offers significant For example, in 2002 we established joint potential for growing Business Services ventures in the Middle East and Caribbean and PPP Investments, as the Canadian to provide facilities management services Government is pursuing similar policies potentially worth up to 500 million over on outsourcing to those of the UK ten years.
In Canada, we have developed a Government.
We, therefore, expect further substantial highway maintenance business, opportunities in the PPP hospital market now responsible for maintaining around and also in highway maintenance, where 750 km of highway in Ontario: and we are tendering opportunities for contracts worth bidding for two major PPP hospitals.
In the over 1 billion are expected in 2003.
Republic of Ireland we are bidding for a privately financed toll road.
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 21
