The Board of Directors Sir Neville Simms Roger Robinson Chairman, age 58.
Sir Neville was Executive Director, Construction Services, appointed to the Board in May 1999 and is age 51.
Appointed to the Board in May Chairman of the Sustainability Committee, 1999.
Roger has responsibility for health the Nominations Committee and is a and safety and Sustainability matters.
He member of the Audit and Remuneration is a member of the Government Taskforce Committees.
His career has been spent in on Modern Apprenticeships and is a the construction industry having originally Lieutenant Colonel in the Royal Engineers joined Tarmac in 1970 becoming Chief Staff and Logistics Corp. Roger is a Fellow Executive in 1992 and Deputy Chairman of the Institution of Civil Engineers.
Sir Neville is also Chairman of International Power plc and a Director of Roger Dickens the Foundation for the Built Environment Non-Executive Director, age 55.
Appointed and was until May 2002, a Member of to the Board in May 2000, Roger is the Court of the Bank of England.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Chartered Engineer.
a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Roger is John McDonough Chairman of iSOFT Group PLC and West Chief Executive, age 51.
Appointed to Bromwich Building Society and a Director the Board in January 2001, John was of NEC Group Limited.
He is a Chartered formerly Vice President, Integrated Facilities Accountant.
Management, Europe, the Middle East and Africa of Johnson Controls Inc. John is Jean-Paul Parayre also a member of the CBIs Public Services Senior Non-Executive Director, age 65.
Jean-Paul was appointed to the Board in May 1999 and is a member of the Chris Girling Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Finance Director, age 49.
Jean-Paul is also Chairman the Board in November 1999, Chris was of Vallourec SA.
a Director of Bollore previously Group Finance Director of Vosper Investissement, Stena UK, Stena Line and a Thornycroft Holdings plc.
Chris is also a Supervisory Board member of Peugeot S. A. Non-Executive Director of Barlow Group Limited.
He is a Chartered Accountant and Andrew Parrish has a MBA.
Andrew joined the Board in March 2000 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of Senior plc and is a member of the CBIs Manufacturing Council.
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 26 12 34 56 7 1 Sir Neville Simms 2 John McDonough 3 Chris Girling 4 Roger Robinson 5 Roger Dickens CBE DL 6 Jean-Paul Parayre 7 Andrew Parrish Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 27
