PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESIDENT THE PRESENT DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY ARE: Lord Stevenson of Sir Mark Weinberg The Viscount Weir Charles Bailey Coddenham CBE Aged 71, is Chairman of Aged 69, was appointed Aged 68, was appointed Aged 57, is President of St. Jamess Place Capital to the Board of the to the Board of St. Jamess St. Jamess Place Capital plc and Life Assurance reconstructed SJPC in May Place Capital plc as an plc.
He is also Chairman Holding Corporation 1996.
He is the senior independent non-executive of HBOS plc and Pearson Limited.
He is a member independent non-executive Director in September plc and is a non-executive of the Compliance Director and is Chairman 1999, and is a member Director of Manpower Inc. Committee of the of the Remuneration of the Remuneration, and The Economist SJPC Board and chairs Committee and a member Audit and Compliance Newspapers Limited.
the Investment and of the Nomination and Committees.
Formerly a partner of Currently Chairman of Price Waterhouse, he is He was formerly Deputy Balfour Beatty plc, Lord also a director of RIT Chairman of the Securities Weir has announced his Capital Partners plc, of and Investments Board, the intention to retire as Antofagasta Holdings plc, forerunner to the Financial Chairman with effect from a company with mining, Services Authority.
Balfour Beattys AGM banking and manufacturing in May 2003.
He is also interests in Chile and of Chairman of C P Ships Atrium Underwriting plc, Limited and a director of a listed Integrated Lloyds Canadian Pacific Railway Vehicle.
He was formerly Chairman of the Weir Group plc and a director of The Bank of England, British Steel Corporation and other companies.
He is Chairman of the Trustees of the St. Jamess Place Pension Scheme.
PAGE 14 PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued David Bellamy James Crosby Ian Gascoigne Phil Hodkinson Aged 49, was appointed to Aged 47, is a nonAged 46, was appointed Aged 44, was appointed to the position of Managing independent non-executive to the Board of St. Jamess the Board of St. Jamess Director on 1 January Director representing Place Capital plc as Place Capital plc as a non- 2002, having previously HBOS plc, appointed in Group Sales Director on independent non-executive fulfilled the role of Group June 2000.
His specific Director on 21 February Operations Director.
He the Halifax in 1994, he was responsibilities include 2002 representing HBOS has worked in the insurance appointed to the Halifax the recruitment, growth plc and is a member of the industry since 1973 and Board in 1996 and became and development of Audit Committee of the joined the Group in April Chief Executive on the St. Jamess Place SJPC Board.
He joined 1991, prior to the launch 1 January 1999.
He has the Board of HBOS plc on of J. Rothschild Assurance was appointed as Chief worked in the insurance 24 September 2001 and plc now called St. Jamess Executive of HBOS plc industry since 1986 is Chief Executive of the Place UK plc.
He was on 10 September 2001 and joined the then Insurance and Investment appointed to the board of following the completion J. Rothschild Assurance Division.
He is a director J. Rothschild Assurance plc of the merger of Halifax group in December 1991. of Sainsburys Bank plc in 1993 and to the Board of and Bank of Scotland on He was appointed to and Esure and is also a St. Jamess Place Capital plc that date.
He was a director the Board of St. Jamess Fellow of the Institute in September 1997, with of J. Rothschild Assurance Place UK plc formerly of Actuaries.
specific responsibilities plc between 1991 and J. Rothschild Assurance for SJPCs operational 1994 and is a Fellow of the plc in 1997. facilities.
He was recently appointed as He is a member of the a non-executive Director Compliance Committee of Granada plc.
PAGE 15 PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued Anthony Loehnis CMG Martin Moule Derek Netherton Michael Sorkin Aged 67, is a nonAged 47, was appointed Aged 58, is an independent Aged 60, was appointed to independent non-executive Finance Director of non-executive Director of the Board of St. Jamess Director of St. Jamess St. Jamess Place Capital St. Jamess Place Capital Place Capital plc as an Place Capital plc.
He plc in December 1998. plc, appointed in May independent non-executive joined the reconstructed He has worked in life 1996.
He is Chairman Director in January 2002 Board in May 1996 assurance since the mid of the Audit Committee and is a member of the and is Chairman of the 1970s and his experience and a member of the Remuneration and Compliance Committee includes a variety of roles Remuneration Committee Nomination Committees and a member of the in both the marketing and of the SJPC Board.
He Investment Committee corporate areas of the life a non-executive Director joined Hambros Bank in of the SJPC Board.
assurance and unit trust of Life Assurance Holding 1968 and was a Director industries.
of Hambros PLC between Directorships external to 1986 and 1999 and a the Group include Alpha He is a Fellow of the He is Chairman of Greggs Managing Director of Bank London Limited, Institute of Actuaries.
plc and a member of the S G Hambros from 1999 Tokyo-Mitsubishi Supervisory Board of the to 2001. International plc, AGCO Schroder Exempt Property Corporation USA and he Unit Trust.
His nonHe is Vice Chairman of is a Director and Treasurer executive directorships Investment Banking at of the UK-Japan outside the Group include N M Rothschild Corporate 21st Century Group.
Next PLC, Plantation & Finance Limited and a nonMr Loehnis was formerly General Investments plc executive Director of a director of SG Warburg and Hiscox plc.
He is a J Z Equity Partners plc.
Group plc and was an Fellow of the Institute executive director of the of Actuaries and was Bank of England.
formerly a director of J. Henry Schroder & Co Limited.
PAGE 16 PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued Grenville Turner Mario dUrso Mike Wilson Aged 45, was appointed Aged 63, is an independent Aged 59, is Chief on 20 December 2002 non-executive Director of Executive of St. Jamess as a non-independent nonSt.
Jamess Place Capital Place Capital plc, executive Director of plc, appointed in March Chairman of St. Jamess St. Jamess Place Capital 1998.
He is President of Place Unit Trust Group plc, representing HBOS The Italy Fund Inc. and Limited, Founder Director plc.
He is Chief Executive Mittel Capital Markets and Chief Executive of of Intelligent Finance, a S. p. a.
Jamess Place UK plc division of HBOS plc, Secretary of Foreign Trade formerly J. Rothschild having formerly fulfilled of the Dini Government Assurance plc and a the role of Head of and a former Senator of member of the Intermediary Sales at the Italian Republic.
Compliance Committee HBOS plc Retail Division.
Other directorships include Halifax Estate He has worked in the life Agencies Limited and assurance industry since Centrica Personal Finance 1963 and with Sir Mark Limited.
Weinberg since 1968 and was formerly Chairman of the Mental Health Foundation.
