DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Report & Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Results and Dividends activities of the group is given in the retire at the forthcoming Annual The Company made a loss after Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 9.
General Meeting and offer taxation on a Modified Statutory themselves for re-election.
Solvency Basis of 44.4 million Substantial Shareholders during the year ended 31 December The Directors are aware of the John Newman resigned as Group Sales 2002 2001: loss of 6.6 million.
interests of the following companies Director on 1 January 2003 and Jim in 3% or more of the ordinary Spowart resigned as a non-executive An interim dividend of 1.25 pence issued share capital of the Company Director on 20 December 2002. per share 2001: 1.25 pence per as at 21 February 2003: share was paid on 2 September HBOS plc: 258,308,138 shares Pursuant to the Articles of 2002.
The Board recommends 60% Association, all those Directors who payment of a final dividend of Fidelity International Limited: were elected or last re-elected at or 1.5 pence per share 2001: 1.5 pence 22,108,678 shares 5.14% before the Annual General Meeting per share on 16 May 2003 to held in 2000 shall retire from office shareholders on the register at the Directors by rotation.
The Director retiring by close of business on 11 April 2003.
The present Directors of the rotation is Anthony Loehnis and he Company are listed on pages 14 will be seeking re-election.
Sir Mark The consolidated profit and loss to 17.
Michael Sorkin and Phil Weinberg attained the age of 70 in account on pages 42 and 43 shows Hodkinson were appointed to the August 2001 and was re-elected at the loss for the year and the Board on 1 January 2002 and 21 the Annual General Meeting in 2002. consolidated balance sheet on pages February 2002 respectively and they The Board is delighted that Sir Mark 45 and 46 shows the state of affairs of were both elected by shareholders at has agreed to continue to work for the Group at 31 December 2002. the Annual General Meeting in the Group for as long as the Board May 2002.
Lord Stevenson retired feels appropriate.
As previously Status of Company as a non-executive Director on indicated, Sir Mark will seek The Company is registered as a 21 February 2002 and was appointed re-election on an annual basis going public limited company under the to the honorary position of President forward and is therefore seeking Companies Act 1985. on the same date.
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The articles Activities On 20 December 2002 Grenville of association of the Company The Company is a financial services Turner was appointed to the Board disapply the provisions of s. 293 7 of holding company with principal and on 1 January 2003 Ian Gascoigne the Companies Act 1985 relating interests in wealth management was appointed to the Board.
to special notice requirements including life assurance and unit trust Pursuant to the Articles of for the re-election of Directors over management.
A full review of the Association, both Directors will the age of 70.
PAGE 18 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Details of all Directors service Charitable Donations and Social, Environmental and contracts are set out in the Political Contributions Ethical Matters Remuneration Report on pages 32 As agreed by shareholders in 2000, The Group continues to recognise and 33. the Group pays an amount to the that it has a corporate responsibility St. Jamess Place Foundation towards the environment and Directors Interests a charitable trust each year which community within which it operates.
The interests of the Directors in the matches donations received during The Company is proud to be a share capital of the Company and in the year by the Foundation on a founder member of the Percent the share capital of HBOS plc, pound for pound basis, up to a limit Club and actively supports the being the holding company, at determined by the Directors from St. Jamess Place Foundation.
See 31 December 2002, and any changes time to time, currently 500,000. pages 96 and 97 for more details on between that date and the date During the year ended 31 December the Foundation and the Groups of this Report, are given in the 2002, the Group contributed charitable activities.
Remuneration Report on pages 26 498,500 to the St. Jamess Place to 38.
A list of charitable The Groups Head Office actively donations made by the Foundation supports the local Sun Dial Theatre, Except as stated in the Remuneration will be available at the Annual which was set up in conjunction with Report, no Director has, or has had General Meeting, together with a Cirencester College of Higher during the year under review, any report which outlines the basis on Education.
We also provide financial beneficial interest in any contract or which priorities for donations have support for our local rugby club arrangement with the Company or been established.
The Group made which actively encourages youth any of its subsidiaries as defined by no political donations during participation.
the Companies Act 1985 or pursuant the year.
to the Listing Rules published by During 2002, the Group set up an the FSA.
Economic Monetary Union Environmental Project Committee The Group has put in place the with a brief to formulate policy Creditors Payment Policy necessary systems to ensure that, to and an environmental management The payment of supplier invoices is the extent that the euro affects its system, to be used as a platform made on the Companys behalf by investments or its policy related to further control the Groups St. Jamess Place Management business, it can conduct the environmental impacts and Services Limited SJPMS, a transactions required.
It is SJPMSs policy to pay creditors in accordance The Group is currently reviewing its The Committee reports through the with the CBI Better Practice systems to assess the impact of the Managing Director to the Board of Payment Code on supplier payments.
possible future adoption of the euro Directors where any significant risks The Companys average number of by the United Kingdom.
An operating plan has days purchases outstanding in respect Directors believe that the total been prepared to consider individual of trade creditors at 31 December financial cost of preparation for the areas of environmental impact, 2002 was 27 days 2001: 26 days.
introduction of the euro will not be including reducing CO volumes.
PAGE 19 DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Group recently opened a new the aim of providing a series of Underpinning all of the Groups building in Solihull and took the benchmarks and tradable indices personnel policies is a well established opportunity to implement energy facilitating investment in companies awareness of statutory and social efficient lighting, heating and air with good records of corporate social responsibilities with regard to the conditioning systems, along with a responsibility.
employment of disabled staff, whether complete recycling system for waste it be their recruitment or subsequent products.
At the Head Office in Employees management.
The Groups approach Cirencester a comprehensive paper Full details of the number of ensures that every effort is made to recycling process has been introduced employees within the Group as at achieve continuity of employment in with the intention of reducing the 31 December 2002 and the costs the event of employees becoming amount of waste going to landfill sites.
related to those employees are shown disabled.
Similarly, best practice Other recycling activities include PCs, in note 11 on page 61. principles ensure that the Groups mobile phones and toner cartridges responsibilities are met as an equal donated to local charities.
Employee development has remained opportunity employer.
a key part of the business plan in order The Investment Committee of the to ensure that the Groups employees Auditors Board meets regularly to monitor and remain equipped to perform at the The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have review the performance of all highest levels.
This has included indicated their willingness to continue the funds under management against completion of a new performance in office and a resolution that they be a series of defined criteria.
model for members of sales re-appointed will be proposed at the In addition, for those investors management and the achievement of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
particularly interested in investing in further professional qualifications by environmentally friendly companies many of our key staff.
Looking ahead, By Order of the Board and to comply with policy on the research and implementation socially responsible investment by planning has been completed for a trustees of occupational pension new performance appraisal system schemes, the Group offers ethical that will be launched in 2003. funds.
These funds invest in companies demonstrating sound environmental Financial involvement in the Group is and social issues.
The Group H. J. Gladman operates an Inland Revenue approved Company Secretary The Group is also a member of the Share Incentive Plan SIP formerly 24 February 2003 FTSE4Good Index, designed by the All Employee Share Option Plan and FTSE as an index for organisations an Inland Revenue approved Save As showing their responsibility towards You Earn Scheme which are open to socially responsible investment, with all UK based employees.
