FINANCIAL COMMENTARY As mentioned in the Chairmans ii The Achieved Profits or Life and Pensions Business statement, the results reflect the embedded value basis which brings MSSB: As a relatively young life difficult conditions experienced for into account the value of those future assurance group, the MSSB results stock markets and new business, cash flows.
for SJPs life and pensions business together with the one-off losses from are still showing small losses as LAHC and Nascent, which are In the past we like many quoted mentioned above MSSB accounting commented on further below.
groups owning life assurance takes little account of the benefits of companies presented our accounts future cash flows.
The 2001 MSSB In our half-year statement, we on an embedded value basis, with the pre-tax profit reflects the impact of pointed out that life assurance differs statutory figures shown with the critical illness provisions detailed in from most other businesses, in that body of the accounts.
It has now note 20, which explains why the loss heavy expenses are incurred at the become established practice to has reduced to 0.1 million.
Critical sale of a product, with the cash flow present the accounts themselves on illness claims experience during the benefits flowing from it emerging the statutory basis and to show year has been broadly in line with over a long period in the future.
the impact of future profits from that anticipated when the products This complicates the reporting of life in-force business in Supplementary were priced.
We continue to monitor companies financial results and to Information on Achieved Profits the experience closely.
overcome this life assurance accounts which is the version of embedded are usually presented in one of value recommended by the Achieved Profits: Profits on our two ways: Association of British Insurers and life and pensions business fell from produces very similar results to the 78.7 million pre-tax in 2001 to i the statutory basis often called embedded value basis previously 32.4 million on a pre-tax achieved the Modified Statutory Solvency used by us.
Full details of the profits basis.
This reflects in part the Basis or MSSB, which primarily changes are given in the various notes fall in new business referred to highlights the solvency of the life to the accounts.
In addition we also above, but the major element is a company from the regulators point show the unit trust business on an 32 million negative investment of view and takes little account of achieved profit basis.
variance caused by the poor stock the likely benefits from future market performance over the year.
PAGE 11 FINANCIAL COMMENTARY continued Unit Trust Business year shows a loss of 4.5 million preover the year, an increase in MSSB: Profits from unit trust tax against a profit of 2.5 million provisions for pension misselling business were flat in 2002 10.3 pre-tax in previous years.
The largely caused by stock market falls million pre-tax profit against 10.4 difference is principally accounted and a reassessment of prior year tax million in 2001.
This reflects the fact for by lower cash balances, and hence provisions.
As a result LAHCs that the benefit of new inflows of lower interest earnings, together earnings contribution for the year funds were offset by both the fall in with the write-down of shares held was a loss of 27.7 million 2001 loss new business and the reduction by the Groups executive share of 9.3 million.
in annual management charges trust and some one-off property caused by the fall in asset values over provisions.
In addition 1.2 million Reference was made in the half-year of VAT recoveries on investment Associated Undertakings and statement to difficulties in the Italian management fees were received Other Investments market, as a result of which the during the year.
LAHC directors had decided to write down We announced in our half year the value of SJPCs 26% interest in Achieved profits: Unit trust achieved statement that our holding in LAHC the Nascent joint venture in Italy to profits have fallen from 26.3 million would be included in our achieved nil, resulting in a one-off write down pre-tax to 14.5 million showing profit results on an MSSB basis, as of 18 million.
Towards the end of a similar picture to the life and this is a non-core investment.
The the year, a decision was taken by pensions business.
Again this reflects 22.7% holding in LAHC represents the shareholders to wind up the a negative investment variance of only a small part of our operations: company, and, after allowing for the 12.0 million, although it was the carrying value of 29.2 million cost of the wind-up, this has partially offset by a 4.0 million see note 16 for further commentary resulted in a further cost to SJPC of benefit from the removal of VAT on represents a net asset value of only 1.4 million.
As announced two weeks ago, earnings Other from the investment this year have Other shows earnings from the been severely affected by the fall in core business other than the Groups value of the LAHCs holding in life and unit trust companies.
This Aberdeen Asset Management shares PAGE 12 PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS
