DIRECTORS REPORT REVIEW OF BUSINESS, PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES, to lead and control the Company.
All the directors served RESULTS AND POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS on the Board for the whole year under review except This is contained within pages 2 to 28 and note 36 to P C Murray who was appointed as Finance Director on the accounts.
N N Walmsley served as Deputy Chief Executive and B A Cragg served as Finance Director until DIVIDENDS 31 December 2001.
G M Murphy, the Chief Executive, An interim dividend of 3.275p net per Ordinary share was is due to stand down from the Board on 31 January 2003. paid on 16 August 2002.
The directors recommend the The Board meets regularly, normally eight times payment of a final dividend of 5p net per Ordinary share, throughout the year.
It retains full and effective control over on 7 April 2003 to Ordinary shareholders on the register the Company and monitors the executive management.
Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its DIRECTORS duties.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda and the Board Directors responsibilities has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to ensure decision.
The Company Secretary and Finance Director are that financial statements for each financial year are prepared responsible for ensuring that applicable rules and regulations which give a true and fair view of the state of the Company and are complied with and that Board procedures are followed.
the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit All directors have access to the advice and services of the or loss for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, Company Secretary and, if required, external professional the directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have advice at the Companys expense.
been used and applied consistently: reasonable and prudent All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders judgements and estimates have been made: and the financial at the first opportunity after their appointment.
Pursuant to statements have been drawn up on a going concern basis.
the Companys articles, all directors are required to retire by Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
rotation and offer themselves for re-election at least every It is also the directors responsibility to ensure that three years.
adequate accounting records are maintained: to safeguard the M P Green, L F Hill and Sir Brian Pitman will retire by assets of the Company and the Group: to maintain a system rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the 2003 of internal financial control: and to prevent and detect fraud Annual General Meeting.
Sir Brian Pitman, aged 71, has been and other irregularities.
invited to offer himself for re-election as the Board continues to believe that his business experience and ability are valuable Board of directors and his re-election is in the best interests of shareholders.
The Company ensures that it recruits to the Board only None of the retiring directors has a service contract with the individuals of sufficient calibre, knowledge and experience to Company.
Biographies of the directors offering themselves fulfil the duties of a director appropriately.
All directors are for re-election at this years AGM appear on page 14. given appropriate briefing on appointment and individual training needs are met as required.
The Carlton Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, along with five non-executive directors.
The biographies of the current directors on page 14 illustrate their range of experience, which ensures an effective board 29 Non-executive directors Directors interests The five non-executive directors carry significant influence in Details of the directors interests in the Companys Ordinary Board decisions.
With their differing backgrounds, they bring shares are as follows: 1 October 30 September a wide range of experience and expertise to the Companys 2001 2002 affairs and an independent judgement on issues of strategy M P Green 10,208,324 10,208,324 performance and resources.
Appointments are normally for E M fide Villiers an initial term of three years, which may be extended by D B Green 9,375,299 9,375,299 mutual consent for additional periods.
Given the calibre and L F Hill 79,889 79,889 experience of the non-executive directors, the Board does Sir Sydney Lipworth 33,100 34,572 not consider it currently necessary to appoint a senior G M Murphy 164,883 164,883 independent non-executive director.
Of the non-executive P C Murray 109,821 109,821 directors, the Board considers E M fide Villiers, L F Hill, Sir Brian Pitman 1,082 1,082 Sir Sydney Lipworth and Sir Brian Pitman to be independent.
or date of appointment Audit committee Notes 1 The Company established an Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOP The audit committee is comprised solely of non-executive in 1991 and a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust Quest in directors: Sir Sydney Lipworth Chairman of the committee, 1998.
The Companies Act 1985 deems each executive director to be interested in the shares held for the purposes of the ESOP and the E M fide Villiers and L F Hill all of whom the Board considers Quest.
These interests have not been included in the above figures.
number of Ordinary shares held for the purposes of the ESOP was 2,016,126 on 1 October 2001 and 1,822,172 on 30 September 2002 The Companys audit committee meets at least four times and 26 November 2002.
The number of Ordinary shares held for the a year to monitor the accounting policies, internal controls purposes of the Quest was 696,177 on 1 October 2001, 30 September and financial reporting of the Group.
The duties of the audit 2002 and 26 November 2002. committee also include keeping under review the scope and 2 The interests of M P Green and D B Green include a holding of costs of audit and the nature and extent of non-audit services 8,057,330 Ordinary shares in the name of Tangent Industries Limited, a company controlled by M P Green.
The external auditor attends all the meetings and has direct access to the committee Chairman.
3 There have been no changes in these interests between the year end and the date of this document.
Nomination committee Remuneration committee A nomination committee, consisting of two non-executive The remuneration committee is comprised solely of the directors and the Company Chairman, is responsible for following non-executive directors: Sir Brian Pitman Chairman reviewing and making recommendations to the Board on the of the committee, E M fide Villiers, L F Hill and Sir Sydney appointment of directors.
The members of the nomination Lipworth, all of whom the Board considers to be independent.
committee are: M P Green Chairman of the committee, The committee deals with the remuneration of the executive Sir Sydney Lipworth and Sir Brian Pitman.
directors on behalf of the Board.
The Companys Chairman and Chief Executive assist the committee except in relation to matters specifically concerning their own remuneration.
The Committee does not retain a firm of remuneration consultants, but seeks professional advice on an ad hoc basis.
The remuneration report of the Board can be found on pages 33 to 40.
30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Organisational structure and authorisation Carlton fully endorses the Principles of Good Governance procedures the Group has an established organisational and Code of Best Practice encompassed in the Combined structure with clearly stated lines of responsibility and Code the Code.
Throughout the accounting period the reporting.
Authorisation procedures in respect of matters Company has complied fully with the provisions set out in such as capital expenditure, investments and treasury Section 1 of the Code, other than in respect of the transactions are clearly defined.
appointment of a senior independent non-executive director and directors notice periods.
The ways in which the Risk assessment management has responsibility for the Company applies the principles of the Code, together with identification of risks facing each of their businesses, and for explanations for any areas of non-compliance, are described putting in place controls and procedures to mitigate and in the Directors report including the remuneration report.
Formal bi-annual risk assessments are performed at each subsidiary and for the Group as a whole.
Internal Control Key risks, mitigating controls and required actions are The Code requires that companies review all internal controls identified and monitored by the audit committee and the including financial, operational, compliance controls and risk Board.
The risk assessment process is co-ordinated by the management.
The Turnbull Report provides guidance to Groups internal audit function.
directors in complying with the internal control requirements of the Code.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of complied throughout the year with the guidance contained internal controls controls are monitored by management in the Turnbull Report.
review, Group internal audit and the audit committee.
Directors The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal of all operating subsidiaries are required to complete an control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any internal control annual self-certification questionnaire confirming compliance system can only provide reasonable and not absolute with key controls and procedures.
Completed questionnaires assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key control are reviewed by Group internal audit and the results are procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk reported to the audit committee.
Serious control weaknesses and can be summarised as follows: will be reported to the Board as appropriate.
The results of the bi-annual risk assessment are reported Management policies and procedures management to both the audit committee and to the Board.
responsibilities are established for the executive directors The audit committee and Board have reviewed the and the directors of the operating companies.
These are laid effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group for the down in the Companys Management Policies.
period from 1 October 2001 to 30 September 2002.
Strategy and financial reporting the Group performs a comprehensive annual strategy and budgeting process.
The executive directors review budgets and strategies and the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, compared with individual budgets and forecasts formally updated twice each financial year.
31 GOING CONCERN 2003 Annual General Meeting Based on normal business planning and control procedures, Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting the directors have a reasonable expectation that the are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting Company and the Group have adequate resources to enclosed with this document, and a summary can be found continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Carlton encourages the participation of all For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going investors at its Annual General Meetings.
Procedures at concern basis in preparing the accounts.
the Companys Annual General Meeting will continue to be in compliance with the Code.
SHAREHOLDER MATTERS Relations with shareholders AUDITORS The Company maintains good communications with A resolution to reappoint  as auditors shareholders.
Senior executives of the Company, including will be proposed at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director meet frequently with representatives of institutional shareholders CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY to discuss their views and to ensure that the strategies and The Group does not follow any particular code on payment objectives of the Company are well understood.
Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions Substantial shareholdings with their suppliers are conducted and making those suppliers As at 26 November 2002, the Company had been notified of aware of the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that the following interests held, directly or indirectly, in 3 per cent payments to all suppliers are made in accordance with the or more of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital: agreed terms, provided that the supplier is also complying Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 26,904,819 shares with all relevant terms and conditions.
CGNU plc 32,396,390 Trade creditor days of the Company for the year ended D C Thomson & Co. Limited 24,250,000 shares 30 September 2002 were 30 days, based on the ratio of Fidelity International Limited FMR Corp. 85,011,598 shares Company trade creditors at the year-end to the amounts Legal & General Investment Management Limited invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
20,176,586 shares Putnam Investment Management, Inc The Putnam Advisory DONATIONS Company, Inc. 20,757,069 The Group made charitable donations of 0.3m 2001: 1.1m in the year.
The Group made no political donations.
Conversion and redemption of preference shares During the year, the Company repurchased 30,349 non-voting deferred shares.
These deferred shares were issued upon the conversion of preference shares and were immediately repurchased by the Company and cancelled.
Further details are set out in note 26 on page 72.
