Board of Directors Sir Patrick Gillam Lord Stewartby Mervyn Davies Sir Patrick John Gillam Chairman Appointed to the Board on 1 August 1988 and became Chairman on 6 May 1993.
He is the non-executive Chairman of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc but will retire from this role in March 2003.
He is a member of the Court of Governors and an Honorary Fellow of the London School of Economics and Political Mike DeNoma Christopher Keljik Richard Meddings Science.
He will retire as Chairman in May 2003.
The Rt Hon Lord Stewartby Deputy Chairman Appointed to the Board on 1January 1990 and became Deputy Chairman in 1993.
He is Chairman of the Throgmorton Trust PLC, Deputy Kai Nargolwala Peter Sands Ronnie Chan Chairman of Amlin plc and a non-executive director of other companies.
He was formerly a member of the Financial Services Authority.
Evan Mervyn Davies CBE Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board on 16 December 1997 and as Group Chief Executive on 28 November Sir CK Chow Barry Clare Ho KwonPing 2001.
He joined Standard Chartered in 1993 with responsibility for global account management and prior to joining the Board he was based in Singapore in charge of the Groups corporate and investment banking business.
Before his appointment as Group Chief Executive he was executive director with responsibility for Hong Kong, China and North East Asia and for David Moir Hugh Norton Rudy Markham Group-wide technology and operations.
He is a member of Hong Kongs Exchange Fund Committee.
Michael Bernard DeNoma Appointed to the Board on 12 May 2000.
He is responsible for the Groups consumer banking business world-wide.
He joined Sir Ralph Robins Bryan Sanderson Cob Stenham Standard Chartered in July 1999 with responsibility for Consumer Banking in the Asian markets.
40 Standard Chartered Christopher Avedis Keljik Sir CK Chow Sir Ralph Harry Robins Appointed to the Board on 7 May 1999.
Appointed to the Board on 24 February 1997.
Appointed to the Board on 1October 1988.
He is responsible for the Groups businesses He is Chief Executive Officer of Brambles He was formerly Chairman of Rolls-Royce plc and for governance in Africa, the Middle East Industries plc and Brambles Industries Limited.
and the Defence Industries Council, and and South Asia and has governance responsibility He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy is a former President of the Society of British for the United Kingdom and the Americas.
of Engineering, the City and Guilds of Aerospace Companies.
He is a non-executive He is also on the Visa International Asia Pacic London Institute and the Institute of Chemical director of Cooper Industries Limited.
He is also a governor of the Chartered in 1976 and has held a number of London Business School.
He is based Bryan Kaye Sanderson CBE senior positions working in London, Hong Kong, in both Sydney and London.
Appointed to the Board on 9 December 2002.
New York and Singapore in corporate finance, He is to become Chairman in May 2003.
He treasury and general management.
Barry Clare spent most of his career with British Petroleum, Appointed to the Board on 31July 2002. rising to become a main board director and Richard Henry Meddings He was formerly an executive director Chief Executive of BP Chemicals before he Appointed to the Board on 16 November 2002. of the Boots Company PLC.
He is Chairman of BUPA and He is responsible for audit and for risk.
Prior a non-executive director of Six Continents PLC.
to his appointment, he was the Chief Operating Ho KwonPing He is also Chairman of the Learning and Skills Officer, Barclays Private Clients at Barclays PLC.
Appointed to the Board on 22 October 1996.
He was Group Finance Director of The Woolwich He is Chairman of the Wah-Chang Group.
plc before it was acquired by Barclays, where He is also Chairman of Banyan Tree Holdings Anthony William Paul Stenham his responsibilities included risk, compliance Pte Ltd, Singapore Management University Appointed to the Board on 1October 1991. and treasury.
Age 44. and Co-Chairman of the Thailand-Singapore He is Chairman of TeleWest Communications Business Council.
plc, Whatsonwhen plc and IFonline Group plc, Kaikhushru Shiavax Nargolwala Age 50. and a non-executive director of Jarrold and Appointed to the Board on 7 May 1999.
Sons Ltd and Hebridean Cruises plc.
He is He is responsible for the Groups wholesale Rudolph Harold Peter Markham also an advisory director of The Management banking business world-wide and for corporate Appointed to the Board on 19 February 2001.
Age 71. governance across the Asia Pacific region He is Finance Director of Unilever PLC and and India.
He joined Standard Chartered Unilever NV.
Audit and Risk Committee in 1998 as Group Head of Sales responsible Lord Stewartby Chairman for relationships with corporate and institutional David George Moir CBE Rudolph Markham customers in the Asia Pacific region, the USA Appointed to the Board on 1January 1993 Hugh Norton and Europe.
Age 52. as an executive director.
He retired as an Sir Ralph Robins executive director on 18 March 2000 after Peter Alexander Sands 42 years service with Standard Chartered Board Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board on 14 May 2002.
Group but remains as a non-executive director.
Hugh Norton Chairman He is responsible for finance, strategy, He also sits on the Board of Pengurusan Barry Clare technology and operations.
Prior to his Danaharta Nasional Berhad Danaharta.
Ho KwonPing appointment he was a director with world-wide Age 62.
Sir Ralph Robins consultancy McKinsey & Co.
He had been Anthony Stenham with McKinsey since 1988, where he worked Hugh Edward Norton Lord Stewartby extensively in the banking and technology sectors Appointed to the Board on 7 August 1995. in a wide range of international markets.
He is a non-executive director of Inchcape plc The Board Remuneration Committee acts and is also a member of the Chancellors Court as the Boards Nomination Committee.
Ronnie ChiChung Chan of Benefactors, Oxford University.
Appointed to the Board on 5 May 1994.
Director of Standard Chartered Bank.
He is Chairman of the Hang Lung Group and Independent non-executive director.
its subsidiaries, Hang Lung Properties Limited Non-executive director.
and Grand Hotel Holdings Limited.
