Senior Management Standard Chartered Bank The directors of Standard Chartered Bank comprise the executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the following two senior executives: Gareth Richard Bullock Peter Tung Shun Wong Joined in 1996.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Bank and Joined in 1997.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Bank the Group Head of Technology and Operations.
Previously, he was and Chief Executive Officer of Hong Kong.
Regional General Manager, Africa and has held other senior positions in the United Kingdom, Europe, Hong Kong, China and North East Asia.
Executive Committee The Groups Executive Committee as at 19 February 2003 comprises the directors of Standard Chartered Bank, other than Sir Patrick Gillam, and the following senior executives: Jaspal Bindra Timothy John Miller Joined in 1998.
He is Group Head, Corporates and Institutions.
He is Group Head of HumanResources and Organisational previously Regional General Manager India, Standard Chartered Bank.
He was previously employed as Human Resources Director Age 42. for GlaxoSmithKlines world-wide manufacturing operations.
David Edwards Kathleen Anne Nealon Joined in 1999.
He is Regional General Manager, Middle East and Joined in 1992.
She is Group Head Legal & Compliance.
He was previously Group Head Risk Management.
Age 49. she was Head of Legal & Compliance, the Americas and Group Head of Compliance.
He is Global Product Head Cards and Personal Loans, Alun Michael Guest Rees Consumer Banking.
He was previously Regional General Manager, Joined in 1990.
He is Chief Executive Officer Wholesale Bank.
He has Middle East and South Asia.
Age 55. held the positions of Chief Financial Officer of Group Treasury, Regional Treasurer in Singapore and Group Head of Global Markets.
Euleen Yiu Kiang Goh Joined in 1984.
She is Chief Executive Officer, Singapore.
She has held Peter David Sullivan various Group Head roles in Treasury and Custody Audit, Market Risk Joined in 1994.
He is Chief Executive Officer, Africa.
He has held the and Sales of Corporate & Institutional Banking.
Age 47. positions of Group Head of Global Cash Management Services, and also held the positions of Group Head of Product Management, Corporate & Institutional Banking, Integration Executive and Chief Executive officer of Standard Chartered Grindlays Bank.
