Directors report The directors of P&O Princess Cruises plc present their report to shareholders together with the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002.
Principal activities The Groups principal activities during the year were the international operation of cruise ships and the provision of related land-based tourist services, including tours and accommodation in Alaska.
Business review and future developments A review of Group activities during the year and likely future developments is provided in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the overview of the brands and the operating and financial review on pages 2 to 24. Dividend The Company has paid three interim dividends during the year totalling 9 U. S. cents per share 2001 9 U. S. cents.
A fourth interim dividend of 3 U. S. cents per ordinary share 2001 3 U. S. cents paid as a final dividend will be paid on March 14, 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on February 21, 2003.
No final dividend is proposed so the total dividends for the year will be 12 U. S. cents per share 2001 12 U. S. cents.
Although the dividend is declared in U. S. cents, it will be paid in sterling unless shareholders elect to receive their dividends in U. S. dollars.
The dividend will be converted into sterling at an exchange rate set on March 4, 2003.
Holders of the Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs will receive their fourth interim dividend of 12 U. S. cents per ADS in U. S. dollars.
Dual listed company transactions On November 20, 2001, the Company announced that it had entered into agreements to combine with Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. Royal Caribbean under a dual listed company DLC structure.
On December 13, 2001, Carnival Corporation Carnival submitted a proposal to the board of the Company regarding an offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of the Company.
Carnival also proposed the possibility of effecting a combination of Carnival and P&O Princess Cruises by other means, including a DLC structure.
The board of P&O Princess Cruises carefully considered Carnivals proposal and determined that it was not more favourable from a financial point of view to the Companys shareholders than the proposed transaction with Royal Caribbean and that there was reasonable doubt as to its deliverability.
On January 30, 2002, Carnival revised its offer to acquire P&O Princess Cruises but, for reasons as before, the board of the Company continued to recommend the Royal Caribbean proposal.
On February 7, 2002, Carnival announced the terms of a further increased offer of 0.3004 shares in Carnival for each share in P&O Princess Cruises plc.
The Board considered the offer from Carnival but, in view of its concerns about the structure and deliverability of the proposal, the Board continued to recommend the proposal to enter into a dual listed company combination with Royal Caribbean.
On February 14, 2002, at an Extraordinary General Meeting convened to consider the Royal Caribbean proposal, shareholders voted to adjourn the meeting until such time as the outcome of the reviews by the relevant competition regulators of both the Royal Caribbean proposal and the Carnival proposal were known.
On October 4, 2002, the Federal Trade Commission of the United States announced that it would not oppose a combination of the Company with either Royal Caribbean or Carnival.
The regulatory authorities of the European Commission, the United Kingdom and Germany had previously cleared both proposals.
Following the Federal Trade Commissions announcement, the Company entered into talks with Carnival.
On October 24, 2002, Carnival announced the terms of a pre-conditional proposal to enter into a DLC transaction with P&O Princess on the same economic terms as its latest previously-announced share exchange offer.
As part of the transaction, Carnival proposed a Partial Share Offer for up to, in aggregate, 20 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company.
On October 25, 2002, the Board announced that it was withdrawing its recommendation of the Royal Caribbean proposal.
The Board also announced that, on payment of the agreed fee of $62.5m, it had agreed with Royal Caribbean to terminate the implementation agreement between the companies and, subject to there being no change of control of P&O Princess prior to January 1, 2003, to terminate the joint-venture agreement between the two companies on that date.
On January 2, 2003, the Company announced that the joint-venture agreement had been terminated.
On January 8, 2003, the Board announced that it recommended the proposal to enter into a DLC transaction with Carnival.
It is expected that an Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders to consider the proposed transaction with Carnival will be held in April 2003.
Directors The names of the persons who served as directors of the Company during the financial year, and biographical notes about each of the directors, are set out on page 16.
Details of the directors membership of board committees are set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 32 to 33.
Details of the directors remuneration and their interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 35 to 40.
Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in compliance with the Act, for safeguarding the assets of the Group, and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing the financial statements on pages 42 to 73 inclusive, the directors consider that appropriate accounting policies have been used and applied in a consistent manner, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all relevant accounting standards have been followed.
Share capital Changes in the Companys share capital during the year are given in note 16 to the accounts.
30 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002 Directors report Substantial shareholdings As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital: No.
of shares Percentage of issued capital Deutsche Bank AG 75,971,531 11.0% Henderson Global Investors Limited 31,337,762 4.5% Lehman Brothers International 26,794,356 3.9% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 25,197,288 3.6% Barclays Global Investors Limited 24,201,310 3.5% Baillie Gifford & Co. 23,531,595 3.4% Cater Allen International Limited 21,849,000 3.2% M&G Investment Management Limited 21,516,184 3.1% Credit Suisse First Boston Equities Limited 21,184,897 3.0% Health, safety, welfare and the environment There is a Group policy for health, safety, welfare and the environment, which is reviewed each year by the board and communicated to all staff.
Each business unit is required to produce its own policy and management systems to reflect Group policy and best industry practice in its sector of business.
Monitoring of compliance with Group policy is maintained by periodic assessment.
Reports are reviewed by the director responsible for safety and environmental matters and a monthly report is submitted to the board.
The Groups response to environmental issues is set out in more detail in the statement on page 17.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with terms and conditions agreed when the orders are placed.
Although the Company does not follow a particular code or standard on payment policy, where payment terms have not been specifically agreed invoices dated in one calendar month are paid close to the end of the following month.
These policies are understood by the purchasing and finance departments.
The Company has procedures for dealing promptly with complaints and disputes.
The Company had no trade creditors outstanding at December 31, 2002 2001 nil.
Employees The Company is committed to keeping employees informed of the performance, development and progress of the Group.
This is primarily achieved through management briefings and widely-distributed news and information bulletins.
The Company aims to meet the objective of the code of good practice on the employment of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and abilities.
It is the policy of the Company to retain employees who become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialist training where appropriate.
Employees are able to share in the results of the Group through performance-related bonus schemes which are widely applied.
Charitable donations During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Group made charitable donations totalling $0.2m 2001 $0.2m.
Political contributions The Group did not make any contributions to U. K. political parties during the year ended December 31, 2002 2001 nil.
By order of the Board Simon Pearce Company Secretary February 6, 2003 2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 31
