16 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002 Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 67 1.
The Lord Sterling of Plaistow GCVO, CBE, 3.
Peter Ratcliffe, director of P&O Princess since the demerger Chairman Chief Executive Officer in October 2000.
Baroness Hogg will be a Lord Sterling, aged 68, has been Chairman of Peter Ratcliffe, aged 54, has been Chief director of the Dual Listed Companies on P&O Princess Cruises plc since the demerger Executive Officer of P&O Princess Cruises plc the expected completion of the DLC from P&O in October 2000.
He is also since the demerger from P&O in October combination with Carnival Corporation.
Chairman of P&O, having joined its Board as 2000.
He was previously an executive director a non-executive director in 1980.
He was of P&O and head of its cruise division, having 6.
Peter Foy, appointed Executive Chairman of P&O in served as President of Princess Cruises since Non-Executive Director 1983.
Prior to his involvement in P&O, Lord 1993 and its Chief Operating Officer since Peter Foy, aged 62, has been a non-executive Sterling founded Sterling Guarantee Trust 1989.
His early career was spent with P&O director of P&O Princess Cruises plc since and was a Special Adviser to successive U. K. Containers Limited in London and Sydney.
the demerger from P&O in October 2000.
Secretaries of State for Industry and then Peter Ratcliffe served as the Chairman of the He was formerly Managing Director of Trade & Industry.
Lord Sterling has previously International Council of Cruise Lines in 1997 McKinsey & Co U. K. and for ten years was been President of the General Council of and 1998.
Peter Ratcliffe will be a director of Head of the firm's European Consumer Goods British Shipping and President of the European the Dual Listed Companies on the expected Practice.
Previously, Mr Foy held a number Community Shipowners' Association.
Lord completion of the DLC transaction with of marketing positions with Gillette, L'Oreal Sterling will retire from the Board of P&O Carnival Corporation.
He is presently Princess Cruises on the expected Chairman of Whitehead Mann Group plc completion of the DLC transaction with 4.
Nick Luff, and a non-executive director of Pepsi Co Carnival Corporation.
Chief Financial Officer Inc. and Safeway plc.
Peter Foy will stand Nick Luff, aged 35, has been Chief Financial down from the Board on the expected 2.
Sir John Parker, Officer of P&O Princess Cruises plc since the completion of the DLC transaction with Deputy Chairman demerger from P&O in October 2000.
Sir John Parker, aged 60, is a director of Chartered Accountant, he was Finance Director P&O Princess and the non-executive Chairman of P&O from 1999 until the demerger, having 7.
Horst Rahe, of National Grid Transco plc and RMC previously been Group Treasurer and Head of Non-Executive Director Group plc.
He is non-executive director of Corporate Finance.
Nick Luff will stand down Horst Rahe, aged 63, has been closely associated Brambles Industries plc.
He was formerly from the Board upon the expected with the development of tourism in GermanChairman of Babcock International Group completion of the DLC transaction with speaking countries and his business career plc and a past President of the Royal Carnival Corporation.
has covered shipping, tourism and real estate Institution of Naval Architects.
Sir John Parker in Hamburg and Rostock.
He was instrumental has been a member of the General Committee 5.
Baroness Hogg, in the successful privatisation in 1998 of of Lloyds Register of Shipping since 1983 Non-Executive Director Deutsche Seereederei, which has become and Chairman of its Technical Committee Baroness Hogg, aged 56, is a director of P&O one of the best-known tourist enterprises 1993-2002.
He is Vice-President of the Princess, Chairman of 3i Group Plc and Frontier under the brand name Arkona Touristik, Engineering Employers' Federation.
Sir John Economics and a non-executive director of with a special focus on cruise ships.
Mr Rahe has been a non-executive director of P&O GKN plc.
She is also a Governor of the British also founded AIDA, which became the leading Princess since the demerger in October Broadcasting Corporation and a member of cruise brand in Germany after only four years 2000 and was appointed Deputy Chairman the House of Lords Economic Affairs of operation and was acquired by P&O in September 2002.
Sir John Parker will be a Committee.
Sarah Hogg was Head of the Princess Cruises plc in 1999.
Mr Rahe was director of the Dual Listed Companies on Prime Minister's Policy Unit, with the rank of appointed as a non-executive director of the expected completion of the DLC Second Permanent Secretary, from 1990-1995 P&O Princess Cruises plc in May 2001. transaction with Carnival Corporation.
and served as a non-executive director of Horst Rahe will stand down from the Board P&O between 1999 and October 2000. on the expected completion of the DLC Baroness Hogg has been a non-executive transaction with Carnival Corporation.
timeline: 2002 the charter of new ship - Minerva II April 2002 Ocean Village - a new UK brand - announced May 2002 The second AIDA vessel,
