Directors RONALD SCOTT BROWN, Chairman, aged 66, was appointed a director in 1978.
He has been involved in investment management since 1961, initially with Brander & Cruickshank.
In 1983 he became one of the founding executives of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and served as non executive deputy chairman of that company from 1995 until January 2003.
He is also a director of Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust and a member of the governing body of the Caledonian Research Foundation.
GARY J ALLEN, aged 58, was appointed a director in 2001.
He has over 35 years experience in engineering and is currently chairman of IMI plc.
His other directorships include The London Stock Exchange, N V Bekaert SA, and The National Exhibition Centre.
JOHN L HUDSON, aged 57, was appointed a director in 1992.
He is a former chief executive of Wagon plc and is currently chairman of Birmingham International Airport Limited, Whittan Group Limited and Metal Castings Limited and is chairman and chief executive of Calder Industrial Materials Limited.
RICHARD W JEWSON, aged 58, was appointed a director in 2001.
He first worked in the timber and building material supply industry, becoming managing director of Jewson the builders merchants for twelve years from 1974, and then managing director and chairman of its parent company Meyer International plc from which he retired in 1993.
He is currently chairman of Savills plc, Queens Moat Houses plc, Octagon Healthcare Limited and Archant Limited, deputy chairman of Anglian Water Services Limited and a non executive director of Grafton Group plc.
JOHN REEVE, aged 58, was appointed a director in 1992.
He was formerly executive chairman of the Willis Group, group managing director of Sun Life Assurance Society and a member of the boards of the Association of British Insurers and the International Insurance Society: he is a director of a number of other companies.
FIELD L J WALTON, aged 62, was appointed a director in 1983.
He started his career in engineering management and moved to the City as an analyst with Cazenove in 1971.
Subsequently he held a number of positions in fund management.
He is currently a director of MacArthur & Co. Limited and a non-executive director of Martin International Holdings Plc and a number of engineering and trust companies.
Independent non-executive director and member of the audit committee.
Chairman of the audit committee.
