Manager s report Entering 2002, most market commentators felt yielding equities, shielded it from many of the worst that the global reductions in short-term interest excesses of the bear market.
The holdings in the rates would prove sufficient to stimulate the tobacco, electricity and water sectors proved very worlds economies, albeit with a more lagged positive.
Gallahers combination of secure UK response than usual, and bring an end to the equity earnings combined with exposure to growing bear markets.
However, as the year progressed, it demand for upmarket brands in the developing became clear this was not a typical post war Eastern European economies maintained the economic cycle.
companys excellent record of earnings growth.
The monopoly positions of Lattice and National Grid in In modern times, we have become used to a their respective industries also proved that reasonably predictable sequence of events: the regulated earnings, while boring, are often an onset of high inflation controlled by the effect of under-rated part of the market.
The merger of these higher interest rates on consumer expenditure companies during the year also gave shareholders causing sub par economic growth until low interest the benefits of some major cost savings.
rates are introduced to release the pent-up consumer demand and re-invigorate economic Elsewhere, many of the years highlights on the growth.
portfolio came from our relatively high weighting in companies outside the FTSE 100.
Investors In its place we face the after effects of a massive continued to focus on Rank as a major beneficiary equity bubble which allowed corporate of gambling fide-regulation through its bingo and management to believe they had entered a period casino interests.
Tullow Oils profits grew strongly entirely different from anything they had as the assets bought from BP performed well and previously experienced.
This encouraged them to encouraged the market to reappraise the increase capital spending way beyond its normal companys prospects.
Yule Catto also contributed levels and finance this expenditure through higher positively to the portfolios performance driven by levels of debt.
Meanwhile, the consumer has its exposure to generic drug growth.
As we moved remained reasonably untouched.
Unemployment into the latter part of the year we began reducing worldwide has remained fairly low and the series of our holdings in Rank and Tullow Oil as we felt interest rate cuts has actually brought forward much of the good news had been discounted in purchases of many goods and services.
ourselves moving towards the bottom of the interest rate cycle with many major imbalances still As with any year there were some decisions which present: high consumer and corporate debt, large went against us.
Our purchase of British Energy levels of overcapacity in many industries, sizeable was one.
We believed wholesale electricity prices trade deficits and surpluses and low savings ratios.
were stabilising and that new entrants would be discouraged from adding further capacity.
Against this background and with the benefit of Unfortunately, this was not so and the companys hindsight it is not surprising that the worlds major high fixed costs had a striking impact on operating stockmarkets suffered a third successive year of profits and the balance sheet.
We were also falls and the increasing correlation between these persuaded by Cable and Wirelesss strategy to markets ensured there was no hiding place for the build a global telecommunications network equity investor.
What was particularly galling for an incorporating internet services aimed at the investor in the UK equity market was that little corporate customer and our confidence was protection was provided by the strength of the UK supported by the large amount of cash on the economy, relative cheapness of its market and the companys balance sheet.
However, overcapacity in apparent defensiveness of many of its constituents.
this market has badly damaged pricing while The natural conservatism of the Temple Bar continued capital expenditure has reduced the cash portfolio, characterized by its exposure to high balances.
Temple Bar Investment Trust 10 Managers report continued As detailed last year, we had been concerned that future and here things look a touch brighter.
The the sudden popularity of investing in value shares US Federal Reserve appears determined to show it had pushed many of our typical holdings to levels at has learnt from the deflationary spiral that the which they were neither particularly high yielding Japanese have found themselves in for a decade and nor out of favour.
We therefore increased our a whole host of imaginative policy actions can be exposure to some of the fallen stars of the expected to be seen in 2003 to reflate the technology boom which we felt had been harshly economy.
This strategy had mixed success during the The UK equity market certainly appears cheap year: BSkyB and MMO2 produced good relative both in absolute terms and relative to other asset performance but we were attracted to Logica far classes and international equity markets.
However, too early and despite its merger with CMG the the fear of forced selling by life assurers, aggressive shares continued to disappoint.
behaviour of hedge funds and fears of a house price As the bear market has become more protracted an bubble and its knock-on effects suggest no-one increasing number of traditional value opportunities should be surprised if equities hit further lows in have arisen and we made a decision to switch back 2003.
It is essential to maintain some sanity when out of certain low yielding shares: a decision partly making investment decisions and, by basing our influenced by our desire to see the portfolio purchases and sales on time horizons seemingly continue to generate good levels of revenue.
beyond those of most investors, we believe we will maximize our profitable opportunities.
There is undoubtedly a good deal of pressure on dividends generally in the UK market and many Therefore, our large overweight positions such as companies have been forced to cut payments to Barclays, BT and GlaxoSmithKline reflect our shareholders as profits have fallen and balance confidence that the bear market is nearing the end, sheets deteriorated.
This will continue throughout of its first leg at least, and that exposure to the 2003 but we feel that, on the whole, the majority large, well capitalized companies is the best way to of companies in the Temple Bar portfolio will not play this view.
In addition, with the outlook this be affected by these cuts.
uncertain and revenue and profit growth likely to prove hard to come by, we would expect to see The economic uncertainty and the risks of war in many companies pursue some of their growth Iraq leaves forecasting even more hazardous than ambitions through corporate activity.
The US consumer, who has proved the month of the financial year has seen a bevy of powerhouse of the global economy, is under contenders announcing bids for the Safeway chain increasing strain and the US corporate sector of food superstores.
There is every reason to remains laden with debt and overcapacity.
believe this theme will be explored in many other Meanwhile, the moribund Japanese economy and sectors throughout the coming year.
the inflation obsessed European Union look unlikely to take up the running.
There should Alastair Mundy though be no surprise about the presence of bad Investec Investment news: that is what bear markets are all about.
The Management Limited stockmarket should be about discounting the 18 February 2003 Temple Bar Investment Trust 11
