Managers Review In Lord Faringdons final year as Chairman I would like to have been able to report a positive result to shareholders.
Unfortunately, with stockmarkets in free fall for much of the year, this has not James Robinson proved possible.
Indeed, over the period our share price has fallen by 33.1%.
This comprises a fall of 28.3% in our underlying net asset value per share, together with a widening in our discount from 8.9% to 15.0%.
Our net asset value underperformed our sellers of equities.
Either in response to regulatory solvency ratios, benchmark by 1.9% for detailed reasons see the activity and or in an attempt to match their liabilities more closely, they performance section below, while the widening in our discount switched out of equities in favour of British Government bonds prompted us to buy back a modest number of our shares in the and other xed interest securities.
This forced selling second half of the year.
undoubtedly made the supply demand position in the UK equity market worse than it would otherwise have been.
Market Review Last years review concluded that 2002 is shaping up to be a better Activity and Performance year for the global economy and we expect it to prove sufficient to The Witan Board limits our investments to 110% of net assets so sustain a reasonable level of optimism in equity markets while any borrowing in excess of 10% is held in cash or cash equivalents.
interest rates and ination remain so low.
Whilst our economic At the end of 2001 our investments amounted to less than 110% of forecasts were accurate, we were clearly wrong about equity net assets so this was not an issue.
During the course of 2002 our markets which have had another very disappointing year.
We long term borrowings have remained the same but our net assets should perhaps have remembered that, after a party like the one have declined by over 28.0%.
As a result, our gross borrowings at we saw in the 1990s, the hangover can often be prolonged.
the end of 2002 rose to 13.5% of net assets, thus obliging us to hold a minimum of 3.5% in cash.
This was the main reason for the All of the major markets experienced significant falls over the year increase in our cash balances over the course of the year.
although there was some disparity between them.
The more resilient areas were Japan and the Pacic down 18.5% and 19.8% In April we thought that the outlook for Japan on a relative basis respectively in sterling terms while the weakest were the US was improving so we moved some more money into that market.
The UK at -25.0% was We were overweight in Japan and the Pacic for most of the year, in the middle of the pack.
On the currency front the strongest of which helped our relative performance, while we also benefited from the major currencies was the euro 6.5% against sterling while our underweight position in the US market.
Towards the year end we the weakest was the US dollar -10.3%.
The yen was little changed.
decided to reduce our Pacic weighting, switching the proceeds directly into the US.
The main purpose of this was to reduce the Following the bursting of the technology bubble in 2000, value extent of our underweight position in the US where the market was stocks enjoyed a very strong relative run throughout 2001.
2002 showing tentative signs of recovery.
Although our overweight stance was more mixed however with the bear market broadening out to in Continental Europe did not help, geographical asset allocation encompass almost every area.
In fact, only two sectors in the UK provided a net positive contribution to our relative performance stockmarket showed positive returns last year, namely tobacco in 2002. and personal care household products.
With these two exceptions there was nowhere to hide from the ravages of the I have already touched on the subject of gearing which is always a bear market with traditional defensive sectors such as utilities negative in falling markets.
During 2002 our net gearing averaged and food producers all suffering declines.
6.8%, accounting for 2.3% of our total underperformance relative to benchmark.
Stock selection, by contrast, was a small positive.
The In the case of the UK there was one other important factor which UK mainstream portfolio, which accounts for over half Witans hindered the performance of the market.
This was the fact that assets, outperformed the UK market by 5.1%.
However, this was British insurance companies and pension funds became structural partially offset by a very poor year for the UK specialist growth 7 Managers Review continued portfolio in response to which we have taken some remedial For some time now deation has been public enemy number action, as explained in the next section.
one as far as stockmarkets are concerned and it remains a major threat.
Encouragingly, the worlds major monetary and scal Management authorities do appear to be waging a full-scale assault on the During the year there have been two changes to our perils of deation.
Whether the policies of reation will management team.
In late November Neil Hermon took over the ultimately work is a moot point but in the near term the US management of the UK specialist growth portfolio from Richard economy, underpinned by an accommodative Federal Reserve, Smith.
After very strong results in past years, this area has should continue to beat pessimistic expectations.
Indeed, it recently been beset by performance problems and we felt that could now be argued that US government bonds, an apparently the time had come for a fresh approach.
As the new Head of safe area, look more expensive than shares.
Confronted by a Hendersons UK Smaller Companies team, and with a good and weak dollar, markets are again worrying about how the US will consistent track record going back over many years, Neil seemed finance its current account deficit.
Overseas investors currently the ideal person to perform this role for us.
He has already hold around 35% of all the US Treasury bonds in issue and may carried out a substantial re-structuring of the portfolio, which we be reluctant to increase their holdings much further.
now identify as smaller companies instead of as specialist growth.
I would encourage you to read his review on page 15 There are, however, some areas of strength in the global economy.
which describes his approach to investment and some of the A good example of this is China whose economy has been new investments he has made.
This re-balanced portfolio is growing at around 8% per annum.
Buoyant Chinese trade has much more diversied than it was at the start of the year.
This been an important factor in the continuing rise in shipping rates.
diversity is a reection of a bottom-up stock picking approach Although China is only 5% of global GDP, it is a major consumer across the whole market, rather than the previous emphasis on of commodities and this partly explains the recent strength in the technology, media and support service sectors.
many commodity prices which have performed very well in an otherwise deationary world.
This has been of considerable You will also notice that the management team no longer features benefit to commodity producing countries such as Australia and an emerging markets specialist.
This is because our emerging South Africa.
Oil prices have also run up to $30, fuelled by the market investments are currently focused on Asia and therefore growing threat of a US-led assault on Iraq.
The latter and the risk are managed by William Pitman as part of his Far East portfolio.
that Gulf oil supplies are badly disrupted in a conict is the most obvious near term threat to global economic stability.
Outlook What we can say with some certainty is that following last years Conclusion falls the equity markets represent better value than they did a year In the lower growth environment that lies ahead, stock selection earlier.
However, this does not necessarily mean that they will go will continue to be critically important.
I believe we now have the up in 2003.
The dividend yield on the UK market of 3.5% is almost right team in place to deliver this.
After three down years for stock as high as the return on cash but whether this is attractive or not markets, it seems reasonable to expect a calmer year in 2003.
In depends critically on the outlook for corporate profits.
In the last the UK, structural selling by insurance companies and pension twelve months deationary conditions have adversely affected funds will likely persist but expectations are now at a very low ebb certain industries, especially in the technology, media and telecom and the probability of a cyclical improvement in equities seems areas and in manufacturing generally, with adverse implications for quite high.
However, given the many structural issues that corporate profitability.
Although we have seen some pick up in real confront both the global economy and the stock markets, a strong GDP growth during 2002, the very low rate of ination means that secular bull market still seems some way off.
nominal GDP growth in the G7 economies continues to run at 2% to 3% per annum, a 40 year low.
As long as this persists, it is J P Robinson difficult to be overly optimistic about corporate profits.
