Group Overview Research Programmes pathway.
In particular, many protein interactions can only be Celltech has built an exceptional discovery organisation, with 450 scientific and support staff dedicated to the identification antagonised using a large molecule such as an antibody, of novel drug candidates with substantial commercial potential.
whereas intracellular drug targets are best addressed by NCE In order to maximise the effectiveness of its resources, Celltechs approaches.
research is focused on immune and inflammatory disorders and oncology.
Celltech is committed to maintaining its innovative technology platform, which provides substantial competitive Celltech operates a dual-pipeline strategy encompassing both advantage across the entire discovery and development process.
antibody and small molecule NCE approaches, facilitating In the area of antibody therapeutics, Celltech has world-leading multiple points of intervention when addressing a disease capabilities, including its PEGylated antibody fragment Celltechs innovative technology development in September 2001. platform is exemplified by its Celltech believes this drug has interleukin-1 research programme.
The substantial potential as a novel intellectual property for this target was treatment for autoimmune and acquired in November 2000, with a high inflammatory diseases such as affinity PEGylated antibody fragment rheumatoid arthritis, and will start CDP 484 being entered into clinical development during 2003.
4 Celltech Annual Report 2002 platform, its microbial manufacturing system, SLAM, for rapid generation of antibodies and, through its collaboration with Seattle Genetics, access to antibody-targeted toxin technology.
Celltechs strong NCE research capabilities have been enhanced by access to Neogenesis screening technology, accelerating identification of novel small molecule treatments.
Celltech also undertakes in-house target identification and validation to provide a robust understanding of disease biology before entering drugs into clinical development.
