Directors report The directors present their report and the audited group Post balance sheet events accounts of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Details of post balance sheet events are disclosed in note 30 to the financial statements on page 62.
Principal activities The principal activities during the year were: Dividends the provision of gas, electricity and energy related products An interim dividend of 1.4 pence per ordinary share was and services in Great Britain, North America and Europe: paid on 27 November 2002.
The directors recommend that, the operation of gas fields in Great Britain and North subject to approval at the annual general meeting AGM on America and power stations in Great Britain: 12 May 2003, a final dividend of 2.6 pence per ordinary share energy trading in the UK, North American and be paid on 18 June 2003 to those shareholders registered European markets: on 2 May 2003.
This makes a total dividend for the year roadside assistance and other motoring services of 4.0 pence per share 2001: 3.1 pence per share.
in the UK and Europe: the provision of financial services in the UK: and Related party transactions the provision of telecommunications services in the UK.
Details of related party transactions are set out in note 28 on page 58. Business review Creditor payment policy The chairmans statement, and the operating and financial It is the groups policy to: review featured on pages 4 to 15 report on the activities agree the terms of payment in advance with the supplier: of the group during the year, recent events and any ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and likely further business developments.
pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Financial results The financial results of the group are discussed in the The number of days purchases outstanding as at 31 December group financial review on pages 16 to 18 of this report.
2002 was 34 2001: 32 for the group excluding Accord Energy Trading Limited and 41 days 2001: 42 days for the company.
Major acquisitions and disposals In May, the acquisition of the Toronto based home and Employment policies business services operation Enbridge Services Inc for The group employed an average of 38,051 people during 2002.
The acquisition 35,563 were employed in the UK, 301 in the rest of Europe and comprised 1.75 million customer relationships and 2,187 in North America.
1.3 million waterheaters which were leased to customers.
The group is committed to pursuing equality and diversity In December, the waterheater assets were transferred in all its employment activities, with particular emphasis on to the Consumers Waterheater Income Fund CWIF, recruitment and selection, training and development, appraisal which listed units and debt securities on the Toronto and promotion.
By supporting and encouraging the diversity of Stock Exchange, implying an enterprise value of C$1 billion.
our people, we aim to increase employee motivation and provide The group retained a 41.9% equity and voting interest better service to our diverse customer base in the community in the CWIF.
This approach is reflected in our employee policies In June, agreement was reached to dispose of non-core and procedures and we are proud to offer a range of benefits interests in the Liverpool Bay Fields in consideration for a that go beyond the requirements of legislation.
For example, package of offshore gas assets in the North Sea and a cash we have a comprehensive carers policy, which enables balance, with a total value of approximately 88 million.
employees to balance the demands of long term caring In June, Regional Power Generators Ltd, which owns commitments with the requirements of their job.
and operates the 240MW Glanford Brigg power station The group continues to support the Governments New in Lincolnshire, was acquired for 37 million.
Deal for people with disabilities, the aim of which is to recruit In August, the acquisition of 212,000 natural gas customers unemployed disabled people and carers into the groups of NewPower Holdings, Inc and its subsidiaries in Ohio and operations.
Centricas experience of embracing diversity is being Pennsylvania was completed for US$26 million 17 million.
shared with other UK employers through its membership of the In August, Electricity Direct UK Ltd, the UKs largest Employers Forum on Disability and the Employers Forum on Age.
independent commercial electricity supplier, was We comply with national gender pay policies and are acquired for 50 million.
committed to implementing them through a programme In November, offshore gas storage facilities in the of equal pay audits.
North Sea and an associated onshore terminal were acquired for a net cash consideration of 488 million.
Employee communications The Secretary of State for Trade and Industry has to Employees are regularly provided with a wide range decide whether to clear the acquisition, refer it to the of information concerning the direction and performance Competition Commission for further investigation of the group by means of employee briefing arrangements or accept undertakings in lieu of a reference.
such as team briefs, intranet, CDs and company magazines.
In November, the groups liquefied petroleum gas We also actively seek employee involvement through regular LPG business was sold for 40 million.
employee surveys and action planning forums.
Employees In December, the group acquired the electricity supply views are also taken into account by means of local operations of Texas based Central Power and Light Company consultative bodies.
The group continues to be a strong and West Texas Utilities Company, for a purchase price supporter of Investors in People.
of approximately US$246 million 154 million.
In December, agreement was reached to acquire Employee share schemes the retail gas and electricity supply businesses of The group encourages employee share ownership through ATCO Group in Alberta, Canada, with 988,000 customers, the operation of tax authority approved share schemes open for C$128.5 million 52 million, payable over two years.
to all eligible employees, including executive directors.
This acquisition is conditional on legislative changes Each year, the company operates sharesave schemes in and regulatory consents in 2003. the UK and Ireland which enable eligible employees to acquire 22 Centrica plc report 2002 shares in the company at the end of a three or five year saving Auditors period.
A total of 17,446 employees in the UK and Ireland Following the conversion by  to a participate in the schemes.
Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, a During the year, the company launched a share incentive resolution to appoint the new firm,  plan, which enables eligible UK employees to buy Centrica LLP, as auditors to the company will be proposed at the AGM.
shares, subject to monthly limits, out of pre-tax pay.
In addition, the company awards one free matching share for every Authority to purchase shares two shares an employee buys, subject to a monthly limit The directors were authorised at the 2002 AGM to purchase of 20 matching shares.
A total of 5,065 employees the companys own shares, within certain limits and as permitted participate in the plan.
by the Articles of Association.
Although no such purchases have been made to date pursuant to this authority, the directors will Corporate responsibility seek to renew the authority at the 2003 AGM.
Information relating to the groups impact on society, the economy and the wider environment is given on pages Corporate governance 19 to 20.
A comprehensive guide on these matters including The group is committed to high standards of corporate the companys policies and procedures is available at governance.
Following the recommendations in the www.
reports on the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive The companys reporting on such matters is being Directors the Higgs Report and Audit Committees developed having regard to the ABIs disclosure guidelines.
the Smith Report, the board is reviewing its governance The system of internal control described on page 24 covers arrangements and will consider making changes as necessary significant risks associated with social, environmental and and appropriate.
Throughout the year, the company fully health and safety matters.
complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and applied the Charitable and political donations principles of the Code as follows: An outline of the groups involvement in the community appears on pages 19 to 20.
Charitable donations in the UK The board during the year amounted to 4.7 million 2001: 4.0 million.
An effective board of directors leads and controls the group.
In line with group policy, no donations were made for The board, which meets at least 10 times a year, has a schedule political purposes.
of matters reserved for its approval.
One of its meetings each year is substantially devoted to the development of strategy.
Share capital During 2002, there was full attendance at board and audit, The companys authorised and issued share capital as at remuneration and nominations committee meetings, other 31 December 2002, together with details of shares issued than by one director who missed one board meeting.
during the year, is set out in note 20 on page 48.
Comprehensive briefing papers including management accounts are circulated to each director one week prior to Material shareholdings board meetings.
A procedure is in place to enable all directors At 17 February 2003, the following material shareholdings to obtain independent professional advice in respect of their were recorded in the register maintained in accordance duties.
They also have access to the advice and services with the Companies Act 1985: of the company secretary.
The names of the directors and their biographical details Legal & General Investment including committee memberships appear on page 21.
Management Ltd 150,067,973 3.53% Throughout the year, the chairman and the other non-executive Aviva plc 145,117,187 3.41% directors were independent of management and the senior Barclays plc 134,330,258 3.16% independent director, as required by the Code, was Patricia Mann.
The non-executive directors, including the chairman, meet Directors independently of management on a regular basis.
The board of directors section on page 21 gives details of all All directors joining the board are required to submit directors who served during the period between 1 January 2002 themselves for election at the next AGM.
They are subject and the date of this report.
On 13 May 2002, Sir Sydney Lipworth to re-election every third year thereafter.
The non-executive retired as a director of the company.
It was announced on directors are initially appointed for a three year term and, 4 February 2003 that, by agreement of the company, Mike subject to review and re-election, can serve up to a maximum Alexander would be retiring from the board with effect from of three such terms.
Helen Alexander and Robert Tobin were The board has delegated authority to a number of appointed as non-executive directors on 1 January 2003. committees to deal with specific aspects of the management On 19 February 2003, Paul Walsh agreed to become a and control of the group.
These committees have specific non-executive director of the company with effect from terms of reference and meet on a regular basis.
The minutes 1 March 2003. of the meetings of these committees are made available In accordance with the articles of association, to all the directors on a timely basis.
Sir Michael Perry, Sir Roy Gardner and Sir Brian Shaw will retire by rotation at the 2003 AGM.
Sir Michael and Sir Roy will Executive committee be proposed for re-election.
Sir Brian will not be seeking reThe executive committee, chaired by Sir Roy Gardner, meets election, having by then reached the age of 70. weekly.
It oversees the management of the group and is the It being the first AGM since their appointment, Helen decision making body for those matters not reserved to the Alexander, Robert Tobin and Paul Walsh will be proposed board and within the limits set out in the groups delegated for election.
All have considerable experience of leading authority and expenditure control policies.
There are five sub-committees of the executive committee: The biographical details of all directors being proposed the group risk management committee: the group financial are given in the notice of AGM.
Full details of directors risk management committee: the corporate responsibility service contracts, emoluments and share interests can committee: the health, safety and environment committee: be found in the remuneration report on pages 25 to 30. and the business continuity steering group.
Centrica plc report 2002 23 Directors report continued Audit committee meeting.
Centrica also holds regular meetings with its major The audit committee, which meets four times a year, consists institutional shareholders.
entirely of independent non-executive directors.
It was chaired All shareholders have the opportunity to cast their votes throughout the year by Roger Carr.
at the AGM by proxy, by post or via the internet.
Shareholders The audit committee considers the nature and scope of the can register to receive all their communications online, audit process and its cost effectiveness.
It reviews the internal benefiting both themselves and the company.
audit programme, matters brought to its attention by both the internal and external auditors and the annual and interim financial Internal control statements before submission to the board.
It also reviews the The board of directors is responsible for the groups system system of internal control and reports its findings to the board.
of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than The audit committee also monitors the independence of the eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives external auditors.
Note 4 to the financial statements on page 40, and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, sets out the groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all assurance against material misstatement or loss.
major consultancies and advisory projects.
From the beginning of 2002, in recognition of increasing Identification, assessment and management of risks public concern over the effect of consulting services on auditors The company places great importance on internal control independence, this policy was strengthened such that the and risk management.
A risk aware and control conscious external auditors consulting arm, PwC Consulting, would environment is fostered throughout the group.
The board, not be invited to tender for any further general consultancy directly or through its committees, sets objectives, performance work unless their proprietary skill base was uniquely valuable.
targets and policies for management of key risks facing In addition, the external auditors may still be used in respect the group.
These include strategic planning, acquisitions, of taxation advice and financial due diligence on transactions.
investments, expenditure control, treasury, environment, All such assignments are reported to the audit committee health and safety, trading and customer service.
on a quarterly basis, along with a full breakdown of all Across the group, each business has a risk management non-audit fees incurred during the year.
committee that seeks to identify, assess and advise on the As a matter of best practice and in accordance with auditing management of operational risks.
In addition, the group risk standard 610, our external auditors have held discussions with management committee considers the risks which might the audit committee on the subject of audit independence and affect the company at group level.
have confirmed their independence in writing.
The processes of newly acquired companies are integrated with those of the group.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee, which meets four times a year, Assurance consists entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The business assurance function undertakes internal audit It is chaired by Patricia Mann.
The role of this committee and reviews according to an annual plan approved by the audit details of how the company applies the principles of the Code committee.
The results of their work is reported to the audit in respect of directors remuneration are set out on pages 25 to 30. committee on a quarterly basis.
Nominations committee The boards review of the system of internal control The nominations committee, chaired by Sir Michael Perry, The board of directors, with the advice of the audit committee, makes recommendations to the board for appointments has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system of replacement or additional directors.
It met formally operated as described above throughout the period on two occasions during the year.
1 January 2002 to the date of this report and is satisfied that the group complies with the guidance contained Customer service committee in the Turnbull Committee report on Internal Control.
This committee, which determines and monitors customer service targets, is one of the key drivers of the long term Going concern success of the group.
It was chaired by Sir Sydney Lipworth After making enquiries, the board has a reasonable until his retirement from the board on 13 May 2002. expectation that the company has adequate resources From then until January 2003, it was chaired by Mark Clare.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Helen Alexander was appointed chairman of this committee For this reason, we continue to adopt the going concern basis with effect from February 2003. in preparing the financial statements, which are shown on pages 32 to 67.
AA motoring policy committee This committee, chaired by Sir Brian Shaw, acted as an By order of the board advocate on public policy issues affecting motorists.
With effect from January 2003, this committee was disbanded and its work has been carried out by the independent AA Motoring Trust.
Relations with shareholders The company has a programme of communication with its shareholders.
As well as share price information, news releases Grant Dawson and the annual report, the Centrica website includes speeches General Counsel and Company Secretary from the AGM, presentations to the investment community 20 February 2003 and a section for shareholder services.
The board believes that the AGM presents a useful Registered office: opportunity for dialogue with private shareholders, many of Millstream whom are also customers.
At the AGM, the chief executive Maidenhead Road presents a review of the businesses of the group.
Windsor Representatives from the groups brand units are available for Berkshire SL4 5GD discussion in the exhibition area both before and after the Company registered in England and Wales No.
