AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 13 Oncology Strategic priorities Already a world leader in the treatment of anticipate filing a regulatory submission in To maintain our position as a world leader cancer, during 2002 we introduced two new Europe early in 2003.
The introduction of in cancer treatment through continued therapies which strengthen our position in this Faslodex enhances and complements the growth for key products Casodex, area of considerable medical need.
existing breast cancer portfolio as the use of Arimidex and Zoladex, continued launches Arimidex is shifting to first line use and earlier for new products, Faslodex and Iressa and Key products disease treatment.
the successful introduction of novel Casodex is the worlds leading anti-androgen approaches currently in the pipeline.
therapy for the treatment of advanced Iressa is a novel anti-cancer agent that acts prostate cancer with a global market share in to block signals for cancer cell growth and Therapy area in brief excess of 70%.
Recent growth of the brand survival.
Early studies have shown Globally, over 12 million people are has largely been driven by launches in the encouraging anti-tumour activity or disease diagnosed with cancer each year.
new indication for early prostate cancer stabilisation in non-small cell lung cancer EPC.
Clinical trials with Iressa as Cancer is predicted to be the leading regulatory approval for the treatment of EPC monotherapy for NSCLC have shown cause of death in the US by 2005. in over 40 markets to date.
In the US in June response rates and disease control in 2002, the FDA issued a non-approvable letter approximately half of patients and Cancer therapy world market value: for Casodex 150mg for the treatment of EPC.
symptomatic benefit in over 40% of patients $15 billion.
Although disappointing, the FDAs decision treated.
Regulatory filings based on does not impact on the use and approval of monotherapy began in December 2001.
Key products Casodex for advanced prostate cancer Growth products treatment.
The rapid uptake of Casodex in Since launch in Japan, uptake has been rapid Casodex, anti-androgen for advanced EPC as a favoured therapy is a demonstration with an estimated 23,500 patients treated prostate cancer.
of physicians growing confidence in since launch reflecting the high unmet need in Arimidex, aromatase inhibitor for breast Casodex as a treatment in all stages of NSCLC and the significant benefit seen with cancer.
Reports on the incidence of interstitial Faslodex, for breast cancer.
lung disease in seriously ill cancer patients Iressa, for NSCLC.
Arimidex is the worlds leading aromatase receiving Iressa in Japan, whilst not proven to Established products inhibitor, with a global market share in excess be linked to the treatment, led the Japanese Nolvadex, breast cancer therapy.
The ATAC study in breast cancer, first Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to Zoladex, LHRH analogue treatment for reported in December 2001, showed that introduce strict precautions on its use and breast cancer, prostate cancer and certain Arimidex is significantly more effective in specialist supervision of patients.
In the US, benign gynaecological disorders.
prolonging disease-free survival and has the FDA announced in January 2003 that it important tolerability benefits compared with required more time until 5 May 2003 to 2002 in brief the current gold standard, tamoxifen.
complete the Priority Review of Iressa Approval for Arimidex in adjuvant Regulatory approvals for Arimidex in the following the recommendation supporting treatment of early breast cancer in the US, adjuvant treatment of early breast cancer in approval of Iressa by the Oncologic Drugs UK and other markets.
post-menopausal women have been granted Advisory Committee in September 2002. in the US, the UK and several other markets.
We are pursuing monotherapy submissions First launch for Faslodex in the US.
Additionally, label restrictions in Japan have for Iressa in all other major markets, including been lifted allowing promotion for its use in Europe where filing is scheduled for Q1 2003.
First launch for Iressa in Japan.
the treatment of early breast cancer as well as advanced breast cancer.
Full submissions In contrast to the monotherapy results, FDA advisory committee recommend have been made in all major markets.
Early trials of Iressa in combination with platinum approval of Iressa.
FDA require more time breast cancer represents a major new market based chemotherapy unexpectedly showed to complete Priority Review.
for Arimidex and is expected to drive no additional benefit.
Our focus is to significant growth.
It is also approved for the maximise its potential as a single therapy Trials of Iressa in combination with treatment of advanced breast cancer in posttreatment.
platinum based chemotherapy menopausal women based on demonstrated unexpectedly showed no additional advantages over tamoxifen and megestrol Nolvadex is the worlds most commonly benefit.
prescribed breast cancer therapy and the first medication approved in the US for FDA decision not to approve Casodex Faslodex was approved in the US in April reducing the incidence of breast cancer in 150mg for early prostate cancer.
2002 for the second line treatment of women at high risk of developing the disease.
hormone receptor positive advanced breast Sales of tamoxifen this year were lower than R&D focus cancer in post-menopausal women.
It has a anticipated as a result of sales of aromatase Development of new agents and novel novel mode of action and offers an effective, inhibitors including Arimidex gaining a higher approaches across a wide range of well-tolerated treatment option for patients, than expected share of the market for the cancers which include targeting tumour with the compliance and convenience adjuvant treatment of breast cancer and as a vasculature to control tumour growth, benefits of a once-monthly injection.
Initial result of our US distribution agreement with invasion and spread.
sales of Faslodex represent the most Barr Laboratories, Inc. not being extended.
successful US launch of a hormonal agent for More details about this are set out on breast cancer in the last 20 years.
