AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 27 Intellectual Property Industry Regulation During 2002, AstraZeneca invested $3,069 Our products are subject to numerous product licences.
In extreme cases, the million in global healthcare R&D activities.
regulations concerning their safety and product licence may be revoked resulting Obtaining adequate protection for the efficacy.
In many cases, governments also in withdrawal of the product from sale.
intellectual property associated with these fix their price and or restrict access to activities continues to be a key business reimbursement.
The degree and scope of Manufacturing plants and processes are imperative.
The range of protection includes regulation varies according to the product subject to periodic external inspection patents, trade marks, design registrations, and countries concerned.
by regulators as part of their monitoring copyrights and internet domain name procedures to ensure that manufacturers registrations.
Regulations governing prescription are complying with prescribed standards pharmaceuticals are stringent and the of operation.
Our policy is to seek patent or other manufacture and marketing of these appropriate intellectual property protection products are normally conditional upon Price regulation for all of the inventions and innovations of regulatory approval.
Registration processes Prescription medicines are subject to significant commercial value which arise are complex and time-consuming and government controls on price and from our drug discovery, development, involve significant expenditure.
Regulation reimbursement which operate in most manufacturing, marketing and other is concerned not only with a products countries in which we sell our products.
chemical composition, but also with This can result in large price differentials matters such as manufacturing, handling, between markets, which may be further This policy is designed to provide each of our packaging, labelling, distribution, promotion aggravated by currency fluctuations.
new products with an effective portfolio of and marketing.
valid, enforceable patent and other intellectual US property rights in all significant markets to AstraZeneca routinely participates in various Currently, there is no direct government protect unauthorised competition during industry associations and other bodies which, control of prices for non-government drug commercialisation.
This shield of intellectual among other things, seek to ensure that sales in the US.
Federal legislation mandates property rights extends to those areas of those implementing legislation and regulation minimum discounts to US government target identification, genomics and other affecting pharmaceutical companies are fully agencies purchasing drugs for senior citizens, research technologies in which we invest informed as to its impact.
the poor and other populations with special significant resources.
The adequacy of the needs.
Providing these substantial discounts patent, trade mark and domain name Product regulation to the US government is also a condition for portfolio for individual products is kept Before a pharmaceutical product is approved the manufacturers drugs to be reimbursed under review during product development, for marketing, it must undergo exhaustive and by state Medicaid programmes and an clinical evaluation and marketing so that, lengthy clinical trials.
The process of additional rebate is required if manufacturer wherever possible, additional protection may developing a new pharmaceutical product, price increases after 1990 exceed the be sought for new applications and other from discovery to launch in the market, can increase in inflation.
The therapy area focus of our take up to 12 years, but this period varies R&D operating model allows appropriate considerably in different cases and countries.
In addition, certain states have taken action intellectual property strategies to be The time taken from submission of an to require further manufacturer rebates on formulated and regularly updated from an application for marketing approval to launch Medicaid drug utilisation and for other state early stage in product development.
of the product is typically one to two years.
We vigorously defend our intellectual property After a product has been approved and In 2000, President Clinton signed the rights, including taking appropriate launched, it is a condition of the product Medicines Equity and Drug Safety Act.
infringement action in various courts licence that all aspects relating to its safety, However, the legislation was not throughout the world.
efficacy and quality must be kept under implemented due to concerns over safety review.
Depending on the country, fines and and cost-effectiveness.
Nevertheless the other penalties may be imposed for failure to US Congress is likely to revisit this legislation.
adhere to the conditions of product licences.
The law would allow for the re-importation In extreme cases, the product licence may be into the US of pharmaceutical products revoked resulting in withdrawal of the product produced in the US and exported to countries from sale.
Our promotional and marketing where governmental price controls result activities are also tightly controlled by in lower prices than in the US.
If introduced, regulations and self regulating codes of such a law could have an adverse impact ethical marketing practices.
During the marketing of a product, strict Several bills have been introduced in procedures must be in place to monitor, Congress that could provide limited financial evaluate and report any potential adverse help to the elderly for prescription drugs.
Where adverse reactions occur or it These various bills would likely result in lower is judged that they may occur, changes may prices for pharmaceutical products and may be required to prescribing advice and to the or may not be offset by increased demand.
com 28 Industry Regulation continued Europe Product regulation: Astra Tech Most governments in Europe control the price Product registration and certified quality and reimbursement of medicines after taking management systems form the basis of into account the medical, financial and social the regulatory environment relating to impact of a product.
In Europe, compliance approach reflects increasing constraints in with regulatory requirements involves the overall healthcare spending.
Governments implementation and maintenance of a quality increasingly require more assurance of value management system and, for certain in their expenditures on medicines.
Medical devices in the US are regulated through a In several European countries, the pricing and product registration requirement.
Astra Tech reimbursement systems are being evaluated, continues to maintain a European and US with the aim of controlling and limiting drug compliant quality management system.
This is an ongoing process that puts a downward pressure on pricing and Product regulation: Salick Health Care reimbursement of medicines in Europe.
SHC The healthcare facilities to which SHC Japan provides administrative and management There is formal central government control services on behalf of certain hospitals are of prices in Japan.
New product prices are subject to extensive US federal, state and determined primarily by comparison with local legislation and regulations, such as existing product classes.
All existing products those relating to the reimbursement and are subject to a price review based on the control of healthcare costs.
The largest single market price at least every two years.
In component of SHC revenue continues to be addition, products without patent protection fees that are affected by the reimbursement are forced to further reduce prices by 4-6%.
rates for healthcare services which are set or Regulations introduced in 2000 included an regulated by federal or state authorities.
overseas price referencing system, under which prices can be adjusted according to Product regulation: Marlow Foods the average price of four major countries National legislation governs the safety of food the US, the UK, Germany and France.
products and the nutritional content of foods Generally, if the US pricing environment and their ingredients.
Generally, the remains unchanged, these regulations responsibility for achieving the required are likely to have a positive impact on standards and for the processes adopted in pharmaceutical prices in Japan.
so doing, resides with the manufacturer.
The regulatory agencies audit compliance by way of process audits and product analysis.
