AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Directors Report www.
com 44 Directors Report AstraZeneca PLC is the holding company for each Director to be the beneficial owner of The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 a group of subsidiaries whose principal Ordinary Shares in the Company with an AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary activities are described in the Operational and aggregate nominal value of $125 500 Shares are traded on the New York Stock Financial Reviews on pages 8 to 29 and 30 to shares.
Such holding must be obtained Exchange and the Company is subject to 43, which are incorporated in this report by within two months of the date of the Directors the reporting and other requirements of the reference.
All of the Directors comply with US Securities and Exchange Commission ventures and associates and their locations this requirement and full details of each applicable to foreign issuers.
Directors interests in shares of the Company Sarbanes-Oxley Act came into force at the are set out in the Directors Remuneration end of July 2002.
As a result of its New York The Companys dividend for 2002 of $0.70 Report on pages 49 to 54. listing, the Company is subject to those 43.2 pence, SEK6.20 per Ordinary Share provisions of the Act applicable to foreign amounts to a total dividend payment to Annual General Meeting issuers.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 April 2003.
The principal Many of the rules implementing the Act are The Directors believe that the Company and meeting place will be in London.
There will be currently being written and proposed by the its subsidiaries have adequate resources to one satellite meeting place in Stockholm.
As a continue in operational existence for the result, the detailed provisions of the Act are foreseeable future and therefore continue to Corporate Governance likely to become effective during 2003. adopt the going concern basis in preparing Combined Code the Financial Statements.
Throughout 2002, the Company has applied The Company will comply with those all of the principles of good governance in provisions of the Act applicable to foreign Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share Part 1, Section 1 of the Combined Code issuers as and when they become effective.
capital during 2002, including details of the published by the Hampel Committee on The Board takes the view that the Company allotment of new shares under the Corporate Governance and appended to the already has a sound corporate governance Companys share plans, are given in Note 38 Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The framework, good processes for the accurate to the Financial Statements.
way in which these principles have been and timely reporting of its financial position applied is described below.
and results of operations and an effective Board of Directors and robust system of internal controls.
Details of members of the Board at 31 Throughout 2002, the Company has Consequently, the Companys approach to December 2002 are set out on pages 6 complied with all of the provisions of the code compliance with the Act principally involves and 7. of best practice in Part 2, Section 1 of the the development and adjustment of the Combined Code with two exceptions.
These existing corporate governance framework Board Changes are provision A.
2.1 concerning the and associated processes concerning Claes Wilhelmsson, Executive Director, retired appointment of a senior Non-Executive reporting, internal controls and other from the Board in June 2002.
The Company Director, with which the Company has relevant matters.
In particular, some announced in November 2002 that ke complied since March 2002, and provision additional work has been undertaken to Stavling, also an Executive Director, would be B.
1.7 relating to the notice period of Executive ensure that the Chief Executive and the leaving the Company at the end of January Directors service contracts.
In March 2002, Chief Financial Officer are in a position to 2003. the Board appointed Sir Peter Bonfield as the provide the certifications required by the senior Non-Executive Director.
Act in respect of the Companys Annual Lars Ramqvist, Non-Executive Director, Report on Form 20-F for the year ended retired from the Board in April 2002 with effect During 2002 the service contracts of the 31 December 2002. from the end of the Annual General Meeting.
Executive Directors provided for a notice Also at the Annual General Meeting, period of two years.
However, in January The New York Stock Exchange shareholders elected Jane Henney and John 2003, all of the Executive Directors agreed to In August 2002, the Corporate Accountability Buchanan as Non-Executive Directors.
Dr reduce the notice periods of their service and Listing Standards Committee of the New Henney was first appointed to the Board in contracts to one year.
For new Executive York Stock Exchange filed new, draft September 2001.
Dr Buchanans Directors, the Board would aim to negotiate a corporate governance rules with the US appointment was effective from the end of the one year notice period.
In exceptional Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Annual General Meeting in April 2002. circumstances, the initial notice period may draft rules are currently under review by the be for longer than one year.
In those Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Re-election of Directors circumstances, the Board would explain to Company, as a foreign issuer with American Other than ke Stavling, who will have left the shareholders the reasons why it believed a Depositary Shares listed on the New York Company, all of the Directors will retire under longer notice period was necessary and it Stock Exchange, is obliged to disclose any Article 65 of the Companys Articles of would be the Boards intention that the notice significant ways in which its corporate Association at the Annual General Meeting in period should be reduced to one year governance practices differ from the rules.
April 2003 and are presenting themselves for subsequently.
All are recommended by the The Company has reviewed the draft rules Board for re-election.
Full details of the service contracts and and believes that, in most areas, its corporate remuneration of the Companys Executive governance practices are consistent with the Mandatory Shareholding for Directors Directors are set out in the Directors draft rules and or the principles behind the The Companys Articles of Association require Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 54. draft rules, with two significant exceptions.
com 45 The draft rules state that non-executive Board members are Non-Executive The Chief Executive is responsible to the directors must have regular scheduled Directors.
The differing roles of Executive Board for the management and performance meetings without the directors involved in the Directors and Non-Executive Directors are of the Companys businesses within the management of the company present.
clearly delineated, both having fiduciary duties framework of Company policies, reserved Currently, other than meetings of those Board towards shareholders.
However, Executive powers and routine reporting requirements.
committees comprised only of Non-Executive Directors have direct responsibility for He is obliged to refer certain major matters Directors, the Companys Non-Executive business operations whereas the Nondefined in the formal delegation of the Boards Directors do not hold formal meetings without Executive Directors have a responsibility to authority back to the Board.
The roles of the the Executive Directors of the Company bring independent, objective judgement to Board, the Boards committees, the present.
Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Executive Under the draft rules, listed companies audit The Board considers that all of the NonTeam are documented, as are the Companys committees are given increased authority and Executive Directors are independent of delegated authorities and reserved powers, responsibility.
The Companys current management and free from any business or the means of operation of the business and corporate governance practices regarding other relationship which could materially the roles of corporate functions.
the Audit Committee are not consistent in all interfere with the exercise of their respects with the draft rules.
However, the Board The Chief Executive has established and described below, it is anticipated that acknowledges that independence, as it chairs the Senior Executive Team.
While the changes to certain of those practices will be applies to non-executive directors, is not Chief Executive retains full responsibility for introduced during 2003 in the context of the defined in a way which is uniformly accepted the authority delegated to him by the Board, US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The by all regulatory bodies, codes of governance the Senior Executive Team is the vehicle Company anticipates that any such changes or best practice, stock exchanges or through which he exercises that authority in made would bring the Companys corporate organisations representing institutional respect of the Companys business including governance practices in this area more investors.
Two of the Companys Directors Salick Health Care, Astra Tech and Marlow closely in line with the proposed New York Hkan Mogren, Executive Deputy Chairman Foods.
and Marcus Wallenberg, Non-Executive Director are also members of the Board of The other members of the Senior Executive Disclosure Policy Directors of Investor AB, a company which, at Team are ke Stavling, Executive Director The Companys Disclosure Policy, approved 31 December 2002, had a 5.04% holding in until 31 January 2003 : Jonathan Symonds, by the Board in October 2002, provides a the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
This Chief Financial Officer: Bruno Angelici, framework for the handling and disclosure of holding represents a significant proportion of Executive Vice-President, Europe, Japan, price sensitive information.
A Disclosure Investor ABs overall investment portfolio.
Asia Pacific and ROW: David Brennan, Committee comprising the Chief Financial Marcus Wallenberg is the Chief Executive Executive Vice-President, North America Officer, the Group Secretary and Solicitor and Officer of Investor AB.
Additionally, Dr Mogren and President and CEO, AstraZeneca LP: the Vice-President, Corporate Affairs, meets and Erna Mller, Non-Executive Director, are Jan Lundberg, Executive Vice-President, regularly.
The role of the Disclosure Directors of the Marcus and Marianne Discovery Research: John Patterson, Committee is to assist and inform the Wallenberg Foundation and the Knut and Executive Vice-President, Product Strategy decisions of the Chief Executive concerning Alice Wallenberg Foundation respectively.
& Licensing and Business Development: price sensitive information and its disclosure.
Martin Nicklasson, Executive Vice-President, The Board sets the Companys strategy and Development: Barrie Thorpe, Executive ViceRecent Developments policies and monitors progress towards President, Operations: and Tony Bloxham, During the first half of 2003, the Company will meeting its objectives.
This includes regular Executive Vice-President, Human Resources.
review two significant new proposals in the reviews of the Companys financial Dr Lundberg and Dr Nicklasson succeeded UK concerning corporate governance: the performance and critical business issues.
The Dr Wilhelmsson who retired in June 2002. report of Derek Higgs, Review of the Role Board normally meets six times a year.
and Effectiveness of Non-Executive The Senior Executive Team normally meets Directors, and that of Sir Robert Smith, Audit There is an established and transparent once a month to consider and decide all Committees: Combined Code Guidance, procedure for appointments of new directors major business issues.
It also usually reviews both published in January 2003.
The reports to the Board which is operated by the those matters which are of a size or both propose changes to the Combined Nomination Committee.
All of the Directors importance to require the attention of, or Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK retire at each Annual General Meeting and which are reserved to, the Board before such Listing Authority.
Subject to completing its may offer themselves for re-election by matters are submitted to the Board for review review of the proposals, the Company shareholders.
expects to comply with any changes to the Combined Code resulting from the reports Chief Executive and the Senior Executive Each business function is subject to an proposals.
Team annual budget and target-setting process The Chief Executive, Sir Tom McKillop, has including forecasts for the following two years Board Structure and Processes delegated authority from, and is responsible together with a sensitivity and risk analysis, Board Composition, Responsibilities and to, the Board for directing and promoting the quarterly updates of the forecast for the Appointments profitable operation and development of the current year and regular reporting.
The Board includes a balance of Executive Company, consistent with the primary aim of Performance reviews are undertaken in each and Non-Executive Directors.
The majority of enhancing long term shareholder value.
part of the business regularly.
The Companys AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Directors Report www.
com 46 Directors Report continued quarterly business performance of 2002 on the Company and, in particular, on England and Wales of the Turnbull Report, management system uses a broad range of the operation of the Audit Committee and its Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on measures that link directly to the achievement relationship with the external auditor.
More the Combined Code, the Directors have of key business priorities.
Treasury operations information about the work of the internal continued to review the effectiveness of the are centralised, operate within defined limits audit function and the Companys external Groups system of non-financial controls, and are subject to regular reporting auditor is given below.
including operational and compliance requirements and Audit Committee reviews.
controls, risk management and the At the scheduled meeting of the Audit Companys high level internal control Audit Committee, Internal Controls and Committee held at the end of January 2003, arrangements.
These reviews have included Management of Risk the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial an assessment of internal controls, and in Audit Committee Officer presented to Audit Committee particular internal financial controls, by the The members of the Audit Committee are members their conclusions following the internal audit function, management Karl von der Heyden Chairman of the evaluation of the effectiveness of the assurance of the maintenance of control and Committee, John Buchanan, Jane Henney, Companys disclosure controls and reports from the external auditor on matters Dame Bridget Ogilvie and Marcus Wallenberg.
procedures required by Item 15 a of identified in the course of its statutory audit They are all Non-Executive Directors.
Form 20-F. Based on their evaluation, the work.
A key part of these reviews is an annual Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer letter of assurance process by which The core remit of the Audit Committee is to concluded that the Company maintains an responsible managers confirm the adequacy review and report to the Board on the annual effective system of disclosure controls and of their systems of internal financial and nonand other published financial reporting carried procedures.
financial controls, their compliance with out by the Company, its accounting policies, Company policies including those relating to the scope and audit programmes of its There have been no significant changes in the safety, health and the environment, local laws internal and external auditors and any Companys internal controls or other factors and regulations including the industrys material issues arising from these audits, that could significantly affect internal controls regulatory requirements and report any the effectiveness of its systems of financial subsequent to the date of their evaluation.
control weaknesses identified in the past reporting and internal financial controls and year.
The Directors believe that the Company the framework for risk management, with During the year, in line with its normal practice, maintains an effective embedded system of particular emphasis on financial risks.
the Audit Committee also held a number of internal controls and complies with the private meetings, without management Turnbull Report guidance.
The Audit Committee met four times in 2002 present, with both the Companys Chief and is currently scheduled to meet at least Internal Auditor and the lead partner from the The Company views the careful management four times in 2003.
All of the members of the Companys external audit firm.
The purpose of risk as a key management activity.
A Audit Committee attended each meeting in of these meetings was to facilitate free and significant part of all of its activities is to deliver 2002.
The Chairman of the Board, a Nonopen discussions between the Audit opportunities by managing business risks in Executive Director, attended two of the Committee members and the Chief Internal a simple, flexible and sustained way which is meetings held in 2002.
Auditor and the external lead audit partner, consistent with the Companys values.
These independent of the main sessions of the Audit risks, which may be strategic, operational, During 2002, the business considered and Committee attended by the Chief Financial reputational, financial or environmental, discussed by the Audit Committee included Officer and the Group Financial Controller.
should be understood and visible and the the financial disclosures contained in the business context should determine the level Companys annual and quarterly reports to Internal Controls and Management of Risk of acceptable risk and control.
shareholders and other interested parties: The Board has overall responsibility for the various accounting matters raised in the Companys system of internal controls which Much of the Companys work in the area of context of the financial disclosures, including aims to safeguard shareholders investments risk management is facilitated by the Risk reports from management and the external and the Companys assets, ensure that Advisory Group consisting of representatives auditor concerning those accounting proper accounting records are maintained from each business function.
Its role is matters: reports from management and the and that the financial information used within advisory and is to assist senior management internal audit function on the Companys risk the business and for publication is accurate, to identify and assess the main risks faced by profile and the assessment and management reliable and fairly presents the financial the Companys business in a co-ordinated of risk: reports from management, the internal position of the Company and the results of its manner, to assess, identify and document the audit function and the external auditor on the business operations.
The Board is also Companys risk profile and to ensure that the effectiveness of the Companys system of responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of business focuses on critical business issues.
internal controls and, in particular, internal the system of internal controls.
The system is It is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and financial controls: proposals from the internal designed to provide reasonable assurance of reports twice a year to the Senior Executive audit function and the external auditor about effective operations and compliance with Team.
The Risk Advisory Groups reports on their audit programmes for 2002: a report laws and regulations, although any system of the Companys risk profile are reviewed by from the Companys treasury function about internal controls can only provide reasonable, both the Audit Committee and the Board.
its operations and approach to risk not absolute, assurance against material management: the amount of audit and nonmisstatement or loss.
Under the auspices of the Risk Advisory audit fees of the external auditor: the Group, the Company has developed and is appointment of a new Chief Internal Auditor: Since the publication in September 1999 by establishing an integrated risk management and the impact of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Institute of Chartered Accountants in framework with the aim of ensuring that the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Directors Report www.
com 47 business understands the key risks it faces, functions : and on an ad hoc basis, reviewing and the Companys remuneration policy especially cross-functional risks, has an that value for money is obtained.
GIA also and practice is set out in the Directors embedded risk management approach to all acts as a source of constructive advice and Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 54. of its activities, links risk management to best practice.
business performance reporting and seeks Nomination Committee continuous improvement in the management External Auditor The members of the Nomination Committee of risk by sharing best practice throughout the A resolution will be proposed at the Annual are Percy Barnevik Chairman of the organisation.
General Meeting on 30 April 2003 for the reCommittee, Hkan Mogren, Sir Peter appointment of KPMG Audit Plc, London as Bonfield and Jane Henney.
With the Code of Conduct auditor of the Company.
exception of Dr Mogren, they are all NonThe policy of the Company is that all of its Executive Directors.
subsidiaries and their employees observe The external auditor has undertaken various high standards of integrity and act with due non-audit work for the Company during The remit of the Nomination Committee is, skill, care, diligence and fairness in the 2002.
More information about this work and primarily, to make proposals to the Board for conduct of business.
The Companys the fees paid by the Company for it are set out any new appointments as Directors of the management recognises that such standards in Note 36 to the Financial Statements on Company.
make a significant contribution to the overall page 107.
The external auditor is not control environment and seeks, by its words engaged by the Company to carry out any Shareholders and actions, to reinforce them throughout the non-audit work on which it might, in the In its financial reporting to shareholders and business.
In particular, all employees are future, be required to express an audit other interested parties by means of annual required to comply with the letter and spirit of opinion.
The Audit Committee has and quarterly reports, the Board aims to the AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and with determined policies as to what non-audit present a balanced and understandable the detailed standards issued in support of it.
work can be undertaken by the Companys assessment of the Companys financial external auditor.
Any item of non-audit work position and prospects.
The AstraZeneca Code of Conduct is set out proposed to be undertaken for which its fees on page 137.
The current version of the Code may exceed $500,000 must be approved in The Company maintains a corporate website of Conduct was first published in June 2000 advance by the Audit Committee.
The Audit containing a wide range of information of and will be reviewed during 2003.
The review Committee also monitors the level of audit interest to institutional and private investors: will include consideration of the relevant and non-audit fees on a quarterly basis.
requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, such as those concerning a code of The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is likely The Company has frequent discussions with ethics for senior financial officers.
to lead to changes in the Companys institutional shareholders on a range of issues relationship with the external auditor, such as affecting its performance.
These include Group Internal Audit greater involvement of the Audit Committee in meetings following the announcement of the Group Internal Audit GIA is an independent managing the relationship and the preannual results with the Companys largest appraisal function which derives its authority approval by the Audit Committee of all noninstitutional shareholders on an individual from the Board through the Audit Committee.
Certain provisions of the Act are basis.
In addition, the Company responds to Its primary role is to provide reasonable and also likely to lead to changes in how the individual ad hoc requests for discussions objective assurance about the adequacy and external auditor conducts its business, such from institutional shareholders.
effectiveness of the Companys financial as the mandatory rotation of the principal control framework and risk management.
All shareholders, including private investors, It also assists senior management with its have an opportunity to put questions to responsibility to improve the processes by which business risks are identified and Other Board Committees members of the Board on matters relating to managed and to report and advise on the Remuneration Committee the Companys operation and performance at proper and effective use of resources.
The members of the Remuneration the Annual General Meeting.
Committee are Sir Peter Bonfield Chairman GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities set of the Committee, John Buchanan and Erna Employees down in its charter by reviewing the Mller.
They are all Non-Executive Directors.
The Company maintains an open processes which ensure that business risks management style and involves its are effectively managed: reviewing the The remit of the Remuneration Committee is, employees both in daily decisions which financial and operational controls which help primarily, to recommend for decision by the affect them and longer term matters.
The to ensure that the Companys assets are Board the fundamental remuneration policy Company is fully committed to keeping all properly safeguarded from losses, including for the Company and to ensure the proper of its employees informed about their work fraud: reviewing the controls which help to operation of all plans for employees involving unit and the wider business, as well as ensure the reliability and integrity of the Companys shares.
More particularly, it discussing the implications of major business management information systems: reviewing makes specific proposals in respect of the changes and other relevant matters.
Key the processes which ensure compliance with remuneration packages of individual business priorities are communicated corporate objectives, policies and procedures Executive Directors and the Companys throughout the organisation and form part and external legislation and regulation other most senior executives.
of the basis for the Companys employee than those relating to safety, health and the incentive plans.
Details of employees share environment and regulatory compliance Further information about the membership plans appear in Note 33 to the Financial which are the responsibility of other audit and work of the Remuneration Committee Statements.
com 48 Directors Report continued In line with legal requirements and cultural It is not Company policy formally to comply current permission from shareholders to standards, more formal national and business with the Confederation of British Industrys purchase its own shares.
level employee consultation arrangements code of practice on the prompt payment of exist in some countries, including the UK.
It is, however, Company policy to Political Donations There is a forum for employee consultation at agree appropriate payment terms with all Under the UKs Political Parties, Elections and European level, chaired by the Chief suppliers when agreeing the terms of each Referendums Act 2000, shareholder authority Executive, in which employee representatives transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are is required for political donations to be made from 19 countries participate.
The Company made aware of the terms of payment and, or political expenditure to be incurred by the also has a variety of constructive relationships subject to their compliance, abide by the Company or its subsidiaries in the European with trade unions across its worldwide terms of payment.
The total amount of money Union.
Neither the Company nor its operations including formal recognition and owed by the Companys subsidiaries to trade subsidiaries made any donations or incurred active dialogue where appropriate.
creditors at the balance sheet date was any expenditure in 2002 in the European equivalent to 83 days average purchases.
No Union in respect of which shareholder The Company believes that every employee equivalent disclosure is provided in respect of authority or disclosure in this Directors should be treated with the same respect and the Company as it has no external creditors.
Report is required under the Act.
It values the rich diversity and creative Company nor its subsidiaries intend to make potential of people with differing backgrounds Purchase of Own Shares any such donations or incur any such and abilities and encourages a culture of equal The Companys stated distribution policy expenditure in the European Union in the opportunities in which personal success contains both a regular dividend cash flow foreseeable future.
However, the Act defines depends on personal merit and performance.
and a share re-purchase component to give political organisation widely and, for It is Company policy that there should be no the Company more flexibility in managing its example, interest groups or lobbying discrimination against any person for any capital structure over time.
In August 1999, organisations concerned with the review of reason.
All judgements about people for the the Company announced a $2 billion share government policy or law reform may be purposes of recruitment, development and re-purchase programme to be completed caught by the definition.
promotion are made solely on the basis of by the end of 2002.
This programme was their ability and potential in relation to the completed ahead of schedule in the second To enable the Company to continue to needs of the job.
Every manager is quarter of 2002.
In January 2002, the support such organisations without responsible for implementing this policy.
Company announced an additional $2 billion inadvertently breaching the Act, a resolution re-purchase programme to be completed by will, in the same way as last year, be proposed It is Company policy that people with the end of 2003. at the Annual General Meeting on 30 April disabilities should have the same 2003 authorising the Company to make consideration as others with respect to During 2002, the Company purchased 28.4 donations or incur expenditure in the recruitment, retention and personal million of its own Ordinary Shares with a European Union up to an aggregate limit of development.
Depending on their skills and nominal value of $0.25 each for an aggregate $150,000.
abilities, people with disabilities enjoy the cost of $1,190 million.
Following the purchase same career prospects as other employees of these shares, they were all cancelled as In 2002, AstraZenecas US legal entities and the same scope for realising potential.
required by applicable English law.
This made contributions amounting in aggregate The Company also takes all reasonable steps number of shares represents 1.65% of the to $275,000 to state and national political to ensure that its working environments can Companys total issued share capital at 31 party committees and to campaign accommodate special needs.
December 2002. committees of various state candidates affiliated with the major parties.
This total Other Stakeholders Since the beginning of the re-purchase includes $54,500 in national political party The Company aims to set, promote and programme in 1999, the Company has committee donations made prior to the maintain high standards of corporate purchased for cancellation in total 65.6 million implementation of the US Bipartisan responsibility wherever it operates.
Dame of its own Ordinary Shares with a nominal Campaign Reform Act.
All contributions were Bridget Ogilvie, a Non-Executive Director, is value of $0.25 each for an aggregate cost of made only where allowed by state and federal the Board member responsible for this area $2,805 million.
This number of shares law.
American nationals exercised decisionand oversees the work of a cross-functional represents 3.82% of the Companys total making over the contributions and the funds committee.
The Company has established issued share capital at 31 December 2002. were not provided or reimbursed by any nonsystems to monitor its performance.
and standards relating to corporate The Company continues to maintain robust responsibility are maintained and widely controls in respect of all aspects of the share On behalf of the Board communicated within the organisation.
In re-purchase programme to ensure G H R Musker 2002, the Company was again included in the compliance with English law and the Listing Group Secretary and Solicitor FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, 30 January 2003 Sustainability Indices.
The Company the Companys Disclosure Committee meets publishes and sends to shareholders a to ensure that the Company does not separate Corporate Responsibility Summary purchase its own shares during prohibited Report.
More detailed information about the periods.
Companys approach to this area of its business can be found on its website: At the Annual General Meeting on 30 April www.
2003, the Company will seek a renewal of its
