AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 10 Global Market Overview 2002 was a challenging year for the Globally, in 2002, the pharmaceutical industry Turbulence of the financial markets pharmaceutical industry.
The demand for maintained good annual growth of 10% at following a long period of sustained high pharmaceutical products continues to constant US dollar exchange rates.
The US, returns in the 1990s, investor confidence grow as do external pressures and with a growth rate of 15%, has increased its has been dented across all sectors due expectations.
world share to 53%, reinforcing its to fears over economic conditions and importance as the worlds largest future growth prospects.
This has been Key factors affecting the industry at pharmaceutical market.
In the US, the mail compounded by financial irregularities present include: order and hospital segments again showed and economic uncertainty due to world impressive growth in 2002.
Pharmaceutical stocks have not pricing pressure global sales, Germany 5%, France 5%, the been immune, despite traditionally being UK 4% and Italy 3% remain significant perceived as a defensive investment R&D productivity markets for pharmaceuticals, whilst countries sector.
In general, pharmaceutical stocks such as Mexico, Thailand, Korea and China have put in a mixed performance, with increasing consolidation are increasing in importance.
Negative growth a wide range of both overand underfor the second year in succession for performance for individual stocks relative turbulence of the financial markets Argentina and Brazil reflects difficult to their local markets this year.
A further conditions in those countries.
consequence of the financial irregularities has been increased regulation on all Growth in 2002 was largely attributable to companies, including corporate volume increases of highly effective products governance initiatives in the US through in the major therapeutic categories of the newly introduced Sarbanes-Oxley Act hypolipidaemics, anti-ulcerants, antiand in Europe.
psychotics, anti-anaemics and anti-cancer drugs.
Underlying demand for modern medicines remains strong from ageing populations and other population groups due to higher use of treatments for chronic conditions.
However, meeting this demand within the constraints of satisfying all stakeholders is proving increasingly difficult for pharmaceutical companies.
Key factors affecting the industry at present include: Pricing pressure the economic and political pressure to limit the costs of pharmaceuticals continues.
Pricing pressure is also exerted by the issue of access to affordable medicines for all those who need them.
R&D productivity the unusually high level of patent expiries across the industry in 2002 coupled with low numbers of new molecular entities being approved illustrates the increasing challenges to the pharmaceutical industry to improve R&D productivity levels to sustain historical growth at a time of increasing R&D costs.
Increasing consolidation major merger and acquisition activity has been a recent feature of the maturing pharmaceuticals industry.
Including the proposed merger of Pfizer and Pharmacia, the market share of the five leading companies has increased from 21% in 1998 to 33%, with the top 10 companies accounting for 50% of sales.
