AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 17 Pain Control Strategic priorities We are a world leader in anaesthesia, with AstraZeneca has recently amended its To become a major force in pain control by over 50 years experience and a strong marketing agreement with NicOx to include building on our world leading position in record of innovation and excellence.
Plans to Japan and thereby ensure AstraZeneca has anaesthesia, including maintaining develop our pain control portfolio include exclusive worldwide rights to a number of Diprivan sales and increasing Naropin exploitation of new mechanisms with novel CINOD development compounds.
sales and by introducing new products for approaches that are strongly linked to pain management.
disease processes in key indications.
AZD4282 oral glycine is an N-methyl-Daspartate NMDA antagonist under Therapy area in brief Key products development as a treatment of neuropathic Anaesthetics are essential for surgical Diprivan, the worlds largest selling general pain.
It is an antagonist at the glycine site procedures in hospitals, clinics and dayanaesthetic, is used in the induction and associated with the NMDA receptor complex.
maintenance of anaesthesia and for intensive Binding to the glycine site is expected to care sedation.
Despite continued generic avoid the adverse CNS effects produced by Over 46% of adults in the western world competition, Diprivan has a 25% share of the NMDA channel blockers.
Pain global general anaesthetic market.
In the US, management is the most common reason Diprivan has a 24% share of the general for seeking medical care.
anaesthetic market with 53% of total propofol sales.
In Japan, sales continued to grow in High level of unmet medical need such as anaesthesia and sedation and Diprivan has improved efficacy and reduced side gained a 36% share of the general effects.
The improved microbial resistant formulation, Diprivan EDTA, is Pain control world market value: approved in the majority of markets and $27.1 billion.
accounts for more than 90% of total Diprivan sales.
Key products Growth product Naropin is a long-acting local anaesthetic Naropin, local anaesthetic.
with improved safety and mobility profile Established products compared with bupivacaine.
submissions for intra-articular, spinal and Xylocaine, local anaesthetic.
continuous peripheral nerve block uses were filed in 2001 and we have received several 2002 in brief approvals in EU countries in 2002.
We maintained our leading position in the anaesthetic market with a share of 33%.
Xylocaine continues to be the worlds most widely used local anaesthetic, after 50 years Approvals in EU for extended uses on the market.
Pipeline R&D focus AZD3582 is the first compound in a new Development of therapies for nociceptive class of drugs called COX-inhibiting nitric pain caused by tissue damage and oxide donators CINODs.
It represents a neuropathic pain caused by nerve novel approach to the treatment of acute and damage.
Pipeline includes projects chronic nociceptive pain conditions such as addressing mechanisms such as post-operative pain and arthritic diseases.
G-protein coupled receptors and novel The rationale for AZD3582 is to retain a ion channel blockers, aimed at delivering balanced inhibition of both Cox-1 and Cox-2 first-in-class therapies.
enzymes to deliver a controlled donation of nitric oxide to provide organ protection.
Nitric oxide is thought to play a major role in maintaining mucosal integrity in the stomach and other organs, thereby reducing the gastrointestinal and other damage associated with non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs NSAIDs.
AZD4717 is the second compound in the novel CINOD class and is being developed as a follow-up to AZD3582.
