AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 25 Supply and Manufacturing With 32 manufacturing sites in 20 Our strategy remains to operate a small Regulatory environment number of sites for the manufacture of active Ensuring both patient safety and the efficacy countries and 15,000 employees ingredients supported by speciality chemical of our medicines is a core priority.
Our supply worldwide, our Operations contractors operating mainly in Europe and and manufacturing organisation works diligently organisation aims to provide Japan.
We have five active pharmaceutical to exceed the expectations of all stakeholders robust, fast, flexible and cost ingredient sites in France, Puerto Rico, as well as those of regulatory authorities.
The Sweden and the UK as well as a bulk drug outcome from all inspections is rigorously effective supply of AstraZenecas purification plant in Germany.
Some 1,500 reviewed and action taken to further enhance product range globally.
people are employed in active compliance.
Device presentations of pharmaceutical ingredient supply.
inhalation products present manufacturing Fast, effective supply challenges and where appropriate, like other The fast and effective introduction of new For certain key products, there are a number manufacturers, we keep these under review products is key to future business success of global formulation facilities.
In addition with relevant regulators.
During 2002, we did and multiple launches around the world within there are a small number of facilities that not experience any delays to approvals due short timeframes has become the accepted produce established products for regional to regulatory compliance issues at our industry norm.
High initial demand followed or local markets as well as a small number manufacturing sites or those of our contractors.
by rapid growth in a variety of markets requires of contractors supplying specialist There were several successful pre-approval us to deliver a reliable flow of products to formulations.
Our principal formulation inspections by regulatory authorities during exacting quality standards and in a safe and sites for oral solid dosage forms such as the year including those for Iressa and environmentally sound manner.
All new tablets and capsules are in France, Germany, Faslodex.
All sites involved in the proposed product launches in 2002 were successful Puerto Rico, Sweden, the UK and the US.
manufacture of Crestor were approved in 2001. with product available to meet the required There are also major formulation sites for the launch dates and the early product growth global supply of parenteral dosage forms and SHE operating standards around the world demand.
In preparation for these launches as inhalation products in France, Sweden and continue to become more stringent with well as readiness for Crestor and Exanta, the UK.
regulators placing emphasis on several new facilities were commissioned for environmental standards.
Our manufacturing active ingredient and formulated product Packaging is undertaken at a large number sites are operated under various site-licensing manufacture and packaging in Puerto Rico, of locations, both at AstraZeneca facilities regimes and during the year, we had three Sweden and the UK.
and contractors facilities, to support our legal sanctions across our global operations local sales and marketing companies.
Some which have been dealt with satisfactorily.
Continued success also depends on 12,500 people are employed in formulation There are currently no environmental issues unconstrained supply of our established and packaging.
Our manufacturing asset that constrain AstraZeneca from fully products.
Some limited supply problems on base is routinely adjusted to ensure effective utilising any sites.
Our aim is continuous certain products occurred during the year use is made of our production capacity and improvement, learning from incidences of and were addressed.
A comprehensive an appropriate balance achieved between non-compliance to ensure that we meet both programme was also put in place during high utilisation and sufficient additional the regulatory requirements and current good 2002 to shorten production lead times and production capacity to launch new products practice standards.
Further information about move manufacture from a make to stock and grow existing products.
A number of our SHE performance can be found in the bias to a demand pull approach.
Positive older units were closed during the year with separate 2002 Corporate Responsibility results have already been achieved with residual manufacture transferred to Summary Report.
significant lead-time reductions on several contractors.
The intention to sell a small key products supported where necessary by manufacturing facility in Mexico was also Raw materials improved process reliability.
We will continue to make further AstraZenecas global purchasing policies team working and a strong focus on robust, adjustments to our manufacturing base to together with our business interruption risk fast and responsive product supply has been ensure optimum utilisation of production management BIRM process are aimed at key to achieving this improvement.
ensuring the supply of raw materials, programme is expected to deliver further manufacturing equipment and other key improvements in the cost of manufacture of Continuing investment supplies, all of which are purchased from our products as well as significant working Investment for growth remains a core element a range of suppliers.
The BIRM process capital benefits through better utilisation and of our supply strategy and in 2002 capital systematically examines a range of risk management of stock.
New plant scenarios to global supply, such as brought into operation included capacity disasters that remove supply capability An efficient supply network for Casodex in Germany and Puerto Rico, or the unavailability of key raw materials 2002 saw the continued development of our for Seroquel and Iressa in the UK, for and ensures that these risks are mitigated supply network that consists of both our own Pulmicort in the US and for Crestor in by the implementation of contingency manufacture and that of our contractors.
plans, including the appointment of dual AstraZenecas supply network is supported or multiple suppliers and maintenance by global supply chain teams as well as Looking ahead, plans are in place to expand of appropriate stock levels.
Although the purchasing, engineering, safety, health and our manufacturing capability in France, price of raw materials may fluctuate from environment SHE and quality and Germany, Japan, Puerto Rico, Sweden, the time to time, our global purchasing policies compliance functions.
UK and the US to help to meet the growing seek to avoid such fluctuations becoming demands of our product portfolio.
