AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 11 Gastrointestinal GI Strategic priorities We are the world leader in the treatment of GI Patent protection for omeprazole, the active To maintain our number one position in GI diseases, in particular acid related disorders.
ingredient in Losec, has expired.
In a number treatments through continued market of countries, including some major markets, penetration for Nexium worldwide and Key products patent term extensions or supplementary management of the challenges of Losec Nexium has been shown to be the first protection certificates have been granted for patent expiries, coupled with high quality proton pump inhibitor PPI to offer significant the active ingredient.
In October 2002, the US innovation and productivity in the research improvements over Losec and its main Court for the Southern District of New York and development of new approaches to competitor, lansoprazole, in terms of acid delivered its judgement on the litigation treatment.
control and clinical efficacy in clinical studies relating to infringement of certain patents, involving 55,000 patients in 49 countries.
including formulation patents, by four generic Therapy area in brief Nexium offers more effective acid inhibition manufacturers.
The judgement upheld the 40% of adults in the western world than all other PPIs and, in the treatment of validity of two of these patents and ruled that regularly experience heartburn and 10% reflux oesophagitis, provides healing and three of the four defendants had infringed the have GERD.
symptom relief in more patients and in a patents.
The decision has been appealed shorter period of time than Losec or both by AstraZeneca and three of the H. pylori is the major cause of peptic ulcer lansoprazole.
Nexium is an effective, long defendants.
The first US generic omeprazole disease and is a risk factor for gastric term therapy for patients with gastroproduct was launched in December 2002. cancer.
oesophageal reflux disease GERD, with or Further information about the status of without oesophagitis.
For the treatment of patents and patent litigation is set out on PPI world market value: $16.3 billion.
active duodenal ulcer disease, seven day pages 103 and 104.
Nexium triple therapy in combination with Key products two antibiotics for the eradication of Entocort is a locally acting corticosteroid for Growth product Helicobacter pylori H. pylori heals most the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease Nexium, PPI for acid related disease.
patients without the need for follow up antiwith better tolerability than other Established products secretory monotherapy.
We expect Nexium corticosteroids and greater efficacy than Losec Prilosec, PPI for acid related to continue to establish a new, improved aminosalicylic acid medicines.
treatment standard for the PPI class.
Losec MUPS, Losec in tablet formulation.
Pipeline Following its first launch in Sweden in August Regulatory filings for Nexium for the treatment 2002 in brief 2000, Nexium is now available in more than of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs GI franchise sales reach all time high of 75 markets including the US, Canada and key NSAID GI side effects and a parenteral $6.7 billion.
Major launches in 2002 formulation are scheduled for submission in included Australia, Belgium, France, Italy and Q2 2003.
Nexium now launched in more than 75 Spain.
Nexium has been well received by markets including the US, Canada and patients and physicians alike and global sales AZD0865 is a reversible acid pump inhibitor key European countries.
performance is strong, particularly in the US based on a new concept of acid inhibition where new prescriptions for Nexium overtook which has the potential to provide faster and Nexium continues to establish a new those for Losec Prilosec during the year.
more effective inhibition of gastric acid improved treatment standard.
In the US, Nexium is used to treat a wide range of secretion than Losec.
new prescriptions for Nexium overtook patients, including both those newly those for Losec during 2002. diagnosed and patients switched from other AZD3355 and AZD9343 are reflux inhibitors therapies such as Losec, other PPIs and H2- offering a new approach to the treatment of The challenge of Losec patent expiries receptor antagonists.
Over 60 million patient GERD aiming to improve the function of the continues.
Positive outcome for 2002 in treatments of Nexium had been administered lower oesophageal sphincter LOS.
This is US litigation relating to patent by the end of 2002 and global and US shares expected to reduce the abnormal, transient infringement.
First US of the PPI market were 11% and 14% LOS relaxations typically associated with generic omeprazole product launched in respectively.
Losec Prilosec, the first PPI product, set a We have discontinued our development of R&D focus new global standard in short and long term AR-H04718 and rofleponide as a result of Includes new areas of clinical use for treatment of acid related diseases in the their failure to meet our target profile.
Nexium and further strengthening the 1980s and 1990s and today is still the worlds scope of its use in current areas.
Patients have benefited from over 665 million treatments Novel approaches to treat GERD, H. pylori, with Losec since launch.
Global and US peptic ulcer disease, dyspepsia, shares of the PPI market were 34% and inflammatory bowel disease and irritable 33% respectively.
Losec MUPS, a tablet bowel syndrome.
formulation, which offers increased convenience, flexibility and predictability over the original Losec capsules, has been approved in 62 markets.
