AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 18 Geographic Review Our strategy in key markets Nexium became the second most prescribed complete the Priority Review of Iressa PPI with a 21% monthly share of total following the recommendation supporting centres around driving the prescriptions and which at year end approval of Iressa by the Oncologic Drugs growth of key products, the exceeded those written for Prilosec.
Total US Advisory Committee in September 2002. successful introduction of new sales of Nexium in 2002 were $1.5 billion.
medicines and new indications Nexium is also now the leading product to Sales of Arimidex grew by 127% to $134 which patients switch from other treatments million in 2002 following the good results, first for existing products and in the anti-secretory category.
This reported in December 2001, from the ATAC continued improvement in the performance was attributed to the strong trial for the adjuvant use of the drug in the speed and efficiency of our clinical data available to support the sales treatment of post-menopausal women with operations.
force, Managed Care Access and a early breast cancer.
Casodex remained the nationwide, direct-to-consumer advertising anti-androgen market leader in the US with North America programme covering both broadcast and 79% prescription market share and total sales print media.
However, in June the FDA issued a non-approvable letter for US In support of our key business priority of Nexium and Prilosec had a combined 28% Casodex 150mg for the treatment of early winning in the US, we continued to build our share of the US anti-secretory market.
prostate cancer more details of which are set presence in this highly competitive market.
Generic omeprazole performance in the early In 2002, our US business increased sales weeks after launch is described on page 31.
Zoladex achieved a growth rate of 7% and by 10% from $8.5 to $9.4 billion.
This total sales of $212 million in 2002.
We represented a 6% share of the US Entocort EC, for the treatment of Crohns received marketing approval for Faslodex in prescription pharmaceutical market, making disease, achieved sales of $20 million in 2002.
April 2002 for the treatment of breast cancer, AstraZeneca the fifth largest company in the further strengthening our leadership position US.
The US market contributed 52% of Cardiovascular CV in hormonal cancer treatments.
The CV product portfolio achieved sales of $1.6 billion in 2002.
Exclusivity for lisinopril, Our US distribution agreement with Barr This performance was against the backdrop the active ingredient in Zestril, expired in the Laboratories, Inc. for non-branded tamoxifen of a US pharmaceutical industry which US in June.
As anticipated, erosion of the expired in August 2002, as did our patent for faces a number of challenges.
These include market share of Zestril was rapid and, by Q3 Nolvadex.
At the same time, a six month the continuing absence of any meaningful of 2002, generic lisinopril gained a 32% share period of market exclusivity commenced prescription drug benefit for Medicare of the ACE inhibitor market.
Total Zestril sales which was awarded by the FDA in connection recipients, government support for were $467 million in 2002 compared to $617 with the successful completion of certain importation of prescription drugs from million in 2001.
Sales of the combination paediatric testing with the product.
Barr Canada and price controls and proposed product, Zestoretic Zestril in combination thereafter commenced litigation against the changes to legislation protecting intellectual with a diuretic, were also significantly affected FDA challenging the FDAs refusal to grant property.
State governments are introducing by the patent expiry.
Barr final approval for its own generic preferred drug lists and other restrictions on tamoxifen prior to expiration of AstraZenecas Medicaid.
In addition, the Prescription Drug A strong performance by Toprol-XL, the exclusivity period.
Barr also declined our offer Use Fee Amendment Act PDUFA, the leading branded beta blocker in the US, led to extend the distribution agreement to the mechanism that allows for the expedited to a 43% increase in sales to $617 million for end of the exclusivity period.
In October 2002, review of drug applications, was renewed 2002.
Toprol-XL prescription market share we began shipping non-branded tamoxifen to increase both risk assessment and postincreased to 21%.
The Atacand family of to customers to ensure an uninterrupted marketing surveillance requirements for products continues to outperform the supply of products to patients.
During the year, there was a angiotensin receptor blocker market in about this are set out on page 104. significant level of criticism of the patent terms of total prescription volume growth, defence strategies typically pursued by R&D with 34% in 2002 compared to 23% for the Our discussions with the US Department based pharmaceutical companies.
The trial market as a whole.
Total sales of Atacand of Justice concerning its investigation into in New York of AstraZenecas suits against products in 2002 were $206 million.
the sale and marketing of Zoladex are four generic drug companies more details continuing.
More information about this of which are set out on page 103 received As described on page 12, we received an can be found on page 104. considerable media attention.
approvable letter for Crestor which required further information from our ongoing clinical Respiratory and Inflammation Gastrointestinal GI study programme to be provided to Sales of Pulmicort Respules were up 75% in In 2002, AstraZeneca retained leadership supplement that already submitted.
The data 2002 to $257 million strengthening its of the US market in GI treatment with the is scheduled for submission during Q1 2003. position as the inhaled corticosteroid of continuing success of Nexium and Entocort The launch of Crestor in the US is expected choice for the treatment of children under five EC.
The absence of generic competition for in the latter part of 2003. years of age with asthma.
Pulmicort the first 11 months meant that Prilosec also Turbuhaler sales only declined modestly to made a substantial contribution to our US Oncology $104 million in 2002, despite the launch of a sales performance in the year with total US The FDA announced in January 2003 that it new competitor fluticasone and salmeterol in sales of $2.8 billion.
required more time until 5 May 2003 to combination in the inhaled corticosteroid AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
In 2002, Rhinocort Aqua led the Representative magazine 2002 affected our performance in Germany and the aqueous inhaled nasal steroid market in Pharmaceutical Sales Representative of the UK where reported sales are based on percentage total prescription volume growth Year Award.
We welcome and are invoiced sales by AstraZeneca in the country and achieved sales of $172 million for the committed to full compliance with the new in question.
The Symbicort phase 3 clinical trial policies of the Pharmaceutical Research and programme was expanded with several new Manufacturers of America PhRMA on Product highlights studies being started, in preparation for the promotional practices.
Across Europe total sales of Nexium and scheduled launch of the product in the US Symbicort reached $630 million in 2002. market in 2006.
Facilities During 2002, we completed the relocation of The Oncology portfolio has performed well Central Nervous System CNS 1,200 AstraZeneca employees from our site ahead of expectations, specifically driven by Sales in CNS were driven primarily by the in Wayne, Pennsylvania to our existing the growth products Casodex and Arimidex, strong sales growth for Seroquel of $927 campus in Wilmington, Delaware.
As a result, but also Zoladex.
Sales growth of 28% of million 67%.
Completion of a major clinical about 4,200 employees are now based at the these brands was achieved in 2002 along trial programme for mania during 2002 is Wilmington facility, over 40% of our total US with improved market share.
expected to lead to a submission for workforce.
The expansion of the Wilmington marketing approval for this new application in site began in October 2002 and is scheduled Other growth products that performed well early 2003.
Zomig achieved total sales of for completion in the first half of 2003. were Seroquel and Atacand achieving 67% $177 million in 2002, up 20% on 2001.
We and 32% sales growth respectively.
are awaiting approval to market the nasal Canada spray formulation in the US.
The nasal spray Market highlights delivers a faster onset of action than Zomig in In 2002, sales growth in Canada was 10% Of the large markets, France continued to tablet form.
with total sales of $570 million.
AstraZeneca perform well with 13% sales growth ranks number four in Canada with a 7% comparing favourably to market growth.
The product portfolio Nexium performed particularly well in its Despite the introduction of generic performed well.
Symbicort was successfully launch year achieving sales of $53 million competition, Diprivan sales reversed their launched and is rapidly gaining market share.
in nine months and a 9% market share.
previous downward trend and in 2002 Nexium showed strong performance since its Symbicort achieved a 24% market share showed a 3% increase over 2001 levels, 2001 launch and continued to build market with sales of $67 million in 2002. with total sales of $216 million.
Two product franchises, Atacand principally due to increased use in the and Seroquel, performed very well over the Sales growth in Italy of 16% outperformed intensive care sedation market.
Diprivan previous year with increases of 47% and total market growth.
AstraZeneca sales of continues to be the market leader for 58% respectively.
The Oncology group had Nexium were $61 million with total brand injectable general anaesthetics.
another successful year with sales growth of market share including licensees reaching 13%, driven largely by Zoladex and Casodex.
Symbicort Infection AstraZeneca ranks number one in Canada in achieved a 16% market share of the fixed Merrem sales increased by 9% in 2002 oncology with a 22% market share.
Other key contributors and was the driving force behind the to the strong growth were Casodex 69%, increased used of carbapenems in serious Europe Arimidex 32%, Seroquel 100% and infections.
Total sales for the year were $59 Atacand 29%.
We are currently studying data from AstraZeneca is ranked third in the European the recent trial of Merrem in the treatment of pharmaceutical market with a market share UK sales were down by 20% driven by the cystic fibrosis with a view to submitting an of 5.3%.
Sales grew by 5% in 2002 to $5,695 patent expiries for Losec and Zestril.
Nexium application for approval for this indication million despite patent expiries, specifically increased its market share to 6% achieving early in 2003.
Trials of Merrem in the Losec and Zestril in the UK and the sales of $40 million in 2002.
Symbicort treatment of skin and skin structure Netherlands.
showed continued strong growth and infections, ventilator associated pneumonia achieved 14% of the fixed combination and pancreatitis continued to enrol patients Market factors market with $23 million sales.
The trials are scheduled for Market trends in Europe are increasingly performances were also seen for Casodex completion in 2003 and 2004.
Government imposed price cuts and Arimidex.
trade mark of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals impacted sales, with Italy suffering a 5% price Co. Ltd licensed to AstraZeneca achieved reduction on all products.
Generic In Germany Nexium has already gained a sales growth of 3% in its sixteenth year on the substitution in Europe is being encouraged 15% market share whilst Symbicort sales market, with total sales of $54 million in 2002. through legislation, with compulsory generic continued the strong positive trend seen in substitution introduced in Sweden and 2001 with year end market share of 34%.
Sales and marketing Germany in 2002.
Personal selling by sales representatives Overall sales in Sweden achieved 3% growth remains the single most effective marketing A further feature of the European market is the in 2002.
Nexium continued to grow and method in the industry.
We continued to significant increase in the movement of achieved a market share of 16%.
Symbicort improve the effectiveness of our sales force in products between countries, usually from performed well and achieved a 48% market the US as illustrated by an AstraZeneca sales southern Europe, where prices tend to be share of the fixed combination market.
representative winning the Pharmaceutical lower than northern Europe.
This particularly AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 20 Geographic Review continued The Netherlands showed a decline of 29% Latin America entirely driven by patent expiries.
Nexium and Symbicort sales continued to increase The economic turbulence across the Latin achieving a market share of respectively 9% American markets had a mixed effect on and 18%.
The greatest impact was in Argentina where AstraZeneca sales The rest of Europe achieved a strong declined in line with the market decline.
performance broadly above expectations Elsewhere in the region though, sales in the driven by the introduction of Nexium and key markets remained largely unaffected by Symbicort in most markets along with the economic and political pressures: in Brazil strong contribution of the oncology portfolio.
growth was well ahead of the market.
Japan Mexico and Venezuela provided exceptionally strong sales growth 25% and 86% AstraZeneca was the fastest growing major respectively.
This was well ahead of market pharmaceutical company in Japan during growth.
2002 with sales growth of 21%, significantly exceeding the market.
AstraZeneca is the largest pharmaceutical company in terms of oncology sales and has continued to increase its overall marketing and sales capabilities and now has the second largest field force in Japan.
Iressa was launched in August achieving sales of $65 million in 2002.
Casodex sales also grew strongly by 41% and now has a 78% market share.
Losec was the fastest growing PPI in Japan in 2002 with sales growth of 40%.
Seroquel out-licensed to Fujisawa has also grown strongly by 50% and now has a 22% market share.
During 2002, in addition to the Iressa launch, AstraZeneca launched Pulmicort, Zoladex LA and Zomig Rapimelt and received approval to promote Arimidex adjuvant use, and Losec for H. pylori eradication.
Asia Pacific Australia provided strong growth 16%, ahead of the market.
A highlight was the successful launch of Nexium.
In December, following an appeal by AstraZeneca, the High Court of Australia overturned a previous decision by the Federal Court which declared the formulation patent for omeprazole the active substance used in Losec invalid.
The latest judgement restored the patents validity, which will significantly reduce further threats of generic competition to Losec in Australia.
Strong growth also occurred in China and South Korea 13% in both cases providing a firm platform for future growth and expansion plans.
