AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 24 Commercialisation and Portfolio Management We have one of the broadest Our products are marketed primarily to on providing a wide range of innovative physicians both general and specialist as internet-based physician resources in key portfolios in the industry today.
well as to other healthcare professionals.
Maintaining the quality of this Marketing efforts are also directed towards portfolio requires stringent explaining the economic and therapeutic In the US, AstraZeneca maximises prioritisation to maximise the benefits of our products to governments and opportunities for direct contact with the healthcare buying groups, for example, consumer by providing patient-focused value of high potential products managed care organisations in the US, trust websites as well as a range of other and manage the progress of hospitals and budget-holding medical groups online promotions.
promising compounds in earlier in the UK and other organisations which pay development.
for healthcare costs in various countries.
In In Europe and Asia, we have e-business the US, we invest a significant amount of programmes underway to improve To develop successful medicines we need to money in direct-to-consumer advertising interaction with healthcare providers and are address unmet needs, find novel solutions, campaigns for certain of our products.
developing internet strategies to support minimise the technical risk and maximise the patients online needs.
Product Strategy Our e-business strategy focuses and Licensing PS&L, working closely with Our products are in fierce on supporting product R&D and major marketing companies, leads competition with others in development and marketing, the commercial aspects of drug development respect of clinical efficacy, and co-ordinates global product marketing increasing productivity and strategy.
This includes selecting the right tolerability, price, costreducing costs.
products and projects for investments, effectiveness and ease of use for developing effective marketing platforms in patients.
time for new product launches and directing We use e-business opportunities to the creation and delivery of product marketing strengthen our relationships with key strategies that successfully align global and stakeholders and to improve our overall The prescription pharmaceutical market is national plans.
AstraZenecas principal competitors are other international, researchSuccessful commercialisation of new Efficient pharmaceutical development based pharmaceutical and biotechnology products is dependent on satisfying the requires transparent, quality assured companies which also sell branded, patentneeds of our different customer groups with processes, acceptable to regulatory protected, prescription pharmaceuticals.
a product with the right profile.
Target authorities and increasingly relies on new product profiles TPPs are clearly defined technologies as well as strategic outsourcing.
Following patent expiry, our products also early in development and act as a focal point We are making significant investments in compete with generic pharmaceuticals.
for R&D activity as well as planning by the these new approaches and use internetCompetition with generic pharmaceuticals sales and marketing organisations.
The TPPs enabled processes and external partnerships is principally on price since generic describe the unmet needs of main patient to simplify the capture, collation, analysis and pharmaceutical companies typically and customer groups as well as how we reporting of clinical trials data.
In 2002 we incur only limited R&D costs compared should develop our project to meet these used internet-enabled processes to capture to those of research-based companies needs.
Among the factors considered in data in clinical studies in many geographic such as AstraZeneca.
developing a TPP are product features and regions, including Europe, Japan and the US.
benefits, medical and health outcomes In addition, more than 50 studies are currently Our ability to maintain and enhance our information, positioning, pricing and the supported by internet tools, such as competitive position in our chosen therapy competitive environment.
document exchange sites and extranets.
areas depends mainly on our development of new, innovative, cost-effective products In common with other leading pharmaceutical Significant progress has been made in from our R&D and in-licensing activities, the companies, we seek to strengthen our business-to-business activity including the manufacture and supply of products to high portfolio, where appropriate, by licensing in licensing of an application which improves quality standards and the effective marketing attractive products or technologies from efficiencies with suppliers and which is of products to our global customer groups.
expected to realise savings in the procurement area.
With sales in over 100 countries, In 2002, we launched a customer internet we have an extensive, high portal in the US that enables our direct trade quality global sales and customers to place orders and obtain up to marketing network.
the minute information on billing and order status.
In the majority of key markets, we sell through our wholly-owned local marketing companies E-marketing has been integrated into and in other countries through third party our worldwide commercial operations to distributors or local representative offices.
improve marketing effectiveness and offer new customer value.
