AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 14 Oncology continued Infection Zoladex is our largest oncology brand and Strategic priorities We have many years experience in treating one of the worlds best selling luteinisingTo build a franchise in the treatment of infectious diseases.
World demand for, and hormone releasing hormone LHRH agonists infectious diseases by increasing sales interest in, antibiotics remains high due to for the treatment of prostate cancer, breast of Merrem and by exploiting our escalating bacterial resistance and the cancer and gynaecological disorders.
It has internationally competitive microbial increased risk of serious infections.
been approved in 14 countries for the genomics platform.
adjuvant treatment of early stage preKey product menopausal breast cancer, as an alternative Therapy area in brief Merrem Meronem is an intravenous to and or in addition to chemotherapy.
Infectious diseases cause more than carbapenem antibiotic for the treatment of Zoladex offers the proven disease free survival 13 million deaths each year.
Clinical benefits of cytotoxics but with improved studies are in place to support a patient tolerability.
In prostate cancer, Zoladex Infection world market value: supplementary new drug application in the in the adjuvant setting is the only LHRH $49 billion.
US in late 2003 aimed at securing a skin and analogue shown to improve overall survival skin structure infection indication in 2004. following radical prostatectomy or Key product radiotherapy.
Zoladex three-month depot Merrem, antibiotic for serious infection.
Pipeline was approved in Japan for the treatment of Our R&D facility in Boston, US is progressing prostate cancer in April 2002.
2002 in brief a range of projects using both traditional and Merrem sales growth of 26%.
genomic based technologies to deliver Pipeline innovative anti-bacterial and anti-fungal The potential of Iressa to show benefits in a R&D focus agents to the infection pipeline.
number of tumours in addition to NSCLC is Development of products with new modes being investigated with around 60 exploratory of action that combat microbial disease.
Following the announcement in 2001 of a $10 trials ongoing.
Particular focus is on head and million capital investment in new laboratories neck cancer, breast cancer and colorectal at our R&D facility in Bangalore, India, the new cancer.
facility is scheduled to be completed and open in 2003.
Work will focus on finding a ZD6474 and AZD2171 are anti-angiogenics new treatment for tuberculosis, an infectious in phase 2 and phase 1 development disease that is newly diagnosed in respectively which target the control of approximately two million people every year in growth of blood vessels of tumours.
India and over eight million people worldwide.
AZD9935 is another anti-angiogenic in pre-clinical development.
We have discontinued our development of AZD2563 as a result of its failure to meet our ZD6126 is a vascular targeting agent that target profile.
is scheduled to enter phase 2 development which targets and destroys the vasculature of tumours, working to destroy the tumour from within.
AZD4440 is a vascular targeting agent, a back-up compound to ZD6126.
ZD4054 is an endothelin antagonist in phase 2 development that works by inhibiting the ETA receptor, responsible for tumour cell proliferation.
AZD0530 is an anti-invasive designed to prevent tumours from spreading and is scheduled to enter clinical testing in Q3 2003.
AZD3409 is a prenylation inhibitor designed to inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells and is scheduled to enter clinical testing in Q2 2003.
We have discontinued our development of ZD9331 as a result of its failure to meet our target profile and will return all rights to BTG Plc.
