AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 12 Cardiovascular CV Strategic priorities We are a world leader in CV medicines, approvable letter for Crestor from the FDA To build on our strong position in this backed by over 40 years experience.
which required further information from our important area, focusing in the short to ongoing clinical studies to supplement that medium term on the growth segments of Key products already submitted which delayed plans for hypertension, dyslipidaemia, thrombosis Atacand is an angiotensin II antagonist for launch in the US.
This data will support the use and type 2 diabetes.
the first line treatment of hypertension.
In of Crestor over the dose range of 10-40 mg 2002 the FDA approved a superiority claim in and is scheduled for submission during Q1 Therapy area in brief the labelling of Atacand versus the class 2003.
The approval of Crestor in the US is CV diseases account for 17 million deaths leader, losartan.
The Atacand family of now expected in the latter part of 2003 and globally each year, making it the greatest products shows a strong market acceptance we anticipate completion of the regulatory risk to life for most adults.
and competes in the fastest growing sector of review process in Japan during 2003. the global hypertension market angiotensin II CV is the single largest therapy area in the antagonists plain and combinations with Exanta, potentially the first new oral antiglobal healthcare market.
Atacand achieved a global market coagulant in 50 years, is a novel oral direct share, excluding Japan, of 10%.
Further thrombin inhibitor targeted to prevent and The statin market has a world market developments include major studies in heart treat the abnormal formation of blood clots value of $19 billion and is one of the largest failure CHARM, due to report in 2003, and thrombosis.
In clinical studies it has been and most rapidly growing areas of the retinopathy in diabetic patients DIRECT due shown to be effective and well tolerated and pharmaceutical market.
to report in 2006. data published in late 2002 showed that Exanta significantly reduces the risk of venous CV treatments world market value: Seloken ZOK Toprol-XL, a once daily tablet thromboembolism VTE in orthopaedic $87 billion.
for 24 hour control of blood pressure and for surgery and effectively prevents the use in heart failure, is the worlds leading recurrence of clots.
Its potential practical Key products product in the beta blocker plain and benefits include oral administration, rapid Growth products combinations with diuretic class with a onset of action and lack of drug food Seloken ZOK Toprol-XL, beta blocker for market share of 20% globally and 29% in the interactions with no need for routine blood hypertension, angina, heart failure and US.
We expect sales growth to continue, coagulation monitoring.
Studies in the major other uses.
backed by further inclusions in treatment chronic indication, prevention of stroke in Atacand, angiotensin II antagonist for guidelines for heart failure.
patients with atrial fibrillation, are ongoing.
first regulatory submission in Europe for the Established products Zestril, an angiotensin converting enzyme prevention of VTE in orthopaedic surgery was Zestril and Plendil for hypertension.
ACE inhibitor, is used for the treatment of a made in July 2002.
First regulatory wide range of CV diseases, including hypersubmissions in the US are planned for Q4 2002 in brief tension.
Lisinopril, the active ingredient in 2003 as well as the filing for major chronic First approval for Crestor in Europe.
Zestril, lost protection in the US in June 2002 indications in the rest of the world.
and in Japan, the UK and most other major Further information on Crestor required by markets during 2002 and, as anticipated, a Galida previously known as AZ242 is a FDA is planned for submission Q1 2003. major erosion of sales commenced during the treatment for insulin resistance related second half of 2002.
Nonetheless, the Zestril glucose and lipid abnormalities associated Atacand achieves global market share, family achieved a 15% share of the global with type 2 diabetes metabolic syndrome.
excluding Japan, of 10% 9% in the US.
ACE inhibitor sector 19% in the US.
Early clinical studies indicate that it has a promising pharmacokinetic profile, shows Continued strong growth for Seloken Pipeline a dose-related effect on lipids, glucose and ZOK Toprol-XL of 27%.
Crestor is a new statin which clinical trials insulin and is well tolerated.
Further phase 2 have shown to be highly effective in the work is under way with entry into phase 3 Rapid erosion of Zestril sales due to patent treatment of patients with lipid disorders and anticipated in 2003. expiry in major markets.
which has the potential to be superior in efficacy to currently available statins.
It offers Our further research in thrombosis aims to First regulatory submission for Exanta significantly greater LDL cholesterol low deliver an oral, anti-platelet therapy and in Europe.
density lipoprotein reduction than other AZD6140 has now entered clinical developstatins, has beneficial effects on HDL ment.
Novel research in atrial fibrillation Publication of data confirming efficacy of cholesterol high density lipoprotein and includes AZD7009, an atrial repolarisation Exanta in use for chronic conditions.
triglyceride levels and may enable more delaying agent.
Also in development: patients to reach recommended target AZD0837 an oral direct thrombin inhibitor R&D focus cholesterol levels.
The approval of products in for thrombosis, AZD9684 a carboxy Broadening the CV portfolio into the areas this class has been subject to additional peptidase-U inhibitor for thrombosis and of thromboembolism, dyslipidaemia, type regulatory scrutiny, partly as a result of the AZD7806 an ilial bile acid transport inhibitor 2 diabetes metabolic syndrome, atrial previous market withdrawal of cerivastatin.
fibrillation and vascular disease Crestor was first approved in Europe in the prevention.
Netherlands in November and it entered the We have discontinued our development of EU Mutual Recognition Procedure in AZD7545 as a result of its failure to meet our December.
In the US, we received an target profile.
