AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 08 Strategy We are committed to creating building on the success of other key programme, complements our in-house products, Arimidex, Atacand, Casodex, R&D activities.
enduring shareholder value by Seroquel and Zomig delivering a flow of innovative R&D spend totalled $3,069 million in 2002 medicines that meet the needs successful launches worldwide of the and we are on track to meet the challenging of patients and healthcare high potential products currently in late R&D targets that will deliver our strategic stage development, including Crestor objectives.
professionals in important areas and Exanta of medicine.
Further details are given on pages 21 to 23. active lifecycle management of the As a prescription pharmaceutical company product portfolio and delivery of the full Build the talent base focused on the introduction of new sales potential of the established range We recognise that continued success medicines, we are transforming our portfolio depends on the quality and commitment of from successful but mature brands to a range Full details of product performance are given our people.
We aim to continue to attract and of exciting new products.
in this Operational Review and the Financial retain the best talent within a performanceReview on pages 11 to 43. based culture that values, supports and This transformation will involve: rewards team and individual contributions.
Win in the US Our ongoing employer of choice initiative aims realising the full potential of our Special focus is being given to the future to allow the full potential of our people to be established portfolio and high potential growth of the US business as a critical, realised.
It centres around three global pipeline integrated part of our global organisation.
themes: work environment, learning and development opportunities and reward.
retaining and building on our leading We aim to deliver outstanding performance in positions, notably in the key markets of the US, the worlds largest market for See page 29 for more details.
the US, Japan and Europe pharmaceuticals, worth $194 billion and growing at 15% per annum.
We achieved a Fast, effective organisation sustained, focused investment in R&D good US sales performance in 2002 of Our success depends on our ability to $9,351 million with a growth rate of 10%.
respond quickly and effectively to changing effective resource allocation and cost business needs and we believe this will be control, supported by our strong We continued to expand our R&D presence in increasingly important in the future.
We have performance-led culture Boston and to improve the effectiveness of achieved productivity gains in a number of our US sales force to maximise the areas including R&D, supply chain efficiency This strategy requires the fulfilment of six key opportunities provided by the flow of new and speed and clarity of decision making and business priorities: products.
have identified areas for further improvement to enhance our performance in these and all First choice for customers Further details are given on pages 18 to 19. other aspects of our business.
We aim to continue to build on our leading positions in many important areas of medicine Secure the flow of new products by providing new, innovative products and Already a world leading R&D organisation, services that meet the medical needs of we continue to focus on improving R&D patients and healthcare professionals and productivity and efficiency of new drug which offer value in the treatment of disease.
delivery, increasing our output of quality CDs, vigorously eliminating weaker products We recognise the challenges of cost from early development and bringing better containment in healthcare and are committed drugs to market faster.
Our CD delivery has to improving patient choice and access to increased by 20% in the last three years medicines.
and on average one quality CD with more stringent criteria now enters pre-clinical We believe that new global communication development each month.
channels offer scope for better use and uptake of medicines and we will embrace We are well placed to exploit the opportunities the opportunities this presents.
in leading edge science and technology and to capture the benefits of scale of a large Growth through key products organisation whilst retaining the spirit and Growth of our business will be driven by: innovation of an entrepreneurial company.
the rapid growth of our most recently We aim to be at the forefront of innovative launched high potential products Nexium technology.
An extensive network with and Symbicort launched 2001 and leading universities and biotechnology Faslodex and Iressa launched 2002 companies, in addition to our in-licensing
