AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 21 Research and Development R&D Our R&D is focused on improving clinical medicine to the drug discovery We continue to improve our productivity and process.
This provides better understanding speed of product development through productivity and efficiency of new of human diseases and how future drugs will initiatives designed to make maximum use of drug delivery, increasing our work to prevent and treat those diseases.
We local expertise within our global organisation.
output of quality CDs, vigorously are also introducing more stringent safety and Specific e-based clinical and regulatory eliminating weaker products from drug metabolism pharmacokinetic testing projects have been initiated to further speed earlier.
This allows for early identification of our access to data worldwide and to improve early development and bringing CDs that are unlikely to succeed.
regulatory file preparation and submission better drugs to market faster.
will continue to simplify our We have increased CD delivery by 20% in processes, speed up our the last three years.
On average, one quality Productivity gains have also been realised CD now enters pre-clinical development through a more strategic approach to decision making and increase each month.
During 2002, a further 11 CDs purchasing and outsourcing arrangements our focus on key projects.
were selected and, in addition, six early across the whole drug development process.
development projects reached volunteer Independent industry sources CMR In R&D we employ over 11,000 people at dosing.
International identify AstraZeneca as being nine major sites in five countries the UK, the among the fastest in drug development in the US, Sweden, Canada and India.
Our 2002 In 2002 we introduced a global knowledge industry.
exchange project incorporating systems that maximise the benefits of using the latest Collaborations AstraZeneca R&D remains an integrated, communication and informatics technologies.
Over 300 new collaborations have been project driven organisation.
Our approach is Our global Enabling Science and Technology entered into in 2002 with leading academic therapy area led with scientific, medical, activity continues to support all research centres and biotech companies to technical and ethical input and control being areas worldwide with skills in compound complement our in-house R&D capabilities.
provided by large, multi-skilled Discovery and management and natural product screening, Development organisations.
This offers a structural chemistry, bio-imaging, genetics, number of significant advantages including transgenics, protein science and supply and sharing of best practice in terms of science informatics.
We have also initiated a new and technology and efficient use of resources global compound collection enhancement in a multi-site, global organisation.
Our advanced science and technology activity has introduced a variety During 2002, we looked closely at overall of new enabling technologies for drugs productivity and efficiency throughout our search programmes.
In Discovery, our aim is to increase the output of high quality candidate We continued to invest in R&D facilities by drugs CDs with a lower risk of failure in upgrading or replacing older laboratories in development.
In Development, our aim is to Sweden, the UK, the US and India and by develop better drugs faster.
purchasing new technology and equipment to improve our capability in leading edge We remain focused on meeting our principal science.
Recruitment of highly skilled new R&D performance target of delivering new, staff continued alongside the ongoing training medically important and commercially and development of existing employees successful products to the market every year.
Discovery Development Our Discovery organisation consists of highly Our Development organisation consists of skilled employees working in each of our people skilled in clinical research, regulatory eight research areas.
The scientific groups affairs and pharmaceutical development.
are spread over a number of research sites Maximum efficiencies are achieved from worldwide but are organised so as to gain global working applied flexibly across the critical mass efficiencies and exchange of business subject to the provision of site ideas and project opportunities.
Safety assessment and process R&D teams Our focus in 2002 was to complete the work across all areas, starting in Discovery development programmes and deliver the and following projects through Development regulatory support which we require for the and life cycle management.
approval and launch of Faslodex, Iressa, Crestor and Exanta.
We also placed high To increase the likelihood that CDs will priority on successful delivery of lifecycle progress through late stage development programmes designed to optimise growth to market we are bringing new aspects of of our marketed range of products.
