AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 16 Central Nervous System CNS Strategic priorities We made significant progress in 2002 in our Zomig Nasal Spray is a new formulation in an To build on the growth of our key products aim to grow as a major force in the CNS area, easy-to-use and convenient device to deliver Seroquel and Zomig through continued with strong sales growth for our key products fast pain relief for migraine sufferers.
The nasal investment in the treatment of major CNS and several major R&D milestones being spray received EU approval in 2002 and was disorders.
Globally, in the CNS sector, successfully launched in Sweden, the UK, AstraZeneca now ranks number nine and is Germany and Austria with other major Therapy area in brief one of the fastest growing companies.
markets expected to follow through the first Depression and anxiety affect an half of 2003.
In Sweden, the first market estimated 30 million people in the Key products where Zomig was launched, sales increased developed world.
Seroquel is an atypical anti-psychotic for by almost 28% following the introduction of the treatment of schizophrenia.
Since its the nasal spray and customer feedback Prevalence of Alzheimers disease set to launch in 1997, Seroquel has been used to continues to be encouraging with the total increase exponentially over the next 15 treat more than four million people worldwide Zomig brand capturing share from competing years unless new effective treatments are in over 50 countries.
With strong sales in the products.
US, Seroquel commands 19% of new prescriptions in the US anti-psychotic market.
Pipeline Acute stroke is the third leading cause of It is the only major anti-psychotic with Ongoing development projects include two death in North America and Western increasing share in this key market.
Sales are serotonin antagonists AR-A2 and AZD1134 Europe and the most common cause of also growing strongly in major European selective for the 5HT receptor subtypes.
markets and Japan where it is sold under licence by Fujisawa.
Annual sales exceeded Cerovive previously known as NXY-059 is a CNS therapies world market value: $1 billion for the first time in 2002. nitrone-based free radical trapping agent for $46 billion.
treatment of acute ischaemic stroke, a Seroquel is effective against the positive, disease with substantial unmet need for new Key products negative, cognitive and affective symptoms effective therapies.
Pre-clinical data suggests Growth products associated with schizophrenia with an onset that Cerovive may have the potential to Seroquel, schizophrenia therapy.
of action within one week.
Studies support minimise or prevent further neuronal damage Zomig, migraine treatment.
a positive effect on mood, hostility and to the brain following an acute ischaemic aggression.
Seroquel offers the efficacy of stroke and phase 2 results in stroke patients 2002 in brief the newer atypical agents but with unique indicate a favourable safety profile.
Phase 3 Global sales of Seroquel exceed patient tolerability, characterised by the low studies are scheduled to commence in 2003.
$1 billion annually for first time.
profile of extrapyramidal side effects across the entire dose range.
AstraZeneca aims to become a leading player Seroquel was the only major antiin the area of overactive bladder OAB psychotic to increase market share in the Continuing strong sales growth of Seroquel therapy.
Early development activities for the US.
is anticipated through new indications and treatment of OAB include potassium channel increasing penetration in the schizophrenia activation ZD0947 and neurokinin Filing in the US for Seroquel for the market.
Filings were made in the US in antagonism AZD5106, both novel treatment of bipolar mania submitted in December 2002 for use of Seroquel in approaches to the treatment of this highly December 2002. the treatment of bipolar mania and are prevalent condition.
Further Zomig Rapimelt launched in Japan.
developments are planned to show the full Alzheimers disease is a core strategic focus.
spectrum of clinical benefit in the elderly AZD0328 is a new candidate drug with a Zomig Nasal Spray launched in Sweden, population and in those suffering from novel mechanism of action.
The collaboration with Shanghai Jiaotong Cerovive progressing well through Zomig, for the treatment of acute migraine, University on neurogenetics, established in development.
provides rapid relief of symptoms and is 2001, is progressing well as is our effective when taken at all stages of a migraine collaboration with NPS Pharmaceuticals with R&D focus attack.
Available in over 80 countries, it is the early and late phase pre-clinical projects on New indications for existing products and leading second-generation triptan with a global metabotropic glutamate receptors covering the development of new approaches to market share of 16%.
Total cumulative sales of all major CNS and pain control disease the treatment of acute stroke, $1 billion were achieved in July 2002. indications.
depression anxiety, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimers disease and overactive Zomig Rapimelt a rapidly dispersible We have discontinued our development of bladder.
formulation offering patients a convenient, NAD-299 for depression as a result of its orange flavoured melt-in-the-mouth tablet failure to meet our target profile.
was additionally launched in Japan in June 2002 and early signs indicate that it is generating additional sales for Zomig mirroring the significant success achieved in other markets.
