AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 15 Respiratory and Inflammation Strategic priorities We market a wide range of products for the relief of asthma symptoms when To build on our leading position in asthma respiratory diseases and aim to broaden our corticosteroid treatment is not adequate.
It is treatment through growth of key products, portfolio to include treatments for other now approved in most of the EU for additional particularly Symbicort, new indications for inflammatory conditions.
as needed therapy for patients already Symbicort and Oxis and the successful taking it as part of their regular maintenance introduction of novel approaches to other Key products therapy.
This additional indication has areas of inflammatory disease such as Symbicort is a new, innovative and effective enabled Oxis to increase its share of the long COPD and rheumatoid arthritis.
asthma treatment that offers adjustable acting beta-agonist market.
Oxis was dosing which enables doctors to tailor a approved for the treatment of chronic Therapy area in brief patients treatment of this variable disease obstructive pulmonary disease COPD in the The World Health Organisation estimates with a single inhaler.
It is a combination of the EU in December 2002. that 100 million people worldwide suffer corticosteroid, budesonide and the fast from asthma and that COPD is the fourth onset, long-acting bronchodilator, formoterol, Rhinocort is a nasal steroid treatment for greatest cause of death globally.
in the Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler.
allergic rhinitis hay fever, perennial rhinitis Symbicort Turbuhaler is approved in 68 and nasal polyps.
It combines powerful Respiratory and Inflammation therapy countries and launched in 44.
Early sales efficacy with rapid onset of action and minimal world market value: $30 billion.
performance has been encouraging, side effects and is available as a once daily achieving a 23% share of the rapidly growing treatment in the Rhinocort Aqua pressurised Key products fixed combination market in Europe.
metered dose inhaler and the Turbuhaler dry Growth product Encouraging clinical results confirm the powder inhaler forms.
US sales of Rhinocort Symbicort, inhaled combination of antiefficacy and safety of Symbicort and its use Aqua in 2002 showed strong growth and as inflammatory and fast onset long-acting for the adjustable maintenance treatment of of December 2002 accounted for 13% of the bronchodilator in a single inhaler.
Further launches are planned in inhaled nasal steroid market.
Rhinocort, topical nasal anti-inflammatory Accolate is an oral leukotriene receptor for rhinitis control.
Pulmicort is a corticosteroid antiantagonist for the treatment of asthma Pulmicort, inhaled anti-inflammatory for inflammatory inhalation drug that helps available in most markets.
prevent symptoms and improves the control Oxis, inhaled fast onset long-acting of asthma.
Pulmicort remains one of the Pipeline bronchodilator for relief of asthma worlds leading asthma medicines and is Symbicort phase 3 development has started symptoms.
available in several forms, including the in the US in the pressurised metered dose Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler, a pressurised inhaler.
Further development of Symbicort 2002 in brief metered dose inhaler and the Respules includes use for the treatment of COPD and Clinical results confirm efficacy and safety suspension for the treatment of children.
The regulatory submissions for this indication of Symbicort for adjustable maintenance START study is a five year global trial involving were made in Europe in 2002. treatment of asthma.
more than 6,000 patients in 31 countries, with the objective of evaluating whether early Three new compounds have entered preSuccessful completion of the Mutual intervention with inhaled glucocorticosteroids clinical development targeted at COPD Recognition Procedure for the use of will affect the evolution of newly diagnosed AZD3342, AZD0275 and AZD0902 and Symbicort in children age 6-11 years in asthma.
This study will evaluate the benefits one compound at osteoarthritis AZD8955.
the EU, Iceland and Norway.
of Pulmicort in the early treatment of asthma in adults and children, and is due to report Compounds currently in early development Regulatory submissions filed in Europe for fully in 2003.
Preliminary data was reported in include AZD7140, AZD8309 and AZD9056 Symbicort use in COPD.
September 2002 at the European Respiratory each of which have novel mechanisms of Society showing high efficacy and a good action and are targeted at rheumatoid R&D focus safety profile supporting the early use of arthritis.
Development of further treatments for Pulmicort.
Pulmicort Turbuhaler was asthma and rhinitis and for other launched in Japan in February 2002.
We have discontinued our development of inflammatory diseases of the respiratory D5522, AZD4407 and AZD2315 as a result and musculo-skeletal system, such as Pulmicort Respules, the first and only of their failure to meet our target profile.
nebulised corticosteroid in the US for children as young as 12 months of age achieved 66% growth with 1.8 million prescriptions in 2002.
In December 2002, Pulmicort Respules accounted for 17% of the US paediatric asthma controller market prescriptions.
Pulmicort Respules is the number one prescribed inhaled corticosteroid among paediatricians in the US.
Oxis is a beta-agonist asthma therapy with a fast onset and long-acting clinical effect for
