AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Board of Directors www.
com 06 Board of Directors at 31 December 2002 Percy Barnevik Sir Tom McKillop Jonathan Symonds Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Hkan Mogren Dame Bridget Ogilvie Executive Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Sir Peter Bonfield Senior Non-Executive Director ke Stavling Marcus Wallenberg Executive Director, Non-Executive Director Erna Mller Business Development Non-Executive Director Karl von der Heyden Jane Henney Non-Executive Director John Buchanan Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Board of Directors www.
com 07 Percy Barnevik 61 Sir Tom McKillop 59 Jonathan Symonds 43 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Executive Director and Chief Financial Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed as a Director 1 January 1996.
Officer Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB Group Appointed as a Director 1 October 1997.
Also Honorary Chairman of Sandvik AB.
President of the European Federation of has overall responsibility for Information Executive Director of General Motors Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations.
Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ Corporation.
Member of the Academies of Pro-Chancellor of the University of Leicester.
Member of the Accounting Engineering Sciences in Sweden and Finland Chairman of the British Pharma Group and Standards Boards Urgent Issues Task Force.
and Honorary Member of the Royal Academy the North West Science Council.
Member of Advisory Sir Peter Bonfield CBE, FREng 58 Councils in Korea, India and the Investment Dame Bridget Ogilvie 64 Senior Non-Executive Director Council advising the South African Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Government.
Member of the Business Member of the Audit Committee Committee and Member of the Council of American CEOs and the Council Appointed as a Director 1 January 1997.
Also Nomination Committee on Foreign Relations, USA.
Member of the has responsibility for overseeing corporate Appointed as a Director 1 January 1995.
Advisory Board of Centre for European responsibility.
Non-Executive Director of the Chief Executive of British Reform, UK.
NonChairman of the Medicines for Malaria Executive Director of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Hkan Mogren 58 Venture, the Governing Body of the Institute Ericsson, Mentor Graphics Corporation and Executive Deputy Chairman of Animal Health and the Association of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Member of the Nomination Committee Medical Research Charities.
Trustee of the Company, Ltd.
Vice-President of The British Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Science Museum and Cancer Research UK.
Formerly CEO and a Director of Astra AB Chairman of the Trustees of the AstraZeneca appointed 18 May 1988.
Erna Mller 62 Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
NonNon-Executive Director Executive Vice-Chairman of Gambro AB.
Marcus Wallenberg 46 Member of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director of Investor AB, Norsk Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Hydro ASA and the Marianne and Marcus Member of the Audit Committee Formerly a Director of Astra AB appointed 15 Wallenberg Foundation.
Member of the Royal Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Executive Director of the Knut Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences.
Formerly a Director of Astra AB appointed and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
President and Chief Executive of Clinical Immunology and Member of the ke Stavling 58 Officer of Investor AB.
Non-Executive ViceNobel Assembly, Karolinska Institute.
Executive Director, Business Chairman of Saab AB, Skandinaviska Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Development Enskilda Banken AB and Telefonaktiebolaget Engineering Sciences.
Non-Executive Director of Also has overall responsibility for corporate Scania AB, Stora Enso Oyj and the Knut and John Buchanan 59 strategy.
Non-Executive Director of Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
Non-Executive Director Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc.
Member of the Audit Committee and Karl von der Heyden 66 Remuneration Committee Jane Henney 55 Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Director 25 April 2002.
Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Executive Director and Group Chief Financial Member of the Audit Committee and Appointed as a Director 1 October 1998.
NonNomination Committee Executive Vice-President 1989-1992 and CoExecutive Director of The Boots Company Appointed as a Director 24 September 2001.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 1993 of PLC, BHP Billiton Plc effective 1 February Senior Scholar, Association of Academic RJR Nabisco.
President and Chief Executive 2003 and Vodafone Group Plc effective Health Centers, Washington DC.
Officer of Metallgesellschaft Corp. 1993- 1 April 2003.
Commissioner of Food and Drugs 1998- 1994.
Vice-Chairman of PepsiCo, Inc. 1996- 2001 and Deputy Commissioner for 2001.
Non-Executive Director of Federated Operations 1992-1994, US Food and Drug Department Stores Inc. ARAMARK Inc and Other officers of the Company at Administration.
Deputy Director, US National Exult, Inc. 31 December 2002 included members Cancer Institute 1980-1995.
Non-Executive of the Senior Executive Team, as set out Director of AmerisourceBergen Corporation.
on page 45 and: Member of the Board of Trustees of the Commonwealth Fund and the Scripps Graeme Musker Research Institute.
Member of the Medical & Group Secretary and Solicitor Scientific Advisory Board of MPM Capital.
Appointed as Company Secretary 6 June 1993. ke Stavling left the Company on 31 January 2003.
