AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Operational Review www.
com 26 Other Businesses Main Facilities Astra Tech Marlow Foods AstraZeneca owns and operates numerous Astra Tech is engaged in the R&D, Marlow Foods is a leading company in the production, marketing and R&D facilities manufacture and marketing of medical fast growing healthy eating sector of the worldwide.
Our corporate headquarters are in devices and implants for use in healthcare, food market.
Marlow Foods has established London, UK and our R&D headquarters are in primarily in urology but also in odontology, this position through the Quorn brand.
Astra Tech foods use mycoprotein, an innovative protein has a leading position in the Nordic countries provided by fermentation.
Out of a total 32 manufacturing sites in 20 and is expanding its operations in Europe and countries, our principal manufacturing other key markets.
Quorn is the leading meat alternative brand facilities are in the UK Avlon and in the UK with a 17% market share TN Macclesfield : Sweden Snckviken and All products showed good sales growth, in Sofres.
Grtuna, Sdertlje : the US Newark, particular the Dental Implant System, which is Delaware and Westborough, gaining market share in several key markets.
Quorn foods are currently sold in six Massachusetts : Australia North Ryde, New Further investments have been made in R&D, other European countries, and now the South Wales : France Dunkirk, Monts and clinical research and new production facilities US, following market entry in January 2002.
Reims : Germany Plankstadt : Italy to strengthen the product portfolio and in the Caponago : Japan Maihara : and Puerto US in sales and marketing capabilities.
Sales of the business increased by 8% in Rico Canovanas, Carolina and Guayama.
2002 and Marlow Foods made positive profit Salick Health Care and cash contributions.
Bulk drug production is concentrated in Salick Health Care SHC is a leading provider the UK, Sweden, France and Puerto Rico.
of outpatient oncology management and consulting services in the US.
Ownership of Our principal R&D facilities are in the UK SHC provides AstraZeneca with a unique Alderley Park and Charnwood : Sweden window on the provider sector of the US Lund, MIndal and Sdertlje : the US oncology market and access to many Boston, Massachusetts and Wilmington, leading oncologists.
Delaware : Canada Montreal, Qubec : and India Bangalore.
Other R&D activity is carried SHC manages full-service outpatient out at Macclesfield and Avlon in the UK and comprehensive cancer centres in affiliation Reims in France.
with major teaching and community hospitals in California, Florida and New York and is Substantially all of our properties are held affiliated with a large network of over 100 freehold, free of material encumbrances and physicians, working in specialised areas such we believe such properties are adequate for as medical, radiation and surgical oncology.
their purposes and suitably utilised.
In 2002, SHC performed well in its cancer centre management business with positive profit and cash contributions and is pursuing growth of its recently launched consultancy business which provides hospitals with assessments of cancer care programmes and their financial feasibility.
Additionally, SHC has continued its development of an innovative clinical research network to improve patient care and cancer treatment.
