Report of the Directors Directors and Group Secretarys Biographical Details 36 Principal Activities 38 Business Review 38 Turnover and Profit 38 Dividends 38 Legal Proceedings 38 Directors 38 Share Capital 39 Directors Share Interests and Substantial Shareholdings 39 Corporate and Social Responsibility 39 Corporate Governance Statement 40 Board of Directors 40 Recent Developments in Corporate Governance 42 Accountability and Audit 43 Report on Directors Remuneration 45 Contents Inside Front Cover Glossary 143 Cross reference to Form 20-F 144 Index 146 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 35 Report of the Directors Directors and Group Secretarys Biographical Details D C Bonham Chairman until 8 May 2003 Appointed a Director in March 2000 and Chairman in May 2000.
He is also Chairman of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and CamAxys Group plc and is a non-executive director of Marconi plc and TXU Corporation.
He joined Hanson plc in 1971, where he held the post of Deputy Chairman between 1993 and 1997.
Between 1995 and 1999 he also held senior positions with The Energy Group plc and Newsquest plc.
J M Sunderland Chief Executive Officer Executive Chairman designate Appointed a Director in May 1993 and as Group Chief Executive in September 1996.
Appointed as Chief Executive Officer in March 2000.
Joined Cadbury Schweppes in 1968 and held a succession of senior positions in the UK and overseas.
In 1987 he was a founding Director of Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages Ltd and in 1989 was appointed as Managing Director of the UK Sugar Confectionery Division.
He is also a non-executive director of the Rank Group Plc, President of both The Incorporated Society of British Advertisers and The UK Food & Drink Federation and a trustee of Industry in Education.
Will succeed D C Bonham as Chairman in May 2003.
H T Stitzer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer designate Appointed to the Board as Chief Strategy Officer in March 2000 and appointed as Deputy Chief Executive Officer in December 2002.
He joined Cadbury Schweppes North America in 1983 after practising law for several years in a large New York law firm, becoming Vice President and General Counsel in 1988.
From 1991 to 1993 he was Group Development Director responsible for strategic planning and external development.
He subsequently held a number of senior sales, marketing and general management roles, culminating in his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer of Dr Pepper Seven Up, Inc from 1997 to 2000.
Will succeed J M Sunderland as Chief Executive Officer in May 2003.
Dr W C G Berndt Non-Executive Appointed a Director in January 2002.
He is also a director of GfK AG, a German-based global market research company, and non-executive Chairman of Institute for the Future, a US-based think tank.
He joined The Procter & Gamble Co. in 1967, holding a number of increasingly senior brand and general management positions in Europe, North and South America, culminating in his appointment as President, North America in 1995 and President, Global Fabric & Home Care in 1999.
Age 60 R S Braddock Non-Executive Appointed a Director in June 1997.
He is Chairman of Priceline.
com and a director of Eastman Kodak Company and Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts.
He held a number of senior positions with Citicorp Citibank, NA and Medco Containment Services, Inc. between 1973 and 1993.
36 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 R M Carr Senior Independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman designate Appointed a Director in January 2001.
He is the senior independent director of Six Continents PLC, a non-executive director of Centrica plc and a Senior Advisor to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd.
He is also a member of the Industrial Development Advisory Board, a member of the CBI Council and a Fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce.
He was Chairman of Chubb plc until December 2002, and between 1984 and 2000, he held a number of senior positions with Williams PLC and Thames Water Plc.
D J Kappler Chief Financial Officer Appointed as Group Finance Director in January 1995 and as Chief Financial Officer in March 2000.
He worked for the Group between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined in 1989, following the acquisition of the Trebor Group of which he was Finance Director.
From 1989 to 1995 he held a number of senior positions related to the Groups confectionery interests, including Director of Corporate Finance.
He is also a non-executive director of HMV Group plc.
R J Stack Chief Human Resources Officer Appointed to the Board as Group Human Resources Director in May 1996.
He joined Cadbury Beverages in the US in 1990, following appointments with Bristol-Myers and the American Can Company.
In 1992 he was appointed Group Director, Strategic Human Resources Management and led executive development for the Company.
In March 2000 he was appointed as Chief Human Resources Officer, and corporate external affairs were added to his responsibilities.
Since October 2002, he has also been responsible for corporate communications.
D A R Thompson Non-Executive Appointed a Director in March 1998.
He joined The Boots Company PLC in 1966 where he held a number of senior finance positions, including Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director, before his retirement in September 2002.
Appointed Deputy Chairman of the Nottingham Building Society in May 2002.
Baroness Wilcox Non-Executive Appointed a Director in March 1997.
She is also a non-executive director of Carpetright plc, a Member of the House of Lords, President of both the National Federation of Consumer Groups and the Institute of Trading Standards, a member of the Governing Body of the Institute of Food Research and is on the Council of the Foundation for Science and Technology.
She was Chairman of the National Consumer Council between 1990 and 1995.
M A C Clark Group Secretary and Chief Legal Officer Appointed as Group Secretary and Chief Legal Officer in May 1988.
He joined the Group in 1980 and served as Senior Vice-President, General Counsel and Secretary of Cadbury Schweppes Inc prior to his current appointment.
He is also a director of Camelot Group plc.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 37 Report of the Directors The Directors present their Report together with the audited Financial Statements for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2002 the year.
Principal Activities The principal activities of the Group are detailed in the Description of Business on page 2.
The operating companies principally affecting the profit or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Business Review The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Review, and the Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement report on the Groups activities during the year, its position at the year-end and during the first part of 2003 and the Groups likely future development.
Acquisitions, disposals and changes in investments are detailed in the Operating and Financial Review on page 15.
The Group continues to invest in research and development and details are given in the Description of Business on page 9.
Turnover and Profit Turnover amounted to 5,298 million 2001: 4,960 million.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted to 830 million 2001: 813 million.
Dividends The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.00p per ordinary share 2001: 7.65p to be paid on 23 May 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 25 April 2003.
An interim dividend of 3.5p was paid on 18 October 2002, which makes a total of 11.5p net per ordinary share for the year 2001: 11.0p.
Ordinary dividends paid and recommended amount to 230 million 2001: 222 million.
Legal Proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of legal proceedings incidental to its operations.
The Company does not expect that the outcome of such proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect upon the results of the Companys operations or its financial position.
Directors The names of the Directors, together with brief biographical details, are set out on pages 36 and 37.
The changes to the Board of Directors during the year were as follows: Dr W C G Berndt was appointed as a Director on 16 January 2002 Dr F B Humer resigned as a Director on 17 January 2002 J F Brock resigned as a Director on 19 December 2002 At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2003, D C Bonham, R J Stack and H TStitzer will retire by rotation in accordance with Article 90 ofthe Articles ofAssociation.
RJ Stack and HTStitzer, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
R J Stack and H TStitzer have service contracts with the Company which are terminable by the Company giving one years notice.
Such contracts terminate automatically at the normal retirement age of 60 years.
D C Bonham does not intend to seek re-appointment as a Director at the Annual General Meeting.
Further information on payments on termination of contracts is set out on page 49.
38 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Share Capital Changes in the share capital of the Company are detailed in Note 21 to the Financial Statements.
At the 2003 Annual General Meeting, renewal will be sought of the authorities: a for the Directors to allot relevant securities and to allot equity securities for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis, shareholders having approved similar resolutions annually since 1982: and b for the Company to purchase its own shares as and if appropriate, shareholders having approved a similar resolution annually since 1998.
The Directors have no present intention to issue shares for cash in the Company other than in connection with its share option and incentive schemes.
The authority to purchase shares has not been used since 1999.
Directors' Share Interests and Substantial Shareholdings The interests of the Directors holding office during the year in the share capital of the Company at the beginning of the year, 31 December 2001 or date of appointment if later, and the end of the year, 29 December 2002 or date of resignation if earlier, are detailed in the Report on Directors Remuneration on page 55.
At the date of this Report the Company has been notified in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares Interest in in which there issued share is an interest capital in % Franklin Resources, Inc. 62,341,060 3.0 Barclays PLC 61,780,274 3.0 Legal & General Investment Management 61,686,656 3.0 The table on page 136 details notifications of interests since 1 January 2000.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Employees Details of the Groups employees, including numbers by geographical region, together with statements of policy about programmes for learning and development, employee involvement, equal employment opportunities and diversity, disabled persons and pensions are given in the Description of Business on pages 7 and 8.
Charitable and Political Contributions The Company is a member of The PerCent Club and during the year contributions within the UK to charities or equivalent organisations through corporate giving or as part of the activity of UK operating companies amounted to 2.6 million 2001: 1.8 million.
In 2002, the Company did not make any political contributions as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Community Involvement The Company contributes actively to the communities in which it operates around the world through national or locally targeted programmes.
These include charitable donations and may involve opportunities for commercial sponsorship, employee involvement or secondment, and help with facilities as well as direct financial support.
Increasingly the Group is building partnerships with projects or organisations in local communities to ensure that contributions are as effective as possible.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 39 Report of the Directors Environment Details of the Groups policy are set out in the Description of Business on page 10.
Policy on Payment to Suppliers The Company adheres to the Better Payment Practice Guide previously the CBI Prompt Payers Code, whereby the policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Details of how to obtain a copy of the Guide are on page 148.
The Company has no trade creditors, so the number of creditor days outstanding at the year end was nil.
Corporate Governance Statement The Board's policy is to manage the affairs of the Group in accordance with the most appropriate standards of good corporate governance.
In 2002 and up to the date of this report the Company fully complied with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as set out below.
Board of Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Directors.
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for the proper management of the Company.
In 2002 the Board met twelve times.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including the approval of annual and interim results, acquisitions and disposals, as well as material agreements, major capital expenditures, performance contracts formerly referred to as budgets and long range plans and senior executive appointments.
Other matters are delegated to Board Committees including those detailed below.
The Board has ten members, four Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
The Directors have wide ranging experience and all currently occupy or have occupied senior positions in industry or government.
The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 36 and 37.
On joining the Board, Directors are given background documents describing the Company and its activities.
For new Directors, site visits are arranged to the major business units.
All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
On 8 February 2002, R M Carr was appointed as the recognised Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Immediately after the AGM on 8 May 2003, the following board changes will take place: D C Bonham will resign as Chairman having not offered himself for re-election as a Director: J M Sunderland will be appointed as Executive Chairman: H TStitzer, appointed Deputy ChiefExecutive on 30 December 2002, will be appointed as Chief Executive Officer: R M Carr will be appointed as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
Arrangements are made for senior executives below Board level to attend Board meetings and make presentations on the results and strategies of their business units.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board and Committee meeting.
For Board meetings these documents include a report on current trading and business issues from the Chief Executive Officer, a period financial report, proposals for capital expenditures, proposals for acquisitions and disposals and proposals for senior executive appointments.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain regular contact with all Directors and hold informal meetings with the Non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Company.
40 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 The Board has approved an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense up to a maximum of 25,000.
Before incurring professional fees the Director concerned must consult the Chairman of the Board or two other Directors one of whom is non-executive.
Such advice was not sought by any Director during the year.
Directors have direct access to the advice and the services of the Group Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Audit Committee Members: D C Bonham, Dr W C G Berndt, R S Braddock, R M Carr and D A R Thompson Chairman: D A R Thompson The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Business Risk Management and the Head of Group Audit attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The Audit Committee deals with accounting matters, financial reporting and internal controls including risk management and the approval of non-audit services.
It meets at least twice a year and reviews the annual and interim financial statements.
The Committee also monitors proposed changes in accounting policy, reviews the internal audit functions, meets with external auditors and discusses the accounting implications of major transactions.
In 2002 the Audit Committee met three times.
Dr F B Humer was a member of the Committee until his resignation as a Director on 17 January 2002.
The other members of this Committee all held office at the year-end and at the date of this report.
Chief Executive Officers Committee Members: Executive Directors and Group Secretary Chairman: J M Sunderland The Chief Executive Officers Committee deals with a wide range of matters, including the review of four-weekly financial results and forecasts, proposals for capital expenditure and major operating issues which arise out of the ordinary course of business.
The Committee reviews acquisitions, disposals and associate investments, and performance contracts formerly referred to as budgets and long range plans, before they are submitted to the Board.
The Committee also reviews a report issued for each meeting by the treasury department on borrowings and other financial matters.
In 2002 the Chief Executive Officers Committee met twelve times.
J F Brock was a member of this Committee until his resignation as a Director on 19 December 2002.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee Members: Dr W CG Berndt, D CBonham, R J Stack, H TStitzer, J M Sunderland, D A R Thompson, Baroness Wilcox, M A C Clark Chairman: Baroness Wilcox The Director of External Affairs attends meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
This Committee deals with a range of corporate and social responsibility matters in relation to the environment, employment practices, health and safety, equal opportunities and diversity, community and social investment, ethical trading and human rights, and other aspects of ethical business practice.
In 2002 the Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee met twice.
The members of this Committee at the date of this Report all held office at the year-end.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 41 Report of the Directors Nomination Committee Members: D C Bonham, R M Carr, J M Sunderland and Baroness Wilcox Chairman: D C Bonham The Chief Human Resources Officer attends meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
This Committee is empowered to bring to the Board recommendations as to the appointment of any new Executive or Non-Executive Director, provided that the Chairman, in developing such recommendations, consults all Directors and reflects that consultation in any recommendation of the Nomination Committee brought forward to the Board.
The mixture of Non-Executive and Executive Directors on the Nomination Committee ensures that a review of Board candidates is undertaken in a disciplined and objective manner.
The Nomination Committee did not meet during the year.
Dr F B Humer was also a member of the Committee until his resignation as a Director on 17 January 2002.
Remuneration Committee Members: D C Bonham, R S Braddock, D A R Thompson and R M Carr Chairman: R S Braddock Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies are set out on pages 45 to 58.
Directors Remuneration The Directors remuneration, emoluments and interests in the Companys share capital are detailed on pages 51 to 58.
Recent Developments in Corporate Governance Following the introduction of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the USA in July 2002, a Disclosure Review Committee was established reporting to the Chief Executive Officer with responsibility for the design, periodic review and modification of internal controls and procedures to collect, process and disclose information to the public.
The Committee also obtains and reviews written assurances from senior business unit and regional managers as to the adequacy of their internal controls and the accuracy and completeness of the information they submit to the Company.
The Higgs Report and the Financial Review Committee's Smith Report were published in January 2003 and propose various changes to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance for financial years starting on or after 1 July 2003.
A new requirement of the Combined Code is likely to be that the Chief Executive Officer should not subsequently become Chairman of the Company Code A.
However, the Company believes that J M Sunderland's appointment as Chairman with effect from 8 May 2003 is in the best interests of shareholders in that his extensive experience is retained and that his assumption of the full-time role for a transitional period provides maximum continuity.
The appointment is also balanced by the appointment of R M Carr the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director as Deputy Chairman.
Relations with Shareholders Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Thursday, 8 May 2003 at 2.30 pm at the Royal Lancaster Hotel, Lancaster Terrace, London W2 2TY.
The Notice of Meeting is contained in the separate AGM booklet which will be enclosed with this Report & Accounts and Form 20-F sent to shareholders.
The booklet contains the text of the resolutions to be proposed and explanatory notes concerning the proposals to authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities and to allot equity securities for cash other than on a pre-emptive basis.
42 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 In addition, resolutions will be proposed to authorise the Company to purchase its own shares, as and if appropriate.
At the AGM there will be a statement by the Chairman regarding the Companys performance in 2002 and a brief statement on current trading conditions.
It is intended that all Directors will, as usual, attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst illness or other pressing reasons may mean this is not achieved, in normal circumstances the Chairmen of the Committees detailed on pages 41 to 42 will attend the AGM and will be available to answer questions.
Shareholders attending the AGM will be advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories For and Against, together with the numbers at the Chairmans discretion and of Votes withheld.
These will be advised after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Accountability and Audit Directors Responsibility The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to Financial Statements is set out on page 68.
The Statement by the Auditors on Corporate Governance matters is contained in their Report on pages 68 and 69.
Auditors Arthur Andersen resigned as auditors on 31 July 2002, and the Directors appointed Deloitte & Touche in their place.
Deloitte & Touche are willing to continue in office and a resolution for their re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Going Concern On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Internal Control The Directors have responsibility for the Groups system of internal control that covers all aspects of the business.
In recognition of that responsibility the Directors set policies and seek regular assurance that the system of internal control is operating effectively.
Strategic, commercial, operational and financial areas are all within the scope of these activities which also include the management of risks therein.
While acknowledging their responsibility for the system of internal control the Directors are aware that such a system cannot totally eliminate risks and thus there can never be an absolute assurance against the Group failing to achieve its objectives or a material loss arising.
The key elements of the system may be described as the control environment and this is represented by the following: a the key business objectives are clearly specified at all levels within the Group: b Purpose and Values, a framework for our strategic intent, and Our Business Principles, a set of guidelines on ethical behaviour, are distributed throughout the Group: c the organisation structure is set out with full details of reporting lines and appropriate limits of authority for different processes: d a wide range of corporate policies deal, inter alia, with control issues for corporate governance, management accounting, financial reporting, project appraisal, environment, health and safety, information technology, and risk management generally: e individual business units operate on the basis of multi-year contracts with four-weekly reports on performance and regular dialogues with Group senior management on progress: Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 43 Report of the Directors Internal Control continued f various internal assurance departments, including the internal audit department, most of which report to the Director of Business Risk Management, carry out regular reviews of the control activities and report their findings to both the business unit involved and Group management: g the Audit Committee approves plans for control reviews and deals with significant issues raised by internal assurance departments or the external auditors.
The management of all forms of business risk continues to be an important part of ensuring that the Group creates and protects value for its shareowners.
The processes involved call for the identification of specific risks in the many different areas, the assessment of those risks in terms of their potential impact and the likelihood of them materialising and then decisions as to the most appropriate method of managing them.
The latter may include regular monitoring, investment of additional resources, transfer to third parties via insurance or hedging agreements and contingency planning.
For insurance there is a comprehensive global programme which utilises an internal captive for lower level risks and the external market only for cover on major losses.
Hedging activities relate to financial and commodity risks and these are managed by Group Treasury and Procurement functions with external cover for the net Group exposures see pages 32 to 34.
On an annual basis all business units are required to report on their principal business risks on the lines above with details of the mitigation strategies i. e. the chosen management methods in August.
The internal assurance departments and other Group functions report on any further business risks evident at a regional, global or corporate level.
In October a consolidated summary of the most significant risks for the Group as a whole is reviewed by the Board of Directors.
Accordingly the Directors confirm that the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 29 December 2002 and the period up to 3 March 2003 has been reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Internal Control issued in September 1999.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee.
The membership of this Committee and a summary of the terms of reference are set out on page 41.
By order of the Board M A C Clark Group Secretary 3 March 2003 44 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
