Description of Business Introduction 2 Group Strategy 2 Business Segments 2 Group Development 4 2002 5 2001 5 2000 6 Competition 6 Trademarks and Brands 7 Employees 7 Learning and Development 7 Employee Involvement 8 Equal Employment Opportunities and Diversity 8 Disabled Persons 8 Pensions 8 Properties 8 Research and Development 9 Environment 10 Customers and Suppliers 10 Raw Materials 10 Ethical Trading and Human Rights 10 Government Regulations 11 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 1 Description of Business Introduction Cadbury Schweppes plc the Company and its subsidiaries and associated undertakings the Group are principally engaged in the manufacture and distribution for sale of branded beverages and confectionery, and related foods, supplied through wholesale and retail outlets of the confectionery, licensed, catering and grocery trades in almost 200 countries throughout the world.
The Group is focused on the beverages and confectionery businesses, two closely related consumer markets, and manages an extensive portfolio of brands.
In 2002, the Group had net sales from continuing operations of 5,298 million and operating profit from continuing operations before major restructuring costs, goodwill amortisation, operating profit on associates and profits and losses on disposals of 983 million.
Group Strategy Cadbury Schweppes governing objective is growth in shareowner value.
In pursuit of this the Groups strategy is to create robust and sustainable regional positions in its core categories of confectionery and beverages through organic growth, acquisition and disposal.
The progress of the Group in this respect is measured against three targets: to increase underlying earnings per share as defined on page 77 at constant currencies before adjusting for exchange rate movements during the year by at least 10% every year: to generate 300 million of free cash flow every year: and to grow the value of shareowners investment in Cadbury Schweppes as measured by the growth in total shareowner return TSR which is the appreciation in the capital value of the shares including reinvested dividends.
In 2002, the Group changed its TSR target from an absolute measure of doubling TSR every four years, to a relative measure of top quartile TSR performance against a range of international consumer goods companies over a rolling four year period.
The relative measure of TSR growth is considered more appropriate given the significant influence of macro economic and political factors on the performance of the world stock markets and thus Cadbury Schweppes share price.
The business process by which the strategy is pursued is Managing for Value MFV.
Introduced into the Group in 1997, MFV is an holistic approach to value creation.
It includes: setting stretching financial targets: adopting value based management principles in our business processes, both operational and strategic: raising capabilities at all levels of the organisation and aligning management incentive schemes with the interests of shareowners.
Business Segments During 2002, the Group had six business regions comprising North America Beverages, Europe Beverages, Europe Confectionery, Americas Confectionery, Asia Pacific and Africa, India and Middle East.
In confectionery, the Group has manufacturing facilities in 25 countries and markets a broad range of chocolates, gum and sugar confectionery brands in over 170 countries in the form of bars, blocks, bagged products, packets, rolls, boxed assortments, chocolate eggs and novelties.
Products are sold through confectionery outlets, garage forecourts, convenience and grocery stores and kiosks.
In its principal markets, products are sold through the Groups own sales and distribution organisations.
The chocolate confectionery market overall has a seasonal bias towards increased sales in the colder months and on special gift occasions such as New Year, Mothers Day, Easter, Halloween and Christmas.
In beverages, the Group operates both as a manufacturer and as a licensor.
It has wholly owned manufacturing operations in 9 countries, the most significant of which are in Australia, Mexico, Spain and the US.
It has partnership arrangements in 7 countries of which the most significant are in the US and France.
In 21 countries including the US the Group acts as a brand licensor, selling concentrate and syrup to independently owned manufacturers certain of which are affiliated to competitors to which it also supplies technical and marketing support.
2 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 The Groups beverage products are sold to the consumer through many different outlets, ranging from grocery stores to garage forecourts and fountain equipment at leisure, food and entertainment venues.
Beverages sales are to some extent seasonal, with peaks in the summer months and at festive seasons such as Christmas.
The North America Beverages region comprises Dr Pepper Seven Up DPSU, Motts and Snapple Beverage Group.
The principal products of DPSU are carbonated soft drinks, with the key brands being Dr Pepper and 7 UP which the Group owns in the US and Puerto Rico only.
Other important brands include Schweppes, Canada Dry, A&W, Hawaiian Punch and Squirt.
Licensed products include Sunkist, Crystal Light, Country Time and Welchs.
DPSU operates as a licensor, selling concentrate to independently owned bottling and canning operations, including Dr Pepper Seven Up Bottling Group DPSUBG, in which the Group has a 40% shareholding.
DPSUBG is an independent bottling company operating in Texas, California and 17 other Western and Midwestern states.
DPSU provides marketing support and technical manufacturing oversight.
The processes and operations of these independently owned bottlers and canners are monitored to ensure high product standards.
DPSU enters into licensing agreements with local bottlers.
In the normal course of business, changes to these agreements are made to reflect changing business conditions, including the addition or deletion of certain brands.
Motts produces Motts apple brands, Clamato juices, Hawaiian Punch and a variety of speciality products which are produced for the North American market and for export.
Motts manufactures, bottles, markets and sells its products, although some sales are made through independent brokers.
Products are sold in cans, glass bottles, plastic bottles and aseptic packages.
Snapple Beverage Group is a US premium beverage company whose brands include Snapple, Mistic, Stewarts, Orangina, Yoo-Hoo and Nantucket Nectars.
Snapple is the leading brand in the profitable high growth premium ready-to-drink tea and juice sector of the New Age beverage market.
In May 2002, Snapple strengthened its portfolio by acquiring the Nantucket Allserve business, which produces premium high juice and fresh juice drinks.
Europe Beverages key markets are Spain, France and Mexico.
In 2002, the Group acquired Squirt, a leading grapefruit carbonated soft drink brand in Mexico, and gained full control of the Apollinaris & Schweppes business in Germany.
Principal products comprise carbonated soft drinks, mineral waters and still drinks, with key brands including Schweppes, Orangina, Oasis, Gini, Pampryl, Penafiel, Trinaranjus, La Casera, Squirt, Apollinaris, Heppinger and Big Apple.
This region has bottling and partnership operations and licenses its brands in other countries.
The Europe Confectionery region includes all the Groups interests in this market including Russia.
The UK is the Groups single largest confectionery market in Europe where it sells brands under the Cadbury, Trebor, Bassetts, Frys, Maynards, Sharps, Barratt and Butterkist names.
Products include Cadburys Dairy Milk, TimeOut, Picnic, Roses, Heroes, Cadburys Eclairs, Trebor Softmints, Bassetts Liquorice Allsorts and Bassetts Jelly Babies.
The Groups key confectionery brands in Continental Europe include Poulain, Hollywood and La Pie Qui Chante in France, Cadbury and Wedel in Poland, Dulciora in Spain, Stimorol and V6 in Denmark and Cadbury and Dirol in Russia.
Within Continental Europe, France is the biggest operating unit and, in 2002, the Group acquired Dandy in Denmark.
The Group also operates in Germany, the Netherlands, and Portugal.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 3 Description of Business Business Segments continued In Americas Confectionery, the Groups Cadbury, Peter Paul and York brands are sold under license in the US.
The Group operates its confectionery businesses in Canada, Argentina and Mexico.
Key brands sold in the Americas include Cadbury, Frys, Allan, Fuzzy Peach, Sour Patch Kids, Sharps, Stani, Beldent, Bazooka, Mantecol and Pascall.
The Asia Pacific region includes confectionery businesses in Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Indonesia and China and a beverage business in Australia, Schweppes Cottees.
In confectionery, in addition to selling Cadbury branded products, the Group also sells products under the MacRobertson and Red Tulip brands in the Australian market, and under the Sportlife brand in the Chinese market.
In the Australian beverages market the Group sells products under the Schweppes, Solo, Sunkist, Spring Valley and Wave brand names.
Schweppes Cottees also has a license to distribute certain of PepsiCos brands including Pepsi, 7 UP, Mountain Dew and Gatorade.
In the Africa, India and Middle East region, the Groups main activity is focused on confectionery businesses.
In 2002, the Group acquired a majority interest in Kent in Turkey whose principal sugar brands are Olips and Jelibon and whose principal gum brands are Relax and Turbo.
In 2002, the Group also acquired the majority of the outstanding minority interest in Cadbury India Ltd taking our holding to over 94% of the company.
In addition to Cadbury branded products, the Group also sells products under the Bim Bim brand in Egypt.
In South Africa, the Group also has a foods and beverage business Bromor Foods.
Group Development The Group has developed its business both through organic growth of existing brands and products and through acquisitions, investments and contractual arrangements with other parties which have strengthened its operations and its portfolio of brands.
Between 1998 and 2002, the Group spent a total of 3.0 billion on acquisitions and 931 million on capital expenditure.
These activities included a number of significant acquisitions and investments to expand existing brands in the Groups historical markets as well as new markets such as Poland and Turkey.
The most significant investment was the acquisition of the Snapple Beverage Group in 2000 for US$1,450 million 1,067 million.
During this period, the Group increased turnover from continuing operations to 5,298 million in 2002 from 3,999 million in 1998 and increased operating profit before major restructuring costs, goodwill amortisation, operating profit from associates and exceptional items to 983 million in 2002 from 616 million in 1998.
The 1998 turnover has not been restated in line with 2002 see note 1 to the financial statements for further details.
In December 2002, the Group announced the acquisition of Adams, subject to regulatory and shareholder approval, for $4.2 billion.
The acquisition is expected to complete by the end of the first quarter of 2003.
In February 2003, the Groups six business regions mentioned above were reduced to five: Americas Beverages including DPSU, Motts, Snapple and Mexico Beverages : Americas Confectionery including the existing Americas Confectionery operations : EMEA Confectionery combining confectionery operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa : Europe Beverages including businesses in Continental Europe : and Asia Pacific including the existing Asia Pacific operations and India and Pakistan.
On completion, the Adams businesses will be folded into the new regional structure with the bulk of the operations being included in the Americas Confectionery region.
4 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 2002 In December the Group announced that it had agreed, subject to regulatory and shareholder approval, to buy the Adams confectionery business from Pfizer Inc. for US$4.2 billion 2.7 billion.
Adams is a branded global confectionery manufacturer which had a 3.3% share of the total global retail confectionery market during 2001 and, within this, 19.3% of the retail market for functional confectionery.
In November, the Group acquired Brau und Brunnens 72% interest in the Apollinaris & Schweppes joint venture in Germany for 180 million 115 million, including 25 million of sales tax.
The transaction gives the Group 100% control of Apollinaris & Schweppes.
In September, the Group acquired 100% of the branded chewing gum business of Dandy A S from the Bagger-Srensen family in Denmark for 222 million.
Dandy is the fourth largest chewing gum manufacturer in the world.
In May, the Groups US subsidiary, Snapple Beverage Group, acquired Nantucket Allserve, Inc from Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc and its minority shareholders for an undisclosed sum.
In May, the Group acquired a majority interest in Kent, Turkeys leading sugar confectionery manufacturer, together with a majority equity interest in its distribution arm, Birlik, for 70 million US$95 million.
In February, the Group announced that its open offer to acquire the outstanding 49% minority in Cadbury India Ltd had closed.
At a price of 500 Rupees per share, the offer valued the minority shares at 8,749 million Rupees 128 million.
Approximately 16 million shares were tendered in the open offer for a total consideration of 111 million, taking Cadbury Schweppes holding above 94% of the paid-up capital of Cadbury India Ltd.
In February, the Group acquired Squirt, the eighth largest carbonated soft drinks brand in Mexico, from Refremex AG for an undisclosed sum.
The Squirt brand had concentrate sales of US$23 million 16 million in 2001.
2001 In October, the Group completed the acquisition of Pernod Ricards soft drinks brands and businesses in Continental Europe, North America and Australia for 720 million 445 million.
The transaction included the Orangina, Pampryl, Champomy and Yoo-Hoo brands and associated businesses.
Under a separate agreement, Pernod Ricard also has an option to sell its soft drinks businesses in all other countries to Cadbury Schweppes at a future date for a separate consideration, not expected to exceed 35 million 22 million.
In September, the Group announced that it had completed the acquisition of the ReaLemon and ReaLime brands in North America for US$128 million 88 million.
The transaction includes a manufacturing facility in Waterloo, New York, inventory and the global rights to the trademarks.
In July, the Group acquired La Casera, Spains third largest soft drinks manufacturer for a consideration of 104 million 65 million.
The combination of La Casera with Schweppes Spain gives Cadbury Schweppes No.
2 overall position in the Spanish carbonated soft drinks market, up from 6% to 15% market share.
In July, the Group completed the disposal of the Royal Crown RC Cola International business and RC Colas private label concentrate supply for US$98 million 68 million.
In January, the Group completed the acquisition of the confectionery brand, Mantecol, in Argentina, for US$23 million 16 million.
The acquisition strengthens the portfolio of Cadbury Stani, Cadbury Schweppes existing business in Argentina, giving it three of the top ten selling Argentine confectionery brands by sales value.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 5 Description of Business 2001 continued In January, the Group completed the acquisition of the Spring Valley and Wave flavoured milk brands in Australia for AUD31 million 11 million in cash and assumed leasing liabilities with a value of AUD15 million 6 million.
In January, the Group completed the acquisition of Slush Puppie Corporation for US$18 million 12 million.
Slush Puppie manufactures frozen, non-carbonated beverages.
2000 In December, the Group completed the acquisition of the minority interest in Cadbury Schweppes South Africa Ltd for ZAR1,581 million 143 million.
The Group now owns 100% of its confectionery and foods business in South Africa.
In November, the Group acquired Wuxi Leaf Confectionery Co. Ltd, a company which markets and manufactures sugar-free and low sugar chewing gum in China, primarily under the Sportlife and Poli brands.
The value of the assets acquired was 2 million.
In October, the Group completed the acquisition of Snapple Beverage Group for an enterprise value of US$1,450 million 1,067 million.
A premium beverage company, Snapple Beverage Groups brands include Snapple, Mistic and Stewarts.
In September, the Group completed the acquisition of the Australian bottling operations of Lion Nathan.
In August, the Group completed the acquisition of the Hollywood chewing gum and candy business in France.
The business comprises the Hollywood, Malabar and Tonigum chewing gum brands and Krema, Kiss Cool and La Vosgienne pocket and bagged candy brands, together with relevant manufacturing capability and distribution and gives the Group leadership in the overall French confectionery market.
In August, the Group announced that DPSUBG, its US associate, had acquired the southern Texas bottler, Grant-Lydick Beverages Company, which manufactures and distributes carbonated soft drinks in a number of southern cities in the US.
In July, the Group completed the acquisition of the Mauna Lai brand from Mauna Lai Tropicals, Ltd.
The business was integrated with Motts.
Competition The soft drinks and confectionery industries are highly competitive and the Groups brands compete with many other multi-national, national and regional companies and private label suppliers in various markets.
The Group competes actively in terms of quality, taste and price of its products and seeks to develop and enhance brand recognition through the introduction of new products, new packaging, extensive advertising and promotional programmes.
The soft drinks industry includes a number of brand owners which act as licensors of branded products.
Through DPSU in the US, Europe Beverages, primarily based in Continental Europe, and Schweppes Cottees in Australia, the Group is the third largest carbonated soft drinks company worldwide by sales volume.
The Group believes that it ranks among the four largest confectionery companies in the world by sales value.
The chocolate confectionery market is primarily a branded market.
By contrast, the sugar confectionery market is significantly more fragmented, with a greater presence of local and regional brands and private label products.
6 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Trademarks and Brands The Group has registered trademarks throughout the world and is the owner of numerous licences, patents, designs, domain names and trade secrets, as well as substantial know-how and technology which relate to its products and the processes for their production, the packaging used for its products together with associated marketing materials and the design and operation of various processes and equipment used in its businesses.
An amount of 2,656 million has been included in the Groups balance sheet at 29 December 2002 to reflect the cost of brands acquired since 1985.
While the Group does not charge annual amortisation of this cost in its UK GAAP accounts or for US GAAP purposes from 2002 onwards, in the event of any diminution in value, an appropriate charge would be made against income.
For further information on our policy regarding the amortisation of the cost of brands see page 26.
Employees The average number of employees of the Group analysed by region is summarised in the table below.
Number of Employees 2002 2001 2000 North America Beverages 3,788 3,254 2,309 Europe Beverages 6,195 5,078 4,841 Europe Confectionery 13,287 12,242 12,399 Americas Confectionery 3,268 3,243 3,134 Asia Pacific 7,444 6,650 5,690 Africa, India and Middle East 8,108 7,295 7,493 Central and Other 758 727 594 Total 42,848 38,489 36,460 The average number of persons employed by the Group, in the Company and its subsidiaries in the UK, was 6,838 2001: 6,521 and the aggregate gross remuneration including bonuses of such persons was 229 million 2001: 196 million.
Learning and Development Learning and development in Cadbury Schweppes are focused on the delivery of strategy with a strong emphasis on business results and growth.
The Group continues to invest in its programmes in support of the Managing for Value principles.
All senior executives and over 25% of our total management population have completed a programme aimed at building strategic capabilities and delivering profitable growth.
This programme continues to be rolled out into broader management.
In 2001 the Group launched an ambitious initiative to establish a corporate academy to achieve and sustain world class standards of sales and marketing execution in support of its plans to grow top line value.
2002 saw the launch of the first two key programmes in this initiative a master class for the most senior commercial leaders and a programme building consumer insight and understanding which was launched around the globe.
2002 also saw a leadership programme designed to unlock good growth through insight, innovation and great leadership, which was attended by every management board.
In support of the Group's global initiatives, there are comprehensive local programmes in place to meet the learning and development needs of the business units and their employees.
Another key initiative was the instalment of the Group's core purpose and values which has given the opportunity to stress the importance of our Group brands whilst continuing to maintain the highest standards of business ethics and integrity.
In 2002 the whole management population made individual commitments to uphold our statement of business principles.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 7 Description of Business Employee Involvement The Groups ability to achieve its commercial objectives and to meet the needs of its customers in a profitable and competitive manner depends on the contribution of employees throughout the Group.
Employees are encouraged to develop their contribution to the business both in the context of their particular job roles and in other activities.
In many areas ongoing programmes, focusing on quality and customer service, provide an opportunity for all employees to be involved in making improvements as does the Groups global programme designed to sharpen organisational culture.
Financial participation is further encouraged through a variety of share plans which provide employees with a direct stake in the growth and prosperity of the business.
In addition, the Group communicates with its employees about its activities through a variety of channels.
The Group has created two European-wide employee involvement processes to develop appropriate procedures and approaches to the issue of European employee communications, building on existing local communications and consultative processes.
The Group, through its subsidiaries, has entered into numerous collective bargaining agreements and the Groups management has no reason to believe that the Group would not be able to renegotiate any such agreements on satisfactory terms.
The Group believes that its relations with its employees are generally good.
Equal Employment Opportunities and Diversity We value diversity in our workforce and know that variety in our people makes for a richer, more vibrant company culture.
Our Group-wide Equal Employment Opportunities & Diversity Policy emphasises our commitment to attract, empower and promote a diverse and talented workforce.
It covers race, colour, ethnic or national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, marital status and disability.
We have clear procedures to promote and monitor diversity.
The Board receives regular reports on progress, and best practice is shared across the Group.
Individual business units use workshops, training, induction courses and, in some cases, Diversity Committees to ensure they celebrate diversity and foster an inclusive employment environment.
Disabled Persons The Group employs a number of people who are disabled, not all of whom are formally registered disabled persons in UK terms.
If any employee becomes disabled it is standard practice, in all but the most extreme circumstances, to offer an alternative job and provide retraining where necessary.
Pensions Companies across the Group reflect local good practice in the provisions which they make for retirement.
In the UK, half of the trustees administering the Company scheme are elected by the employee representatives on the Pensions Consultative Committee who are drawn from the UK businesses.
The other trustees are appointed by the Company.
Further details on Group pension arrangements are provided in Note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Properties As of 29 December 2002 the Group had a total of 98 manufacturing plants and bottling facilities, of which 11 were located in the UK, 19 in the Americas, 33 in Continental Europe, 20 in Australia and the Pacific Rim and 15 in other countries.
Of these, 62 are engaged in the manufacture of confectionery products and 36 are engaged in the manufacture and bottling of beverage products.
All the above facilities are owned by the Group, except for 3 in the Americas, 4 in Continental Europe, 6 in Australia and the Pacific Rim and 5 in other countries, which are leased.
8 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 All the facilities are considered to be in good condition, adequate for their purpose and suitably utilised according to the individual nature and requirements of the relevant operations.
The Group has a continuing programme of improvements and replacements to property when considered appropriate, to meet the needs of the individual operations.
The table below details the material properties of the Group.
All are manufacturing facilities and are owned by the Group except where indicated after the location: Material Properties Area in thousands square feet approximately Bournville, Birmingham, UK partly leasehold 1,766 Keynsham Road, Somerdale, Bristol, UK 999 Claremont, Tasmania 7011, Australia 617 Ringwood, Victoria 3134, Australia 610 Williamson, New York 14589, US 602 Coolock, Dublin 5, Ireland 488 Overland, St Louis County, Missouri, US 397 Chirk, Wrexham, UK 261 Emilio Donat, 50, Carcagente Valencia, Spain 245 Marlbrook, Near Leominster, Herefordshire, UK 132 Rathmore, County Kerry, Ireland 107 Research and Development The Group engages in research and development R&D activities relating to the introduction and improvement of products, packages and manufacturing processes.
The business is supported by high quality technical facilities for R&D led by Group establishments based at Reading, UK, and Trumbull, Connecticut, USA.
Reading Scientific Services Ltd provides research and analytical services to the Group and external customers.
The Cadbury Schweppes Beverage Innovation Centre at Trumbull supports the Groups beverages operations in North America and Europe.
In addition, a number of smaller R&D establishments around the world provide support to local business units.
The Groups R&D activities include the rigorous assessment of the safety of products and ingredients, and the development of improved tastes and textures that meet or exceed consumer expectations.
The Group spent 32 million in 2002, 29 million in 2001 and 25 million in 2000 on research and development.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 9 Description of Business Environment The Cadbury Schweppes Environmental Programme occupies a key position in the Groups business agenda.
Environmental objectives were established in 1992 and, in 1993, the Board of Directors adopted a Corporate Environmental Policy which was revised and re-issued in 2000 to provide further emphasis on working with supply chain partners to improve collective environmental performance, to protect the ecosystems that provide the Groups raw materials, and to minimise the impacts from transportation.
The Group has also developed a Guide to Environmental Management to address the Groups policies and key commitments and to provide a framework for implementing these throughout the Group.
The Group continues to invest in systems, processes and facilities so that performance is measured and continually improved against commitments in the key areas of air emissions: water, energy and materials conservation: wastewater treatment: solid waste and packaging management: and soil and groundwater protection.
Environmental responsibility remains integral to the way the Group runs its business, and the strength of the programme is measured in the delivery of performance targets in the Groups operations.
Customers and Suppliers No single customer or supplier accounts for more than 10% of either the Groups net sales or purchases, respectively.
Raw Materials The most significant raw material used in the production of the Groups chocolate confectionery products is cocoa beans.
These are imported from West Africa and the Far East.
West Africa accounts for over 60% of world production.
The Group attempts to minimise the effect of volatile cocoa bean price fluctuations by the forward purchasing of quantities of cocoa beans and cocoa butter in order to meet its planned future requirements.
One of the principal raw materials used by the Group in its soft drinks and confectionery products is sugar.
The Group purchases most of its sugar at prices essentially set by the European Union or maintained by various national governments through quotas and duties, with only a relatively small proportion purchased at fluctuating volatile world prices.
The Group has not experienced and does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of sugar for its operations with sourcing available from numerous refiners.
Another raw material used is aspartame, a sweetening agent used in diet soft drinks products.
Aspartame is available from several sources.
Other raw materials purchased in substantial quantities by the Group for its confectionery business which may fluctuate in price include milk and various types of nuts and fruit.
In the case of milk, alternative sources are available.
While California and Turkey are the preferred sources for certain nuts and fruit, alternative supplies are available from South Africa, Australia and Italy.
For further information on raw materials and the risks associated with purchasing commodities see pages 34 and 141.
Ethical Trading and Human Rights As the Company grows its business in an increasingly global economy, it remains committed to meeting the highest international standards.
The Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee, established in 2000, oversees processes for ethical trading and human rights as well as environmental and community investment programmes, employment standards and corporate governance.
The Chief Executive Officers Statement of Intent for Health and Safety now forms the basis of the Groups safety management systems.
Under the Group Risk and Safety Programme GRASP, a self-audit process has been developed to assess each business unit and this is supported by a comprehensive set of guidelines to assist local managers.
10 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Government Regulations The production, distribution and sale of many of the Groups products are subject to governmental regulation regarding the production, sale, safety, labelling and ingredients of such products in the various countries and governmental regions in which the Group operates.
In addition, the manufacture of many of the Groups products in various markets is subject to governmental regulation relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and also to the reclamation and re-cycling of packaging waste.
The packaging of the Groups beverage products in certain markets is subject to governmental regulation encouraging returnable containers.
At all times the Group is subject to the employment and health and safety legislation in those countries in which it has operations.
The Groups operations are also subject to the risks and uncertainties attendant to doing business in numerous countries.
A number of countries in which these operations are conducted maintain controls on the repatriation of earnings and capital and restrict the means available to the Group for hedging potential currency fluctuation risks.
However, the operations which are affected by such controls are not material to the Group as a whole, and such controls have not significantly affected the international operations of the Group.
Certain of the regulatory authorities under whose purview the Group operates may have enforcement powers which could subject the Group to such actions as product recalls, seizure of products and other sanctions.
However, the Group believes that it has taken and continues to take measures to comply with applicable laws and governmental regulations in the jurisdictions within which it operates so that the risk of such sanctions does not represent a material threat to the Group.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 11 This page has been left blank intentionally 12 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
