board of directors Lord Trotman Chairman Lord Butler Senior Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1997, he became Chairman Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ford Motor Non-Executive Director of ICI.
He is Master of University College, Company until his retirement in 1998.
He joined Ford in the UK in 1955 Oxford and a Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc.
He was and was appointed to the Board of Directors in 1993.
He is a member formerly Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the UK Home Civil of the Board of Directors of IBM.
Brendan R ONeill Chief Executive Joseph T Gorman Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director and Chief Operating Officer in 1998 and Chief Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000.
He is Chairman of the Executive in 1999.
He has been invited to join the board of Tyco ICI Audit Committee.
He was formerly Chairman and Chief Executive International Ltd as a Non-Executive Director.
He was formerly Chief Officer of TRW Inc.
He is also a Director of Alcoa, Inc.
The Procter Executive of Guinness Limited and a Director of Diageo Plc.
He is also & Gamble Company and National City Corporation.
He is a past a member of the Council of Cancer Research UK.
Chairman and current member of the US-Japan Business Council and served on the Boards of the US-China Business Council and Paul J Drechsler Director The Prince of Wales Business Leaders Forum.
He is active in Appointed a Director in 1999.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive numerous business and community organisations.
He joined the Company in 1978 and has held senior positions in Brazil, USA and Europe.
He is Chairman of ICI Richard N Haythornthwaite Non-Executive Director Pensions Trustee Ltd, has Board responsibility for Sustainable Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2001.
He is Chairman of the Development within ICI and is a member of the Council of the World ICI Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
He is Group Chief Business Council for Sustainable Development.
Executive of Invensys plc and a Non-Executive Director of Lafarge S. A. and Cookson Group plc and a Director of the National Museum John D G McAdam Director of Science and Industry.
He previously held senior positions with Blue Appointed a Director in 1999.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive of Circle Industries plc, BP plc and Premier Oil plc.
He is also Chairman ICI Paints and has Board responsibility for Research, Development of the Centre for Creative Communities and the Almeida Theatre and Technology.
He joined the Company in 1997 following the Company.
Aged 46. acquisition of the Speciality Chemicals business from Unilever, where he held a number of senior positions.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent Plc and a member of the University of Surrey Company Secretary Business Advisory Board.
Debjani Jash William H Powell Director Appointed Company Secretary in 2000.
She joined ICI as a solicitor Appointed a Director in 2000.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive in 1995 and was previously with the law firms Mayer, Brown, Rowe Officer of National Starch and Chemical Company and has Board & Maw and Jones Day Gouldens in the City of London specialising in responsibility for Group Safety, Health and the Environment.
He joined corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions.
She is a member of the Company in 1997 following the acquisition of the Speciality the Jesus College Cambridge Campaign Committee.
Chemicals business from Unilever, where he held a number of senior positions.
He is a past Chairman of the Corn Refiners Association and currently an Honorary Director.
He is a member of the Institute of Food Technologists and the American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
He is also a member of the Board of Overseers of the New Jersey Institute of Technology and a member of the Board of Trustees of the State Theater of New Jersey.
Timothy A Scott Chief Financial Officer Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer in 2001.
He is Chairman of the ICI Charity Trust and Appeals Committee.
He joined At each Annual General Meeting of the Companys shareholders one Unilever in 1983 and held a variety of senior roles in their Speciality third of the Directors being those longest in office since their last Chemicals business and group headquarters.
He worked subsequently election retire and are eligible for re-election.
New Directors for ICI as Chief Administrative Officer for ICI Paints in North America appointed between Annual General Meetings to fill casual vacancies, and as Vice President, Strategy and Performance.
Aged 40. or as additional Directors, retire at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and are also eligible for election.
Adri Baan Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2001.
He is a Director of PSA Mr J T Gorman, Mr R N Haythornthwaite and Mr T A Scott retire under Corporation Limited, Port of Singapore Authority : and Hesse-Noord Article 96 of the Companys Articles of Association.
All are Natie, Port of Antwerp: Wolters Kluwer N. V. : ASM International N. V. : recommended for re-election.
Koninklijke Volker Wessels Stevin nv: International Power plc and the All Executive Directors are employed on rolling contracts subject to no Trust Office of KAS BANK NV.
Until his retirement in March 2001, more than one years notice.
he was Executive Vice-President of Royal Philips Electronics and President and Chief Executive Officer of their Consumer Electronics No Director or Officer has a family relationship with any other Director Division.
