directors report The Directors of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC have pleasure in holds two meetings each year at one of which the Chief Executive presenting their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended attends to discuss Company strategy.
ICI has a mixture of unionised and non-unionised operations across Principal activities the world and is committed to fostering a positive employee relations The principal activities of the Company are research, manufacture environment at all its locations.
and sale of specialty products and paints.
A review of the Company Payment to suppliers and its subsidiaries businesses, including research and development, The Company agrees terms and conditions for its business is given on pages 10 to 32 of this Report.
Payment is then made to these terms, Dividends subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The Directors have declared the payment of a second interim dividend Payment terms can differ in the many markets in which ICI trades.
of 4.5 pence per Ordinary Share to be paid on 22 April 2003 to Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2002 were equivalent Ordinary shareholders on the Companys Register on 7 March 2003. to 59 days 2001 60 days purchases, based on the average daily A first interim dividend of 3 pence per Ordinary Share was paid on amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during this year.
4 October 2002 making a total of 7.5 pence 2001 13.3 pence.
Political and charitable donations Share capital The Groups worldwide charitable donations in 2002 amounted to Changes in the Companys ordinary share capital during the year are 2.5m.
Of this total, 0.6m was spent in the UK.
The Group made given in note 23 to the Accounts.
no donations for political purposes.
Purchase of own shares Auditor The Directors are authorised by the shareholders to purchase, in the KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office as market, the Companys own shares, as is permitted under the auditor of the Company and a resolution to propose its re-appointment Companys Articles of Association.
Although no such purchases have and to authorise the Directors to agree its remuneration will be been made, the Directors will seek to renew the authority from submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The remuneration and expenses of the Auditor in respect of the Directors statutory report to the members of the Company for the year 2002 The names of the Directors of the Company at the date of this Report amounted to 61,000 2001 66,000.
The total figure for the Group and biographical details are given on page 33.
A complete list of was 2.8m 2001 2.8m which includes charges for audits of Directors who served during the year is shown within the subsidiary companies in the UK and overseas, both for the purposes Remuneration Report, on page 39. of consolidation into the Group accounts and to meet statutory requirements of the countries in which subsidiaries operate.
Directors remuneration and interests A statement of Directors remuneration and their interests in the Fees paid to the Auditor and its associates of the Company for shares, debentures and options of the Company and its subsidiaries services other than statutory audit supplied to the Group during 2002 is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 46. totalled 3.3m 2001 3.1m of which 2.1m 2001 0.9m was for audit-related services, principally in connection with the Rights Issue Employment policies and divestment transactions, 1.1m 2001 1.8m was for taxation ICIs vision is based on inspiring and developing outstanding people services and 0.1m 2001 0.4m was for other services.
These fees and the Company is committed to cultural diversity and equal have been fully reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Going concern Respect for the individual is enshrined in the Companys Code of The operation of the Groups control procedures gives the Directors Business Conduct, launched in October 2000, which states that: ICIs a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to policy is to treat individuals in all aspects of employment solely on continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they the basis of ability irrespective of race, religion, colour, age, disability, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
of this policy is a matter for individual ICI businesses throughout the world.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held on The Company is committed to fair treatment of people with disabilities Thursday, 22 May 2003 is contained in a separate letter from in relation to job applications, training, promotion and career the Chairman accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
Every effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who are unable to continue in their existing job due to disability.
On behalf of the Board ICI believes also that knowledgeable and well informed employees Debjani Jash are essential to its success and that there should be clear channels Company Secretary of communication and opportunities for consultation and dialogue on 12 February 2003 issues which affect both business performance and employees working lives.
The mechanisms for achieving this aim vary between Registered Office different countries and between different businesses in the ICI Group.
20 Manchester Square London A European Works Council EWC exists which enables employee W1U 3AN representatives in the UK and Continental Europe to discuss overall business issues with senior management of the Group.
