description of business General management is aiming to achieve on average a further 1 to 2% growth ICI is one of the worlds leading specialty products and paints per annum through small strategic bolt-on acquisitions in its chosen businesses with products and ingredients developed for a wide range growth areas.
of consumer and industrial markets.
Trading margin expansion Average trading margin before amortisation of goodwill and In 1997, ICI began the process of refocusing the business from exceptional items for the Group in 2002 was 9% 2001 9%.
commodity chemicals into higher value added specialty products Management is aiming to achieve an improvement in trading margin of and paints, addressing specific and specialised customer needs.
This approximately 0.5% per annum on average over the next 4 to 5 years.
transformation is now essentially complete.
The Groups businesses are now more knowledge intensive than capital intensive and focused Recent history on delivering innovative products to customers in a wide range of In July 1997, ICI took a major step to reposition its business towards sectors of the world economy.
the higher added value sector of the industry with the acquisition of the companies and businesses comprising the Speciality Chemicals The specialty products and paint businesses, referred to as the division of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. for a cash consideration International Businesses, comprise National Starch, Quest, Performance of $8 billion 4.8 billion.
This acquisition was consistent with its Specialties and Paints.
These businesses serve diverse consumer strategy to shift its business profile towards products which meet and industrial markets through some 40 strategic business units, specific customer needs and to areas where leading positions in comprising close to 100 operating units with an array of market profitable growth markets can be won through the application of its leadership positions across the world.
In addition, a number of technology and skills.
Regional and Industrial businesses remain in ICIs portfolio.
Consistent with the Groups strategy, ICI has divested nearly all of ICI believes that its International Businesses have a quality customer its industrial chemicals portfolio, including its Polyester, Fertilisers, and product mix, strong management teams and potential for profitable Tioxide, Petrochemicals, Chlor-Chemicals and Klea businesses.
The higher growth potential businesses include electronic and July 1997, ICI has divested more than 50 businesses with proceeds engineering materials, specialty food starches, flavours and fragrances, from the sale of assets and businesses in excess of 7.0 billion.
In personal care ingredients, lubricants and, in Asia, adhesives and addition, it has continued to reposition its business towards higher decorative paints.
added value sectors of the industry through a number of acquisitions Group Strategy within the international specialty and paints businesses.
ICI believes The Groups businesses operate across a wide spectrum of consumer that it has now essentially completed the transformation of the Group.
and industrial markets, and across a wide geographic spread.
Its However, the Group will continue to look for opportunities to grow its strategy is to be an industry leader in creating value for its customers business both organically and through small, strategic bolt-on and shareholders in its chosen markets.
This requires ICI to achieve acquisitions, thereby strengthening its portfolio.
The key aspects of this strategy In 2001, ICI initiated a wide ranging restructuring programme across are to: all of its International Businesses in order to underpin future growth focus on higher value added specialty products and brands, and provide cost savings and working capital improvements.
serve a wide range of markets including a number of niche markets, In September 2002 ICI concluded the sale of Synetix, its catalyst develop long-term relationships with customers by addressing their business, subsequently completing the transaction in December within specific and specialised needs, 12 months of first announcing its intention to divest the business.
innovate and use technology creatively to facilitate organic growth, invest in growth markets and build leading market positions, grow through organic growth supplemented by small, strategic, bolt-on acquisitions in its chosen growth areas, improve its operational performance, and pursue synergies across the Group.
In order to implement its strategy, the Group aims to attract, train and develop talented people and to maintain a strong commitment to safety, health and the environment.
Group Financial Objectives The Groups financial objectives derive from a combination of topdown goals and a bi-annual strategic planning process.
These strategic financial objectives then form the basis for all financial targets.
At the Group level, management is focused on achieving the following goals over the medium term.
While demanding, management believes they should be achievable.
Sales growth With respect to sales, management is aiming to achieve organic growth of 4 to 5% per annum on average 1 to 2% over assumed GDP.
Subject to the right opportunities becoming available, 10 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND FORM 20-F 2002 Geographic focus ICIs headquarters is in the UK, where it also has several significant manufacturing sites.
Outside the UK, operations are conducted by locally managed subsidiary companies staffed almost entirely by nationals of the country concerned.
Eighty-four per cent of the employees of ICIs businesses are located outside the UK.
The following table shows the turnover and profit before tax, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items for the Groups businesses located in each geographic area for the three years ended 31 December 2002.
Turnover Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m m Continuing operations United Kingdom Sales in the UK 852 1,054 1,078 Sales overseas 516 503 531 1,368 1,557 1,609 87 71 71 Continental Europe 1,559 1,533 1,410 96 142 126 USA 2,202 2,276 2,250 131 168 192 Other Americas 656 748 752 45 36 54 Asia Pacific 1,277 1,263 1,293 168 150 169 Other countries 54 53 53 6 65 7,116 7,430 7,367 533 573 617 Inter-area eliminations and sales to discontinued operations 991 1,005 952 Total 6,125 6,425 6,415 533 573 617 Discontinued operations 1,333 5 Total 6,125 6,425 7,748 533 573 612 Associates Share of profits less losses 18 57 100 Interest payable 28 67 60 Group net interest payable 123 162 202 Total 6,125 6,425 7,748 400 401 450 Business segments The following table shows turnover and profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items for the Groups classes of business for the three years ended 31 December 2002 see Operating and financial review for more information.
Turnover Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m m Continuing operations International Businesses National Starch 1,841 1,853 1,894 224 218 245 Quest 716 727 687 82 107 103 Performance Specialties 804 832 837 49 68 75 Paints 2,182 2,233 2,152 188 176 177 5,543 5,645 5,570 543 569 600 Regional and Industrial 615 821 892 10 417 Inter-class eliminations and sales to discontinued operations 33 41 47 Total 6,125 6,425 6,415 533 573 617 Discontinued operations 1,333 5 Total 6,125 6,425 7,748 533 573 612 Associates Share of profits less losses 18 57 100 Interest payable 28 67 60 Group net interest payable 123 162 202 Total 6,125 6,425 7,748 400 401 450 11 description of business Continuing operations The divisions products are used in packaging for sealing cases and ICIs businesses comprise National Starch, Quest, Performance cartons and fixing labels to bottles and cans.
There are a number of Specialties and ICI Paints, which are referred to as the International paper converting applications such as laminating, bag making, tissue, Businesses, and a number of smaller Regional and Industrial paper tube winding and box manufacturing.
also used in bookbinding, envelopes, magazines, and remoistenable stamps.
Adhesives are also critical components in the construction of National Starch disposable nappies diapers, personal sanitary products and National Starch, which accounted for 30% of the Groups sales in disposable hospital supplies.
2002, is a global leader in industrial adhesives and specialty food starches.
In addition, the business has strong positions in electronic National Starchs high performance curing adhesives are used to materials, specialty polymers and specialty starches, and has niche laminate plastic films, metal foils and paper for numerous flexible businesses in personal care and healthcare ingredients.
Pressure sensitive adhesives are used to specialty ingredients for attractive, relatively non-cyclical and high manufacture self-adhesive tapes, labels, decals, and transdermal growth markets.
The Group believes that National Starchs position drug delivery patches.
in these markets has been achieved through its unique polymer National Starchs adhesives and primers are used in the assembly of technology and application understanding, both natural and synthetic, sports shoes.
The Bondmaster business unit supplies adhesives for and a high degree of technical support for its customers.
Within the assembly operations in the woodworking, construction and overall Group strategy, National Starchs strategy is to: transportation industries.
continue to build on these strengths in areas where it sees good For the corrugating industry, specialty carrier starches provide bond growth opportunities, such as electronic materials, personal care, strength for adhering board to corrugating medium and contribute to and Asia Pacific, increased production and reduced waste.
They improve the overall innovate and introduce new products to all of its customers, and quality and water resistance of meat, fruit, vegetable and shipping cases.
Specialty synthetic polymer products add increased water focus in its more mature businesses on improved cost efficiency.
National Starch produces thousands of technically advanced products In 2002, the division introduced a number of new products including: and operates an international network of 153 manufacturing and Cool-Lok 34-274A, a low temperature hot melt adhesive that resists customer service centres, located in 37 countries on six continents.
high heat better than previous products: Ultracase 100% solid National Starchs world and American headquarters is in Bridgewater, adhesive that permits bookbinders to eliminate waste caused by New Jersey, USA.
Its European headquarters is in High Wycombe, moisture: and Ultra-Set glued lap adhesive for corrugated UK and its Asia Pacific operations headquarters is in Singapore.
Major manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, Canada, the Specialty Starches UK, Germany, Netherlands, Japan, Thailand, Korea, China and Brazil, National Starchs food starches are an important part of many with other manufacturing facilities located in 21 other countries around everyday foods.
They enhance texture and appearance and provide the world.
effects which enable end-consumer products to withstand the rigours of ultra high temperature UHT processing, microwave cooking, In 2002 the Electronic and Engineering Materials EEM business freeze thaw cycles and extended storage.
opened a new manufacturing and technical facility near Shanghai, China, where the Acheson unit manufactures materials to supply to In the specialty food ingredients area, the Starch division produces Chinese and multi-national customers in the electronic and automotive products which are used for fruit preparations, meals and canned industries.
Ablestik, another EEM business, expanded its facility in foods, binders for meat and fish products and pet foods and a range Linton, near Cambridge, in the UK to meet the growing needs of of coating agents to control texture, crispiness and appearance in European semi-conductor and micro-electronic manufacturers.
Products for the dairy market are used to improve the quality and stability of a range of dairy foods.
Ingredients for cereals National Starch comprises four distinct business groupings: and snacks influence the expansion, texture and eating quality of a Adhesives 41% of National Starch sales in 2002, variety of baked, fried and extruded foods.
National Starchs stabilisers Specialty Starches 25% of National Starch sales in 2002, and thickeners are used to control the viscosity, stability, mouth-feel Specialty Synthetic Polymers 20% of National Starch sales in 2002, and texture of a wide variety of sauces and salad dressings.
In the and bakery market, the divisions ingredients are used to control the moisture retention, texture and structure of baked doughs and their Electronic and Engineering Materials EEM 14% of National Starch fillings.
Encapsulation products encapsulate flavours and fragrances, sales in 2002. stabilise flavour emulsions and are used in starches that improve Adhesives mouth-feel properties in beverage systems.
National Starch is one of the largest producers of industrial adhesives Products in pharmaceutical and nutrition areas include specialty starches in the world.
It manufactures a broad range of adhesive types, for use as carriers, binders and disintegrants in tablets and capsules, including adhesives based on both natural and synthetic polymers, thickeners for liquid dosage medicines, pharmaceutical grade dusting water-borne, hot melts, 100% solids, reactive adhesives and pressure powders for surgical gloves and specialty ingredients for the nutrition sensitive adhesives.
12 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND FORM 20-F 2002 In the pulp and paper industry, the divisions specialty starches Acheson supplies thick film materials and specialty coatings used provide strength and contribute to enhanced productivity in the in cathode ray tubes, keyboards and switches, printed circuits, and manufacture of unbleached kraft, fine papers, bleached board, other electronic components.
Specialty coatings are also used for newsprint and recycled fibre stocks.
Additives and liquid polymers noise reduction and wear resistance in automotive components.
improve the biodegradability and strength of tissue and towel Acheson also supplies process lubricants and application systems products.
Specialty surface size starches increase runnability in the used in metalworking and casting.
size press and printability on the end users printing press, while Emerson & Cuming supplies adhesives, encapsulants, and coatings replacing more costly functional additives.
used in circuit assembly and in fabrication of electronic, electrical, The division has also created a starch-based replacement for plastic and electromechanical components.
Eco-Foam loosefill is composed of nearly 100% starch Permabond supplies adhesives used in product assembly, structural and protects the contents of packages as effectively as polystyrene bonding, and repair applications, including disposable medical peanuts, yet is fully degradable and decomposes in water.
devices, electric motors, automotive components, and motor vehicle assembly.
New products introduced in 2002 included: 100% organic Novation starches that enable food manufacturers to include the texture and Tra-Con provides adhesives and coatings in single-use and other taste consumers seek along with foods they feel will help them stay specialty packages serving a broad range of industrial customers healthy: and Versa-Sheen glazing agent which enables bakers to through telemarketing programmes.
coat items such as croissants and cookies with an attractive high Quest sheen.
Quest, which accounted for 12% of the Groups sales in 2002, is a Specialty Synthetic Polymers leader in the development, application and production of fragrances, National Starch has multiple capabilities in specialty polymers, resins flavours and food ingredients for a wide variety of consumer brands.
and redispersible powders for markets as diverse as personal care, Quest operates in fast moving markets that the Group believes construction, water treatment, detergents, paper coatings and apparel.
present attractive growth opportunities and comprises two major strategic businesses: The Vinamul Polymer businesss binders, saturants and laminants add Food 60% of Quest sales in 2002, and desirable characteristics to non-wovens fibrefill, interlinings, disposable garments, textiles and papers.
Fragrance 40% of Quest sales in 2002.
Specialty polymers improve the holding power in hair sprays and ICI believes that Quests competitive position is based on four gels and the manageability and softness of mousses, conditioners, distinctive strengths.
These are: shampoos and other styling aids.
They are also used to thicken and the quality of its customer relationships, emulsify cosmetic and beauty products and increase the functionality the sensory design skills of its perfumers and flavourists, of sunscreens, hand and body creams and lotions.
the technological advances resulting from its research and The Alco businesss products include dispersants, anti-scalants and development, and detergent builders, as well as rheology modifiers thickeners for the the customer service and support provided by the marketing and carpet, adhesive and detergent industries.
Dithiocarbamate chemistry application groups as well as its global network of servicing units.
is used in microbiocides and metal precipitants for process water treatment.
These strengths enable Quest to assist its customers in making their products and brands successful.
Within the overall Group strategy, Elotex redispersible powder polymers improve the adhesion, flexural Quests strategy is to continue to build on these strengths, while: strength, insulation properties and shrink-resistance of cements, grouts, adhesives and other construction products.
focusing on growth with key customers, in fine fragrances and in Asia, New products introduced in 2002 included: Structure-XL a naturally investing in consumer understanding, derived polymer for skin care emulsions: DynamX technology, for hair care formulators: and Alcosperse 747, a polymer that improves creating and making best use of an effective and efficient innovation performance of detergents used for laundering, automatic process, dishwashing and hard surface cleaners.
working to ensure operational excellence in both service levels and costs by focusing on appropriate parts of the value chain for Electronic and Engineering Materials EEM example, expanding its position in novel fragrance ingredients while The EEM division manufactures, markets and sells adhesives, outsourcing non-core activities and continuous process encapsulants, specialty coatings and process lubricants used in the improvement.
manufacture of electronic, automotive, medical, aerospace and other equipment and components.
The division serves customers worldwide Quests innovative flavours and fragrance products consist of with formulations and application assistance to meet demanding compounds of blended ingredients under formulae created by expert performance and processing requirements.
Certain of these compounds contain molecules which have been created by Quests chemists and The EEM division is comprised of five business units, each focused on which add distinctive characteristics to its products.
Quest also has a specific product lines and end-use markets.
strong presence in nature-identical flavours for sweet and culinary Ablestik supplies adhesives and encapsulants used for semiconductor applications.
Products include adhesive pastes, films, tape adhesives, and underfill encapsulants.
13 description of business Food ingredients include emulsifiers, hydrocolloids, proteins and bio Uniqema ingredients enzymes, cultures and yeast, developed to meet the Uniqema was formed at the beginning of 1999.
Its operating sectors changing commercial requirements in taste and texture of its comprise lubricants, personal care, and performance technologies.
ICI believes that Uniqemas strength is its strong positions and Fragrance ingredients are the scented building blocks of the fragrance applications capabilities in the personal care and synthetic lubricants formulae.
They also contribute additional technical characteristics, markets, and in the European and US oleochemicals sector.
Within the such as deodourisation or insect repellence, to the finished overall Group strategy, Uniqemas strategy is to seek profitable growth compound.
in personal care and lubricants, and cost leadership in base oleochemicals.
In the food market, growth has been driven by the desire of consumers for new and more sophisticated flavours as well as for foods that are Uniqema supplies innovative customised effect chemicals for compatible with a healthy lifestyle.
These factors have stimulated the purposes such as dispersion, wetting, emulsification, polymer demand for products such as convenience foods, ethnic foods, lowmodification, adjuvancy, lubrication, emolliency and defoaming.
cholesterol and low-fat food products, as well as soft drinks that must These effects are supplied as ingredients for personal and healthcare also meet expectations in taste, texture and appearance.
formulations, for lubricant formulations and for the production of agrochemicals, paint dispersions, resins, polymers and oilfield During 2002, Quest HIT flavours, a state of the art topnote range chemicals, as well as for use in textile processing.
ICI believes that based on artisanal cooking as a benchmark, was launched in a variety Uniqema has a strong position in synthetic lubrication.
Specific successes have been achieved with the range in and markets a wide range of synthetic basestocks and ingredients Europe, North America and Asia.
Pure Delivery an encapsulation which are formulated into engine, compressor, gear hydraulic and technology continued to be rolled out across the globe and gained process oils and fluids, where high performance or environmental adoption by a major key account.
Progress on consumer appeal characteristics are required.
Products are frequently tailored to platforms has continued with increased adoption of the TrendAntenna specific customer requirements.
ICI believes that Uniqema is also process.
The Hyprol protein hydrolysates for sports drinks has been a leader in synthetic refrigeration lubricants, to which it provides successfully launched and is supported by a dedicated web site: worldwide technical support.
As a prominent player in personal care, Uniqema provides ingredients Quests Fine Fragrance business has been behind a stream of new for skin care, hair care, oral care and toiletries.
Among 2002s perfume launches, containing Quest fine vegetable-based products for skin care formulations, mild ingredients fragrances, have been Armanis Mania for Men, Givenchys Eau for cleansing formulations and functional ingredients for skin repair Torride, Jennifer Lopez signature scent Glow and Bora Bora, a products and UV protection products.
unisex fragrance based on bio-captive ingredients.
In the more regionally based Performance Technologies business, the Science, innovation and creativity are the key pillars of Quests main product streams are based on natural oils and fats, and strong research effort.
Innovation is at the heart of Quests business.
It positions in polymers are based on a range of specialty dimers, which designs and develops new fragrance and flavour ingredients and are used in adhesives, coatings and resins, printing inks, engineering compounds that create a distinctive sensory impact.
This demands plastics, fibres and foams.
Performance Technologies also includes a complex artistic and technical process, combining the knowledge specialist sectors in textile and oil applications.
and skill of Quests perfumers and flavourists with the expertise of its application and research chemists.
Quest has research centres at Uniqema also supplies process intermediates based on natural fats Ashford in the UK and Naarden in the Netherlands, together with and oils such as coconut, palm kernel and rape seed, which are split specific product process development teams at six other sites around to yield fatty acids and by-product glycerine.
Further processing of the world.
Quest also benefits from its membership of the wider ICI fatty acids yields a range of higher added-value products, such as group and the science base that is available to support innovation.
surfactants, soaps, lubricants and polymers.
The Food divisions headquarters is in Naarden, the Netherlands, The headquarters and one of the major operating centres of Uniqema where Quests corporate headquarters is also located.
The Fragrance is in Gouda, in the Netherlands.
The other major operating centres of divisions headquarters is in Ashford, UK.
Major manufacturing Uniqema are in Wilton in the UK, Newcastle Delaware, USA and Kuala facilities are located in the Netherlands, the UK, USA, Mexico, France, Lumpur in Malaysia.
Uniqema has a total of 16 manufacturing sites in Australia, Ireland and Indonesia with smaller manufacturing facilities in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
Quest has its own sales distribution network in 38 In 2002 Uniqema closed its offices in Everberg, Belgium and countries and is represented elsewhere by sales agents.
successfully completed the implementation of new Enterprise Performance Specialties Resource Planning ERP computer systems at all sites in Europe.
At the beginning of 2002, Performance Specialties consisted of two Paints main strategic business units: Uniqema and Synetix, plus the smaller ICI Paints is a leading international paint business and accounted for Security Systems business.
During the course of the year Security 36% of the Groups sales in 2002.
It concentrates on decorative paint Systems was sold to Lincolnshire Management Inc. and Synetix to 91% of ICI Paints sales in 2002 and coatings for food and beverage Johnson Matthey plc.
cans 9% of ICI Paints sales in 2002.
In 2002, 46% of ICI Paints Performance Specialties accounted for 13% of the Groups sales in sales were in North America, 34% in Europe, 12% in Asia and 8% in 2002.
As a percentage of Performance Specialties sales in 2002, Latin America and Rest of World.
ICI believes that ICI Paints strengths Uniqema represented 83%, Synetix 15% and other businesses 2%.
include its well-established brands and the global nature of the business which allow ICI Paints to use its resources, expertise and experience to offer the best solution for each local market and the needs of the end users.
14 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND FORM 20-F 2002 Within the overall Group strategy, the strategy of ICI Paints is to and paper.
Other businesses of ICI Pakistan include pharmaceuticals, maintain and develop its branded leading market positions in the seeds and specialty products.
Pakistan PTA Limited located at Port global paints and coatings industry.
ICI Paints expects to further Qasim near Karachi manufactures purified terephthalic acid PTA for develop its strategy by: the fibre industry.
building its business in high growth areas such as China, India and ICI Indias regional business comprises explosives, rubber chemicals, elsewhere in Asia, and nitrocellulose.
The explosives business, centred at Gomia, manufactures a wide range of modern bulk and packaged explosives.
capitalising on supply chain rationalisation opportunities, The rubber chemicals business has manufacturing facilities near utilising best practice throughout the business to reduce costs.
Kolkata, and the nitrocellulose business is based in Gujarat.
ICI Indias pharmaceuticals business was sold in early 2002.
The decorative paints business has well-established brands such as Dulux, Glidden, Valentine, Coral, Alba and Color Your World.
ICI Argentina manufactures a range of products of which wine chemicals and sulphur related products are the most important.
The wine The acquisition in 1998 of the European Home Improvement business chemicals business is located near Mendoza, whilst the sulphur of Williams Plc added further strong brand names in Europe such as related products are manufactured at San Lorenzo, near Rosario.
Hammerite, Cuprinol, Polyfilla, Polycell, Xyladecor, Molto and Alabastine.
The acquisition broadened and strengthened the Huntsman International Holdings LLC decorative product range to include wood care, metal care, adhesives Huntsman International Holdings LLC HIH, formed in 1999, is and fillers.
The decorative paint business has four regional strategic controlled by Huntsman Corporation and comprises ICIs former business units as the worldwide paint market is still highly regional.
Polyurethanes and Tioxide businesses and the majority of ICIs former UK based Petrochemicals businesses, together with the propylene During 2002 ICI Paints has continued to focus on strengthening its oxide assets of Huntsman Corporation.
brands and developing innovative products and services which meet and anticipate customers needs around the world.
Achievements in ICIs interests in HIH comprise a holding of subordinated loan 2002 included extending the Hammerite range in Latin America, a notes in HIH and an equity interest in ICI Alta Inc. a wholly owned new Cuprinol rollable paint in the UK, the launch, also in the UK, of subsidiary.
ICI Alta Inc. holds ICIs 30% equity interest in HIH and Polycell Basecoat, a product similar to paint which covers hair line a contract for the sale of this equity interest in HIH to Huntsman cracks and serves as a base for emulsion paint finish on interior walls, Specialty Chemicals Corporation HSCC, as announced on 21 the US launch of Dulux Fortis, a premium exterior paint and Alkyd December 2001 see material contracts on page 122.
On 17 June paint using the new ICI Advanced Alkyd technology, and the 2002, ICI announced it had reached an agreement with CSFB Global introduction of a second generation Dulux 5-in-1 paint in China.
Opportunities Partners L. P. now Matlin Patterson Global Opportunities Partners L. P. for the sale of ICIs interests in HIH.
The aggregate ICI Paints is a leader in sales of internal and external coatings for purchase price payable under this new agreement is $440m 283m.
It also manufactures and distributes a broad Of this amount, $160m 109m has been received.
The remaining product offering of packaging coatings and has significant market $280m 174m with an amount equivalent to interest from 15 May positions in both the mature markets of Europe and North America 2002 to the date of payment will be payable on 15 May 2003, with and the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America.
Matlin Patterson Global Opportunities Partners L. P. having the option Technology and innovation are also important factors in the growth to pay all or part of the amount due prior to 15 May 2003 by means of of ICI Paints.
Success is dependent on being first to the market with installment payments.
innovative, value-adding products and services which meet real Ownership of the HIH Notes, subject to a pledge arrangement, has market needs.
ICI Paints benefits technologically from the colloid, been transferred and ownership of ICI Alta Inc. will be transferred polymer and particle related science base and research carried out when the full purchase price has been received.
As a result of this by other parts of the Group.
transaction, HIH has ceased to be treated as an associate from ICI Paints business headquarters is at Slough in the UK.
Major 17 June 2002. manufacturing facilities are located in the USA, UK, Brazil, Argentina, Discontinued Operations Germany, Netherlands, France, China, India and Malaysia.
Additional For UK GAAP purposes, the Group classifies discontinued operations manufacturing facilities are located in 16 other countries.
ICI Paints as material operations which it has sold or permanently terminated maintains its own sales distribution network in 32 countries, and sells either during a particular financial year or during the subsequent elsewhere through sales agents and distributors.
period to the date of signature of the annual accounts for such Regional and Industrial financial year.
There were no operations reported as discontinued The Regional and Industrial businesses comprise several businesses during 2002 or 2001 and the last businesses to be so classified, which are essentially local in their scope.
Excluding sales relating in 2000, were the: Chlor-Chemicals, Klea and Crosfield businesses, to continuing supply contracts involving businesses that have been Methanol business, and the Groups 50% equity holding in Philipsdivested and which are transacted at nil margin, Regional and Imperial Petroleum Ltd. Industrial businesses accounted for 9% of the Groups sales in 2002.
Markets and distribution The most significant of these businesses are located in Pakistan, India ICI sells its products through an extensive network of subsidiaries, and Argentina.
In Pakistan and India, ICI operates through non whollyassociates and distributors.
owned subsidiary companies whose share capital is quoted on the local stock exchanges.
During 2002 the regional explosives operations Specialty products manufactured by National Starch, Quest and in the USA and the UK were divested.
Uniqema are sold mainly by direct sales forces, alliances and distributors.
Customers are primarily other manufacturers, in a range ICI Pakistan has interests across a number of different market sectors.
of markets from consumer oriented manufacturers of branded goods The more important of these are the manufacture of polyester staple in the food, perfume and personal care sectors to those involved in fibre for the textile industry and soda ash for soaps, detergents, glass surfactants, lubricants, papermaking and chemicals.
15 description of business Group expenditure on tangible fixed assets 2002 2001 2000 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m m Continuing operations Continuing operations National Starch 52 85 96 United Kingdom 53 59 52 Quest 52 34 28 Continental Europe 65 49 56 Performance Specialties 38 43 39 Americas 64 86 96 Paints 53 55 54 Asia Pacific 33 44 31 International Businesses 195 217 217 Other countries Regional and Industrial 20 21 18 Total Continuing operations 215 238 235 Total Continuing operations 215 238 235 Discontinued operations 54 Discontinued operations 54 Total 215 238 289 Total 215 238 289 Paints are sold through a range of distribution channels.
Branded The raw materials for Uniqema include a wide range of both renewable architectural paints are sold through a combination of both independent palm oil, rape-seed oil, tallows and petrochemical based ethylene retailers and stores and the Groups own retail concerns, particularly oxide, propylene oxide raw materials.
Can coatings are supplied directly to beverage and The raw materials for ICI Paints include resins, solvents and pigments food manufacturers in Europe, the Americas and Asia.
The Groups Regional and Industrial businesses sell into a wide range Intellectual property of industries including engineering, textiles, pharmaceuticals and the ICI has thousands of patents and applications which help to protect extractive industries.
These products are either marketed directly or its technology and numerous trademark registrations which help to through independent merchants, wholesalers and distributors who protect ICIs brands.
In addition, it derives substantial competitive resell to small users.
Commodity products are sold through a direct advantage from trade secrets and proprietary business knowledge sales force or through distributors primarily to other operators in the relating to formulae, products, processes and technical know-how.
ICI uses appropriate terms of employment and management processes Seasonality to identify and protect its intellectual property.
As necessary, it enters Due to the diversity of their product portfolios and broad international into confidentiality agreements with customers, suppliers and other coverage, seasonality in the National Starch, Quest and Uniqema third parties to protect the confidentiality of its proprietary, technical businesses is not significant.
ICI Paints, however, is affected, with and business information.
higher sales of products used on the exterior of buildings normally Competition during better weather conditions.
With the geographic profile of Due to the breadth and variety of the products and end markets ICI Paints, this results in higher activity levels in the second and third served, the Group encounters a wide range of competitors, from quarters of the year.
multinational companies to many small local and independent firms.
Sources and availability of raw materials National Starch does not compete with any one competitor in all of Raw materials and supplies are purchased from a variety of industry its markets.
However, multinational competitors in specific markets sources, principally the agricultural and chemical sectors and to a include HB Fuller, Rohm & Haas and Air Products.
Similarly, Uniqema lesser extent from the mining sector.
They are generally available does not compete with any one competitor in all of its markets, but in from multiple suppliers and alternative sources are generally available particular markets competitors include Cognis, Fina, Akzo Nobel and to enable business to continue in the event of any interruption from Twin Rivers.
Prices are subject to normal conditions of supply and demand.
Quest is one of the top five flavour and fragrance manufacturers which together account for approximately half of the total market.
Quests The primary raw materials used by National Starch are corn, tapioca main competitors are multinational flavour and fragrance houses, and chemicals.
Specialty hybrid corn high amylose and waxy seeds including International Flavors & Fragrances and Givaudan.
is planted under contract for National Starch to guarantee supply of these special strains.
Starch manufacturing facilities in Thailand are ICI Paints competition is mainly national in character.
However, located close to the sources of production of tapioca root to ensure international competitors include Sherwin Williams and Akzo Nobel.
National Starchs main chemical raw material is Capital expenditure vinyl acetate monomer, the cost and supply of which is dependent The analyses in the tables above summarise the Groups capital on the price of natural gas and manufacturing capacity of suppliers.
expenditure on tangible fixed assets over the three year period Quest purchases thousands of different raw materials from sources ended 31 December 2002. across the world.
The main natural raw materials are extracts and In 2002, over 90% of capital expenditure was incurred by the concentrates from fruits, vegetables and other flora as well as animal International Businesses.
One significant project has been the products and essential oils.
Synthetic raw material purchases are implementation of new enterprise resource planning systems in Quest.
16 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND FORM 20-F 2002 The remainder of the expenditure has been incurred on a large number proprietary CART technology to olfactory and gustatory G proteinof relatively minor projects aimed at achieving additional capacity for coupled receptors GPCRs to develop assays and then screen specialty products, as well as for productivity improvements through compounds supplied by ICI businesses.
increased automation of manufacturing processes and the relocation Chemistry underpins much of the Groups product development and and consolidation of facilities.
A significant portion of the expenditure here its focus is on high throughput R&D to explore novel molecules, relates to information technology and to the support of customers formulations and processes.
A successful collaboration with Symyx including tinting machines Paints and creative systems Quest.
Inc has made it possible to rapidly build an ICI Centre of Expertise in Commitments for capital expenditure not provided in the Groups High Throughput Screening and Formulation which is now advancing consolidated financial statements totalled 163m at 31 December a portfolio of projects for the ICI Businesses.
Investments in HTE 2002, compared with 146m at the end of the previous year.
These capability continue at Quest, and are beginning in Paints.
are analysed further in note 40 to the consolidated financial statements Current projects in the materials area are directed towards biobetween those for which contracts have been placed and those materials and renewable resources, exploiting effects shown by authorised but not yet contracted.
bio-polymers and bio-molecules, and increasing the Groups ability to Research and development R&D fabricate at the nano-scale for macro-scale effects.
The combination A Technology Board, comprising the senior business R&D managers of these capabilities is particularly focused on controlled and targeted and led by the Group Vice President for R&D, is responsible for the delivery of effect products e. g. the collaboration between National development of the Groups Technology Strategy and its implementation Starch and Uniqema has already led to the launch of two new crop by the R&D staff employed by the Groups businesses.
In 2002, protection products: Metasperse dispersants, and Semkote seed expenditure on R&D by continuing operations excluding Technical coatings.
Service, amounted to 148m 2001 151m: 2000 157m both as The competitive edge of the Group comes from the combination of restated.
This expenditure represented 2.4% of sales in 2002, up these capabilities, not merely the demonstration of excellence in any from 2.3% in 2001 and the same as in 2000. one megatheme area.
Nowhere is this more evident than in ICIs ability Each of the Groups businesses is responsible for its own R&D to offer products with a multisensory touch, taste, fragrance and resources and for driving innovation to meet the needs of its customers colour dimension.
The power and opportunity that this approach and markets.
The business R&D teams are complemented by a central offers is displayed in the ICI report on The Secrets of the Senses R&D resource that aims to provide world class capabilities that are commissioned from Dr Charles Spence from the Department of common to all the businesses.
Its capabilities are in colloid interface Experimental Psychology at the University of Oxford.
science: high throughput experimentation HTE : modelling: particle Regulation, safety, health and the environment engineering and polymer science.
It also provides measurement ICIs businesses are subject to the normal regulatory framework science services to the ICI businesses as well as undertaking a applicable to a specialty products and paints company, notably small measurement science development programme.
The Groups various health, safety and environmental rules both at national distributed technology network draws on the expertise across ICI thus and local levels in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
allowing new products and processes to be developed and exploited Its businesses also voluntarily conform to international and national by individual businesses more rapidly, and stimulating new options codes of best practice appropriate to their business.
from the combination of the technical capabilities of the Groups different businesses.
ICI attaches great importance to the safety and health of its employees, to reducing any adverse environmental impact of its In 2002, a Business Development Board was established, comprising activities year-on-year and to developing products and services senior managers from the individual Businesses, the Group Vice with improved environmental features.
President of R&D, planning support from the Corporate Centre, and chaired by the Executive Vice President Performance Specialties.
Most aspects of the Groups business are subject to laws relating The purpose of the Board is to accelerate the commercial exploitation to safety, health and environment SHE.
The scope and severity of of technology opportunities within ICI, and reflects the desire to such laws vary across the different businesses and according to the continuously develop and strengthen the links between market needs jurisdiction concerned.
The various manufacturing processes which and technology capability.
are operated require consents and licences including relevant emission permits.
The Group requires full compliance by its The Groups prime technology areas, namely biosciences, chemistry businesses with all relevant SHE laws and regulations in each and materials, have been established to support its goals in selected jurisdiction in which it operates.
These areas or megathemes constitute a portfolio of projects, which are intended to accelerate the Groups long-term ICIs policy is to improve its SHE performance continuously and to technology development, and avoid business duplication while have in place quantitative measures to monitor progress.
For these reducing individual business risk.
reasons, ICI published a set of targets in 2001 to be achieved by the end of the year 2005 for improvements in Safety, Health and the Bioscience has key areas of knowledge and expertise which the Group Environment Challenge 2005.
Targets for the last of these included applies to the development of personal care, food and beverage reducing its environmental burden in specific categories and a products.
Projects under way focus on the use of natural materials, commitment to improve energy efficiency per tonne of production by a linking consumer response to the molecular constituents of the further 5% of the 2000 base level.
ICI developed the measurement of Groups products, and the development of superior product effects environmental burden in order to take account not just of the quantity through improved understanding of skin science.
An example is the of an emission but its potential impact on the environment.
It uses the collaboration with Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc to apply Arenas environmental burden methodology to help prioritise actions for further performance improvement.
17 description of business Challenge 2005 focuses on the effects of the Groups activities on Processes are in place for regular reviews of environmental liabilities, climate change, land, water, and other potential impacts using the and provisions were established by 31 December 2002 in accordance environmental burden concept introduced in 1995, and to achieve with the accounting policy described in the Group financial statements a further 50% reduction in employee injuries and illnesses from the on page 51.
Although there can be no guarantees, management 2000 outurn.
believes that, within the existing legislative framework and taking account of the provisions already established, the cost of addressing We maintain our focus on SHE and, in the second year of our current currently identified environmental obligations as ICI currently views five-year programme, are on plan to meet the majority of our these obligations is unlikely to have a material adverse effect on its Challenge 2005 objectives and have actions in place to address financial position or results of operations.
those areas where we are behind.
Full details are published in our Sustainability Report and on our website, www.
ICIs Litigation performance in 2002 is currently being verified by Enviros Consulting Save as disclosed below, neither ICI nor any of its subsidiaries is Ltd, and the detailed performance results and verification statement involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have, or will be published on its website.
During 2002, there were eleven have had, during the 12 months preceding the date of this document, instances of breaches of safety, health or environmental regulations a material effect on the financial position of the Group, nor are any which resulted in prosecutions or fines totalling 95,000.
Each was such proceedings pending or threatened involving ICI or any of its investigated and appropriate action taken.
The main process by which the Group manages SHE issues and seeks The Glidden Company Glidden, a wholly owned subsidiary of ICI, to meet its objectives is the Responsible Care Management System is a defendant, along with former lead paint and pigment producers as RCMS.
This sets out standards along with guidelines, training, well as other lead product manufacturers and their trade associations, auditing and procedures for reviewing and reporting performance, in a number of suits in the United States.
These suits seek damages all of which are essential to continuous improvement.
The system for alleged personal injury caused by lead-based paint or the costs covers operations on site as well as product stewardship and of removing lead-based paint.
An alleged predecessor of Glidden community relations.
RCMS has been independently verified by manufactured lead pigments until the 1950s and lead-based Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Limited as complying with the consumer paint until the 1960s.
Due to the nature of the suits, Glidden US and UK Responsible Care Codes, the certifiable international is unable to quantify the amount being claimed although the suits are standard for environmental management systems, ISO 14001 and likely to involve substantial claims for damages.
the ICC International Chamber of Commerce Business Charter for The cases presently pending against Glidden include: a suit filed in Sustainable Development.
1989 by the New York City Housing Authority in New York state court ICI works to manage and minimise the risks associated with the seeking the removal of all lead-based paint from two housing projects: condition of its sites and has developed further procedures to enable a purported statewide personal injury class action filed in 1998 on the ranking of priorities for management attention.
ICI is actively behalf of all lead poisoned children in New York state court: a personal engaged in research aimed at developing and implementing more cost injury suit filed in 1999 on behalf of six lead poisoned minors in state effective environmental remediation technologies, some of which court in Maryland, and a personal injury action filed in 2002 on behalf is being done in collaboration with other companies and academic of a lead poisoned adult in state court in Mississippi.
individual personal injury actions were filed in 2000 and 2001 against Glidden and other members of the lead industry in Maryland state The raw materials which the Groups businesses use and the products court, however, these actions have not been served on any of the which they produce are subject to demanding regulations concerning defendants and no activity is expected for the foreseeable future.
product safety in all parts of the world.
These regulations, which also One additional personal injury action was filed in late 2002 in New cover product testing and risk assessment requirements, are subject York state court but Glidden has not been served in that case.
to review and revision, as is currently happening in Europe with the European Union Chemicals Policy White Paper.
The Group is Glidden has been dismissed from seventeen cases in 2002 and was assessing the potential impact of these proposals on its businesses not named as a defendant in more than two dozen lead paint lawsuits and will ensure compliance when the new European Union regulations filed this year.
Glidden continues to believe that it has strong defences come into force.
to all of the pending cases and has denied all liability and will continue to vigorously defend all actions.
There is a growing pressure from legislators, customers and the general public to reduce the environmental and health impacts of ICI Chemicals & Polymers Limited C&P, a subsidiary, is involved in products throughout their life cycle.
ICI is responding to this by arbitration proceedings in Singapore regarding PTA technology ensuring that each business has a Product Stewardship programme exchange and licence arrangements with PT Polyprima Karyareksa in place.
This voluntary programme embraces, through best business Polyprima.
Fees due under these arrangements are being claimed practices, product regulatory requirements, societal pressures, against Polyprima who, in response, has claimed damages totalling reducing the risk of harm to people and the environment, and ICI aims up to $130m for alleged breach of contract, alleged fraud, deceit, to provide the relevant information to enable correct use and disposal misrepresentation and concealment, allegations which C&P rejects of products.
and intends to resist vigorously.
C&Ps claim against Polyprima was heard before an arbitration tribunal in Singapore in May 2002 and the Anticipating external pressures and concerns and providing speedy, decision of the tribunal is awaited.
innovative solutions with lower environmental impact is becoming a key aspect of sustaining competitive advantage.
ICI recognises these In connection with the disposal of the Groups Chlor-Chemicals pressures and is responding with the introduction of new processes, business to Ineos Chlor, Ineos Chlor has made a 65m claim against products and services which improve the efficiency of use of raw the Group relating to expenditure allegedly required in relation to the materials and utilities and reduce adverse environmental effects.
Runcorn site, which the Group is disputing.
As yet, legal proceedings 18 ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND FORM 20-F 2002 have not been commenced by Ineos Chlor but it is possible that they will be in the near future.
Ineos Chlor has also approached the UK Department of Trade and Industry to seek Regional Selective Assistance for certain capital projects and is also seeking financial support from its parent company and the Group.
ICI has received reports that Ineos Chlor may seek to close part or all of its business if this financial support is not forthcoming.
If such a closure was to occur, a number of ChlorChemicals contracts in the Groups name which have not yet been novated to Ineos Chlor and certain environmental liabilities could revert to the Group or be accelerated.
Employees As of 31 December 2002, ICI employed 36,660 employees.
An analysis of employee numbers by business and geographical area may be found in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
ICI has a mixture of unionised and non-unionised operations across the world.
ICI considers its relations with its employees to be good.
Property ICI operates production, marketing and research and development facilities worldwide.
The individual business descriptions on the preceding pages provide details of these facilities.
ICI owns substantially all of its properties, free of material encumbrances, and it believes such properties are adequate for their purposes and suitably utilised according to the individual nature and requirements of the relevant properties.
Insurance ICI maintains the types and amounts of insurance customary in the industries and countries in which it operates.
This includes but is not limited to Employee Related Accidents and Injury policies, Property Damage policies and Directors and Officers liability coverage.
ICI considers its insurance coverage to be adequate both as to the nature of the risks covered and the amounts insured for the businesses conducted by the Group.
The insurance market, since the terrorist attacks on the United States on 11 September 2001, has become far more expensive and limited in coverage availability.
There are indications that insurance costs will continue to increase and that the scope of coverage available in the market will become more limited.
