44 Corporate governance Nomination Committee Corporate Governance in the Netherlands in 1997.
The Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of three NV applies the Committees recommendations for Advisory Directors and the Chairmen of NV and PLC and supervisory directors to its Advisory Directors in so far meets at least once a year.
It is chaired by Frits Fentener as these are in line with their specic role within Unilever.
van Vlissingen and its other members are Antony Burgmans, NV complies with all other recommendations of the Bertrand Collomb, Niall FitzGerald, Lord Simon and Jeroen Committee except that the Board of Directors takes the view van der Veer.
It recommends to the Boards candidates for that requests for an item to be placed on the agenda for a the positions of Director, Advisory Director and Executive shareholders meeting must be supported by more than an Committee member.
The Committee is supplied with insignicant proportion of the shareholders and will information by the Joint Secretaries.
therefore only accept requests from a shareholder or group of shareholders holding at least 1% of the voting rights Remuneration Committee attaching to the issued share capital of NV.
Requests must The Remuneration Committee currently comprises four be submitted, at the latest, 60 days prior to the date of the Advisory Directors and meets at least three times a year.
It is chaired by Frits Fentener van Vlissingen, and its other members are Bertrand Collomb, Lord Simon and Jeroen van PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in der Veer.
It reviews executive directors remuneration and the United Kingdom and listed on the London Stock is responsible for the executive share-based incentive plans.
Exchange, to state how it has applied the principles and The Committee determines specic remuneration packages how far it has complied with the provisions set out in for each of the directors.
The Committee is supplied with Section 1 of the Combined Code the Combined Code information by J A A van der Bijl, Joint Secretary of Unilever.
appended to the United Kingdom Listing Rules.
The detailed report to shareholders on directors As already explained, the Boards exercise control through remuneration is on pages 49 to 60. the Executive Committee.
Responsibilities are shared by the Chairmen of NV and PLC, while the Advisory Directors Routine business committees perform many of the functions of the supervisory board Committees are set up to conduct routine business as and members or non-executive directors, although they are not when they are necessary.
They comprise any two of the formally members of the Boards.
For the purposes of the directors and certain senior executives and ofcers of the Combined Code, the Boards have not appointed a senior Company.
They administer certain matters previously independent director, on the basis that issues for the agreed by the Boards or the Executive Committee.
Boards can be raised with whichever Advisory Director is The Joint Secretaries are responsible for the operation the Chairman of the relevant Board Committee and the of these committees.
Advisory Directors are entitled to meet as a body and appoint a senior member as their spokesman.
All committees are formally set up by Board resolution with carefully dened remits.
They report regularly and Unilevers remuneration policy is contained within the report are responsible to the Boards of NV and PLC.
on the directors remuneration and interests on pages 49 to 60.
This also deals with aspects of non-compliance with the Requirements in the Netherlands and the UK Combined Code in this area.
Members of the Audit, Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available both the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
A vital factor to answer questions at the Annual General Meetings of in the arrangements between NV and PLC is their having the both NV and PLC.
The members attending each meeting will same directors.
The concept of the non-executive director, as not necessarily include the Chairman of the Committee, recognised in the United Kingdom, is not a standard feature since these meetings take place at about the same time in of corporate governance in the Netherlands, and the Rotterdam and London respectively.
supervisory board, as recognised in the Netherlands, is unknown in the United Kingdom.
It has hitherto not been A description of Unilevers compliance with Internal considered practicable to appoint supervisory or nonControl Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code executive directors who could serve on both Boards.
Nevertheless, Unilevers Advisory Directors have long provided a strong independent element, performing many Unilever has, since its inception, adopted the principle of the functions of supervisory and non-executive directors.
that it is good practice that the most senior roles in NV The Audit, External Affairs and Corporate Relations and and PLC are shared and not concentrated in one person.
Remuneration Committees consist exclusively of Advisory As a consequence it is a principal tenet of its governance Directors and the majority of the members of the philosophy, which nds expression in two people who each Nomination Committee are Advisory Directors.
See pages combine the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and 46 and 47 for details.
who meet regularly for joint decision making.
This carefully balanced arrangement has served Unilevers unique The Committee on Corporate Governance in the constitutional arrangements very well for many years and Netherlands issued its report Recommendations on the Boards believe that to separate these roles would only Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
