40 Financial review Innovation: Developing our managers: Our growth depends in large part on our ability to Unilevers performance requires that it have the right generate and implement a stream of consumer-relevant calibre of managers in place.
We must compete to improvements to our products.
The contribution of obtain capable recruits for the business, and then train innovation is affected by the level of funding that them in the skills and competencies that we need to can be made available, the technical capability of the deliver growth.
research and development functions, and the success of operating management in rolling out quickly the Our brands: resulting improvements.
A key element of our Path to Growth strategy is the development of a small number of global, leading brands.
Economic conditions in developing countries: Any adverse event affecting consumer confidence or About a third of Unilevers sales come from the group of continuity of supply of such a brand would have an developing and emerging economies.
These markets are impact on the overall business.
also an important source of our growth.
These economies are more volatile than those in the developed world, In addition, as a multinational group, Unilevers businesses and there is a risk of downturns in effective consumer are exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty demand that would reduce the sales of our products.
related to other factors including competitive pricing, consumption levels, physical risks, legislative, scal, tax and Borrowings: regulatory developments, terrorism and economic, political The Group had borrowings totalling 20 444 million and social conditions in the environments where we at the end of 2002.
Any shortfalls in our cashow operate.
All of these risks could materially affect the Groups commitments to service these borrowings could business, our turnover, operating profit, net profit, net assets undermine our credit rating and overall investor and liquidity.
There may also be risks which are unknown to confidence.
Market, interest rate and foreign exchange Unilever or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
risks to which the Group is exposed are described on page 39.
Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return TSR is a concept used to compare Price volatility of raw materials: the performance of different companies stocks and shares Unilevers raw materials cover a wide range of agricultural over time.
It combines share price appreciation and and mineral products that are subject to movements in dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
There may be times when The absolute level of the TSR will vary with stock markets, increases in these prices cannot be recovered fully in but the relative position reects the market perception of selling prices due to competitor actions or weakness overall performance relative to a reference group.
The Company calculates TSR over a three-year rolling period.
Reputation: This period is sensitive enough to reect changes but long Unilever has a good corporate reputation and many of enough to smooth out short-term volatility.
The return is our businesses, which operate in around 100 countries expressed in US dollars, based on the equivalent US dollar around the world, have a high prole in their region.
share price for NV and PLC.
US dollars were chosen to Unilever products carrying our famous brand names are facilitate comparison with companies in Unilevers chosen sold in over 150 countries.
Should we fail to meet high reference group.
product safety, social, environmental and ethical standards in all our operations and activities, Unilever's corporate Unilevers TSR target is to be in the top third of a reference reputation could be damaged, leading to the rejection group of 21 international consumer goods companies on a of our products by consumers, devaluation of our brands three year rolling basis.
and diversion of management time into rebuilding our reputation.
Examples of initiatives to manage key social At the end of 2001 we were positioned 15th and during and environmental risks are mentioned on pages 11 2002 we rose to 12th, outside our target position which and 12. remains the top third of our reference group.
This position is influenced by the decline in the share price in the latter part Customer relationships: of 1999.
On a one year basis, our TSR has been in the top Sales to large customers or sales via specialised third of the reference group for each of the last two years.
distribution channels are significant in some of our businesses.
The loss of a small number of major customers or a major disruption of a specialised distribution channel could have an adverse effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
