Report of the Directors About Unilever 13 Seasonality We continued to adopt new ways to foster team spirit and Certain of our businesses, such as ice creams and prestige encourage commitment to Unilever values.
For example, we fragrances, are subject to significant seasonal uctuations in brought together 120 Latin American Home & Personal Care sales.
However, Unilever operates globally in many different managers in a team project to refurbish a number of markets and product categories.
No individual element of community facilities in So Paulo, Brazil.
seasonality is likely to be material to the results of the Group as a whole.
Our new divisional structure empowers our people to take decisions quickly and seize opportunities.
Amongst others, People we built on the momentum of early Dove hair successes in Asia by rolling out the range in 31 more countries in 2002, Year end in thousands 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 in a vastly accelerated timeframe.
Europe 60 71 80 74 80 To conclude the reorganisation that accompanies Path to North America 21 22 39 22 23 Growth we are streamlining the corporate centre, making services more responsive to Unilevers changing needs.
Africa, Middle East and Turkey 52 49 48 50 59 As part of our strategy to encourage managers to take more Asia and Pacic 82 85 84 71 72 control of their careers, we rolled out open job posting in 2002.
Under the initiative most Unilever vacancies are Latin America 32 38 44 29 31 advertised internally on a new intranet site.
This helps us to Total 247 265 295 246 265 identify existing employees who could ll these positions and to retain talented people.
Establishing an Enterprise Culture, to inspire a passion for Externally, the roll-out of our new Employer Brand across winning among our people is an essential ingredient of our 55 countries has made our approach to potential employees Path to Growth strategy.
In 2002, we made further progress more attractive and effective.
in making this culture into an integral part of Unilever.
Unilever is one of the most diverse organisations in the One example of Enterprise Culture in action was the world: our top 200 leaders are drawn from 33 nationalities.
turnaround achieved at our previously slow-growing Over a quarter of our managers are women.
In 2002, as a operation in Australia and New Zealand.
This followed the step towards developing our diversity vision and strategy, we creation of a single Australasian business that challenged conducted a global diversity assessment.
Future initiatives employees to do things differently and to connect more include steps to improve our top leaders understanding of closely with consumers.
Their energy and drive are indicative the barriers faced by people from diverse backgrounds.
of similar initiatives around the world.
We are keen to recognise and reward success.
We extended To further motivate our people towards sustained business our long-term incentive programme to a further 4 000 growth, we surveyed over 100 000 Unilever people from employees and variable pay to 15 000 more employees.
110 countries, giving us invaluable insights into our Path to Growth progress.
The results will help further develop our Related party transactions human resources strategy.
Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance with the transfer pricing policies described Career development at Unilever, as betting our Enterprise on page 68 and consist primarily of sales to joint ventures Culture, is a shared responsibility between leaders and and associates.
Other than those disclosed in this report, their teams.
there were no related party transactions that were material to the Group or to the related parties concerned that require In 2002, we pursued several diverse development initiatives.
to be reported in 2002 or the preceding two years.
We became more exacting in measuring performance, In approximately 40 countries, our associated company, through more rigourous application of Leadership for JohnsonDiversey Inc. acts as Unilevers sole and exclusive Growth Proles a move which also allows managers sales agent for professional channels, in return for which it to become better coaches.
Originally designed for top receives an agency fee.
Information concerning guarantees management, proles have now been expanded for use given by the Group is stated in note 24 on page 99 and across all levels.
under Mutual guarantee of borrowings on page 140.
Guarantees are also given within the Group by the parent Unilevers future depends on developing its up and coming companies, as described on pages 133 and 136. managers.
In July, some 80 managers from 35 countries spent five days together as part of the young leaders of Intellectual property tomorrow programme, which is part of our comprehensive We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, management development strategy.
This event, which was and we conduct some of our operations under licences attended by both Unilever Chairmen, helped participants to which are based on patents or trademarks owned or consider how their personal goals complement Unilevers controlled by others.
We are not dependent on any one strategic objectives.
patent or group of patents.
We use our best efforts to protect our brands and technology.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
