38 Financial review equivalent of 418 million of term nancing in the Thai The key financial instruments used by Unilever are shortcapital market, all of which carried a Unilever NV guarantee and long-term borrowings, cash and other xed and excluding political risk, through a combination of bank loans current investments and certain straightforward derivative and the issuance of a debenture with a 5-year maturity.
instruments, principally comprising interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
The accounting for derivative During 2002, net debt decreased to 16 966 million instruments is discussed in Accounting policies on page 68.
This was due to strong operating The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted.
cash ow, the proceeds of business disposals and the favourable effect of currency movements.
Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, Borrowings at the end of 2002 totalled 20 444 million interest rates and credit spreads.
Taking into account the various include liquidity, country and counterparty risks.
cross currency swaps and other derivatives, 78% of Unilevers borrowings were in US dollars, 1% in euros Unilever has an interest rate management policy aimed at and 7% in sterling with the remainder spread over a optimising net interest cost and reducing volatility.
This is large number of other currencies.
achieved by modifying the interest rate exposure of debt and cash positions through the use of interest rate swaps.
Long-term borrowings decreased by 3 288 million At the 2002 year-end the application of this policy resulted to 10 933 million at the end of 2002.
At the end of in approximately 80% of our projected net debt for 2003 2002 short-term borrowings were 9 511 million 2001: and 47% for 2004 being xed.
11 279 million, including 4 854 million of long-term debt coming to within a year of maturity at the year-end.
Unilevers foreign exchange policy requires that operating At the end of 2002, 68% of the long-term debt is repayable companies hedge trading and financial foreign exchange within five years 2001: 77%.
This is achieved primarily through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Some exibility is Unilevers contractual obligations at the end of 2002 include permitted within overall exposure limits.
At year-end there capital expenditure commitments, borrowings, operating was no material exposure from companies holding assets lease commitments and other commitments.
Details are set and liabilities other than in their functional currency.
out in the following notes to the accounts: note 10 on page 81, note 14 on page 83, and note 24 on page 99.
Details Unilever aims to hedge its net investment in operating on derivatives are given in note 15 on pages 85 and 86. companies through borrowings in the same currency, except where inhibited by local regulations, lack of local liquidity or Cash and current investments at the end of 2002 totalled local market conditions.
An exception may also be made 3 478 million 2001: 2 301 million : these funds were where the economic value of the net assets locally is held in euros 34%, sterling 4%, US dollars 14%, and considered to exceed their book value substantially.
The funds are mainly to support business in the US is one such example where the economic day-to-day needs and are predominantly invested in shortvalue of the assets is considerably in excess of book value term bank deposits and high-grade marketable securities.
and accordingly we have higher US dollar debt.
From time to time, currency revaluations will trigger exchange Treasury and hedging policies translation movements in our balance sheet as a result Unilever Treasurys strategic purpose is to provide financial of these exceptions.
exibility in support of Unilevers Path to Growth strategy within the context of the financial strategy set out in the In 2002, we suffered significant retranslation differences as Finance and liquidity section above.
Unilever Treasurys role aresult of the devaluations in Brazil 1 106 million and is to ensure that appropriate nancing is always available for Argentina 502 million, partly offset by the effect of the all value-creating investments.
Additionally, Treasury delivers weakening of the US dollar.
The above gures reect the financial services to allow operating companies to manage effect exchange rate movements have on the book values their financial transactions and exposures in an efficient, of assets and liabilities but do not take into account the timely and low cost manner.
underlying value of our assets or future earnings potential in the countries involved.
Unilever Treasury operates as a service centre and is governed by policies and plans agreed by the Executive Our policies and strategies for the management of liquidity Committee of the Board.
In addition to policies, guidelines risk are discussed in more detail on pages 37 and above.
and exposure limits, a system of authorities and extensive independent reporting covers all major areas of activity.
Counterparty exposures are minimised by restricting dealing Performance is monitored closely.
Reviews are undertaken counterparties to a limited number of financial institutions by the corporate internal audit function.
that have secure credit ratings, by working within agreed counterparty limits and by setting limits on the maturity of exposures.
Counterparty credit ratings are closely monitored and concentration of credit risk with any single counterparty Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
