12 About Unilever We reduced the impact of many of our key performance Often it is in our direct involvement, in the sharing of our indicators, such as energy and water use.
However, we did skills and expertise, that we can make the most difference.
not meet all of the stretching targets that we set ourselves.
For example, in China, Mexico and South Africa, Unilever actively participates in local schools, not only through For the fourth year running we have led our sector in the donations but also through employees giving their time to Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
We also won the best teach and to renovate buildings.
At the end of 2001, our overall Environmental Reporting Award, in the Association company in Brazil handed over to the local community a of Chartered Certied Accountants ACCA UK Awards for redundant ice cream factory it had helped to renovate.
factory is now used as a technical school for 21 000 lowincome students on courses as diverse as computing, hotel Responsible corporate behaviour management and tourism.
Corporate social responsibility is integral to the way we run our business and has been part of our operating tradition Our brands are active too.
Building on its long-standing from our earliest days.
Our corporate purpose and Code of promotion of heart health in Canada, Becel supported Business Principles commit us to the highest standards of Stroke Month and World Heart Day by donating 25 cents corporate behaviour as we seek to meet the everyday needs from each Becel spread or oil sold in several provinces.
This raised Canadian $200 000 136 000 for heart health research and hospital programmes.
In Europe and Chile our The Code of Business Principles sets a framework for Domestos brand has been working in a five-year alliance operational standards of behaviour, such as ensuring the with the Red Cross movement to promote initiatives on safety of products or reducing the environmental impact of health and hygiene, a relationship now evolving to include our manufacturing operations.
Following revision in 2001, other Home & Personal Care brands.
It is by focusing on the the Code was rolled out around our business in 2002 to areas in which we have particular business expertise that we help all our employees understand its implications.
The rollcan make the most effective contribution to society.
out included global and regional workshops, supported by an intranet site and an online learning tool.
The Code has Competition been translated into more than 35 languages.
We have a wide and diverse set of competitors in our consumer goods businesses.
Many of our competitors Our director for corporate development leads our work also operate on an international scale, but others have on corporate social responsibility.
Over recent years this a narrower regional or local focus.
programme has focused on increasing our understanding and explaining the impact of our business on society.
Competition is intense and challenging.
We aim to compete and give value to our consumers and customers We regard the very business of doing business in a in three ways: responsible and sustainable way as the core of our by continually developing new and improved products: corporate social responsibility: selling products that by sharing our innovations and concepts with our meet local consumers needs, investing in productive businesses all around the world: capacity, spreading our technical know-how, working by striving to lower the cost of our sourcing, in partnerships through the value chain and in local manufacturing and distribution processes whilst still communities, and making environmental responsibility maintaining, and improving, the quality of our products.
We support efforts to create a more open competitive In late 2002 we published a second Social Review available environment through the liberalisation of international online at www.
We also support the fuller implementation of the Review explores what it means for us to be a responsible Single European Market and inclusion of other European corporate citizen.
It gives an insight into the day-to-day countries in the European Union.
practice of our business around the world and our relationships with consumers, customers and those who Exports work in our companies, as well as with our wider We sell our products in nearly all countries throughout community of stakeholders.
the world and manufacture in many of them.
Inside the European Union we make many of our products in only In 2002, our companies spent approximately 69 million a few member countries, for sale in all of them.
These ranged from commercial marketing initiatives that contributed to communities such We also export a wide range of products to countries as Signal toothpastes dental care programme in Saudi where we do not make them.
We often use this export Arabia and Bushells tea road safety campaign in Australia, trade to develop new markets, usually through our facilities to social investments such as our uniquely ME!
self-esteem in neighbouring countries, before building local programme for underpriviledged children run with the Girl manufacturing facilities.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
