10 About Unilever Home & Personal Care be invested over three years in two newly developed Home care and professional cleaning venture funds of our own, Unilever Ventures and Unilever We are one of the global leaders in the domestic home care Technology Ventures.
The former will act as an early stage market.
Our products have been developed to meet the business development fund: the latter, based in California, diverse requirements of consumers to clean and care for will invest in technology-based funds and start-up their homes and clothes.
In laundry, they include tablets for companies.
convenience, traditional powders and liquids for soaking, washing by hand and by machine.
In developing and Technology and innovation emerging markets, tailored products, including soap bars, To support our Path to Growth strategy we continued to are available for lower income consumers.
In household focus research and development on fewer, global projects care our products are designed to tackle most cleaning to reinforce our leading brands.
We established a network and hygiene needs around the home.
of Global Innovation Centres to develop the brands and to accelerate their growth across sectors and regions.
Our home care brands are available in over 100 countries, many of them holding leading market positions.
These In 2002, we spent 1 166 million 2001: 1 178 million: brands include Omo, Surf, Looks Great, Snuggle, Comfort, 2000: 1 187 million on research and development 2.4% Cif and Domestos.
We introduced new ways of working to further align research and development with business needs In May 2002, we sold DiverseyLever, our institutional and improve the quality and speed of innovation.
For and industrial cleaning business, to Johnson Professional.
example, we linked our R&D strategy more closely with Unilever retains a one-third equity stake in the combined divisional strategic plans and R&D was represented on new JohnsonDiversey business, with an option to exit the global brand teams.
These changes led to some significant developments as we Personal care focused on fewer global projects.
In Home & Personal Care, We are one of the world leaders in skin and hair care, these included a single fabric conditioner ingredient for deodorants and anti-perspirants.
In skin care our global Comfort and Snuggle, giving us greater purchasing power brands include Lux, Dove and Ponds.
Rexona, Axe and for raw materials and reducing manufacturing costs.
We Dove are the key brands in deodorants and anti-perspirants.
also developed the Dove ultra moisturising bar and rolled Hair products are available under the Sunsilk, Dove and out Dove Moisturising Shampoo and Conditioner in Europe, Suave brands.
The division also launched a new Axe formulation, providing superior odour protection and, We also have an important market share in oral care, with in the anti-ageing market, we launched the clinically products sold widely, predominantly under the Signal brand.
Our Prestige fragrance business is one of the worlds largest.
Foods also delivered a series of new innovations.
A Knorr We sell a number of fragrances under the Calvin Klein snack range was introduced in Latin America, providing name, including Obsession, Eternity and Truth.
In addition, affordable, nutritious products for low-income consumers.
in recent years cK one and Crave have been introduced to In the UK, a Knorr healthy eating range was brought to the appeal to the youth market.
The designer fragrance brands consumer under the name Knorr Vie.
Lipton launched a Cerruti, Lagerfeld, Chlo and Valentino, together with new, refreshing lemonade in the US and a new tea drink, Nautica, Vera Wang and BCBG fragrance, complete our called Sparkle, in Japan.
Slim Fast introduced cereal bars in extensive portfolio.
the US, while under the Bertolli brand new liquid margarines and pasta sauces were launched in Europe.
Other operations To support our consumer brands, we own both tea In total, Unilever led 450 new patent applications.
While plantations in India, Kenya and Tanzania and palm oil some innovations made a significant contribution in 2002 plantations in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cte the benets of others will be felt during 2003. dIvoire and Ghana.
Corporate venture activities As announced on 30 September 2002, we are to invest 170 million in building business opportunities that t our core business interests in Foods and Home & Personal Care.
Of this, as sponsor and lead investor, we have committed 100 million to the newly created Langholm Capital Partners Fund.
This fund will focus on acquiring majority or inuential minority stakes in private UK and continental European companies valued between 20 million and 200 million and demonstrating above-average mediumterm growth prospects.
In addition, up to 70 million will Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
