Long-term incentive arrangements The remuneration package of the directors consists of a base salary, allowances and benets in kind, annual performance Directors are eligible to be considered for participation bonus, long-term incentive arrangements and pension in three long-term incentive arrangements as follows: provision.
The details are as follows: a Matching shares 1.
Base salary As explained above, one quarter of the annual bonus is Base salaries are set by the Remuneration Committee and delivered in the form of NV and PLC shares.
The Group then are xed in the currency appropriate to the country in which awards an equivalent number of matching shares.
These the individual is based.
Whilst one overall salary framework matching shares vest three years after grant provided that applies to all directors, separate salary ranges are agreed the original bonus shares have been retained for the each year for directors based in continental Europe, the UK three-year period and that the director has not resigned and the US.
or been dismissed during that period.
Allowances and benets in kind Apart from these latter conditions no further performance conditions apply to the vesting of the matching shares.
The Directors enjoy similar benets to many other employees of Remuneration Committee considers that, as the level of the the Unilever Group.
These include private medical insurance, award is directly linked to the payment of the annual bonus the use of company cars or cash in lieu and assistance with to which performance conditions do apply, there is no need relocation costs when moving from one country to another.
for further performance conditions on the vesting of the They also receive an allowance to cover small out-of-pocket award.
The Remuneration Committee also wishes to expenses not covered by the reimbursement of their encourage directors to hold shares in the company they serve business entertaining expenses.
In addition, the UK-based to further align the interests of the directors with those of the directors receive an allowance, where applicable, to shareholders in general.
The necessity to hold the bonus compensate for the fact that some of their remuneration shares for a minimum of a three-year period during which is paid in the Netherlands.
time the share price will be influenced by the performance of the Group reinforces this commitment on the part 3.
Annual performance bonus of the director and is also consistent with the shareholding requirement described on page 55.
In addition, the The annual bonus can range between 0% and 100% of Remuneration Committee believes that the three-year period base salary.
This bonus is based on achievement of specic to vesting of the matching shares supports, as far as is corporate and personal targets which are set by the possible, the retention of key executives.
Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year.
Up to the equivalent of 80% of base salary is paid by b Share options reference to corporate targets and up to 20% of base salary is paid by reference to personal targets.
Directors are able to participate in the UK Employee ShareSave Plan and the Netherlands Employee Option Plan, The corporate targets are based on a combination of the which are both All-Employee plans.
The US-based director increase in earnings per share BEIA and underlying sales is able to participate in the North American Employee Stock growth of the leading brands for the year in question.
These plans are referred to in note 29 on Personal targets are based on agreed key objectives relative pages 103 to 111. to the directors specic responsibilities.
In addition, directors participate in the Executive Option At the end of each year the Remuneration Committee Plans, as described in note 29 on pages 103 and 106 reviews the results against the targets which had been to 108. set previously.
The Remuneration Committee has established benchmark For 2002 the earnings per share BEIA target range was grant levels, described as the normal allocation, to assist exceeded and underlying sales growth in the leading brands each year in deciding on actual grant levels under the was in the upper half of the target range.
Moreover the Executive Option Plans.
The Committee has reviewed these personal key objectives set for each director were generally normal allocations in 2002 and has concluded that they are achieved.
Details of the payments made for 2002 are shown still in line with those awarded by other companies with in the remuneration table.
One quarter of the annual bonus for directors is delivered in the form of NV and PLC shares and the directors are then awarded an equivalent number of matching shares.
These matching shares are described as forming part of the long-term incentive arrangements see below.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Report of the Directors Remuneration report 51 The normal share option allocations for the directors are: The price payable for each share on the exercise of the options is not less than the market price of the share on the NV Shares PLC Shares date of grant.
In normal circumstances, an option granted under the Executive Plans may not be exercised earlier than Chairmen 12 000 80 000 three years from the date of grant.
US-based director 12 000 80 000 Other directors 7 500 50 000 Premium options, equivalent to 20% of the number of shares included in the original grant, may be granted to Group performance conditions are set annually by the directors upon the fifth anniversary of each of the share Remuneration Committee, and these conditions must option grants they received in the years 1997 to 2000. be satisfied before a director can be granted an option.
These premium grants are conditional upon sustained good The Remuneration Committee then sets the level of actual performance by both the Group and the individual director grants to be made to each director for the year in question over the relevant five year period and upon the director by applying the relevant percentage see below to the either not having exercised the original options or having normal allocation shown above.
retained all profit from an exercise in the form of shares.
This incentive was discontinued as part of the changes to The Group performance condition for 2002 in respect of remuneration arrangements in 2001. the grant of an option under the Executive Option Plans is that our earnings per share before exceptional items Under the Executive Option Plan rules the Group has the and amortisation of goodwill and intangibles BEIA over right to substitute the cash value for shares on the exercise the three financial years preceding the date of grant of any individuals options.
The Group does not generally should have cumulatively risen by at least 6% more intend to exercise this right unless an individual would be than ination within the UK and the eurozone over that disadvantaged if we did not.
period when measured at current rates of exchange.
If it had not, no grants would be made.
The Remuneration c TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan Committee regards earnings per share BEIA growth as the most appropriate measure of the Groups underlying Under this plan directors are granted conditional rights financial performance.
The level of the annual grants is made under the guidance of the Remuneration Committee.
Once the Group performance condition has been met, each In March 2002 the following conditional awards were made directors option grant is determined by the percentage to each director: increase, above the rate of ination in the UK and the eurozone, of the Groups earnings per share BEIA over the Chairmen: Shares in NV and PLC to the combined value financial year preceding the date of grant.
For 2002 as in of 800 000 2001 the Remuneration Committee set the following European-based directors: Shares in NV and PLC to the targets and levels of grants based on their view that less combined value of 500 000 than 4% real growth is unexceptional and more than 6% US-based director: Shares in NV and PLC to the real growth represents above target performance.
combined value of 400 000 Par level of grant as Depending on the performance of Unilevers Total EPS BEIA growth achieved in 2001 percentage of normal allocation Shareholder Return TSR over a three-year performance Ination less than 4% 0% cycle compared with that of its dened peer group as set Ination 4% 50% out on page 40 and 41, the awards vest following the end Ination 5% 75% of the three-year performance cycle in accordance with the Ination 6% 100% following table: Ination 7% 125% Ination 8% or more 150% Percentage of Ranking within TSR Peer Group award that vests The earnings per share BEIA growth for 2001 was in excess Numbers 12 21 Nil Numbers 10 11 25% of ination 8% which produced a 150% level of grant Numbers 8 9 50% for 2002.
Numbers 5 7 100% Numbers 3 4 150% There are no additional performance conditions applying Numbers 1 2 200% to the exercise of executive options as the Remuneration Committee considers that the underlying financial performance of the Group, which in turn affects the growth The conditional awards made in March 2002 represent in share price between grant and exercise of an option, is 100% on the above table and will vest in March 2005. sufficient.
The Remuneration Committee has also taken The percentage of the award that vests will depend on account of the fact that the Executive Option Plans extend the outcome of the performance tests for the three-year to Unilever executives worldwide and in many countries in performance cycle starting with the financial year 2002 which the Group operates it is not common practice to have and ending with the financial year 2004. any performance conditions on exercise.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
