Report of the Directors About Unilever 9 Description of business Spreads marketed under Becel and Flora contain ingredients Unilever is one of the worlds leading suppliers of fast that are proven to reduce cholesterol.
New cooking aids moving consumer goods in foods, household care and including Rama Blue Bands Culinesse, a liquid margarine, personal product categories.
provide healthier alternatives to traditional oils and fats.
Business structure Health & wellness Our operations are organised into two global divisions Consumers are increasingly demanding healthier options Foods and Home & Personal Care HPC headed by in their food and drinks.
We respond to their needs with Division Directors.
This structure allows the requisite focus products and brands across our portfolio including Slim Fast, on foods and home & personal care activities at both the which answers consumers need to manage their weight regional and global levels.
with healthy food that ts in to contemporary lifestyles.
From its origins in North America, Slim Fast is expanding These divisions operations are organised into businesses on across Europe, Asia and Latin America with a range a regional basis, with the exception of the global businesses including meal replacement drinks, soups and breakfast of Prestige, our fragrance business within HPC and, within bars and now has sales of more than 1 billion.
Foods, ice cream and frozen foods, Slim Fast Worldwide and Foodsolutions, which provides solutions for professional In Asia and Africa we meet consumers needs for chefs and caterers.
The regional and global businesses are  staples in affordable formats with headed by Business Presidents who are responsible for their Annapurna and, under AdeS in Latin America, we market profitability.
These businesses remain the driving force a range of tasty, nutritional, soy-based drinks.
behind Unilever, comprising the operating companies which provide the key interface with customers and consumers, Beverages allowing quick response to the needs of local markets.
We are the largest seller of branded packet tea in the world through our Lipton and Brooke Bond brands.
Full details of significant acquisitions and disposals can be Lipton is the worlds leading brand in tea and ice tea.
Only those with particular We recently launched a successful soft drinks innovation relevance to our business structure are reported below.
with Lipton Brisk in North America.
Our joint venture with PepsiCo Inc. helps us to extend the reach of our brands Foods through a distribution network complementary to our own For an explanation of the new category structure within supply chain.
Ice cream and frozen foods Savoury and dressings We are the worlds leading producer of ice cream, with sales We are the global leader in savoury and dressings.
in more than 40 countries worldwide.
Ice cream products under the Heart logo, including Cornetto, Magnum, Carte Our leading savoury brand, Knorr, is Unilevers biggest dOr and Solero, are sold internationally.
Breyers, Ben & brand, with over 3.3 billion of sales in over 100 markets.
Jerrys, Klondike and Popsicle are leading North AmericanIts product range includes soups, bouillons, sauces, snacks, based brands.
Ben & Jerrys is also sold in Europe.
noodles, frozen food and meal solutions.
Our wider savoury product range is currently marketed around the world under We are the leading producer of frozen foods in a variety of brand names.
Europe, under the Findus brand in Italy, Birds Eye brand in the United Kingdom and Iglo brand in most other Hellmanns is the worlds number one mayonnaise brand.
With other major brands in the portfolio including Amora, Calv and Wishbone, we have the biggest dressings business in the world.
We continue to extend our dressings product range rapidly to appeal to consumers growing appetite for new tastes, avours and textures, healthier options and snacks.
With Bertolli, which began as a leading Italian olive oil brand, we are building on the qualities associated with Italian food to extend the brand into spreads, dressings and pasta sauces.
Bertolli is now sold in more than 30 countries.
Spreads and cooking products We are the market leader in spreads in Europe and North America.
Our combined spreads and cooking products have a turnover of more than 6 billion in more than 100 countries.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
