Report of the Directors Our code of business principles 7 Chairmens introduction Standard of conduct Unilever has earned a reputation for conducting its business We conduct our operations with honesty, integrity and with integrity and with respect for the interests of those our openness, and with respect for the human rights and interests activities can affect.
This reputation is an asset, just as real of our employees.
We shall similarly respect the legitimate as our people and brands.
interests of those with whom we have relationships.
Our first priority is to be a successful business and that Obeying the law means investing for growth and balancing short-term and Unilever companies and our employees are required to long-term interests.
It also means caring about our comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in consumers, employees and shareholders, our business which we operate.
partners and the world in which we live.
Employees To succeed requires the highest standards of behaviour from Unilever is committed to diversity in a working environment all of us.
The general principles contained in this Code set out where there is mutual trust and respect and where everyone those standards.
More detailed guidance tailored to the needs feels responsible for the performance and reputation of of different countries and companies will build on these our company.
principles as appropriate, but will not include any standards less rigorous than those contained in this Code.
We will recruit, employ and promote employees on the sole basis of the qualications and abilities needed for the work We want this Code to be more than a collection of highto be performed.
We are committed to safe and healthy sounding statements.
It must have practical value in our working conditions for all employees.
We will not use day-to-day business and each one of us must follow these any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
We are principles in the spirit as well as the letter.
committed to working with employees to develop and enhance each individuals skills and capabilities.
We respect Antony Burgmans Niall FitzGerald the dignity of the individual and the right of employees to freedom of association.
We will maintain good communications with employees through company-based information and consultation procedures.
Consumers Unilever is committed to providing branded products and services which consistently offer value in terms of price and quality, and which are safe for their intended use.
Products and services will be accurately and properly labelled, advertised and communicated.
Shareholders Unilever will conduct its operations in accordance with internationally accepted principles of good corporate governance.
We will provide timely, regular and reliable information on our activities, structure, financial situation and performance to all shareholders.
In this Code the expressions Unilever and Unilever Business partners companies are used for convenience and mean the Unilever is committed to establishing mutually beneficial Unilever Group of companies comprising Unilever N. V. relations with our suppliers, customers and business partners.
Unilever PLC and their respective subsidiary companies.
In our business dealings we expect our partners to adhere The Board of Unilever means the Directors of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC.
to business principles consistent with our own.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 8 Our code of business principles Community involvement Conicts of interests Unilever strives to be a trusted corporate citizen and, as an All Unilever employees are expected to avoid personal integral part of society, to full our responsibilities to the activities and financial interests which could conict with societies and communities in which we operate.
their responsibilities to the company.
Unilever employees must not seek gain for themselves or others through Public activities misuse of their positions.
Unilever companies are encouraged to promote and defend their legitimate business interests.
Unilever will co-operate Compliance monitoring reporting with governments and other organisations, both directly and Compliance with these principles is an essential element through bodies such as trade associations, in the development in our business success.
The Unilever Board is responsible of proposed legislation and other regulations which may for ensuring these principles are communicated to, and affect legitimate business interests.
Unilever neither supports understood and observed by, all employees.
political parties nor contributes to the funds of groups whose activities are calculated to promote party interests.
Day-to-day responsibility is delegated to the senior management of the regions and operating companies.
The environment They are responsible for implementing these principles, Unilever is committed to making continuous improvements if necessary through more detailed guidance tailored to in the management of our environmental impact and to the local needs.
longer-term goal of developing a sustainable business.
Unilever will work in partnership with others to promote Assurance of compliance is given and monitored each year.
environmental care, increase understanding of Compliance with the Code is subject to review by the Board environmental issues and disseminate good practice.
supported by the Audit Committee of the Board and the Corporate Risk Committee.
Innovation In our scientific innovation to meet consumer needs we Any breaches of the Code must be reported in accordance will respect the concerns of our consumers and of society.
with the procedures specified by the Joint Secretaries.
We will work on the basis of sound science, applying The Board of Unilever will not criticise management for any rigorous standards of product safety.
loss of business resulting from adherence to these principles and other mandatory policies and instructions.
Competition Unilever believes in vigorous yet fair competition and The Board of Unilever expects employees to bring to their supports the development of appropriate competition laws.
attention, or to that of senior management, any breach or Unilever companies and employees will conduct their suspected breach of these principles.
operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition and all applicable regulations.
Provision has been made for employees to be able to report in confidence and no employee will suffer as a consequence Business integrity of doing so.
Unilever does not give or receive, whether directly or indirectly, bribes or other improper advantages for business or financial gain.
No employee may offer, give or receive any gift or payment which is, or may be construed as being, a bribe.
Any demand for, or offer of, a bribe must be rejected immediately and reported to management.
Unilever accounting records and supporting documents must accurately describe and reect the nature of the underlying transactions.
No undisclosed or unrecorded account, fund or asset will be established or maintained.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
