42 Corporate governance Organisational structure of Unilever Directors NV and PLC are the two parent companies of the Unilever The Chairmen and all of the directors are full-time Group of companies.
NV was incorporated under the executives and directors of both NV and PLC and, as well name Naamlooze Vennootschap Margarine Unie in the as holding specic management responsibilities, they are Netherlands in 1927.
PLC was incorporated under the responsible for the conduct of the business as a whole.
name Lever Brothers Limited in Great Britain in 1894.
The Chairmen of NV and PLC are the principal executive Since 1930 when the Unilever Group was formed, ofcers of Unilever.
NV and PLC together with their group companies have operated, as nearly as is practicable, as a single entity.
Our operations are organised into two global divisions They have the same directors, adopt the same accounting Foods and Home & Personal Care headed by Division principles, and are linked by a series of agreements.
Reporting to their respective Division Directors are The Equalisation Agreement, which regulates the mutual the Foods and the Home & Personal Care Business rights of the two sets of shareholders, is particularly Presidents, responsible for the profitability of their regional important.
It makes the position of the shareholders of and global businesses.
For details of the Division Directors both companies, as far as possible, the same as if they and Business Presidents, see pages 46 to 48. held shares in a single company.
The directors have set out a number of areas for which NV and PLC are separate companies, with separate stock the Boards have direct responsibility for decision-making.
exchange listings and different shareholders.
You cannot They meet to consider the following corporate events convert or exchange the shares of one for shares of the and actions: other and the relative share prices on the various markets can, and do, uctuate.
This happens for a number of Agreement of quarterly results announcements reasons, including changes in exchange rates.
However, Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts over time the prices of NV and PLC shares do stay in and Form 20-F close relation to each other, in particular because Declaration of dividends of our equalisation arrangements.
Convening of shareholders meetings Approval of corporate strategy NV and PLC are holding and service companies.
Authorisation of major transactions Our businesses are carried out by our group companies around the world.
The holding companies have agreed All other matters are delegated to committees whose to co-operate in all areas, to exchange all relevant actions are reported to and monitored by the Boards.
business information and to ensure all group companies act accordingly.
Usually, shares in the group companies are Board meetings are held in London and Rotterdam and held ultimately by either NV or PLC, with the main exception chaired by the Chairmen of NV and PLC.
The Chairmen being that the US companies are owned by both and, as a are assisted by the Joint Secretaries, who ensure the result of the legal integration of Bestfoods into Unilever, a Boards are supplied with all the information necessary number of the group companies are partly held by Unilever for their deliberations.
Information is normally supplied United States, Inc.
These group companies are therefore also aweek prior to each meeting.
ultimately owned jointly by NV and PLC.
Directors are elected by shareholders at the Annual General These arrangements are designed to create a balance Meetings of NV and PLC, to hold ofce until the end of the between the funds generated by the NV and PLC parts of next Annual General Meetings.
For details of the nomination the Group.
procedure for directors, see Control of Unilever on page 138.
All directors submit themselves for re-election See pages 128 to 131 for a listing of the Groups principal each year and retire at the latest by the age of 62.
They are subsidiaries and also Control of Unilever on page 138. executive ofcers, and cease to hold executive ofce on ceasing to be directors.
We appoint our other executive Legal structure of the Group ofcers, who are full-time, for an indefinite period.
These other executive ofcers are the corporate ofcers listed on Shareholders Shareholders page 48.
None of our directors or executive ofcers is elected or appointed under any arrangement or understanding.
Directors NV Equalisation and PLC A procedure is in place to enable directors, if they so wish, other agreements to seek independent professional advice.
On election, directors are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities.
NV Owned Jointly Owned PLC Owned Operating Companies Operating Companies Operating Companies Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
