Report of the Directors Chairmens statement 5 Continued growth Leading brands grow by 5.4% Operating margin BEIA of 14.9% is a new record Cash ow from operations increases to 7.9 billion Earnings per share BEIA grows 21% Sustaining the momentum A further healthy increase in operating margin has been We are delighted to report a further year of sustained achieved whilst progressively increasing investment behind growth towards the targets set in our Path to Growth our brands.
Our restructuring programmes continue to strategy.
Leading brands grew by 5.4% and, with the build deliver on plan and the target of 1.6 billion procurement up of our innovation programmes and marketplace activity, savings was passed ahead of schedule.
Furthermore, we have gained momentum through the year and have by the end of the year we had reached the full Bestfoods nished strongly.
integration savings target of 0.8 billion, again ahead of plan.
Operating margin BEIA rose to 14.9%, a gain of 1% over 2001.
The impact of devaluing Energising our people currencies this year means that whilst turnover is at the We can only meet and sustain the objectives of our Path to same level as 2001 at constant rates of exchange, it has Growth strategy if our people have a passion for winning declined by 7% at current rates.
Similarly operating profit and a culture that encourages and rewards enterprise.
BEIA increased by 0.5 billion at constant rates but was at The development of Leaders into Action programmes and at current rates of exchange.
Figures in this statement are the days we spend with our young leaders of tomorrow are at constant exchange rates.
part of an overall programme to drive change.
The results are evident in the enthusiasm to win we see throughout the In 2002 the global economy grew slowly and it was a business and the examples of innovation that are driving tougher environment in which to operate.
Slower growth faster growth and improved results.
To recognise their and the uncertain economic and political context caused efforts we extended our long-term reward schemes and turbulence in financial markets.
Once again, our business variable pay to more employees.
showed its resilience in tough times.
Our people used their skill, experience and total determination to deliver a robust The energy with which our colleagues throughout the business performance.
business have responded to the Enterprise agenda is exceptional.
They have risen to the challenge with great Earnings per share BEIA grew by 21% and for the second determination as is clear from the results.
year running our Total Shareholder Return TSR over one year was in the top third of our peer group.
Our challenge Brands and regions is to sustain this over a three-year period and beyond.
In Home & Personal Care we have sustained the leading brand growth in excess of 6%.
In particular our personal We continued to generate a healthy cash ow from care brands continue to perform well and home care operations.
In addition, net proceeds from divestment margins increased sharply.
of non-core activities included 1.0 billion cash from DiverseyLever, our institutional and industrial cleaning The extension of Dove from skin care to hair care business, with a minority interest retained in the merged contributed to the spectacular performance of this brand, business of JohnsonDiversey.
Other divestments included which grew by over 25% for the fourth year running and Mazola in North America and Loders Croklaan, our industrial is now achieving sales of over 2 billion.
Dove shampoo speciality oils and fats business.
In total, our cash ow and conditioners were rolled out across 31 more countries.
enabled us to reduce net indebtedness and, with the benefit In deodorants Rexona, and particularly Rexona for Men, of lower interest rates, interest costs were 22% lower than grew strongly.
In Foods, the focus in the first half of the year was on Meeting Path to Growth targets completing the Bestfoods integration, providing the rm We continued on track towards our Path to Growth targets platform on which to leverage innovation and marketplace of 5-6% sustained top-line growth and operating margin activity in the second half.
This has delivered accelerating BEIA of 16% by 2004.
Leading brands grew by over 5% leading brand growth and for the full year it was 4.4%.
for the second year running.
Innovation was key to this success.
Advertising was entirely focused on our leading Knorr is proving a powerhouse of ideas for savoury products brands which constituted 89% of total turnover at the and is being extended well beyond its original concept of end of the year.
Bertolli is being extended to support products which have an Italian heritage.
Consumers Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 6 Chairmens statement responded strongly to our health & wellness brands, our people in a dialogue to ensure that everyone in Unilever including the soy-based health drink AdeS in Brazil understands what is expected of them.
We also published and Mexico.
our second Social Review, which gives an insight into our day-to-day practices and our relationships with the societies Overall we now have 14 global brands with a turnover of in which we live.
We continue to look at all aspects of our 1 billion or more.
corporate governance to ensure that we stay at the forefront of best practice.
In Europe, underlying sales grew 3% with a continuing significant contribution from Central and Eastern Europe.
Unilever is deeply rooted in the communities in which it Foods sales in Western Europe grew at 3% including operates and in 2002 we supported many community an increasing contribution from UBF Foodsolutions, our projects around the world, mainly by sharing our skills food service business.
There has been sustained progress and expertise.
in branded spreads and cooking products, especially in Flora Becel which grew by over 10%.
In Home & Personal During 2002, we continued to reduce our impact on the Care in Western Europe, there were strong performances environment.
We bought more than a third of our sh through innovation and range extension in Dove, Rexona from sustainable sources and completed protocols for the and Axe.
sustainable management of five key crops.
Our efforts to improve the quality of water in rivers and lakes and the Underlying sales in North America grew 1% with a stronger sustainability of agriculture and shing were recognised performance in the second half as marketplace activity built externally.
For the fourth year running we have led our through the year.
In Foods, underlying sales grew 2% and sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
our market shares remained rm.
Slim Fast continued to expand, passing the 1 billion sales mark globally.
Ice cream Looking forward again grew at well over 5% and Wishbone, Becel and Knorr We are confident that the strength of our brands, the also moved ahead.
In Home & Personal Care, after a slow dedication of our people and the geographical spread of start, the successful launches of Axe deodorant and all our business will enable Unilever to continue to progress fabric conditioner and the relaunch of Dove body wash and prosper in 2003.
We have sound and clearly understood contributed to a strong nish to the year.
strategies, brands that serve peoples basic needs and aspirations and generate dependable cash ow.
These are In Africa, Middle East and Turkey, underlying sales grew by the essential elements, together with a proud corporate 7%.
Including the increase in our holding in the Bestfoods reputation, which will enable us to maintain the momentum Robertsons business, turnover was ahead by 9%.
Growth of our Path to Growth, even in the difficult times that may was broad based across categories.
We thank all our employees for their commitment and exceptional teamwork throughout the year.
Underlying sales in Asia and Pacic grew by 5%.
Home & Personal Care grew across both categories and countries.
Indonesia, Philippines and Vietnam performed particularly well and skin, hair and deodorants all grew at over 10% across the region.
In Foods, there was good growth in South East Asia as the Bestfoods brands benefited from the Unilever distribution system.
Antony Burgmans Niall FitzGerald In Latin America, underlying sales grew by 12% driven by Chairmen of Unilever pricing action to recover devaluation-led cost increases.
In laundry, market shares have held rm against our nearest competitor and personal care continued to perform strongly.
Sedal shampoo grew exceptionally well across the region.
Dove shampoo has been launched in Brazil, Chile, Mexico and Peru and is making good progress.
In Foods, ice cream grew by over 10%, mostly volume.
A responsible enterprise Clear values and committed social responsibility are essential to how Unilever conducts itself.
At a time when the way businesses behave is coming under greater scrutiny, Unilevers corporate reputation has become an even more important asset.
In 2001, we revised our Code of Business Principles and, during 2002, we rolled it out across the business, engaging Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
