Report of the Directors Corporate governance 43 All of our directors have been with Unilever full-time for Development Director: the Financial Director: and the at least five years, and in most cases for most of their Personnel Director.
Members of the Executive Committee business careers.
There are no are appointed by all of the directors for one year at a time.
family relationships between any of our directors or The Executive Committee is responsible for agreeing executive ofcers.
priorities and allocating resources, setting overall corporate targets, agreeing and monitoring divisional strategies and Advisory Directors plans, identifying and exploiting opportunities created by The Advisory Directors are the principal external presence Unilevers scale and scope, managing external relations at in the governance of Unilever.
The role of an independent the corporate level and developing future leaders.
The Advisory Director involves giving advice to the Boards in Executive Committee generally meets formally at least general, and to the Executive Committee in particular, on monthly and is chaired, alternately, by the Chairmen of NV business, social and economic issues.
One of their key roles and PLC.
The Committee is supplied with information by the is to assure the Boards that our corporate governance Executive Committee Secretariat.
provisions are adequate and reect, as far as possible, best practice.
They serve on certain key Board committees, the Audit Committee roles and membership of which are described below.
The Audit Committee comprises a minimum of three Advisory Directors.
The Committee has historically met three The appointment of Advisory Directors is provided for times a year and in accordance with its new charter plans to in the Articles of Association of both parent companies, meet five times a year from 2003.
It is chaired by Hilmar although they are not formally members of the Boards.
Kopper, and its other members are Oscar Fanjul and Claudio They are therefore not entitled to vote at meetings of the X Gonzalez.
The Committees meetings are attended by the Boards and bear no legal responsibility for the Boards Financial Director, the General Counsel, the Controller, the actions.
Their terms of appointment, role and powers are Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
The Committee enshrined in resolutions of the Boards.
As well as Board reviews the overall risk management and control committee meetings, they attend the quarterly directors environment, financial reporting arrangements and meetings, other directors conferences, and other meetings standards of business conduct.
It also provides independent with the Chairmen.
In addition, the Advisory Directors may monitoring of internal control arrangements.
The Chief meet as a body, at their discretion, and appoint a senior Auditor ensures that the Committee is supplied with member as their spokesman.
Both the Chief Auditor and the external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee Our Advisory Directors are chosen for their broad separately from other management.
experience, international outlook and independence.
They are appointed by resolutions of the Boards, normally See page 61 for the Report of the Audit Committee to for an initial term of three to four years and thereafter for the shareholders.
Corporate Risk Committee Their remuneration is determined by the Boards and this is The Corporate Risk Committee currently comprises the reported on page 59.
All appointments and re-appointments Financial Director, the Foods Director, the Home & Personal are based on the recommendations of the Nomination Care Director, the Personnel Director, the General Counsel, Committee.
the Chief Auditor and the Controller.
It meets at least twice a year.
The objective of the Committee is to assist the In the context of Unilevers unique arrangements for Boards to carry out their responsibilities to ensure effective corporate governance, all the Advisory Directors are risk management and systems of internal control.
It reports considered to be independent of Unilever.
The report on to the Boards, the Executive Committee and, as relevant, pages 59 and 60 describes the relationships between the to the Audit Committee.
The Committee is supplied with Advisory Directors and Unilever.
Unilever has always aspired to high standards of corporate External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee governance and in the light of the latest developments in The External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee Europe and the US, it is keeping its arrangements under currently comprises five Advisory Directors and normally active review.
We currently anticipate concluding this review meets four times a year.
It is chaired by Lady Chalker, and early in 2004. its other members are Lord Brittan, Senator George J Mitchell, Charles R Shoemate and Professor Wim Dik.
The Board Committees Committee oversees the Code of Business Principles, advises The directors have established the following committees: on external matters of relevance to the business including issues of corporate social responsibility and reviews Executive Committee our corporate relations strategy.
The Committee is The Executive Committee comprises the Chairmen of NV supplied with necessary information by the Corporate and PLC and five other members: the two Division Directors Development Director.
for Foods and for Home & Personal Care: the Corporate Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
