Financial Statements Further statutory information and other information 137 Unilever PLC Employee involvement and communication Auditors Unilevers UK companies maintain formal processes to inform, Following the transfer of the business of the PLC auditors consult and involve employees and their representatives.
Most of  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP the United Kingdom sites are accredited to the Investors in People from 1 January 2003,  resigned on standard.
The European Foundation for Quality Managements 11 February 2003 and the PLC directors appointed its successor, model for measuring Business Excellence, with its strong emphasis  LLP as auditors.
A resolution will be on maximising the potential of employees, is also widely employed.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2003 for the re-appointment of  LLP as auditors of PLC.
A European Works Council, embracing employee and management The present appointment will end at the conclusion of the Annual representatives from 15 countries of Western Europe, has been General Meeting.
in existence for several years and provides a forum for discussing issues that extend across national boundaries.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting of PLC held on 8 May 2002, The directors reports of the United Kingdom group companies authority was given pursuant to Article 64 of the PLC Articles of contain more details about how they have communicated with Association to make market purchases of PLC ordinary shares of their employees during 2002.
1.4p each, to a maximum of 290 million shares.
This authority will expire on 7 May 2003.
The Company has not exercised this Equal opportunities and diversity authority during the year.
The heads of all operating companies and units in the UK have committed their businesses to achieving greater diversity.
Details of shares purchased by employee share trusts and Unilever Every Unilever company in the United Kingdom has an equal group companies to satisfy options granted under PLCs employee opportunities policy and actively pursues equality of opportunity share schemes are given in the Remuneration report on page 55 for all employees.
and in note 29 to the consolidated accounts on page 111.
The Company has committed itself to carrying out an Equal Pay Directors report of PLC Audit, and Richard Greenhalgh, Chairman of Unilever UK, is an For the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 1985, Equal Pay Champion by the UK Government.
The Company is also the Directors Report of Unilever PLC for the year ended reviewing ways in which diversity in recruitment and selection may 31 December 2002 comprises this page and the information be further improved.
contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 2 to 61, Dividends on page 147 and Principal group companies and A major initiative is underway to increase the take-up of xed investments on pages 128 to 131. exible working options where appropriate for business and employee needs.
Corporate Centre The Company was delighted to be awarded one of the Unilever PLC Governments first Castle awards recognising its achievements in PO Box 68 Unilever House providing equality of opportunity for women.
Blackfriars London EC4P 4BQ Charitable and other contributions During the year UK group companies made a total contribution to Unilever PLC Registered Ofce the community of 9 million, based on the London Benchmarking Port Sunlight Group Model.
Wirral Merseyside CH62 4UJ No contribution was made for political purposes.
Unilever PLC Registrars Supplier payment policies Lloyds TSB Registrars Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing the The Causeway terms and conditions under which business transactions with their Worthing suppliers are conducted.
The directors reports of the United West Sussex BN99 6DA Kingdom operating companies give information about their supplier payment policies as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
PLC, as a holding company, does not itself make any relevant payments in this respect.
By Order of the Board J A A van der Bijl S G Williams Joint Secretaries of Unilever PLC 4 March 2003 Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
