14 About Unilever Description of our properties We have interests in properties in most of the countries where there are Unilever operations.
However, none is material in the context of the Group as a whole.
The properties are used predominantly to house production and distribution activities and as ofces.
There is a mixture of leased and owned property throughout the Group.
There are no environmental issues affecting the properties which would have a material impact upon the Group.
The directors take the view that any difference between the market value of properties held by the Group and the amount at which they are included in the balance sheet is not significant.
See the schedule of principal group companies and xed investments on page 128 and details of tangible xed assets in note 10 on page 81.
Legal and arbitration proceedings and regulatory matters We are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings and do not have any obligations under environmental legislation which we expect to lead to a material loss in the context of the Group results.
None of our directors or ofcers are involved in any such material legal proceedings.
Unilever has businesses in many countries and, from time to time, these are subject to investigation by competition and other regulatory authorities.
The most significant of these in recent years concerns ice cream distribution in Europe, notably the issues of outlet and cabinet exclusivity.
The decision of the European Court of First Instance in the matter of our appeal against the European Commissions negative decision on cabinet exclusivity in Ireland is expected in the first half of 2003.
In the event that our appeal fails, among the consequences will be the need to institute changes to the manner in which we offer impulse ice cream at the point of sale, initially in the Republic of Ireland and subsequently elsewhere in Europe.
Government regulation Unilever businesses are governed, in particular, by national laws designed to ensure that their products may be safely used for their intended purpose and that their labelling and advertising complies in all respects with relevant regulations.
The introduction of new products and ingredients and processes is, specifically, subject to rigorous controls.
Unilever businesses are further regulated by data protection and anti-trust legislation.
Important regulatory bodies include the European Commission and the US Food and Drug Administration.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
