Report of the Directors Financial review 35 The gures quoted in this review are in euros, at current The most significant goodwill is that arising from the rates of exchange, unless otherwise stated.
The profit and purchase of Bestfoods.
We have reviewed the goodwill loss and cash ow information is translated at average rates related to the Bestfoods acquisition, by considering actual of exchange for the relevant year and the balance sheet and planned growth rates of Bestfoods brands and the information at year-end rates of exchange.
actual and planned synergy savings arising from its integration.
No impairment loss has been identied.
For denitions of key ratios referred to in this review please refer to page 115.
Deferred tax: Full provision is made for deferred taxation, as required Critical accounting policies under UK Financial Reporting Standard 19, at the rates of The accounts comply in all material respects with UK tax prevailing at the year-end unless future rates have been generally accepted accounting principles and Netherlands enacted, as detailed on page 68.
Deferred tax assets are law.
To prepare the accounts, we are required to make regularly reviewed for recoverability, and a valuation estimates and assumptions, using judgement based on allowance is established to the extent recoverability is not available information, including historical experience.
These estimates and assumptions are reasonable and are re-evaluated on an ongoing basis.
However, actual amounts Results 2002 compared with 2001 and results could differ.
Critical accounting policies are those which are most important to the portrayal of Unilevers financial position and results of operations, and are described on pages 66 to 68.
Unilever complies with UK Financial Reporting Standard 18, which requires that the most appropriate accounting policies are selected in all circumstances.
Some of these policies require difficult, subjective or complex judgements from management, the most important being: Retirement benets: Determining Unilevers pension assets, obligations and expenses depends on certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts.
Those assumptions are Turnover Operating profit Operating profit described in note 17 on page 88.
Although the assumptions million BEIA million million are thought to be appropriate, significant differences in At current exchange rates actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect pension assets and obligations and future expenses.
The 7% strengthening of the average exchange rate for the euro against the basket of Unilever currencies impacted Provisions: turnover, which fell by 7% to 48 760 million.
Underlying Provision is made, amongst other reasons, for environmental sales growth of 4% was offset by the net impacts of and legal matters where a legal or constructive obligation acquisitions and disposals which reduced sales by 4%.
The exists at the balance sheet date and a reasonable estimate most significant disposal impact came from DiverseyLever can be made of the likely outcome.
and Mazola, offset by the increase in our holding in the Unilever Bestfoods Robertsons business in Africa and the Market support costs: Middle East.
Expenditure on market support costs, such as consumer promotions and trade advertising, is charged against profit Group turnover, excluding our share of the turnover of in the year in which it is incurred.
At each balance sheet joint ventures, fell by 6% to 48 270 million.
Our share date, we estimate the degree of expenditure incurred of turnover from joint ventures fell to 490 million based on our knowledge of customer, consumer and 2001: 692 million as the increase in our holding in promotional activity.
Unilever Bestfoods Robertsons resulted in its reclassication as a subsidiary.
Goodwill, intangible and tangible xed assets: Following UK Financial Reporting Standard 11, United States Operating profit BEIA was 7 260 million 2001: SFAS 142 and SFAS 144, goodwill, intangible and tangible 7 269 million.
Operating margin BEIA improved to 14.9% xed assets are subject to review for impairment.
This underlying margin improvement reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value of reects the continuing contribution from our Path to the asset concerned to a valuation derived from discounted Growth strategy: it was offset by the strengthening of the future cash ows.
significant assumptions are made in euro leaving operating profit BEIA in line with 2001.
Group preparing these forecast cash ows: although these are operating profit BEIA was also at at 7 165 million.
believed to be appropriate, changes in these assumptions could change the outcomes of the impairment reviews.
Amortisation of goodwill and intangibles was 1 261 million for the year, down from 1 423 million in 2001.
