Valuation Certificate THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 49 Valuation Certificate The Directors Long Short Freehold Leasehold Leasehold The British Land Company PLC A Held as investments 6,862,569,260 250,637,100 1,825,000 10 Cornwall Terrace, Regents Park, B Held for development 77,687,813 London NW1 4QP C Owner occupied 13,650,000 Dear Sirs, D In the course of development 381,600,000 38,100,000 UK Portfolio Valuation 31 March 2002 Total value 7,321,857,073 302,387,100 1,825,000 In accordance with your instructions we have carried out a valuation of certain freehold, City Of London Offices our last valuation date, is 1 Plough Place, heritable, and leasehold properties in the Although demand in the City fell by over which showed 6.35% net initial allowing for United Kingdom owned by The British Land 20% over the last quarter of last year as 5% costs.
280 Bishopsgate, let for 25 years Company PLC or its wholly owned tenants placed expansion plans on hold, this to Royal Bank of Scotland, has also been subsidiaries in order to advise as to the year has seen several large lettings with sold at an initial yield of 6.25%.
open market value for balance sheet take up for quarter one 2002 in the City What is notable is that this yield level purposes of these property assets as at Core in the order of 800,000 sq ft. has been sustained in a market where the 31 March 2002.
Furthermore, the supply of prime space is institutions have so far not been evident, We are of the opinion that the total of still likely to be restricted over the next 2 to although they are expected to enter the the open market values of the properties 3 years particularly as developments yet to market which may cause yields to fall.
listed on the attached schedules and owned start are unlikely to be completed until the Historically prime City yields have been by the Company as at that date is in the end of 2003 mid 2004 at the earliest.
sum of: are very few grade A buildings immediately Within the portfolio there is now a available: 70 Gracechurch Street, offering significant amount of new development 7,626,069,173 11282 sq m 121,439 sq ft, being the only either under construction or ready to start.
Seven billion, six hundred and twenty six one complete and vacant in the City Core.
Given the shortage of prime space this million, sixty nine thousand, and one Occupiers are still putting surplus appears timely.
hundred and seventy three pounds accommodation on the market and this now At Broadgate, the recent EBRD review totals over half the current supply but much was settled at the lower end of expectations, The above figures represent the of this space is secondary as occupiers but in very difficult market conditions.
aggregate of the values attributable to the consolidate into their better grade stock.
Income has none the less increased across individual properties, and should not be Consequently, whilst there has been the estate and there are still significant regarded as a valuation of the portfolio as a no prime rental growth since the letting of reversions due over the next 2 years or so.
whole in the context of a sale as a single lot.
21 Lombard Street in March 2001 at around As in previous years, at 201 Bishopsgate we 62 per sq ft, prime rentals have been West End of London Offices have as instructed included half of its value, steady, despite the limited occupier activity.
Signs are already emerging that the reflecting the nature of the agreement with For example, the letting at 100 Leadenhall softening of rents and asking terms that Railtrack Plc.
Street to Ace Underwriting at 55 per sq ft, occurred toward the end of 2001, may be Certain properties within the group are headline is encouraging especially in EC3 easing.
Supply is still low, and just over held on 999 year or similar length leases, and indicates prime core rental levels have 5 million sq ft of mixed quality space was some with the option to purchase the held up at pre September 11 levels.
Several available at the end of 2001.
Others are held predominantly smaller lettings, for example, in Citypoint at rate rose to just over 6%, but the amount on a freehold basis but include parts held 67.50 per sq ft, also shows that levels have of speculative space on stream is very low on a long leasehold basis at a peppercorn been maintained.
and the proportion of space available that or nominal ground rent.
In calculating the Incentives have however increased, along is Grade A is largely limited to non apportionments between tenure types with supply, on secondary space.
Yields for core locations such as Paddington or the above, we have included these in the this type of stock are also under pressure.
Take up here freehold category.
Short leasehold properties This is partly a function of the debt market, illustrates that occupiers have become less are classified as having less than 50 years with swap rates and gilts both moving location sensitive, provided the appropriate unexpired.
standard of building and environment is Prime yields have been, and are likely available.
to be less affected, due principally to the favourable supply demand conditions in this sub market.
For example the only prime large lot size to be sold in the City, since 50 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC The West End continues to benefit from As with supermarkets the trend is for low levels.
Either debt financed or simply a diverse range of occupiers and short term extension and reconfiguration of parks to seeking a more reliable home for cash than future supply, particularly in core locations, produce the current optimal unit sizes.
equities or formal pension funds.
Just over 500,000 sq ft is due for Larger parks that allow potentially greater buyers have eroded the margins on completion in Mayfair and St James between flexibility in this are, therefore most in properties with over 10 years unexpired now and 2004.
Such grade A space is likely demand with investors.
to achieve a net 75 per sq ft, representing Yields have generally remained as a 10-15 psf decline from the previous peak, keen as they were around the time of our Industrial although smaller suites have let recently at valuation in September last year.
In a few The yield covenant market has kept prices higher levels.
cases they have sharpened still further high for well let distribution buildings.
We Previous concerns that the prime market typically larger open A1 parks reflecting see prime yields for these, especially in may have further to fall have largely abated, increased institutional interest or higher Greater London or the South East, at about against a background of a stable domestic yielding smaller lots where weight of money 6.5%.
Rental growth is still forecast for this economic outlook and signs of renewed from private investors has reduced yields.
area, particularly in West London on the growth in the US economy.
We are seeing back of further expansion of the airport.
some encouraging signs that occupational Provincial Offices Multi let propositions, although having the enquiries are increasing following a period The market, as ever, is location specific.
attraction of break up to owner occupiers, of very limited activity in the first quarter Manchester and Liverpool have both shown bolstered by cheap finance, have eased in of 2002. increased tenant demand.
There is good yield terms, reflecting a slight correction from Investment demand remained steady, interest for such multi let properties from 6 months ago when even short term income reflecting the underlying strength of the local specialist investors who typically adopt streams were bid for based on relatively market.
Although institutional interest has so a hands on active management approach.
Within British Lands far remained muted, private buyers, taking Potential returns are relatively high, with such various joint ventures substantial advantage of cheap finance, together with properties generally yielding 8% or better.
development profits are being realised as the local specialists, helped prime yields stay Elsewhere within British Lands holdings a number of speculative builds have been at around 6-6.25%.
Generally purchasers are development profits are being realised at pre-let and completed.
looking for either long term secure income such locations as Blythe Valley Business streams or are looking for refurbishment Park, near Solihul, which is one of the Supermarkets opportunities as comprehensive Companys joint ventures.
Like other sectors, foodstores have benefited redevelopment becomes more difficult.
The continued troubles of the telecoms from the eagerness of investors to acquire The interest being shown in the and technology sector companies are long, secure income streams.
Foodstores Companys completed 350 Euston Road, reflected in the continuing supply have the added benefit of strong residual indicates sustained demand for quality overhanging the Western Corridor site values, based on sales to another accommodation situated at good M3 M4 office markets.
Debate as to how far A1 operator for either food or non food.
rentals may have dropped is hampered by a High values has also been achieved for lack of transactions, as many occupiers have such buildings with vacant posession.
These Retail Warehousing put relocation plans on hold.
For the time transactions, reflecting trading potential as This sector remains the most popular with being, those who are seeking to sublet opposed to pure property investment values, investors.
In contrast to the mixed picture surplus space remain tight lipped as to illustrate how low rental levels remain.
still emerging from the traditional high street, incentives and deals available with no In yield terms, recently built prime stores, there seems a consensus that rental growth significant transactions concluded.
let to one of the top retailers, with around prospects out of town remains strong.
This 20 years unexpired lease terms, will achieve is driven by the relative scarcity of new High Street shops around 6.25% or better.
This is evidenced by planning consents for out of town schemes.
In summary, little news since September.
the J. Sainsbury Winchester, which was let Additionally, there is the ability on the part The results of individual retailers remain off about 20psf, and sold at 6.3% initial of tenants to pay higher rent levels if need mixed.
Plainly the market is still very yield on behalf of Lattice British Gas be and yet still trade profitably.
Thirdly, the competitive and there are winners and Pension Fund.
entrance of new players to the out of town losers with nearly all seeing margins under Several similar sales over the past occupational market, ensures continued continuing pressure.
Therefore rental growth 9 months suggest that yields have generally competition for sites.
is forecast to be minimal in the short run.
improved by around one half per cent to Added to all this are the long leases In some towns investors are concerned their current level.
and good covenants associated with this that underlying rentals have actually fallen.
Conversely, on the rental side, the type of development.
Institutional interest, has to date been occupiers are still succeeding in holding Several locations where rents seemed limited and whilst they were the historical rents at what seems to be at unreasonably to stagnate around the 12psf level have purchasers, we still see yields around 5.75% low levels.
Growth is however still found moved forward recently to produce often for good properties.
amongst the mid range rented properties favourable rental evidence, usually as a The biggest value shifts have occurred with the result that differentials between result of active management initiatives.
amongst smaller sub 2m lots where private older and newer stores are narrowing.
investors have bid yields down to historically Valuation Certficate Valuation Certificate THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 51 The operators themselves are still keenly acted knowledgeably, prudently and development and any cost estimates which seeking increased sales through extensions without compulsion.
have been prepared by your professional of existing sites, in turn creating extra value We would draw your attention to paragraph advisers and supplied to us.
for landlords of leased stores.
British Land b of the above definition of open market This certificate and valuation and has undertaken a number of these.
Given market conditions as at the the detailed reports attached have been store concepts such as Sainsburys Central valuation date, a period of three to six prepared in accordance with the current and Tescos Express have also proliferated, months can be considered a reasonable edition of the Appraisal and Valuation taking units in locations and of a size that time in which to effect a sale of any Manual The Red Book issued by The would previously have been let to individual property.
Our valuation does, Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
independent or smaller regional operators.
however, assume that any sale would be as Surveys and enquiries upon which all part of an orderly disposal of such assets of our valuations are based are carried out Shopping Centres and that the market would not be adversely by general practice surveyors making Yields, in line with high street retail, have affected by an attempt to dispose of a appropriate investigations having regard to remained broadly steady.
There has been significant holding over a short period.
the purpose of the valuation.
The valuers a good deal of activity with institutional Existing use value means an opinion of responsible for the work are qualified asset vendors typically selling to property company the best price at which the sale of an interest valuers as defined in the new Red Book.
Few are purchasing simply in in property would have been completed Whilst we have not examined the title expectation of rental growth this needs to unconditionally for cash consideration on documents themselves, we have in all but a be worked for, and most deals are said to the date of valuation, assuming: very few cases seen your solicitors reports have angles.
The most significant sale is a a willing seller: on title and, we have therefore, assumed arguably Hammersons purchase of The b that, prior to the date of valuation, there that, unless stated otherwise, the interests Shires, Leicester.
We calculate the equivalent had been a reasonable period having are not subject to any onerous restrictions, to yield here to be around 6.33% based on regard to the nature of the property and the payment of any unusual outgoings or to reversionary values established within the the state of the market for the proper any charges, or rights of way or easements, scheme.
marketing of the interest, for the other than those to which we have referred.
Within British Lands portfolio, numerous agreement of the price and terms We have assumed that any outstanding active management initiatives continue to and for the completion of the sale: requirements of the various repairing be pursued at schemes ranging from c that the state of the market, level of covenants will be met.
Meadowhall to East Kilbride where the values and other circumstances were, Although we reflect our general preletting of a new phase, Centre West, on any earlier assumed date of exchange understanding of a tenant's status in our is now progressing very well.
of contracts, the same as on the date valuation, we make no enquiries about the of valuation: financial status of tenants, and rely upon you Basis of Valuation d that no account is taken of any additional to advise us if tenants are in default of rental The properties have been valued on an open bid by a prospective purchaser with a payments, or where there appear grounds for market basis with the exception of the owner special interest: concern.
We assume that appropriate occupied property at Cornwall Terrace, which e that both parties to the transaction had enquiries were made when leases were has been valued on an existing use basis.
acted knowledgeably, prudently, and originally exchanged, or when consent was Open market value is an opinion of the best without compulsion: granted to tenants to assign or underlet.
price at which the sale of an interest in the f the property can be used for the Details of the nature and extent of the property would have been completed foreseeable future only for the existing properties, the tenure and tenancies, unconditionally for cash consideration on use: and permitted uses and related matters, have the date of valuation, assuming: g that vacant possession is provided on been supplied by you.
Where possible this a a willing seller: completion of the sale of all parts of the information has been confirmed during our b that, prior to the date of valuation, there property occupied by the business.
We have assumed that these had been a reasonable period having details are accurate and that the interests regard to the nature of the property and Assumptions and Disclaimers are in all respects good and marketable.
the state of the market for the proper In our valuation of those classified as Properties and accommodation occupied marketing of the interest, for the completed properties in the portfolio, no by the company or subject to inter-company agreement of the price and terms, account has been taken of any retentions, leases have been valued assuming vacant and for the completion of the sale: nor do our valuations make allowance for possession.
c that the state of the market, level of any outstanding development costs, fees, or We have made oral enquiries of the local values and other circumstances were, other expenditure for which the company planning and highway authorities and the on any earlier assumed date of exchange may be liable.
information obtained is assumed to be of contracts, the same as on the date Our valuation of the properties in the correct.
We have been informed that there of valuation: course of development reflects the stage are no local authority planning or highway d that no account is taken of any additional reached in construction and the costs proposals that might involve the use of bid by a prospective purchaser with a already incurred at the date of valuation, compulsory purchase powers or otherwise special interest: and whilst having regard to the contractual directly affect the properties.
No formal e that both parties to the transaction had liabilities of the parties involved in the searches have been instigated.
