52 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC The properties included in this report We include in our valuations those items Instruction to Valuers Atis Real Weatheralls were inspected between February 2001 of plant and machinery normally considered Norfolk House, 31 St. James's Square, and March 2002, and were measured in to be part of the building service installations London SW1Y 4JR accordance with The Royal Institution of and which would pass with the property on Chartered Surveyors Code of Measuring a sale or letting.
We exclude all items of Dear Sirs, Practice.
The floor areas given are derived process plant and machinery and equipment, Valuations for the year ending 31 March 2002. from measurements taken on site or have together with their special foundations and The British Land Company PLC been scaled from the drawings supplied and supports, furniture and furnishings, vehicles, and various Joint Venture Companies checked by sample measurements on site.
stock and loose tools, and tenants fixtures As we were not instructed to carry out and fittings.
I confirm our instructions to prepare reports and structural surveys or to test any of the In arriving at our valuations, no allowance valuations, for inclusion in the year end Report and service installations, our valuations reflect has been made for the costs of realisation, Accounts, in respect of the properties owned by only the general condition of the properties any liability for tax which might arise in the the above in the United Kingdom.
For this purpose tenancy schedules have been provided to you and evident from our inspections and any event of disposal or deemed disposal or for will be updated through to 31 March.
defects of which we have been made aware the existence of any mortgages or similar Your valuation certificates are to include a as detailed in the individual reports.
We financial encumbrances over the properties.
schedule with all relevant information for each assume that no materials have been used in Our valuations are exclusive of any VAT.
the construction of the buildings which are This valuation is provided for the stated Your valuations are to be prepared on an deleterious, hazardous or likely to give rise to purposes and is for the use only of those open market basis in accordance with the current structural defects.
We also assume that all to whom it is addressed.
No responsibility Appraisal and Valuation Manual The Red Book relevant statutory requirements have been is accepted to any other party.
published by The Royal Institution of Chartered complied with.
No part of this certificate may be Surveyors which, inter alia, states that the We were not instructed to carry out reproduced, or reference made to it, without surveyors undertaking the work are to be investigations into ground conditions, and our prior written approval.
In accordance with usual unless otherwise indicated in the individual reference may be made to the certificate in market practice your valuations are to be reported net after the deduction of the prospective reports, our valuations assume that the sites any other publication without our written purchasers costs, including stamp duty.
are physically capable of development, or approval.
You will conduct appropriate inspections of redevelopment, when appropriate, and that each of the properties and measure in those cases no special or unusual costs will be incurred Yours faithfully where you have not been provided with floor areas in providing foundations and infrastructure.
as agreed between the landlord and tenant at the You have not instructed us to carry out time of rent review or the initial letting.
In respect any investigation into pollution hazards of planning, your surveyors will make their own which might affect the properties and, unless enquiries of the various planning authorities.
You otherwise indicated, our valuations assume Atis Real Weatheralls will also refer to title reports and leases either in that the properties are not adversely affected Norfolk House your possession or made available to you.
31 St. James's Square These instructions are given on the basis, as London SW1Y 4JR previously, that your professional indemnity policy is in place and sufficient on a per claim basis to cover this instruction.
Yours faithfully for and on behalf of The British Land Company PLC M. I. Gunston, FRICS Chief Surveyor Dance is a song of the body.
