Introduction The British Land Company PLC is registered in London and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group invests in prime properties and its portfolio is valued at 9.3 billion.
The majority of the portfolio is directly owned and managed: the balance is held in joint ventures and partnerships, of which British Lands share is valued at 1.7 billion.
The portfolio continues to focus on areas where the principles of supply and demand are strong.
Some 43% is in Central London offices, 35% in out of town retail property, and the current development programme provides significant investment opportunities in these areas: altogether 99% of the Groups portfolio is in the UK.
The principal revenue source for the Group is rental income.
Current net annualised rents amount to 525 million, including British Lands share of joint ventures.
The Group has an efficient capital structure with optimal gearing to enhance returns on equity.
The ratio of debt to assets is maintained at or around 50%, while preserving a strong financial position in terms of recurring interest cover and available liquidity.
British Lands financing is risk averse with a long debt maturity and low average cost of debt.
The Groups policy is to maintain around 85% of debt hedged against movement in interest rates.
Away from the property market, the Group has many interests in the arts, sport and education.
We are particularly pleased to provide support and facilities for young people and one of the many beneficiaries of sponsorship by British Land is the Royal Ballet School.
The theme of the 2002 Annual Report is the tremendous work done by the School in training its students for a career in classical ballet.
The Royal Ballet School has a global reputation as a teaching institution and centre of excellence.
It attracts students from all over the world, and is the principal source of dancers for the Royal Ballet and Birmingham Royal Ballet.
At any one moment the School will be training some 200 students for a career in classical ballet.
Theres a very fine level of detail in training the angle of an arm, the way the head is held, the curve of the back, how a hand turns at the wrist.
Everything is controlled, everything has a name.
