Books Major Subjects UK publishing industry During the last financial year the Books This autumn we have a number of high Division published 643 additional new titles profile books released, including the Cheryl across a variety of genres.
Best-selling titles Barrymore autobiography, Catch A Falling included Feng Shui by Lillian Too C & B, Star, Joan Collins new book Joans Way A First Thesaurus by Ruth Thompson as-well as new titles from the recently 27% Chrysalis Childrens Books, The Food launched imprint, Chrysalis Impact.
These Doctor by Ian Marber and Vicki Edgson include NME 100 Greatest Singles, for which 39% C&B, Iain Thomsons Frank Lloyd Wright Chrysalis TV has also been commissioned to Pop-Up PRC and Phil Dodds Book of produce a tie-in programme for Channel Four.
13% Marcus Leaver, The Group Corporate In the wider market, despite the perceived Development Director, has recently assumed threat from multimedia and other demands the responsibilities of Chief Executive of the on leisure time, the popularity of books Book division, in addition to his continued remains strong.
The consumer sector of the Group Corporate Development role following Fiction 27% market is expected to command some 65- the recent departure of John Needleman.
Children's 13% Autobiography 4% 70% of market value in the medium term.
Under the new management, Chrysalis Books Mind, Body & Spirit 4% Food & Drink 3% will maintain focus on margin growth brought History 3% Biography 2% Chrysalis Books has established a roster of about by continued consolidation and Sports 2% Literature & Poetry 2% imprints that cover a broad aspect of the integration of sales, marketing, printing Cinema & TV 1% Others 39% consumer publishing market, thereby reducing and accounting functions.
exposure to one particular genre, or even a single author.
The Books division comprises 14 main imprints spanning a wide range of mainly illustrated non-fiction books.
Our key markets are lifestyle, How To books, e. g. Cookery, DIY, Interiors, Mind, Body and Spirit, specialist non-fiction eg Biographies, History, Military, Architecture and Childrens, which has become a fast growing area of activity for the division.
The Destiny Tarot Book Nelsons Ships: A History and Card Pack.
of the Vessels in Which by Jane Struthers for Collins He Served 1771-1805. and Brown.
A bestselling Peter Goodwin for Conway pack containing a tarot Maritime Press.
deck together with an A major work of accessible essential guide on how to scholarship by the worlds use it.
foremost expert on Nelsons navy.
28 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 1% 2% 2% 2% 3% 3% 4% 4% 76% 643 increase in titles published operating profits during financial year 59% front list and 41% back list Chrysalis Books Publishing Imprints Collins & Brown: Salamander: Brasseys Conway Putnam: Cookery, Craft, DIY, Gardening, Health, Mind Illustrated books, US History, Aviation, Cookery, Military, Maritime, Aviation Body Spirit, Photography and Art Gardening, Natural History, Transport Greenwich Editions: Pavilion: Vega: Repackages past titles mainly for Quality illustrated books, Art, Sport, Travel, Self Help & Self Knowledge, Spirituality, Psychology, promotional market Culture, Gifts & Collectibles, Interiors & Design Health, Environmental, Astrology, Occult Chrysalis Impact: Music, Media, Pop Culture PRC: Childrens: Arts, Military and Warfare, Natural History, Educational school and home use, Novelty Paper Tiger: Architecture, American Lifestyle, Reference and Popular Reference and Illustrated Fiction Science Fiction, Fantasy Robson Books: BT Batsford: General non-fiction and some fiction Film and entertainment, Chess, Bridge, Gardening, Biographies, Humour, Music, Politics, Sex Crafts, Architecture and Design Chrysalis Books Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 29
