The last five years 1998-2002 Operating profit from Core Businesses Finance directors review m Radio Music TV Books Other 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 1.0m 1.4m 9.7m 12.2m 18.0m Financial Instruments during the year, bringing the cumulative committed to the interest and capital The Groups financial instruments include amount drawn down to 46.5 million.
The repayments, on our securitised borrowings.
bank, securitisation and other borrowings, remaining undrawn facility of 13.5 million We also use forward contracts to partially loan stock, commercial leasing, cash and liquid includes a reserve facility of up to 6.0 million.
hedge US dollar denominated earnings of resources and other resources such as trade certain of our UK subsidiaries.
At 31 August debtors and trade creditors that arise directly 2002 the Groups only material foreign Other Group Indebtedness include a 5.5 from our operations.
currency exposure related to $8.2 million million bank mortgage loan, 8.2 million of receivables due to our book publishing of subsidiary company loan notes issued as companies, of which $2.0 million was The cornerstone of the Groups borrowing consideration for corporate acquisitions, covered by forward sale contracts.
strategy is the long term sterling loan facility and various bank overdraft facilities utilised of 60million, provided via the US commercial by individual UK and overseas subsidiaries for paper conduit market, and secured by way working capital purposes and for the Groups Financial assets and liabilities of overseas of the Securitisation of the Groups global ESOP, as better described in Note 33 to the subsidiaries are held in the currency of the music catalogue and its related NPS.
Limited use is also made of lease jurisdiction in which they operate.
However, year transaction, completed in March 2001, and hire purchase finance for fixed asset as shown in note 25 of the accounts, at 31st provides for a flexible repayment structure purchases, and in the case of certain of the August 2002 the substantial part of the including a three year revolving period, recently acquired book publishing companies Groups financial assets and liabilities were followed by a period of up to 12 years for of invoice discounting arrangements.
Our Dutch TV amortisation down to a substantial residual production Group had drawn down 13.4 amount, which is itself subject to bullet We utilise interest rate collars to hedge interest million 2.1million from their local bank repayment.
The transaction, which is nonrate movements for both our securitisation facilities, but other than this there were no recourse to the remainder of the Group, borrowings and for a 5.5 million bank loan significant foreign currency denominated unlocks the inherent value of the Groups secured on our head office premises.
These cash or borrowings at 31st August 2002. catalogue of music rights, whilst still allow the interest rates we pay to move maintaining our ownership and management between certain cap and floor rates.
The accounting policies relating to the control over the various music-publishing Substantially all of the remainder of the translation of the results, assets and liabilities subsidiaries which have provided collateral Groups borrowings are at floating rates.
of these overseas companies are set out in to the deal.
The Group has not The Groups policy in respect of foreign used any hedging products or techniques to The effective interest charge over the term, currency and interest rate risks is, where mitigate against the exchange risk associated after amortising all fees and costs compares appropriate, to use uncomplicated and cost with its net investment in, or the results of, favourably to the Groups alternative cost of effective instruments to provide a hedge overseas companies.
The facility was conditional upon against adverse interest rate and currency the underlying interest rate being made movements.
As far as possible we seek to Note 25 also sets out the disclosures required subject from the outset to a long-term hedge maximise the use of internal hedges by using under FRS 13 regarding our financial within an interest rate collar.
Currency hedges foreign currency income to settle foreign instruments.
The information contained within are also required and have been employed in currency liabilities.
We use a series of forward that note indicates that there was a technical, respect of a proportion of the publishers share foreign currency contracts to hedge the fair value, deficit of 2.7 million on our interest of principle overseas income.
The Group drew currency risks associated with our net music rate collars, as the floor rates under both down a further 11.5 million of the facility publishing income, to the extent that it is arrangements are currently higher than the 12 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Key Financial Dates 2003 4th February - AGM 28th February - Half Year End 12th March - Ex Dividend Date 14th March - Record Date 7th April - Dividend Paid w c 5th May - Interim Results Announcement 31st August - Year End w c 17th November - Preliminary Results Announcement w c 22nd December - Accounts posted to shareholders equivalent Royal Bank of Scotland base rate.
Accounting Policies The amount represents the net present value The accounts have been prepared following of the opportunity cost to the Group, over the accounting policies that were adopted the whole of the outstanding term of the for the 2001 accounts.
The Group has chosen underlying hedge agreement, of the difference to avail itself of the transitional arrangements between the current base rates and the floor set out in FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, and rates, assuming that current bank base rates will be required to adopt the prescribed remain unchanged throughout.
This theoretical accounting treatment with respect to its shortfall arises because initial drawdowns pensions scheme no later than the year under the Securitisation agreement were ended 31 August 2005.
Note 32 includes conditional upon the establishment of a longthe appropriate disclosures relating to the term interest rate hedge at commencement.
assets and liabilities of the scheme required The floor rates contained within the interest by FRS 17. rate collar agreements put in place are therefore those obtained in the market at We have continued to adopt the principles that time, since when base rates have fallen set out in the Combined Code published by by 1.75% to 4.0%.
the London Stock Exchange, which along with other corporate governance issues are The Groups liquidity policy ensures continuity dealt with fully in the Corporate Governance of funding, in the short term and medium term, Statement set out on pages 70 to 71. by the use of the undrawn securitisation loan facilities and bank overdrafts.
The maturity profile of financial liabilities at 31st August 2002 is described in Note 21 to the Accounts.
Other than noted above in relation to financial instruments, the Directors are of the opinion that the fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities as at 31st August 2002 are equal to or greater than their book Nigel Butterfield value.
Details of the fair values of financial Group Finance Director instruments are set out in note 25 to the 17th December 2002 accounts.
At 31st August 2002 the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 16.8 million, of which 8.3 million expire or are renewable within one year or less and the remaining 8.5 million expires in 2016.
These figures exclude a reserve facility commitment in respect of the Securitisation loan currently standing at 5.0million.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 13 Strategy Results To run our existing stations to peak Operating profits up performance, extend our brands 41% to 9.4 million.
wherever possible and to expand in both analogue and digital radio.
Chrysalis has continued to outpace its rivals in the radio sector, lifting radio revenues 12% last year.
Radio revenues rose 17% in the first quarter, compared with flat and falling revenues reported by GWR and Capital Radio in October and November.
Heart 106.2 Breakfast show stars Financial Times 26th November 2002.
Jono Coleman and Emma Forbes.
Radio Radio To run our existing stations to peak performance, extend our brands wherever possible and to expand in both analogue and digital radio.
Review dreadful events of 11th September 2001, Campaign Chrysalis Radio has had another excellent which led to a sharp deterioration in global 15th November 2002 year, continuing to significantly outperform advertising markets.
Therefore, we are the market with like-for-like total revenue particularly delighted with the revenue Chrysalis Radio is on a roll.
Every risk it takes for the 12 months ended 31st August 2002 performance of Chrysalis, which returned seems to be paying off and the City and of 49.1 million, an 11.7% increase on the to positive revenue growth in January 2002 advertisers are beginning to take notice.
Airtime revenue increased and has since continued to deliver real year 9.4% to 48.1 million, comparing very on year revenue growth each month.
Heart 106.2 is closing the gap on its London favourably with the industry as a whole, rival Capital and its recently formed breakfast which recorded a revenue decline of around However we have kept costs continually show pairing of Jonathan Coleman and 2% over the same period.
under review in order to achieve the margin Emma Forbes is pulling in 862,000 listeners.
targets reflected in our original three year Chrysalis Radios strong revenue plans.
During the year we fully reviewed our outperformance in the 2002 financial year operational and management structures, in LBC owns and operates two radio stations was driven by two factors.
Firstly, by further an effort to improve efficiency, and this led in the London market: Newsdirect, which is audience growth of 12%, compared to 3% to significant overhead reductions across all a rolling news service, currently broadcasting audience growth for the commercial industry areas of our radio business.
on 97.3FM, and LBC, which is a talk format as a whole.
Secondly, by real increases in our broadcasting on 1152AM.
rate of conversion of listening hours into Operating profits for the 12 months to 31st revenue.
We expect to continue to improve August 2002, increased by 41% to 9.4 According to the latest Rajar figures October our revenue yield and this will become an million, equating to operating margins of 2002, the stations currently have a combined increasingly important growth driver as 19.2% after digital costs.
EBITDA was audience of 894,000 listeners, producing we move into the next phase of Chrysalis 11.2 million in 2002, an increase of 32% total weekly listening hours of 8.6 million.
The stations generated revenues of 4.1 million in the year to 30th September 2001 and a loss The 12 months to 31st August 2002, was a Acquisition of LBC stations before tax of approximately 2.0 million.
tough trading year for the commercial radio On 26th September 2002, Chrysalis announced industry as a whole, beginning with the the acquisition of LBC for 23.5 million cash.
Galaxy Heart fm Galaxy network personality Steve smooth 100.7 Heart fm advertising on outdoor sites.
Sutherland picks up his Mobo award for best DJ.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 15
