TV Chrysalis TV revenue growth Bentley continued to build on its first class In November 2001, Chrysalis gained 100% reputation with the production of another control of its Dutch television business through major new drama series for ITV, Ultimate the acquisition of VNUs 49% stake in CVI for Force, which was transmitted in September 7.2 million Euros, which was funded locally October 2002 and built audiences throughout out of existing CVI cash and banking facilities.
its six week run to 6.75 million viewers.
A Following this, the Company was renamed second series has now been commissioned.
Chrysalis IDTV Media Group and delivered Other commissions include a second series significant growth in its reported profits of the Bafta award winning Black Books for the year.
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Channel 4 and new shows, World Rally million 23.5 32.6 37.6 56.6 50.3 57.5 61.9 88.9 Channel 4, Fifth Gear Channel 5 and During the year, we have continued to focus Richard & Judy Channel 4. on improving underlying margins across the TV division, through striving to achieve higher cost Our international TV companies have also recoveries, together with an ongoing review performed well.
South Pacific Pictures of central overheads.
However, the headline became a 60% subsidiary in December 2001, margin will continue to reflect the fact that a following the Groups acquisition of further number of the largest contracts are on shared shares.
Its serial drama series Shortland margin basis notably in the sports area, Street continues its record ratings run and where the margin is often split between the two new productions have been receiving production company and the rights owner.
worldwide acclaim Being Eve is one of four finalists for this years International Emmy Awards and Whale Rider clinched the top award at the 2002 Toronto Film Festival ahead of general release next year.
Midsomer Murders Fifth Gear Consistently high ratings have been achieved by Bentleys Chrysalis Television Midlands motoring magazine Midsomer Murders which is sold to over 150 countries.
programme is broadcast on Channel 5.
24 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 39% 44% increase in operating increase in turnover profits to 3.6 million to 88.9 million 70% current year budget already booked Outlook UK programmes recently produced or broadcast in the period included: Despite the withdrawal of film financing incentives for television the outlook for Entertainment independent television production, particularly 5th Gear Series 1 and 2 C5 Sir Alf C4 in the UK, is now more encouraging than it has Argy Bargy C5 Songs of Bond ITV been in recent years.
Although the downturn Black Books: Series 2 C4 Sporting Bad Boys C5 British Soap Awards 2002 ITV The Beckhams World Cup Charity Party ITV in advertising revenues has had an inevitable Dermots Sporting Buddies BBC Choice The Truth About Julie Goodyear C5 impact on the commercial broadcasters James Bonds Cars: 5th Gear Special C5 The Ultimate Chart Show C4 Jo Brands Hot Potatoes BBC1 Top Ten TV Series 1 C4 programme budgets, there are many positive Kylie Entirely C4 Top Ten TV Series 2 C4 signs pointing towards a more robust future.
Richard and Judy daily C4 Worlds Greatest Cars Special C5 Following the recent ITC review of the UK television supply market, it would appear Drama that the independent quota system, which stipulates that broadcasters must source Midsomer Murders ITV 25% of their programming from independent Ultimate Force ITV producers, will be strengthened through the new Communications Act.
We are Sport and Factual hopeful that this may, in time, lead to a F1 Grand Prix ITV Red Bull Mountain Mayhem C4 further underpinning of the terms under Football Italia C4 Red Bull Street Luge C4 which the broadcasters must deal with Glasgow Masters Bowls BBC Speedway World Cup For international distribution independent producers.
International Open Bowls BBC BUPA Care Homes Open Nov 2001 Tight Lines Sky Sports International Open Bowls BBC World Rally Championships C4 BUPA Care Homes Open Nov 2002 As one of the largest and most profitable World Rally Championships Murray Walkers F1 Greats host broadcaster International programming independent production companies in the Murray Walker video dvd World Championship Indoor Bowls BBC On the Road ITV Digital UK, with a proven track record in delivering Pedal to the Metal successful shows, across a number of Colin McRae video dvd different genres, Chrysalis is well positioned to benefit from a positive outcome to these Chrysalis TV industry developments.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 25 Strategy Results To build a profitable and 76% increase in operating sustainable book publishing profits to 3.0 million.
Chrysalis Books has seen a sharp upturn in operating profit after driving out costs from C&B, which it bought in April 2001.
The step-up was attributed to economies of scale, strict cost controls and a reduction in headcount.
Frank Lloyd Wright in Pop-Up Iain Thomson, PRC Publishing.
A novel approach to the works of this major American architect, which sold more than 100,000 copies in the USA.
Books Books To build a profitable and sustainable book publishing and distribution company.
Review 2002 has been a period of consolidation for Publishing News 2002 was the first full year of the Books the Books division.
It has been putting in place 23rd August 2002 Division operating with the benefit of Collins the central infrastructure to manage this level & Brown, which had been acquired in April of growth by strengthening the financial, 2001.
The Divisions operating profits increased operational, sales and marketing support by 76% to 3.0 million 2001: 1.7 million available to the individual imprints.
One of in the twelve months to 31st August 2002 the key performance measures in this business on turnover up 47% to 33.9 million 2001: is margin growth and we are already well 23.0 million, equating to an 8.9% operating on the way towards achieving our internal margin, up from 7.5% last year.
more than doubled to 4.0 million 2001: 1.9 million.
The revenue split was approximately This margin improvement has been achieved 59% front list and 41% backlist.
Firstly, the Chrysalis Books division is now of a size that Chrysalis first entered the Book Publishing the individual imprints within it are able to industry in a small way in 1998 with the enjoy the benefits of economies of scale.
acquisition of Ramboro, a remaindering Secondly, we have implemented strict cost company, initially as an adjunct to the controls across the division, and have also Lasgo Chrysalis wholesaling business which significantly lowered overheads by reducing had diversified into music related books.
headcount through consolidation and the A number of small acquisitions followed creation of centralised support functions.
in the next two years, culminating in the acquisition of Collins & Brown, which effectively doubled Chrysalis Books turnover to its current level of 33.9 million.
The Strange Case The World Trade Center: Bedtime Stories.
Terry Jones and Nanette & Dr Glas.
Bill Harris, Salamander, was Newman: illustrated by Dannie Abse, conceived, produced and Michael Foreman is Robson Books.
delivered to our US client published by Pavilion Made the longlist from scratch, within 30 Childrens Books.
days of receiving the order.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 27
