Music NPS growth Over the last few years the Chrysalis Music enjoyed its first No.
1 album with the girl band companies have built a strong reputation in L5, coming from the French version of the the secondary exploitation of music copyrights television phenomenon, Popstars.
through film, TV and advertising.
In the last 12 months with synchronisation income up Within UK publishing, our songwriter, David by a further 10%, mechanical income now Gray, followed up the huge success of his accounts for less than 50% of our overall White Ladder album, with a No.
1 UK chart NPS in our major markets for the first time.
position in the first week of November with Campaigns which used Chrysalis copyrights his new album, A New Day at Midnight, during the year included Heineken Tom which we are confident will be a big seller Jones Shes a Lady, Vodafone Dandy around the world during 2003.
Warhols Bohemian Like You and O2 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 million Leftfield Release the Pressure, and US On the recording side, the two major acts: 5.4 6.2 7.2 8.1 8.5 signing Sum 41, also featured on the movie Feeder and Moloko, both have new albums soundtrack of Spiderman with their track, out in the current financial year.
Feeders What Were All About.
album, Comfort in Sound, was released on 21st October and entered the UK charts at Split of Net Publisher's Share NPS The final pieces of our European infrastructure No 6. and was quickly certified gold.
Molokos UK and US % overall annual NPS build were put in place during the year with album, Statues, is scheduled for release in wholly owned Chrysalis companies now March 2003. operating in Scandinavia, Germany and Italy, 1995 together with joint venture companies in France, Lasgo Chrysalis continued to buck music Spain and Benelux.
Global Chrysalis Music distribution industry trends, delivering a further 1996 Publishing in Germany has just been confirmed 18% growth in turnover for the 12 months as the largest independent German publisher to 31st August 2002, at the same time as 1997 for the first nine months of 2002 in the quarterly more of its competitors fell away.
This growth 1998 market share charts of Musikmarkt 2002.
In is fuelled by continuous diversification of addition, our fledgling French company has just products away from CDs DVD and Book 1999 2000 2001 Mechanical Performance 2002 Synchronisation 0100 Bend it Like Beckham Featured four Chrysalis Music copyrights.
20 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Image provided courtesy of Helkon SK Film Distribution.
8.5m 47% Highest ever NPS, increase in operating up 5% profits to 1.8 million No1 Chrysalis Music is UK Independent Publisher 2001 sales were both particularly strong during the Highlights of Chrysalis Synchronisation Activity during 2002 year as well as a broadening spread of sales territories, which has reduced dependence on Film UK and US the larger export markets, such as Asia, where 24 Hour Party People Siouxsie and the Banshees Make Up To Break UP CD sales have been weakest.
About A Boy Blondie Superthug Ali G In Da House Backyard Dog Baddest Ruffest Oxide Jordan Shoot To Kill Air Studios maintained the reputation of its Montell Jordan This Is How We Do It American Pie 2 Angela Ammons Always Getting Over You Lyndhurst Hall as one of the worlds leading Sum 41 Flat Lip, In Too Deep Bend It Like Beckham Paula Anka Shes A Lady recording facilities for film scores, music and Blondie Atomic post-production.
Film work included Lord of Arrow Hot Hot Hot Backyard Dog Baddest Ruffest the Rings Two Towers, Die Another Day The Guru Blondie One Way Or Another the new James Bond movie, USA box office hit Sweet Home Alabama and the new Spike Computer games UK Lee project Twenty Fifth Hour.
Recent music F1 Racing Game Plum DJs The Push projects range from Coldplay, Robbie Williams Gran Turismo Propellerheads Big Dog Gran Turismo 3 Feeder Buck Rogers, Seven Days In The Sun, Piece By Piece and The Red Hot Chili Peppers to Roberto Gumball 3000 Tipper 7 Tracks Alagna and Lesley Garrett.
Post Production Master Rally Plum DJs Scram This Is Football 2003 Kirsty MacColl In These Shoes projects include the high profile dramas Wipeout 3 Propellerheads Lethal Cut Lucky Jim and The Truth and computer Wipeout Fusion Plump DJs Big Groovy Funker World Championship Rally Feeder Hole In My Hand games include Fourfourtwo, Gumball 3000 and Superman.
Commercials UK and US Adidas Transistor Look Whos Perfect Now American Express Organic Audio Nurega Apple Computer Propellorheads Take California Coca Cola Backyard Dog Baddest Ruffest Estee Lauder Mandalay Beautiful Gordons Gin Small World Dual Tone Heineken Tom Jones Shes A Lady Levis Plump DJs The Push Mitsubishi Dirty Vegas Days Go By The Wiseguys Start The Commotion Nikes Jordan brand footware Portishead Roads Nissan Dandy Warhols Godless Pringles Freestylers Weekend Song Sainsburys Jak Output International Bummer Volkswagen Lupo Leftfield 6 8 War Chrysalis Music Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 21 Strategy Results To develop, produce and distribute Operating profits up 39% prime-time entertainment to 3.6 million.
programmes with long term value and worldwide appeal.
ITV controller of drama Nick Elliott has ordered a further two series of Bentley Productions crime drama Midsomer Murders.
A minimum of four other programmes have also been ordered for the eighth series.
Ultimate Force Latest powerful action series for ITV by Bentley Productions.
TV TV To develop, produce and distribute prime-time entertainment programmes with long term value and worldwide appeal.
Review The Group Chief Executive, Richard Broadcast - Barb Top 50 Network Programmes The full year outcome of the TV division has Huntingford, has assumed the reporting 4th October 2002 been far stronger than we originally anticipated responsibilities for the division since its at the time of the Groups interim results in May.
The revenue Title Day Operating profits for the 12 months to 31st performance of the division reflects our 1 1 Eastenders Mon August 2002 were 3.6 million 2001: 2.6 continued success in winning commissions of 2 2 Coronation Street Mon million, an increase of 39% on the previous new shows together with renewals of existing 3 3 Eastenders Thu year on turnover up 44% to 88.9 million ones.
During the course of the year our drama 4 4 Eastenders Fri 2001: 61.9 million.
EBITDA was up 49% to company, Bentley, delivered the fifth series of 5 5 Coronation Street Wed 5.2 million 2001: 3.5 million.
This growth Midsomer Murders for ITV, which achieved 6 6 Coronation Street Mon has been achieved in spite of a number of record viewing figures when it was broadcast 7 10 Coronation Street Sun 8 8 Coronation Street Fri significant non-recurring costs, including those in September 2002.
The sixth series is currently 9 7 Eastenders Tue associated with the restructuring of the division in production and two further series have now 10 11 Emmerdale Mon and the departure of former divisional Chief been commissioned by ITV.
In the run-up to 11 22 Midsomer Murders Sun Executive, Mick Pilsworth, in May both fully the new series, ITV also took the opportunity 12 15 Emmerdale Thu reported in the Interim Statement.
The surprise to repeat previous episodes over the summer 13 13 Emmerdale Tue announcement in the Chancellors March 2002 which generated lucrative repeat income.
This, Numbers in blue refer to ratings in all homes Budget of the withdrawal of film financing together with continued strong international Numbers in red refer to ratings in multichannel concessions relating to television programmes sales, confirms just how valuable this property homes MCH also had an immediate negative impact on the has become for the Group.
Once the two financial fortunes of the UK Independent newly commissioned series are completed the production sector.
However, our TV division was Group will have produced 38 episodes of this able to make up the lost ground from the earlier popular drama representing 76 hours of top part of the year in the second half with a rated television.
particularly strong sales performance over the summer.
Formula 1 World Rally Chrysalis Sport produces ITVs highly acclaimed January 2002 saw the launch of Chrysalis Sports Formula 1 Grand Prix coverage.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 23
