COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 37 Directors Report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Dividends An interim dividend of 7.60p per ordinary share 2001 6.90p was paid in December 2002.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 18.0p per ordinary share 2001 16.33p payable on 4 July 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register as at 6 June 2003, making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 25.60p 2001 23.23p.
It is proposed that the retained profit of 45.3m be transferred to the profit and loss reserve.
Principal Activities and Business Review The principal business of the group is the design and manufacture of equipment, specialised systems and components supplied primarily to the aerospace, defence, industrial and communications markets and the operation, maintenance and modification of aircraft, particularly in relation to special mission flight operations.
A review of the business, together with an indication of likely future developments, is included in the chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7, the chief executives review on pages 8 to 10, the business review on pages 12 to 29 and the financial review on pages 30 to 33.
Board of Directors The current directors are named on page 36.
They held office throughout the year with the exceptions of Peter Hooley and Alex Hannam who were appointed on 12 June 2002 and 15 July 2002 respectively.
In addition, the Lord Rockley and Geoff Roe were directors until 12 and 30 June 2002 respectively.
The directors retiring by rotation at the annual general meeting are Giles Irwin and Jeff Edington who, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
Mr Irwins service contract with the company will expire on his 60th birthday in July 2003.
Mr Edington does not have a service contract with the company.
Peter Hooley and Alex Hannam will retire at the annual general meeting in accordance with article 111 and will offer themselves for re-appointment.
Mr Hooley does not have a service contract with the company.
Mr Hannam has a service contract with FR Aviation Group Limited which is terminable by either party giving 24 months notice if given on or before 15 July 2003 and thereafter by either party giving 12 months notice at any time.
Directors Interests None of the directors is or was materially interested in any significant contract during or at the end of the financial year particulars of which are required to be disclosed by the Companies Act 1985 or the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
Details of directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 49.
Corporate Governance This statement describes how the company has applied the principles of good governance set out in section 1 of the combined code on corporate governance annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code : it also contains a statement regarding compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
Directors: The Cobham board currently comprises the chairman, the chief executive, four other executive directors and three non-executive directors of whom Mike Smith is recognised as the senior member.
Short biographical notes in respect of each director are contained on pages 34 and 35 and these demonstrate a wide range of relevant experience.
Board members have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and, if required, independent external advice at the companys expense in connection with the furtherance of their duties as directors.
No external advice was sought during the year.
The board as a whole meets regularly during the year to make and review major business decisions and to monitor and test the operational performance of the group in accordance with the schedule of matters reserved by the board for its decision.
There is regular contact between meetings to progress the groups business.
To assist in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities, the board has established a number of committees, the most significant of which are the audit, remuneration, nomination and executive committees.
Each committee has its own terms of reference and meetings take place on a regular basis throughout the year save in the case of the nomination committee, the meetings of which take place as required.
38 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance continued The respective roles and responsibilities of the chairman and chief executive are clearly understood and the boards policy is that these two positions should normally be held by different people.
In addition to his other duties, the chairman is responsible for carrying out a formal review of the boards effectiveness on an annual basis.
The board and its committees receive relevant and appropriate information relating to the business to be transacted in sufficient time to enable it to be fully considered.
Additional information is made available to all directors if requested and reports in respect of the groups activities and performance for those months during which a meeting of the board is not scheduled to take place are routinely circulated to all directors.
The nomination committee is responsible for recommending new directors, both executive and non-executive, to the board.
In appropriate cases recruitment consultants are used to assist in the process and normally no offer of a directorship is made before all board members have had a reasonable opportunity to meet the prospective director concerned.
The membership of the committee consists of Gordon Page chairman, Allan Cook, Mike Smith, Jeff Edington and Peter Hooley.
The executive committee develops the groups strategy for board approval, makes recommendations as to acquisitions and divestments and reviews operational activities.
Membership of the committee comprises all the executive directors, with the exception of Gordon Page, and the chief executive is the committees chairman.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for three years and, under the articles of association, all directors are required to retire at least every three years.
Directors who have reached the age of 70 are required to retire, and not to seek re-appointment, at the annual general meeting following their seventieth birthday.
Directors Remuneration: Information on the companys policy with regard to executive directors remuneration, the role and function of the remuneration committee, and details of the remuneration of each executive director are contained in the directors remuneration report on pages 42 to 49.
A committee of the board comprising executive directors is responsible for determining the fees of the non-executive directors within the limits contained in the articles of association.
Relations with Shareholders: The company welcomes discussions with shareholders where practicable.
During the year the company made presentations to fund managers both in the UK and overseas and received a number of visits.
Presentations to analysts and others were also made following the announcements of the full and half years results and at other times during the year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to question the chairmen of the board and of the principal board committees at the companys annual general meeting and also to receive at that meeting the chairmans statement as to any significant developments during the year to date.
Information relating to the level of proxies lodged at the 2002 annual general meeting was formally announced to shareholders after each resolution had been dealt with on a show of hands and was subsequently reported on the companys website.
Accountability and Audit: The chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the business review and the financial review on pages 6 to 33 contain information relevant to an assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Statements regarding the directors responsibilities for preparing the companys financial statements and the auditors responsibilities for reporting on them are set out on pages 50 to 52.
The directors going concern statement is set out on page 33.
The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control the aim of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the groups business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders investment and the companys assets.
It is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements and accords with the guidance for directors on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
It comprises, among other things, an assurance programme based around significant risks and key procedures control processes.
Integral to the process are the Group Finance Manual and the Corporate Framework which contain comprehensive policies of a financial and non financial nature.
The board has appointed a senior executive, the director of special projects, with particular responsibility for the operation of the system.
During the year the group executive undertook a top-level review of significant risks and risk management has been embedded into the groups management process through the adoption of a requirement for subsidiaries to carry out formal risk management assessments as part of the annual five year planning exercise.
The board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the internal control process by means of reports either to it or to the audit committee.
In addition, the audit committee receives and considers an annual report from the director COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 39 Corporate Governance continued of special projects and reports thereon to the board.
The audit committee has, accordingly, conducted a review on behalf of the board of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control in respect of 2002.
The audit committee comprises Peter Hooley chairman, Mike Smith and Jeff Edington, all of whom are considered to be independent non-executive directors.
The committee normally meets on three occasions during the year and the auditors attend meetings twice yearly at which they present reports on internal control and other matters.
The group financial director attends all meetings but is not present throughout.
Relationships are such that, if there are any particular concerns, the auditors are able to approach the chairman of the committee directly to air them.
The audit committee selects the auditors, approves their fees, and reviews their performance, independence and objectivity.
The auditors may carry out non-audit work such as in relation to borrowings and shareholder circulars, taxation and, on occasion, due diligence in connection with acquisitions.
Compliance Statement: Throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 the company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code except as follows: Code Provision A.
2.1: The Lord Rockley was recognised as the senior non-executive director until his retirement on 12 June 2002.
However, he was not considered to be independent in view of his length of service as a director.
Mike Smith has been the senior non-executive since that date and he is considered to be independent.
1.7: For the reason given in the directors remuneration report on page 45, the board does not have as an objective the reduction of Robin Clarks notice period to one year or less.
2.1 2: As a result of the membership of Lord Rockley until his retirement on 12 June 2002, the remuneration committee did not consist exclusively of independent non-executive directors throughout the year for the reason given above.
The remuneration committee has consisted exclusively of independent non-executive directors since that date.
The auditors have, as mentioned in their report on page 51, reviewed whether or not this statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Financial Services Authority.
Share Capital Details of movements in the share capital of the company during the year are given in note 21 to the financial statements.
The company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Research and Development The group continues to invest in the important area of research and development.
During the year the group expended 31.6m 2001 28.2m on non customer funded research and development.
The management of each of the groups businesses is responsible for identifying and carrying out research and development programmes which are suitable having regard to particular market and product needs.
Further information on research and development appears on page 28.
Major Interests in Shares Major interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the company appearing in the register maintained in accordance with Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985 as at 20 March 2003 were as follows: Percentage Number of at date of Shares Notification FMR Corp and Fidelity International Limited 9,719,333 9.57% Sir Michael Cobham 5,020,062 4.94% Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 3,967,748 3.91% Legal and General Investment Management Limited 3,508,087 3.46% AVIVA plc formerly CGNU plc 3,299,692 3.25% Standard Life Investments Limited 3,278,294 3.23% Aegon Investment Management 3,178,499 3.13% Other than the above interests the directors are not aware of any notifiable interest in the issued ordinary share capital of the company of 3% or more.
40 Directors Report continued Employment The groups employment policies include a commitment to equal opportunities regardless of sex, race, colour, national or ethnic origin, disability, and other forms of discrimination.
With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can remain in employment, wherever practicable.
The importance of employee development and training is recognised and group businesses are required to encourage employees to take advantage of available and relevant training programmes and opportunities for advancement.
Further information on employee development programmes appears on page 29.
The process of employee involvement is different in each operating company and has been developed over the years by local management working with employees in ways which suit their own needs in their particular environment.
This may involve the publishing of in-house newspapers, notice board announcements, management briefings, meetings with locally elected committees of employees, the holding of social functions and the running of sports and social clubs.
UK employees are given the opportunity to become shareholders in the company through the Cobham Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Selected UK and overseas employees may become shareholders through participation in the Cobham Executive Share Option Scheme.
Environment The group has adopted an environmental policy under which it is committed to meeting legislative requirements, to the prevention of pollution and to the continuous improvement of its environmental performance.
The chief executive has been appointed as the main board member with overall environmental responsibility whilst, at the operating company level, the responsibility for ensuring compliance with the environmental policy lies with the appropriate subsidiary board.
The Cobham environmental steering group is chaired by the chief executive, supported by the director of special projects and environmental representatives from each of the sub-groups.
Its role is to ensure the implementation of policy, major initiatives and the regular reporting of environmental measures.
In order to meet its commitments the group will continue to implement environmental management systems in those companies across the group where such controls are desirable.
In 2002 the South Molton site of FR-HiTEMP was added to those sites already accredited as having met the requirements of the internationally recognised standard for environmental management systems ISO 14001.
During 2002 the group also decided upon a selection of criteria to identify which other group companies would benefit from the implementation of an environmental management system.
These criteria include whether the site carries out prescribed processes i. e. processes that require monitoring and reporting to a regulator, whether the site stores hazardous liquids with the potential to cause environmental harm, and whether the site is in a particularly sensitive area.
To address the difficulties of collating data from business units spread across the globe, the group has developed standard methodologies to report on the key environmental impacts regarding energy use, water consumption, and the generation of waste.
These methodologies have now been disseminated across the group in order to commence the collection of data for the whole group in 2003.
To improve emergency preparedness, key staff from several sites in the UK received training in environmental legislation, correct spill response methods and appropriate disposal methods.
This training will be reinforced in 2003 by carrying out controlled emergency exercises.
Several initiatives to improve environmental protection equipment took place across the group in 2002. Business activities require the storage of bulk hazardous liquids, and improving storage arrangements was seen as a priority in several group companies.
Flight Refuelling Wimborne and FR-HiTEMP South Molton have improved the storage of oils through investing in high capacity fully bunded stores, which accommodate drums in racked bays.
The stores have ample forklift access and steel sliding doors to provide security.
Cobham Fluid Systems in Blandford has carried out a major initiative to improve its fuel tank farm by increasing capacity and providing an automatic warning system.
Safety has also been improved through the upgrading of electrical circuits in the fuel house.
Improvements have also been made in the storage of metal swarf, a waste product from manufacturing business units.
Two Cobham manufacturing sites have provided covered storage areas which meet best practice for the storage of this oil laden and potentially hazardous waste.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 41 Environment continued Smaller scale environmental initiatives were implemented by various group businesses during 2002.
There has been an increase in the number of companies involved in recycling initiatives.
Group companies now recycle metals, office paper, cardboard, fluorescent tubes and batteries.
Water consumption has been reduced at some sites through the installation of self-closing taps, whilst energy efficiency has been improved through the installation of variable frequency drives on compressors and ensuring that non essential equipment is shut down when not in use.
At a local level, group companies support the local business community through involvement in environmental groups focused on waste minimisation and environmental and energy management.
One site, which is certified to ISO 14001, gave a well-received presentation to local businesses and local authorities regarding its experience in implementing an environmental management system.
A site in the UK is assisting a local university in the development of vocationally oriented environmental courses.
The group remains actively involved in the Environmental Special Interest Group of The Society of British Aerospace Companies Ltd, which has organised seminars and workshops for other aerospace companies on the impact of environmental legislation and other environmental issues.
Membership of the steering group of the Greener-by-Design programme continues.
This programme aims to increase the understanding of the effects of aviation on the environment through consultation with appropriate industrial and governmental bodies.
The environmental steering group has set objectives for 2003.
These include conducting an impact analysis at all sites which meet the criteria, described above, for implementing an environmental management system and raising environmental awareness among employees.
Creditor Payment Policy Payment is generally made by group companies to their creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business provided that those terms have been met.
It is the policy of the parent company that all invoices are paid within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are approved.
The total amount of the parent companys trade creditors falling due within one year at 31 December 2002 represents 36 days 2001 23 days worth as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
Political and Charitable Gifts 2002 2001 Charitable 36,396 42,401 No contributions were made to political organisations.
Auditors Following their conversion to a limited liability partnership,  resigned as auditors on 17 February 2003.
There were no circumstances relating to the resignation which were required to be brought to the attention of the companys members or shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP were appointed as auditors on 17 February 2003 and a resolution to re-appoint them as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Annual General Meeting The companys annual general meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday, 11 June 2003 at Painters Hall, 9 Little Trinity Lane, London EC4V 2AD.
The notice convening this meeting, together with an explanation of the business to be conducted, is sent to shareholders separately with this report.
By order of the board John Pope Secretary 20 March 2003
