34 Board of Directors G F Page CBE, MA, FRAeS Chairman Appointed to the board in 1990, Gordon Page, aged 59, joined the group as managing director of Flight Refuelling Limited having previously been commercial director military engines of Rolls-Royce plc.
He was appointed deputy chief executive in 1991, chief executive in 1992 and chairman in November 2001.
He is a non-executive director of Amey plc, president of The Society of British Aerospace Companies Ltd previously president 1997 98, a member of the Department of Trade and Industrys Industrial Development Advisory Board, president-elect of the Chartered Management Institute and chairman of the Wessex branch of the Institute of Directors.
A E Cook BSc, CEng, FRAeS Chief Executive Appointed to the board in 2001, Allan Cook, aged 53, joined the group from BAE SYSTEMS where he was group managing director of programmes and managing director Eurofighter.
He was formerly group managing director of GEC-Marconi Avionics and chief executive of Hughes Aircraft Europe.
He is also a director of The Society of British Aerospace Companies Ltd. A G Irwin FCA Group Financial Director Appointed to the board in 1983, Giles Irwin, aged 59, joined as group financial director a position he continues to hold.
Prior to joining Cobham, he acted as both a financial director and chief financial officer of a number of listed multinational companies.
R H L Clark Managing Director, Flight Refuelling Limited Appointed to the board in 1995, Robin Clark, aged 57, joined the group as commercial director of Flight Refuelling Limited in 1981.
He is managing director of that company, having been appointed in 1991, and is responsible to the board for the performance of the Flight Refuelling group.
He is also a director of The Society of British Aerospace Companies Ltd and a member of the Department of Trade and Industrys Aerospace Committee.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 35 G C Cooper OBE, CPhys, FRAeS, MInstP Managing Director, Chelton Limited Appointed to the board in 1995, Geoffrey Cooper, aged 57, joined the group as managing director of Chelton Limited a position he continues to hold on the acquisition of that company in 1989.
He is responsible to the board for the performance of the Chelton group.
A J Hannam Managing Director, FR Aviation Group Limited Appointed to the board in 2002, Alex Hannam, aged 56, joined the group as managing director of FR Aviation Group Limited in that year.
Prior to joining, he was managing director of Alenia Marconis radar systems division, a position he had held since 1995.
He is responsible to the board for the performance of the FR Aviation group.
J D M Smith BSc Senior non-executive Director Appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 1996, Mike Smith, aged 63, is a non-executive director of Bullough plc and P Z Cussons plc, and a former director of BTR plc.
J W Edington PhD, DSc, FIM, FREng Non-executive Director Appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 1996, Jeff Edington, aged 63, was, until his retirement, executive director, technology with Corus Group plc formerly British Steel plc where he had responsibility for product and process technology, the environment and information technology.
Prior to joining British Steel in 1992, Mr Edington was vice-president, research and technology at Alcan Aluminium Limited based in Montreal.
He is also a non-executive director of AstroPower Inc. P Hooley FCA, MSc Non-executive Director Appointed to the board as a non-executive director in 2002, Peter Hooley, aged 56, is group finance director of Smith & Nephew plc, a position he has held since 1991.
He was a non-executive director of Powell Duffryn plc from 1997 to 2000.
Left to right R H L Clark J D M Smith J W Edington A G Irwin G F Page A E Cook A J Hannam P Hooley G C Cooper Below J M Pope Company Secretary
