NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL ST DIRECTORS REPORTATEMENTS The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2002.
At 31 March 2002 Principal activities Authority to purchase shares The principal activity of the Group consists of running, operating, managing At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 10 July 2001 authority was and supplying telecommunications systems and related services.
given for the Company to purchase up to 37,676,964 of its own shares.
On 29 June 2001 the Company purchased 92,517 shares in Kingston Review of the business and future developments Communications HULL PLC.
These were purchased on the open market A review of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries during the for total consideration of 110,000 and are being held by a discretionary trust year is incorporated in the various reviews set out on pages 10 to 15. to satisfy future executive share awards.
The total holding of own shares represents 0.1 per cent of the total called up share capital of the Company Results and dividends as at 31 March 2002.
The loss for the year attributable to members of the Parent Company amounted to 34.0 million 2001: 10.5 million.
The Directors do not European Economic and Monetary Union EMU recommend the payment of a dividend 2001: nil.
All divisions within the Group have analysed the impact on their business operations arising from the introduction of the euro.
Systems have been Charitable and political donations adapted successfully, and costs arising are not material.
The Group The Group made a number of local charitable donations throughout the continues to use the pound sterling for all domestic UK transactions.
year to support community organisations and initiatives totalling 57,925 2001: 127,955.
No political donations were made.
Substantial shareholdings With the exception of those holdings of ordinary shares listed below, Creditor payment policy the Directors are not aware of any person holding 3 per cent or more Each of the Groups operating companies aims to pay their suppliers within of the ordinary share capital of the Company at 7 May 2002 which a reasonable period of the invoice being received and in accordance with is required to be disclosed in accordance with sections 198 to 208 the Confederation of British Industry prompt payment code copies of the Companies Act 1985. available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
At 31 March 2002, the Companys trade creditors represented 35 days No.
of shares % held of trade purchases 2001: 34 days.
Kingston upon Hull City Council 157,499,999 41.45 Employment policies Milgo Holdings LLC 12,108,890 3.19 A new strategy has been designed to deliver growth and development of the business and its people, linked to business needs.
Kingston upon Hull City Councils shareholding is held in the name A new internal communications strategy will support our commitment of Morgan Nominees Limited.
to keep all our employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting performance of the Group.
Consultative arrangements with Directors staff across the Group are being extended to develop new partnership The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company arrangements with staff representatives.
All Directors served throughout the year.
Mr I McKenzie resigned on 31 March 2002.
The Group is committed to listening and acting upon the suggestions of our staff through these and other mechanisms such as an annual Re-election employee survey and team brieng processes.
Mr M Abrahams, Mr F Beedle and Mrs J Hughes retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr M Abrahams and Mrs J Hughes, Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
irrespective of colour, ethnic or national origin, nationality, sex, religion, marital or disabled status.
Full consideration is given to the employment, Annual General Meeting training and career development of all groups of staff.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at Hull City Hall, Kingston upon Hull on 26 July 2002 at 11am.
The notice of Annual General Meeting The training and development of employees is an activity which is accompanies this Annual Report.
considered to be fundamental to the continued success of the Group.
The Group has in place a Management Development Programme run Auditors in conjunction with Nottingham Trent Business School.
Further initiatives During the year, the Directors appointed Arthur Andersen to ll a casual are to be developed across the Group to ensure the Group has a robust vacancy as auditors of the Company.
Arthur Andersen have indicated to the succession plan and clear career paths throughout the organisation.
Company their willingness to resign at the AGM.
A resolution to appoint new auditors will be tabled at the AGM.
It is one of the main objectives of the Groups relationship with its employees that they share in the ongoing success of the Group.
John Bailey This is achieved through various share and performance related Secretary bonus schemes in which the vast majority of employees participate.
6 June 2002 Health and safety is an integral part of good business management and well-established systems of safety management are in place throughout the business.
Directors responsibilities The statement of Directors responsibilities is given in the corporate governance report.
Directors interests Details of Directors interests in the Companys shares at the start and end of the year are given in the remuneration report.
Interest of management in certain transactions Other than as disclosed in note 28, none of the Directors had an interest in a significant contract to which the Company or any subsidiary undertaking was party during the year.
Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 23
