Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Results and dividends The profit and loss account is set out on page 39 and shows a retained profit for the financial year of 0.1 million 2001: loss of 20.2 million all of which is transferred to reserves.
An interim dividend of 0.50p per share was paid on 4 October 2002 to ordinary shareholders.
The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 0.75p per share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be payable on 27 June 2003 to ordinary shareholders registered at 6 June 2003.
The total dividend for the year will then amount to 1.25p per share 2001: 1.20p.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company based in London.
Its subsidiaries and related companies provide a broad range of services in the areas of media communications and market research.
Review of business and future developments Areview of the business and likely future developments of the Group is given in the Letter to Shareholders on pages 2 to 5 and in the Financial and Operating Reviews on pages 6 to 19.
Research and development The Group is involved in media research and development in order to offer clients the most advanced media communications services.
During the year, the Group spent 24.5 million 2001: 23.2 million on research and development.
Donations The Group made charitable donations of 0.2 million 2001: 0.2 million during the year to support a number of local and national charities.
There were no political donations or expenditures during the year 2001: nil.
Employment policies The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has developed employment policies that meet local conditions and requirements.
These policies are based on the best traditions and practices in any given country in which it operates.
The directors are committed to maintain and develop communication and consultation procedures with employees, who in turn are encouraged to become aware of, and involve themselves in, the performance of their own Company and of the Group as a whole.
Consultation and involvement policies vary from country to country according to local customs, legal considerations and the size of the business.
In addition, an intranet site and a quarterly, in-house magazine serve to keep employees around the world updated with news and information concerning the Group and its businesses.
Employment policies do not discriminate between employees or potential employees on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or natural origin, sex, marital status, religious beliefs or disability.
Should any employee become disabled, every practical effort is made to provide continued employment.
Health & safety policies The Group is committed to conducting its business in a manner which ensures high standards of health and safety for its employees, visitors and the general public.
It complies with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
Ethical, environmental & social issues The Group takes its ethical, environmental and social responsibilities seriously.
The Company is part of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index.
Although the Groups business has a relatively low impact on the environment, every effort is made to ensure that in carrying out its day-to-day business the Group gives due consideration to ethical, environmental and social issues.
Environmental efficiencies have focused on key issues relevant to the Group, including making use of electronic communication, recycling, energy management and vehicles with low emissions.
The Groups offices are encouraged to collect and recycle waste paper and toner cartridges, use energy efficient heating and lighting wherever possible and use unleaded fuel.
23 Aegis Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Report of the directors continued Socially, a Vision & Values policy has been rolled-out globally, developed with the emphasis on job and wealth creation.
This is backed by clear commitments on human rights based on the belief that the Group can make its greatest contribution to sustainable social development by sharing values and ideas with others.
The Group also has a policy to ensure that local charities benefit from either direct help or donations.
Supplier payment policy Whilst the Company does not impose a formal code of payment practice on its subsidiaries, the Group nevertheless does have the following policy concerning the payment of its suppliers: To agree the terms of payment with suppliers in advance: To ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment: and To abide by the terms of payment.
At 31 December 2002, the Group had 61 days purchases outstanding 2001: 64 days.
The creditor day analysis is not applicable to the holding company.
Directors The names of the directors at the date of this report and biographical details are given on pages 20 and 21.
As detailed in last years report, Ray Kelly resigned on 8 March 2002.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 34.
Re-election of directors In accordance with the Articles of Association, Doug Flynn and David Verklin retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
John Amerman, who is aged 71, will also retire by rotation and offer himself for re-election.
He was appointed to the board on 12 December 1997 and in the opinion of the directors brings invaluable experience to the board.
Details of all the directors service agreements, including notice periods, are given in the Remuneration Report on page 32.
Substantial shareholdings At 25 March 2003 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Number of Shares % Deutsche Bank AG & subsidiaries 189,107,030 17.12 Harris Associates LP 131,753,400 11.93 Aviva plc 66,461,869 6.02 AGF Funds Inc 58,016,800 5.25 M&G Investment Management Ltd 40,073,625 3.62 FMR Corp Fidelity Investments 37,854,068 3.43 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 33,172,194 3.00 Share capital Details of share capital movements authorised and issued are given in note 18 to the financial statements on page 56.
Special business at the Annual General Meeting At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting resolutions will be proposed for the following purposes: Resolution 7 is seeking approval of the Remuneration Report which is set out on pages 29 to 36.
Resolution 8 is to grant to the directors limited authority to allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate amount of 18,409,937.
If passed, the resolution will enable the directors to allot a maximum of 368,198,740 ordinary shares which represent 33.3% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 25 March 2003.
Save for shares to be issued to satisfy existing legal obligations, the directors have no present intention of exercising the authority which would be conferred by this resolution.
24 Report of the directors continued Resolution 9 is to confer on the directors a restricted power to allot shares for cash without complying with statutory pre-emption rights.
If passed, the disapplication will cover issues by way of rights and other issues up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,761,269 which such amount represents 55,225,380 ordinary shares amounting to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 25 March 2003.
In relation to the exercise of this authority, the Company will have regard to the guidelines published by the investment committees of both the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Resolution 10 is to confer authority on the Company to purchase its own shares.
No purchases have been made to the date of this report and there are no outstanding contracts to purchase shares as of this date.
If granted the directors will exercise the authority only if in their judgement it is in the best interests of shareholders generally and where exercise should result in an improvement in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
If passed, the resolution will enable the Company to purchase up to 55,229,813 ordinary shares 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 25 March 2003.
The maximum price at which any share may be purchased is the price equal to 5% above the middle market quotations of such share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of such purchase, exclusive of expenses, and the minimum price at which any share may be purchased is the par value of such share.
The number of options for ordinary shares which are outstanding at 25 March 2003, the latest practical date prior to publication of the Annual Report and Accounts, was 98,199,420 8.9% of the present issued ordinary share capital.
If the proposed authority for the Company to purchase its own shares is used in full, the total number of such options will represent 9.4% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Resolution 11 is to create a new Executive Share Option Scheme, details of which are given in the accompanying Circular dated 26 March 2003.
Resolution 12 is to create a new Performance Share Plan, details of which are given in the accompanying Circular dated 26 March 2003.
The authorities sought by resolutions 8, 9 and 10 are to replace the existing authorities which expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and these authorities will lapse at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
Auditors Following the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 5 February 2003 and the directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution to appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Special notice has been given to the Company of the intention to propose this resolution.
Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors statement of auditors responsibilities set out on page 37, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of that financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that financial year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 39 to 66, the Company and the Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed, subject to any explanations disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
John Ross Company Secretary 26 March 2003 25
