making assets work... 10|11 Portfolio Management Over the last 12 months we have completed most of the rationalisation of our investment portfolio to focus primarily on four core sectors of the market: Central London offices and shops, shopping centres, retail warehouses, and south-east industrial premises.
These are the sectors that we consider will deliver superior rental growth over the medium and long-term as a result of constraints on the supply of land.
The nature of most of our individual holdings is such as to enable us to apply our asset management skills to generate growth in earnings.
Francis Salway Below Retailer relationship management meeting.
Opposite top 2 Portman House, an 11,070m development in Oxford Street, London W1.
Opposite bottom A new format Comet Superstore at Aintree Retail Park.
Empress State Building Following receipt of planning permission last year, Land Securities Development is now progressing work on the flagship building for LandFlex, Empress State Building in Earls Court, SW6.
Representing a dramatic element of West Londons 2 skyline the 43,000m building is being extensively refurbished and extended and will be surrounded by landscaping incorporating a new piazza.
The entire building is being reclad and the existing floor plates extended five metres on one elevation 2 to increase floor plates to 1,400m.
On the top of the building three glassclad storeys are being added, creating spectacular penthouse offices and accommodation for exhibition, office and corporate functions.
Above this a circular revolving top floor will house a bar with panoramic views across London for the use of the occupants.
making space work... Land Securities product development team.
LandFlex During the last 12 months we have ability to extract and share in any been advancing our proposals for a procurement benefits arising from new leasing product for London the scale of our operations and offices, which we have called buying power.
The LandFlex product is designed to meet occupiers desire for The LandFlex product will not be certainty of cost and flexibility in rolled out across all our existing terms of lease length.
The product London portfolio, but only on anticipated the recently introduced buildings specifically refurbished for Code of Practice on Commercial this purpose.
Securities Development placed contracts for the refurbishment and From the occupiers point of view, extension of two such buildings.
LandFlex offers: a range of lease The first is Empress State Building, a 2 lengths with the possibility of options 43,000m 31-storey tower building in to break or options to renew on preEarls Court, SW6.
This building is due determined terms: rent reviews on the for completion in summer 2003. basis of RPI rather than conventional The second building is 7 Soho Square, market rent reviews: and a rent that is W1, which is also being refurbished inclusive of normal landlords and extended to provide approximately 2 services, repairs and liability for 5,700m of offices with completion dilapidations upon lease termination.
As these buildings From Land Securities perspective, are let we plan to expand the LandFlex 2 LandFlex will offer enhanced earnings offer to around 140,000m of offices through premium rents and the within the next three to five years.
12|13 Portfolio Management Almondvale shopping centre Our retail space in Livingston, which includes the 2 Almondvale Centre, approaches 100,000m equivalent to a regional shopping centre.
The lights at Piccadilly Circus Land Securities owns the building upon which the Piccadilly lights are located which generate in excess of 2.5m of income per annum.
Eastbourne Terrace Portfolio Management St Davids Centre, Cardiff In 2000 we acquired an office Each of our core areas of focus have Ongoing property management at the As well as having a rear frontage into building at 10-30 Eastbourne Terrace dedicated portfolio management St Davids Centre, Cardiff, is focused the mall, the store occupies a 100% and last year purchased the adjacent teams who are responsible for on enhancing the existing retail offer prime frontage on to Queen Street building, 40-50 Eastbourne Terrace.
managing the investment portfolio while we continue to develop our and consolidates our holdings at the 2 This 13,310m office building with the objective of maximising plans for a significant extension in front of the Centre.
It was acquired for with four retail units provides a returns by creating additional value, as partnership with Capital Shopping a little under 25m to show a yield development opportunity with the well as looking for new opportunities.
During the year we acquired of 6.25%.
potential to increase its floor area the Bhs store in Queen Street, Cardiff, once the current leases expire in June which backs on to the principal mall.
Together the buildings give us a frontage in excess of 300 metres opposite Paddington Station.
Operating and Financial Review| Land Securities INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE RELATIVE TO IPD NET ANNUAL RENT ROLL Year ended 31 March 2002 UNGEARED TOTAL RETURNS LONG TERM Table 1 Periods to 31 March 2002 Offices Central and Inner London 10 years 19 years 221.8m | 45.8% %% Offices elsewhere in the UK Land Securities 12.3 11.4 8.3m | 1.7% Central and Inner London shops IPD 10.8 10.2 41.6m | 8.6% IPD Upper quartile 11.4 11.0 Other in town shops 37.3m | 7.7% IPD All Fund Universe March 2002 unfrozen Source: IPD Shopping centres 78.9m | 16.3% UNGEARED TOTAL RETURNS ONE YEAR Table 2 12 months to 31 March 2002 Total 484.1m Land Securities IPD Retail warehouses and food superstores %% 56.1m | 11.6% Offices 2.8 6.1 Industrial premises and warehouses 23.9m | 4.9% Retail 7.6 6.9 Hotels, Leisure and Residential Industrial 7.7 7.9 16.2m | 3.4% Other commercial 9.0 8.1 PORTFOLIO 5.4 6.8 The figures in the chart exclude developments which are producing less than 50% of their anticipated IPD All Fund Universe March 2002 unfrozen Source: IPD income making acquisitions work... our valuers assessment of ERV.
This highly satisfactory result is, at least in part, Review of activity attributable to our active management of multi-tenanted holdings which has driven rental values forward.
Performance benchmarking Table 1 above compares Land Securities ungeared total property return over the Investment activity purchases last ten-year and 19-year periods to 31 March 2002 to the IPD All Fund The level of investment portfolio purchases over the last 12 months was modest as Universe March 2002, which comprises the same portfolios that contributed to we implemented our strategy of increasing the proportion of capital invested in our the IPD All Fund Universe in December 2001 many of these funds are now development activities and in Land Securities Trillium.
We acquired seven investment valued quarterly by IPD, while the others were extrapolated forward.
It can be properties for 144.6m.
Five of these properties adjoin properties we already seen that Land Securities portfolio has out-performed and produced a return own and offer varying degrees of potential synergies with the existing holdings.
which places it in the top quartile of contributing portfolios over these two time periods.
The 19-year period has been selected as the longest time period over The average yield on these purchase outlays including the cost of stamp duty which IPD provide comparative performance figures.
Table 2 above compares the performance of the Groups portfolio to that of IPD Investment activity sales on a similar basis at both sector and total portfolio levels over the 12-month Over the last 12 months, we sold 44 investment properties for 508.9m net of period to 31 March 2002.
Our sector focus means that the structure of the sale costs.
This is the highest value of sales undertaken by Land Securities in a portfolio will impact adversely in some individual years, and this has been the single year and reflects the extent of the portfolio rationalisation which has case with our high exposure to offices over the last 12 months.
It is also the case been undertaken.
The average yield on the properties sold was 8.0%.
The FRS3 that our London office portfolio has under-performed, largely because of profit on investment property sales was 10.1m.
development schemes and other properties with short income profiles.
We believe that in the medium and long term our chosen areas of sector focus will deliver The most significant sale, and the Companys largest-ever single investment superior performance and that our development activity will also boost returns.
property transaction, was the disposal of six shopping centres in Ballymena, Newtownards, Irvine, Keighley, Walsall and Bootle, virtually completing our The generation of rental income growth disinvestment from shopping centres in smaller towns.
Only five of these have Over the last 12 months growth in annual rents payable has been 5.6% on a been recorded as a sale during our 2001 2002 financial year as the sale of the like-for-like basis.
Rent reviews have been settled at an average of 10% above shopping centre in Bootle is conditional upon obtaining freeholders consent.
14|15 Portfolio Management Review of Activity INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO VALUATION BY TYPE VALUE BY LOCATION At 31 March 2002 At 31 March 2002 % figures calculated by reference to a total portfolio value of 7.81bn Offices Central and Inner London 3,457.2m | 44.3% Offices rest of UK 95.7m | 1.2% Central and Inner London shops 683.5m | 8.8% Central and Inner London Other in town shops 4,380.3m | 56.2% 566.1m | 7.2% Rest of South East and Eastern 999.0m | 12.7% Shopping centres 1,278.6m | 16.4% Midlands 479.7m | 6.1% Total 7.81bn Total 7.81bn Wales and South West Retail warehouses and food superstores 459.2m | 5.8% 995.3m | 12.7% North, North West, Yorkshire and Humberside Industrial premises and warehouses 955.9m | 12.3% 375.4m | 4.8% Hotels, leisure and residential Scotland and Northern Ireland 359.2m | 4.6% 536.9m | 6.9% We also disposed of 17 high street shops for total net proceeds of 60.6m.
The Although the weakness of the occupier market has increased availability levels, town centre retail portfolio outside London is now almost wholly focused upon the pipeline of speculative development in the West End continues to be small.
shopping centres in larger towns or cities, which we anticipate will make a In the City, however, it is slightly higher.
Our own portfolio void levels for stronger contribution to earnings growth in the future.
London offices are 0.7% across the investment portfolio and 2.6% overall, including the development and refurbishment schemes either recently During the year, we also sold 106.9m of Central London offices comprising completed or due for completion in 2002.
These void levels are low both from eight smaller or more secondary properties.
We also sold our largest office an historical perspective and as compared to current average void levels in this holding outside London, a building in Uxbridge, for just under 50m: the sale market, which are generally considered to be between 6% to 8%.
was completed in April 2001 before demand for Thames Valley offices weakened.
During the year we acquired a recently refurbished property in Wood Street, EC2 for just over 30m, providing an initial yield of 7.72% and a reversionary 2 From our out-of-town retail portfolio we sold three supermarket investments yield in excess of 8.0%, and a 7,770m property at 190 High Holborn, WC1 for and a stand-alone retail warehouse for 60m.
We also sold eight industrial approximately 30m.
The latter was subject to a short leaseback to the vendor properties for 31.9m, all except three of which were located outside the and is now being refurbished.
Two further purchases made during the year offer south-east.
We now have only four industrial property holdings located outside significant development opportunities in the medium term.
The first was a the south-east.
mixed office and industrial holding at Bankside in Southwark SE1, which is adjacent to our existing holding and proposed development at St Christopher 2 As a result of the sales programme undertaken over the last few years, non-core House: the second a 13,310m building, 40-50 Eastbourne Terrace, Paddington holdings of offices outside London and industrial properties outside the W2, which is adjacent to our existing holding at 10-30 Eastbourne Terrace.
south-east and eastern regions account for less than 2% of total portfolio value.
The most significant rent review settlement over the last 12 months was on London offices and retail Eland House SW1, where the increase in rent is in excess of 5m per annum.
The London office market experienced a sharp reduction in the take-up of We have also established significantly higher rental values on our retail holdings accommodation by occupiers during the second half of 2001, a trend which in Victoria Street SW1, through negotiating surrenders and relettings, moving was already evident before 11 September.
Reduced demand has been retail rental values ahead by over 25%.
accompanied by an increase in the amount of space being marketed by occupiers which now accounts for over half of the total vacant office accommodation in Central London.
Operating and Financial Review| Land Securities making resources work... During the year we started to examine the feasibility of introducing external In terms of asset management, we have had an extremely active year across the investors into a fund or limited partnership comprising the major part of our retail portfolio.
This is exemplified by initiatives at The Bridges shopping centre holdings in Victoria.
The properties provide an estate of 5.2 hectares, which in Sunderland.
Following the extension to the scheme, which was completed can be managed as an estate in a unified way that will support ongoing rental and let in 2000, we have taken advantage of the increased critical mass of the growth.
We are exploring ways of matching our desire for long-term ownership centre to drive performance within the original phase I of the scheme.
Over the and extensive redevelopment with the aspirations of third-party investors.
last 12 months, we have negotiated the surrender of six leases, granted ten new The level of our investment in Victoria is likely to remain broadly constant, with leases and introduced five new retailers to the centre that were not previously our future expenditure on the Stag Place development being balanced by the represented in the city.
We have also facilitated new shop fits in 14 units and introduction of new capital through the partnership.
introduced leases with a turnover element to eight of the units in phase I on a basis consistent with the leases granted on phase II.
In addition, we have Shopping centres and shops introduced a system to record retail sales which will both deepen our The UK retail sector has had a buoyant year with strong growth in retail sales relationship with retailers by the sharing of daily turnover information and volumes and, in general, increasing levels of profitability for retailers.
Rental assist in focusing the promotional activity at the centre.
The result of these growth across the sector was modest which, in our opinion, has resulted in a various initiatives has been to increase footfall by 12% and top rents in phase I much lower proportion of retailers being stretched by prevailing rental levels.
We view this as creating a good platform for ongoing rental growth.
Retail warehouses Our retail portfolio has been significantly repositioned as a result of the sales Retail warehousing has enjoyed some of the highest levels of rental growth undertaken over the last year, which are described on page 14.
Subject to a small within our portfolio.
It has also benefited from strong demand from institutional number of exceptions, which are not material in terms of value, the portfolio investors, particularly since the start of the current calendar year.
is now concentrated on larger conurbations, and predominantly on shopping centres as opposed to individual high street shops.
Shopping centres offer We purchased the Nene Valley Retail Park in Northampton for just over 30m to excellent opportunities for active management to enhance both value and the show an initial yield of 7.0% and a nominal equivalent yield of 7.5%.
The park 2 retail environment for shoppers.
provides 13,700m arranged in ten units and benefits from a planning consent for open A1 use.
It forms part of the towns largest area of out-of-town retailing 2 We acquired properties within or adjacent to our existing retail holdings in comprising some 40,000m.
Since completing the acquisition at the beginning Cardiff, Sunderland, Aberdeen and Exeter for a total of 37m.
of the calendar year, we have let the one vacant unit at a rent in excess of 10% above the rental value estimated at the time of purchase.
16|17 Portfolio Management Review of Activity Racecourse Retail Park, Aintree Horizon Point, Hemel Hempstead Team Valley, Gateshead Similarly, at the Almondvale Retail Park in Livingston, which we acquired in the Industrial premises and warehouses first quarter of 2001, we have now taken a surrender of the lease of a unit and Despite the severe decline in manufacturing output over the last 12 months, 2 relet it at 172 per m, thereby moving rental values on the park some 20% warehouse and industrial rental values have remained stable.
This is consistent ahead of the level estimated at the time of purchase.
This also benefits our other with the fact that the majority of investment grade property in this sector two retail park holdings in Livingston.
represents warehousing rather than manufacturing activity and, particularly in the south-east, is more closely aligned with distribution rather than We are continuing to introduce new retailers to Retail World, Team Valley in manufacturing.
With our sales programme continuing to focus on the disposal Gateshead.
We have agreed terms whereby MFI downsize their unit from of properties outside the south-east, we now have just under 90% of our 2 2 5,100m to 2,050m and have prelet the majority of the surplus space to Courts industrial and warehouse portfolio located in our core area of focus.
2 at 237 per m. Other lettings on the park have continued to push rental values 2 ahead to 242 per m for smaller sized units.
Our strategy for increasing our industrial and warehouse holdings in the south-east is primarily via the acquisition of sites for development.
This is In addition to the larger scale development activity covered in the Development covered in the Development Review.
section of this report, we are undertaking smaller scale development or partial redevelopment schemes within a number of our retail parks.
For example, we Our asset management activities were effective in generating additional rental 2 have recently obtained planning consent, on appeal, for a 3,110m extension to income and minimising void levels which were kept down to 1.3% on the 2 our retail park in Bexhill.
At Chesterfield we are also constructing a 1,400m investment portfolio.
unit for PC World as an extension to our existing retail park.
The asset management activity is not limited to our retail parks.
Over the last year, we have particularly focused on the potential for asset management opportunities on stand-alone units.
During the year, we concluded an agreement 2 for a 1,400m extension to a J Sainsbury supermarket in Hull.
We also negotiated surrenders on two stand-alone retail warehouse units in Sheffield and Hendon in North London.
In both instances we plan to refurbish the units substantially and are currently negotiating relettings at higher rents.
Operating and Financial Review| Land Securities
