making relationships work... 26|27 Total Property Outsourcing In November 2000 total property outsourcing became an integral part of the Land Securities offer.
The business case for a one-stop-shop approach for the provision of property accommodation and related services is compelling.
Business and public sector organisations are increasingly seeking ways to release capital, achieve flexibility in their property commitments, reduce costs and focus on their core activities.
We offer alternative structures to the traditional landlord and tenant relationship.
Our confidence in this market has been endorsed by the two contracts we won last year.
We believe that our market leadership position leaves us well placed to win further business as occupiers increasingly recognise the benefits of such arrangements.
Below Land Securities Trillium new business team.
Opposite top Faraday Building, Queen Victoria Street, London a Telereal owned property.
Ian Ellis Opposite bottom Land Securities Trilliums new reception at its 140 London Wall headquarters.
OVERVIEW BY CONTRACT SCOPE AND KEY FEATURES Prime BBC BT Estates strategy X X X Asset management X X Development X Management of facilities management services FM X X X Provision of FM Services X X Management of capital works X X X Provision of capital works X X Flexible occupation X X Unavailability and performance penalties X X X Price predictability X X X Property outsourcing We provide total property outsourcing We work closely with our clients to public and private organisations to identify their requirements and to enable them to procure then to provide the solution.
The accommodation in the same way range of service we offer combines that they purchase other goods and the ownership and maintenance services.
This enables organisations of property, together with the to focus on their core activities management of services provided by while leaving the delivery of service partners in the areas of accommodation and associated catering, cleaning and security.
The need for We are also able to harness extensive greater flexibility to meet changing development expertise from within accommodation needs as well as the Group to design and build the desire for certainty of costs make accommodation where new facilities this a viable alternative for businesses are required by our customers.
who are seeking alternative ways of fulfilling their requirements.
Our approach to property outsourcing is based upon achieving the highest As a market leader in property possible standards of service.
Over the outsourcing, we have developed the last four years, Land Securities Trillium capabilities to enable us to deliver has invested over 30m in developing a first class solution for customers, best-in-class customer service from the development of long-term capabilities that deliver 24-hour support.
strategic solutions to the delivery of service through our customer service centres and our network of service Jobcentre Plus site at Chancel House, Neasden.
providers.... making accommodation work Facilities and business services managers meeting in the North East region with a representative from Service Partner, Eurest Sutcliffe.
28|29 Total Property Outsourcing The BBC Property Partnership In 1998 the BBC outlined its future to ensure that, over time, the property strategy which described relationship can be extended right its vision to deliver a working across the BBCs portfolio.
Already the environment to attract and retain the property partnership owns the best people, support the business at an existing BBC site at White City, and affordable cost and be flexible as its through Land Securities Development needs change.
In order to deliver this is responsible for developing BBC vision, and to fund the significantly facilities at the six hectare site see increased investment in property that page 21. this strategy required, the BBC sought to develop a property partnership In addition, some 330 employees have with the private sector.
Following transferred from the BBC to provide an extensive bidding and evaluation facilities management services across process, Land Securities Trillium was the entire BBC estates in London and chosen as the BBCs partner and we Scotland, together with assuming have entered into an agreement to responsibility for construction and provide accommodation and services capital projects works at BBC locations to the BBC for a 30-year period.
The partnership with the BBC is expected to grow and develop over the years.
While, at the outset, the partnership has a clearly defined scope of operation, its financial and operating model has been developed Edinburgh regional office provides an integrated property management service for the PRIME and BBC contracts.
A customer service representative at the DWP modernisation project Customer Service Centre in Leeds, where customers One of our key tasks is to identify and In March 2001, we also became from BT and O2 call to report building faults and deliver a solution to each clients involved in the DWPs new business to book conference rooms, touch-down desks and car parking.
changing accommodation concept, named Jobcentre Plus, to requirements.
Over the past year, we deliver benefit and work interviews have been working closely with the in a combined location.
This new The employees would be moving Department of Work and Pensions business model introduced a need from a major corporate where property DWP to do just this.
The DWP to offer an improved environment in was generally viewed as a distraction, established a new Pension Service and which to conduct interviews and often diverting both capital and formed Jobcentre Plus, and we have receive members of the public.
We management away from its core been actively working to identify new were responsible for implementing business areas, to a business where properties to enable these organisations the design, delivery and management property is its core activity.
While BT to meet their business needs.
of this project while at the same time Telereal Property enjoyed an excellent reputation the DWP continued to deliver its With BTs decision to outsource its within the external property world, the For The Pension Service we delivered services to the public.
Projects to the property portfolio came the team had spent substantial management 2 in three months some 12,750m of value of approximately 16m were announcement that 350 employees time proving its value internally.
space to accommodate approximately delivered on schedule to allow the from the BT property team were to be 1,500 new staff.
The fit out of the opening of these new offices to the transferred to the successful bidder.
For BTs property team, the transaction properties included new open plan public.
has presented an opportunity and they office space, training rooms and a When in March 2001 Telereal, the are now part of a company where new staff caf facility.
As part of a Building on the success of these pilot joint venture partnership between there are improved career and personal second stage exercise we are also sites, the DWP is now planning the Land Securities Trillium and the Pears development opportunities.
The benefits locating and acquiring another six conversion of a further 1,000 Group, was selected, BTs focus on the for Telereal were that it gained a team new properties to house a further properties around the country, and we reputation of the selected bidders as of property professionals with a wide 2,500 staff.
These amount to some have been appointed to manage the an employer as well as the obvious range of skills and in-depth knowledge 2 22,000m of office space and will be strategy for implementation of the commercial imperatives of the deal of the BT portfolio and business ready for occupation between June roll-out across the DWP portfolio over had a strong positive impact on the which will prove critical in offering and September 2002. the next four years.
people involved in this transfer.
a high quality service back to BT.
Operating and Financial Review| Land Securities LAND SECURITIES TRILLIUM LAND SECURITIES TRILLIUM Regional Breakdown by Contract Employee Analysis 2 000, m Asset Management Northern Ireland London and South East 173 Telereal 130 BBC 338 Total 130 PRIME 403 Call Centre Telereal 2,385 152 Total 3,126 Capital Projects 305 Number of people Quality Assurance North England 2 Total 7,564m 45 PRIME 625 1,330 Scotland Telereal 1,072 BBC 32 Total 1,697 Facilities Management PRIME 219 478 Telereal 496 Total 747 HR Finance Information Midlands Wales and West Systems Business Dev.
PRIME 190 PRIME 214 177 Telereal 767 Telereal 693 Total 957 Total 907 BBC PRIME Telereal making outsourcing work...
Early this year the BT in-house corporate property team transferred to Land Review of activity Securities Trillium Telecom Services Limited.
These employees are now dedicated The year was one of significant activity and success for Land Securities Trillium.
to delivering Telereals service to BT under the terms of the contract with all Two major new contracts, with the BBC and BT, were won and mobilised.
costs borne by the joint venture company.
This success has generated further interest in total property outsourcing from all sectors of the economy.
We have also formed a second joint venture with the Pears Group, Telereal Ventures, and entered into a contract with O2, formerly BTCellnet, to provide We entered into our partnership with the BBC in September 2001, which strategic outsourcing services across the O2 UK property estate.
The O2 UK included the transfer of some 330 BBC employees into the Group, and are 2 estate totals some 8,000 properties comprising offices, call centres, telecom now managing and servicing 320,000m of accommodation in Scotland and switches and cell sites, and warehousing.
At this stage, Telereal Ventures contract London.
As part of the transaction, the existing White City property and land with O2 UK does not include the acquisition of assets and is for an initial assets have been transferred to the partnership property vehicle which we have period of 18 months.
It is expected that the contract will generate income of consolidated in these financial statements.
This has generated cash for the BBC to around 1.5m over its term.
invest in its core business of programme making.
We are making good progress on the White City development page 21.
We have made good progress in our objective of growing the business.
At the beginning of the year we were a single contract operation with some 600 staff We continue to work with the BBC to develop further the scope of this contract and we now have 1,330 staff operating across the entire country.
The breadth of and have prepared business cases for additional buildings on the White City site.
skills and expertise within our business unit as set out in the chart above left We have also submitted our views on the Broadcasting House scheme in London enables us to provide the complete accommodation solution to clients, and and the proposed new Scottish Headquarters in Glasgow for consideration.
together with our specialist service partners we are able to deliver service and offer advice across the full spectrum of property issues.
In December we announced that Telereal, a 50:50 joint venture with the Pears Group, had completed its agreement with BT for the 2.38bn acquisition of the This growth in our contract base has also seen the number of properties under majority of the BT property estate.
The transaction was financed by a 1.8bn 2 management increase to over 7,400 premises, amounting to 7.56m m in total.
asset-backed securitisation, 400m of bank debt and 146m of equity from In the chart above right we show the location of these properties broken each of the joint venture partners.
The estate comprises 6,700 properties with a 2 down by individual contract, demonstrating the national nature of our business.
total floor space of 5.5m m, 90% of which is freehold or valuable leasehold, with 10% short leasehold.
Under the terms of the 30-year agreement, Telereal is responsible for providing accommodation and estates management services to BT.
30|31 Total Property Outsourcing review of activity The mobilisation activity involved in the establishment of the Telereal and BBC This has created new opportunities for Land Securities Trillium and we have operations has required involvement from all aspects of our support strengthened our new business team and marketing activities accordingly.
New employing companies are being created, trade union Particular focus has been given to targeting companies with the right mix of relationships have been implemented and developed, reward and remuneration characteristics to enable significant value to be created for both the company schemes have been established, roadshows and training schemes have been held and us.
These characteristics include portfolio size, which allows economies of for transferring staff, and new service partner relationships have been put in scale to be created through integration with our operating cost infrastructure: place.
At the same time, information systems have been implemented to ensure covenant strength combined with underlying property value: and dynamic that all aspects of our property outsourcing operation are able to communicate business change against which value can be derived from our flexible property with each other speedily, while at the same time ensuring that a consistently outsourcing model and estate management expertise.
high level of service is delivered to all our customers and clients across the country.
Specific focus has been given to those sectors, which we see as being potentially receptive to property outsourcing solutions.
Our negotiations on deals with Business and product development several organisations within these sectors are developing well.
Our existing property outsourcing contracts with the Department for Work and Pensions DWP, BBC and, through Telereal, with BT are performing well which Within the public sector, we are looking to build on the success of the DWP provides a sound platform for the development of further business with these PRIME contract, which continues to perform very well.
Particular opportunities include the potential outsourcing of the private partnership programme and best value initiatives, which apply to all Employment Services estate and contract extensions with the BBC such as life local authority accommodation and property services, has created additional cycle works, facilities management for the remainder of the estate and new opportunities.
developments at Broadcasting House and Pacific Quay.
Since each clients requirements are different, and the property outsourcing The last year has seen a considerable increase in the level of interest in market continues to develop, we are constantly looking at new ways of outsourced property solutions as businesses seek to improve balance sheet developing innovative solutions in property.
To meet this need we have a efficiency and returns to shareholders, achieve operating cost reduction, sustain product development team that is currently working with our portfolio cash flow, streamline property-related head-count costs and achieve flexibility in management team on LandFlex.
This team also works closely with our new their property portfolios.
business team on specific projects for new clients to enable continuing innovation to be made in our property outsourcing deals.
Operating and Financial Review| Land Securities
