Last year we described how we had set the company on course to become the provider of choice of real estate and associated occupational services.
Over the past 12 months we have made substantial progress towards achieving that aim.
Driving this new strategy were fundamental shifts in our macroand micro-economic environment, which required us to evolve our business activities to take maximum advantage of the opportunities that we saw in this new era.
These drivers continue to influence the way we develop our business.
Ian J Henderson Chief Executive corporate review... Our new corporate structure is working well and each of the three business concluded that we have surplus capital which we will be returning to units has made good progress in achieving the objectives set for them last year.
We have virtually completed the rationalisation of the investment portfolio while, at the same time, investing in buildings which will form the future Performance benchmarking development programme.
We have also been looking for the most advantageous During 2001 we subscribed to the Investment Property Databank IPD way of creating a partnership or joint venture in which to hold our Victoria property performance benchmarking service both for internal management properties, a topic which is expanded on in the portfolio management review.
purposes and also to ensure transparency of performance for the benefit of our We have advanced the development pipeline and including our share of joint shareholders.
We consider the most appropriate measure of our performance is 2 developments we now have 260,160m of new developments in progress, total return in the form of NAV growth and dividends.
Total property return, 2 a further 212,900m with planning permission or minded to grant and more on an ungeared basis, in the form of the income yield and capital growth on 2 than 249,960m at the pre-planning stage.
We have also confirmed our position properties, is an important ingredient of this wider measure.
as one of the leaders in total property outsourcing through winning two major contracts with the BBC and BT.
While we believe that benchmarking is a strong management tool, there are reasons why a comparison to IPD does not provide the definitive measure of our The level of activity over the past 12 months demonstrates our focus on the performance.
For example, it is important to take into account the impact of delivery of our strategy and increasing the returns we generate for shareholders.
gearing, the chosen sectors of focus of the Group, and the constraints of capital We are pleased that Land Securities Trillium has exceeded our expectations gains tax on portfolio rotation when compared with typical institutional investors.
Our discussions with occupiers lead us to believe that there is good demand for property outsourcing and we are prepared to invest I am pleased to report that the comparison to IPD shows that over the long term significantly in this business.
Our ambition is to grow both the total property we have delivered significant value through our performance.
Over the 19-year outsourcing and the development business units over the next five years until period covered by IPD, we are in the top quartile of contributing portfolios in each of these contribute approximately 25% of our total operating profit.
terms of ungeared total return.
Further details of our comparative performance We believe that this will provide a balance between the strong and secure over the last year are given in the portfolio management review.
performance of the investment portfolio and the higher rewards from our development and outsourcing activities.
Responding to the challenges set by Government In April the Government launched a New Code of Practice for Commercial In this context we have reviewed our capital requirements for the medium term Leases.
It has been seen by some as an attack on the traditional leasing structure and, as reported in the Chairmans Statement and Financial Review, have in the UK.
We would see it rather as a call for building owners to offer occupiers 6|7 an alternative to traditional lease forms.
I am delighted that we have anticipated Through regeneration and the delivery of attractive and environmentally the Governments initiative in this area by responding to businesses desire for sustainable buildings, property companies can improve our daily lives and make new forms of occupational contracts both through the acquisition of Trillium businesses more efficient.
We are involved in major regeneration programmes in and also through initiating the development of our LandFlex product.
Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff and Kent Thameside and wish to continue this significant work to improve the fabric of those cities and other potential areas The Government continues to be challenged by the renewal of the countrys where we might get involved.
We therefore need the Government to provide infrastructure and the regeneration of inner urban areas.
We have consistently other developers and ourselves with a platform that encourages, rather than highlighted the threat to the UK and, in particular, to London of neglecting discourages, our potential contribution.
Urgent priority needs to be given to emulating the success of Government strategies where deregulation and tax incentives have contributed Group objectives to the successful implementation of urban renewal and infrastructure projects.
Over the next year we shall seek to expand on the initial success of property outsourcing by developing partnerships with businesses that wish to rationalise Property investment can act as a catalyst for renewal in this way.
However, it their property holdings, releasing value to our respective shareholders mutual requires significant equity investment from specialist companies with deep advantage.
The development unit will press on vigorously with the plans pools of development expertise.
Financial institutions tend not to have sufficient outlined in this report to ensure that we are well placed to secure lettings as the skilled personnel for large-scale development, and private property companies market improves, while portfolio management will continue to drive the financed by high levels of debt do not have the necessary equity available.
returns from the investment assets.
A quoted property company can deliver urban renewal, but the tax regime for such a company put it at a disadvantage as compared to other property vehicles.
Businesses face the constant challenge of generating ever-increasing returns.
The Government needs to recognise and address this impediment to the quoted Although, proportionally, property costs have fallen as compared to other costs, property sectors potential contribution to urban renewal.
more efficient management of property can assist in improving profits.
We are ideally positioned to deliver the accommodation and property services required The Governments plans for reform of the planning system should assist in the to fulfil this need.
We generally welcome these proposals, but we would ask that the Government listens to the representations of the property industry to ensure that there is a simple and consistent process and one which does not, by virtue of an effective development land tax, bias property owners towards retention of existing buildings which may be functionally obsolete.
