Welcome to Compass Group Compass Group is the worlds market leader in foodservice provision, operating within a market which continues to grow.
This is a marketplace worth over 200 billion.
As clear Management market leader we have around 4% of a market where Compass Group benefited greatly from the guidance outsourcing the increased use of contract foodservice and counsel of John Thomson who served as Chairman providers such as ourselves is a key driver.
The Board were saddened to hear for future growth is clear.
of his death, at the age of 74, in November 2002.
John played an important role in the growth and development Results of the Group and he will be greatly missed.
We are pleased to report that we have achieved organic turnover growth for the year of 7% together with a like During 2002 we strengthened the Group Board with the for like margin increase of 20 basis points.
We have also addition of three new directors.
Francis H Mackay achieved a significant improvement in free cash flow generation.
This strong performance reflects the Peter Blackburn was appointed as a non-executive increasing importance that the Group attributes to director on 10 April 2002.
He is Chairman of Northern delivering improved cash flow.
Foods plc and was until recently the President of the Food and Drink Federation.
He is also a non-executive Full year like for like turnover growth for the UK division director of SIG plc.
Peter retired in 2001 as Chairman is 6%, in the Continental Europe and rest of the world and Chief Executive of Nestl UK, the British subsidiary division 7% and in the North American division 7%.
of the Swiss food giant, having held a number of senior Trading in the second half of the year has been more positions with Rowntree Mackintosh plc including challenging in a number of countries due to a range of Chairman of the UK and Eire Region.
macro-economic factors including recession pressures, lower growth in airports and flat rail passenger numbers Sven Kado also was appointed as a non-executive in the UK.
Helping to offset these pressures has been a director on 10 April 2002.
He is Chairman of Marsh & continuation of the Groups first half momentum in new McLennan Holdings GmbH.
In a career spanning more business gains and a contract retention rate that remains than 30 years, Sven has held a number of senior at a record level of 95%.
positions in finance including Chief Financial Officer at Nixdorf Computer AG, Chief Financial Officer at Margin improvements include the effect of synergies Dyckerhoff AG and senior advisor at Principal Finance achieved from acquisitions, the major source of which Group Nomura International.
Michael J Bailey is from the increased efficiency and scale used by the Group in purchasing products and services used within Clive Grundy was appointed Human Resources director the business.
He joined the Group in 1985 and during that time he has held a number of senior positions Growth in human resources, operations and other functions.
Organic growth has been fuelled by contract gains, some of which are highlighted below: We are delighted to welcome Peter, Sven and Clive to Canteen Correctional Services has been awarded a the Board of Compass Group.
Peter is highly respected five-year contract worth $60 million in annual revenues in the food and beverage sector.
Sven, with his excellent by Corrections Corporation of America CCA to provide track record in finance, is a well-known business figure in foodservice and vending.
Europe and in Germany in particular.
Clive has over the Eurest is to manage staff restaurant facilities, meeting years made a significant contribution to the Group as a rooms and hospitality for all 34 UK offices of KPMG LLP valuable member of the Executive Committee.
Eurest already manages over half of KPMG LLPs offices and the new remit Acquisitions covers 11,000 staff in locations as diverse as Aberdeen, The Group has grown very quickly over recent years, not Plymouth, Leeds and London.
Annual revenues for the only organically but also with successful acquisitions which expanded contract will be 8 million.
have given Compass Group a top three position in all of the Eurest has been awarded a three-year contract with worlds major foodservice markets.
In the short term these annual revenues of 18 million to cater for staff at the acquisitions have depressed the Groups return on capital European Commission in Brussels and a five-year employed, but in the second or third year after acquisition contract with annual revenues of 20 million by these companies typically make a return greater than the The Royal TPG Post and TNT in the Netherlands.
Groups weighted average cost of capital.
We have decided to reduce the amount spent on new acquisitions for the next year or so to around 200 million per annum maximum.
This will enable the improved return on capital employed being achieved by the underlying business to become apparent.
02 Compass Group PLC 2002 2002 Turnover 10,617m Operating profit 805m by geographic area by geographic area United Kingdom 3,160m United Kingdom 422m Continental Europe & rest of the world 3,751m Continental Europe & rest of the world 202m North America 3,706m North America 181m Major acquisitions made during the year include: Travelodge and Little Chef Japan In June 2002, following a strategic review, the Group Japan is the worlds second largest developed foodservice announced that it was to pursue the disposal of Little Chef market with an estimated 21 billion of annual turnover.
and Travelodge as they lie outside the Groups core focus In January 2002, the Group acquired 84.7% of Seiyo Foods on foodservice and vending.
There has been considerable for 206 million plus assumed net debt of 131 million in interest in the sale and negotiations are currently taking order to strengthen its position in the market.
Since place with one party with a view to concluding a sale in completing the transaction, Seiyo has disposed of 120 the near future.
loss-making CASA high street restaurants for 28 million and reduced its shareholding in the fast food operator Shareholder Returns Yoshinoya D&C from 24.7% to 20.2% generating A final dividend of 5.0 pence per share is being proceeds of 31 million.
This will bring the total dividend for the year to 7.1 pence, an increase of 25%.
This is a significant In August 2002, the Groups joint venture partner in Japan, increase, reflecting the Groups confidence in its ability to Itochu Corporation, expanded its existing relationship with continue to generate strong free cash flow.
Compass Group through an investment in the Groups business in Japan.
Compass Group and Itochu have also Outlook agreed to integrate their existing joint venture into the The Group remains committed to its strategy of focusing wider Compass Group business to be operated with on the foodservice and vending markets, delivering solid Seiyo.
As a result Itochu holds a 20% stake in the Groups organic growth, continued margin improvement, strong business in Japan.
These transactions generated net free cash flow generation and improving return on capital proceeds of 46 million of which 42 million was received employed.
With recently gained contracts which are being mobilised, a The Group has made significant progress in creating a clear strong pipeline of potential new business and the expected business structure for the Group in Japan, culminating in continuation of a 95% plus contract retention rate, we are the delisting of the Seiyo business in October 2002.
The on track to deliver a broadly similar level of like for like management is now looking forward to implementing the turnover growth and margin improvement in 2003 to that Groups business model in the Japanese market and achieved in 2002 and look forward with confidence to the delivering margin growth.
future growth of the business.
Other During the year the Group has made a number of other acquisitions for a total consideration of 365 million, including the acquisition of Restorama, Rail Gourmet and parts of Gourmet Nova from Swissair Group, Louis Catering in Continental Europe and the acquisitions of Bon Apptit Francis H Mackay and Vendlink in North America.
Chairman At the end of September, we announced the proposed acquisition of a majority stake in Onama S. p. A. based in Milan, Italy.
The consideration for the 60% stake acquired, which will be paid in cash on completion, is 127 million 80 million.
The transaction is expected to complete at the end of December 2002.
Michael J Bailey Onama provides some 90 million meals annually from 600 Chief Executive catering facilities principally across Italy, employing 10,000 people and had turnover of 446 million 282 million for the year ended 31st December 2001.
Net debt at that date was 42 million 27 million.
Compass Groups existing operation in Italy will be merged with Onama to give the Group a market-leading position in Continental Europes third largest contract foodservice market.
