Directors Report The directors present their annual report and the audited financial Substantial shareholdings statements for the year ended 30 September 2002.
As at 3 December 2002 the Company had received notifications from the following institutions of interests of themselves and their clients of 3% Activities, results and future prospects or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company numbers The Groups trading results, future prospects and operating company of shares and percentage interests are as at the notification dates.
activities are described in detail in the Chairman and Chief Executives report, the review of operations, the financial review and the financial statements.
Shares % The Capital Group Companies Inc 89,118,387 3.99 Directors Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 67,249,609 3.01 Peter H Blackburn and Sven A Kado were appointed directors of the Company on 10 April 2002.
Clive W P Grundy was appointed a director of A profile of shareholdings is set out on page 72. the Company on 1 October 2002.
They each retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and being eligible offer themselves for Political and charitable donations election.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Peter Charitable donations for the year amounted to 1,376,000.
There were no E B Cawdron and Andrew P Lynch retire from the Board by rotation and donations for political purposes.
being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Employees Directors interests The Group is committed to an active policy of equal opportunity from Details of the interests of the directors holding office at the end of the selection and recruitment, through training and development, appraisal year in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out within the and promotion to retirement.
Remuneration Committees Report on pages 33 to 37.
None of the The policy promotes an environment free from discrimination, harassment directors had any interests in the shares of any of the Companys and victimisation where all employees can receive equal treatment subsidiaries at any time during the year.
None of the directors had a regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
any of its subsidiary undertakings during the year.
The policy gives full and fair consideration to the recruitment of disabled American Depositary Receipts persons.
Where disabled persons are employed their training, including The Company has a level 1 American Depositary Receipts programme retraining for alternative work of employees that become disabled, and ADR in the USA with the Bank of New York.
Each ADR represents one development for promotion are encouraged and assisted.
Expert advice is ordinary share and trades over the counter.
The ADR programme does not taken on the needs of disabled employees and special equipment is require the Company to seek a listing in the USA.
Group personnel policies ensure that all employees are made aware Dividends on a regular basis of the Groups policies, programmes and progress.
A final dividend on the ordinary shares is proposed for the year ended Extensive use is made of briefing meetings, in-house magazines, 30 September 2002 of 5.0 pence per share which together with the notice boards and other communications channels including Mercury, interim dividend paid of 2.1 pence per share makes a total for the period the Groups global intranet.
Mercury facilitates the capturing and sharing of 7.1 pence per share 2001: 5.7 pence per share.
The final dividend will be of information and knowledge and provides an important link to the Groups paid on 4 April 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business employees worldwide.
The Company operates a range of employee share on 7 March 2003.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 5 March 2003. schemes and they are described in the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 33 to 37.
Payments to suppliers The Groups policy and procedure which is internally rather than externally Environment set in relation to all its suppliers is to settle the terms of payment with Information relating to the Companys responsibilities towards the those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction.
The Group environment is given on pages 18 to 20. will abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has supplied the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and Auditors conditions.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche as auditors to the the Group as at 30 September 2002 was 56 days 2001: 58 days.
Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday 14 February 2003 at 11.00am in the Fleming Room at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
An explanation of the special business to be considered at the meeting is set out on the next page.
30 Compass Group PLC Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 11 The directors authority pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to issue equity securities for cash as if section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 does not apply expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors consider it appropriate for a further authority to be granted and to remain in force up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2004 or 13 May 2004 if earlier.
Accordingly Resolution 11 which will be proposed as a Special Resolution is to give the directors authority to issue ordinary shares for cash to holders of ordinary shares on a pre-emptive basis subject to special arrangements relating to fractional entitlements or practical problems.
In addition, the directors will be authorised to issue ordinary shares for cash otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate nominal value of 11 million, representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 3 December 2002.
Authority to purchase own shares Resolution 12 The Companys authority pursuant to section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases of its own shares also expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly Resolution 12, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, is to give the Company authority to re-purchase up to 223,489,939 ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 3 December 2002.
Any purchases of shares would be made at prices of not less than 10 pence and not more than 5% above the average values for the ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the purchase.
The directors have no present intention of exercising such authority and would only purchase shares if in their opinion the expected effect would be to benefit shareholders generally.
By Order of the Board Ronald M Morley Company Secretary 3 December 2002 Compass Group PLC 31 Corporate Governance The Board confirms that throughout the year the Company has complied Relations with shareholders fully with all the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, with the The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good relationships exception of directors service agreements which were amended during with shareholders.
The main focus of dialogue is with the Companys 2002 and are explained on page 34 of the Remuneration Committees institutional shareholders to which regular presentations are made Report.
Following amendments to directors service agreements, the within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules.
Additional forms of Board confirms that the Company is now fully compliant with all the communication include the interim and preliminary results presentations provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
This statement describes and the Annual General Meeting which the Board considers to be a how the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code primary opportunity to communicate directly with the Companys many have been applied within the Company.
All members of the Board will normally attend the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders will be invited to ask questions at The Board the meeting itself and will be given the opportunity to meet the directors The Board comprises five executive and five independent non-executive informally.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting together with any directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate related documents will be mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days and clearly defined.
Non-executive directors are a source of strong before the meeting and separate resolutions will be proposed on each independent advice and judgement and bring considerable knowledge substantially different issue.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Brief biographical details for and against each resolution will be announced to the meeting following of the directors are given on pages 22 and 23 and all directors will offer voting by a show of hands.
themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Internal control The Board meets regularly throughout the year to review performance The Company, as required by the UK Financial Services Authority, has against pre-agreed budgets and it has a formal schedule of matters complied with the Combined Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the reserved for its decision, covering overall strategy, acquisition and Code on internal control having established the procedures necessary to divestment policy, treasury policy, authorising major expenditure and implement the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull planning for the succession of senior executives.
To enable the Board to Committee and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
perform its duties all directors have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary.
There is an agreed In applying the principle that the Board should maintain a sound system of procedure whereby directors wishing to take independent advice in control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets, the furtherance of their duties may do so at the Companys expense.
the Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to provide reasonable The Board has established certain committees to which it has delegated assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal control and specific responsibilities as described below.
compliance with laws and regulations.
It recognises that such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Executive Committee misstatement or loss.
The Executive Committee comprises the executive directors and key senior managers, brief details of whom are given on pages 22 and 23.
Formal risk management procedures have been in place throughout the The Committee normally meets monthly and is responsible for year ended 30 September 2002 and those procedures involve ongoing implementing Group policy, day to day management, monitoring analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the Group.
The business performance and reporting on these areas to the Board.
Groups system of internal control, including the mechanism by which the directors routinely review the effectiveness of the system of internal Remuneration Committee control and risk management, includes the following: The Remuneration Committee comprises all the non-executive directors, Regular meetings of the Board, Executive and Audit Committees, is chaired by Peter E B Cawdron and meets as required during the year.
the responsibilities of which are set out above: The terms of reference for the Committee are detailed in the Remuneration Quarterly reviews by the Executive Committee of detailed risk Committees Report set out on pages 33 to 37. management reports prepared by the operating divisions.
Such reports cover key risks and include updates of agreed actions arising from Nomination Committee previously reviewed quarterly reports.
The Executive Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Francis H Mackay and comprises presents its own detailed risk management report to the Group Board in addition all the non-executive directors.
The Committee meets as twice a year: necessary and is authorised to make recommendations to the Board on A process beginning in January each year with the Group Board and new appointments of executive and non-executive directors.
Appropriate the Executive Committee meeting to approve short term and medium training is available to all directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis term strategies followed by regular reviews throughout the year: if required.
Approval and regular reviews of annual budgets: Monthly reviews by the Executive Committee of key financial and Audit Committee non-financial business performance indicators of the Groups The Audit Committee also comprises all the non-executive directors, operating divisions: is chaired by Peter E B Cawdron and meets at least three times a year.
Strict internal financial controls covering capital expenditure together The Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and the with post-investment performance reviews and treasury operations: Companys interim and annual financial statements before submission to Clearly defined organisation structures and appropriate delegated the Board for approval.
The Committee also undertakes regular reviews authorities for executives throughout the Group: and of the performance of the external auditors.
Following a recent review Group-wide policies, standards and procedures relating to key the Committee confirms that it is entirely satisfied with the level of fees, business activities.
independence and objectivity of Deloitte & Touche.
Accordingly a In addition, the directors confirm that they have conducted a specific resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche as auditors to the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
and risk management in operation during the period up to the date of this annual report.
