18 Computacenter plc Board of Directors Executive Directors manager.
Following appointments as 1 Ron Sandler Regional Manager for London operations Executive Chairman, aged 51 in 1988 and General Manager of the Ron has a degree in engineering from Systems Division in 1992 with full Cambridge and an MBA from Stanford national sales and marketing University.
His early career was with the responsibilities, he became Chief Boston Consulting Group, and as Chief Executive in December 1994 with Executive of Martin Bierbaum Group responsibility for all day-to-day activities and Exco plc.
He was Chief Executive and reporting channels across of Lloyds of London from 1995 until Computacenter.
1999, playing a key role in Lloyds reconstruction, then Chief Operating 3 Tony Conophy Officer of NatWest Group until its Finance Director, aged 45 acquisition by Royal Bank of Scotland.
Tony has been a member of the Institute He is Chairman of Kyte Group Limited of Chartered Management Accountants and a member of the Partnership since 1982.
He qualified with Semperit Council of lawyers Herbert Smith.
Ireland Ltd and then worked for five Ron joined the Board of Computacenter years at Cape Industries plc group.
in May 2000 and was appointed He joined Computacenter in 1987 as Chairman in May 2001.
Financial Controller, rising in 1991 to General Manager of Finance.
In 1996 he 2 Mike Norris was appointed Finance and Commercial Chief Executive, aged 41 Director of Computacenter UK Limited Mike graduated with a degree in with responsibility for all financial, computer science and mathematics from purchasing and vendor relations activities.
He joined In March 1998 he was appointed Group Computacenter in 1984 as a salesman Finance and Commercial Director.
In 1986 he was Computacenters top national account Non-Executive Directors 4 Nick Cosh 6 Peter Ogden Aged 56 Aged 55 Nick, a chartered accountant, has Peter founded Computacenter with Philip held a number of senior executive Hulme in 1981 and was Chairman of the finance positions across a range of Company until 1998, when he became a UK companies.
He is currently a NonNon-Executive Director.
He is Chairman Executive Director of Bradford & Bingley of Dealogic Limited, a Director of Omnia plc, Hornby plc and ICAP plc and Limited, and a Non-Executive Director Chairman of Fleming American of Abbey National plc and Psion plc.
Previous positions Prior to joining Computacenter he was held include Group Finance Director a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley of JIB Group PLC and of MAI plc.
and Co. 5 Philip Hulme 7 Cliff Preddy Aged 54 Aged 55 Philip founded Computacenter with Cliff has worked in the IT industry Peter Ogden in 1981 and worked for for most of his professional career, the Company on a full-time basis until including many years as an Executive stepping down as Executive Chairman Director of Logica plc.
He is a Director of Dealogic Chairman of Charteris plc, and NonLimited and was previously a Vice Executive Chairman of CODASciSys President and Director of the Boston plc and Acquisition Accounting Ltd.
