Directors Biographies IAN COULL, SIR NIGEL MOBBS THE RT HON LORD MACGREGOR, JOHN HEAWOOD Sir Nigel Mobbs John Heawood Chairman Executive Director Sir Nigel Mobbs, whose grandfather was a founder of the Responsible for the UK property portfolio.
Following degrees company, joined Slough Estates in 1960.
A director since in Estate Management and Rural Planning Studies from 1963, he became Chairman and Chief Executive in 1976 and Reading University, he qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in Executive Chairman from 1996-1999.
After 6 years with Fletcher King and 11 years with DTZ for the County of Buckinghamshire.
He is non-executive Debenham Thorpe dealing with provincial industrial and chairman of Bovis Homes, a non-executive director of office property he joined Slough Estates in November 1996.
Barclays Bank and Howard fide Walden Estates, Chairman of He is aged 50.
Trustees of Historic Royal Palaces and a member of Advisory Committee on Business and the Environment ACBE.
Executive Director Responsible for operations in North America.
He is a Ian Coull graduate of the University of Western Ontario and York Chief Executive University, Toronto.
Following 3 years with British American A Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, he Tobacco, he obtained an MBA at the London Business School joined Slough Estates in January 2003 from J Sainsbury plc and subsequently joined Imperial Group plc.
He joined where he was the director responsible for all Real Estate.
Slough Estates in 1987 and was appointed a director in Before joining Sainsburys in 1987 he held Board and Senior March 1998.
He is a director of Tipperary Corporation and Management positions at Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and Charterhouse Group International, Inc.
He is a Canadian and Cavenham Foods.
He is on the London Regional Board of is aged 49.
Royal & Sun Alliance and is Chairman of the London Sustainable Development Commission.
Dick Kingston Executive Director Responsible for Group Finance.
Having obtained a Business Studies degree whilst with British Petroleum, he qualified as a chartered accountant with Whinney Murray & Co. now Ernst & Young in London and Paris.
Following 5 years with Hawker Siddeley as head of financial control and audit, he joined Slough Estates as Group Financial Controller in 1987.
He is aged 55 and became a director in April 1996.
44 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 STEPHEN L HOWARD, LORD BLACKWELL, DICK KINGSTON DOUGLAS KRAMER, MARSHALL LEES, PAUL ORCHARD-LISLE Paul Orchard-Lisle CBE TD DL Stephen L Howard Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director A chartered surveyor, he is a non-executive director of He began his career as an attorney in his native United States with a focus on corporate advisory work for multiEuropa Capital Partners and the Falcon Property Trust, a national companies.
Currently he is Group Chief Executive of Commonwealth War Graves Commissioner, a member of the Cookson Group plc, a London-based international engineering advisory board of Sonae Investments, a member of the company.
He is a non-executive director of Novar plc as well advisory board of IVG Holding AG and president of the as sitting on the advisory councils of various private and council of Reading University.
He is a deputy lieutenant for non-profit organisations.
He is aged 49 and was appointed a the County of Greater London and a past president of the director in 2001.
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
He has been a director of the company since 1980 and is aged 64.
Douglas Kramer Non-Executive Director Lord Blackwell A citizen of the United States, he is Chairman of the Board of Non-Executive Director Draper and Kramer Incorporated, a full service real estate and Amongst other business interests, he is Chairman of mortgage banking company based in Chicago, Illinois.
Draper Smartstream Technologies Ltd, a non-executive director of and Kramer were partners with Slough Estates in the USA Dixons Group plc and The Corporate Services Group plc, and from 1973 until 1997.
He is a director of Tipperary Corporation, a senior advisor to KPMG Corporate Finance.
He was recently an oil and gas production company of Denver, Colorado in appointed to serve as a non-executive Board Member of the which the Group has a 53 per cent equity interest.
After many years as a partner with serves as Non-Executive Chairman of Slough Estates USA Inc.
He is aged 66 and was appointed a director in 1981.
McKinsey & Company, international management consultants, he served as Head of the Prime Ministers Policy The Rt Hon Lord MacGregor of Unit from 1995-1997, and was Director of Group Pulham Market OBE Development at NatWest Group from 1997-2000.
He was Non-Executive Director created a Life Peer in 1997, and is currently Chairman of the Centre for Policy Studies.
He is 50, and joined the Board of Member of Parliament for South Norfolk from 1974 to 2001.
He became a Life Peer in July 2001.
He served Conservative Governments in several Cabinet appointments, from 1985 to 1995, Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Agriculture, Education & Science, Leader of the House and Lord President of the Council, and Secretary of State for Transport.
He is currently a non-executive director of Associated British Foods PLC, Uniq Plc and Friends Provident, and of the European Supervising Board of DAF Trucks NV, Netherlands.
He is 66 and was appointed a director in 1995.
