20 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors report Directors report The directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
The report should be read in conjunction with information recorded on pages 2 to 19 and pages 23 to 25.
ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from its headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire, and providing central direction for a speciality chemical group with operations in the main market areas of the world.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES A review of the activities of the two business sectors comprising the Group is given on pages 4 to 9.
An analysis of turnover and profits is shown in note 1 on page 39.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement and the operating and financial reviews, which include information about Group businesses, the financial performance during the year and likely developments.
PROFIT AND APPROPRIATIONS As restated 2002 2001 m m Loss attributable to the ordinary shares of the Company after providing for taxation, the interests of minority shareholders and dividends on the preference shares 0.7 21.2 Dividends paid and proposed on the ordinary shares total 15.0 14.7 Amount transferred from reserves 15.7 6.5 The directors recommend a final dividend of 7.59p per share.
If approved by shareholders, dividends for the year will amount to 11.5p per share 2001: 11.3p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 42.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS The Group did not make any acquisitions during the year.
On 28 March 2002 the petrocarbs business of Croda Distillates Limited was sold to Koppers UK Limited.
On 16 September 2002 the solvent recovery business of Croda Distillates Limited was sold to Solvent Resource Management Limited.
Further details are shown in note 29 on page 56.
DIRECTORS The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 18 and 19.
A R Beevor retires by rotation but will be proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the report on the directors remuneration.
Apart from the share option schemes and service contracts no director had any beneficial interest, other than in the ordinary course of business, in any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the period.
A statement indicating the beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company is shown in the report on the directors remuneration on page 30.
During the year the Company maintained insurance providing liability cover for directors and officers of the Company.
COMMUNITY AFFAIRS We have continued to support community projects, both with donations and with practical help and advice.
Many of our employees also devote much of their own time to working with local community groups and to fundraising projects for deserving causes.
21 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors report Our work with schools, colleges and other educational establishments is ongoing.
Students learn how our products are used and gain direct experience of product formulation and plant processes.
The Group provides placements for university students and post-graduates.
Work experience opportunities are provided regularly for students from local schools.
A new initiative on community involvement will be implemented in 2003 which in broad terms will allow paid time off for volunteers for local community involvement.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES In all Crodas operations around the world, relations with employees are based on respect for the dignity and rights of the individual.
The Company upholds the principles of socially responsible business practices.
In particular, in all countries in which the Company operates, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 1998 is met.
Namely the Company does not participate in any form of child labour or forced compulsory labour, it maintains freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and promotes policies and practices designed to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
During the year, new policies on corporate ethics and whistleblowing were approved for introduction throughout the Group.
Throughout the Group, employment policies embrace local, national and international best practice.
In this way we ensure that all employees work in an environment which encourages fairness of treatment, respect for the individual and flexibility of approach.
The Group welcomes all employees solely on the basis of job suitability so that recruitment and career management are free from discrimination.
Diversity is encouraged and the benefits of different perspectives enhance working life.
Employees receive training and development to ensure that personal growth and business objectives are achieved successfully.
We aim to nurture and challenge so that the talents, skills and knowledge of our employees are used positively to mutual benefit.
This relies on open and comprehensive communication activities.
All divisions provide appropriate forums for two-way communication to keep everyone informed, to consult and to seek contribution.
A corporate intranet has been established and is available to approximately 60% of employees worldwide.
The company magazine, Croda Way, distributed worldwide, brings together news of the Croda family - both personal and corporate.
It provides an insight into the lives of the people working for the Group as well as reporting on Company activities around the world and commenting on full and half year results.
Our reward and benefit packages are designed to recognise the contribution of employees, whilst fitting local market conditions and complying with our fair treatment policies.
The Company operates a Save As You Earn linked share scheme in the UK and a similar scheme is available overseas.
The Company has introduced a Share Incentive Plan in the UK.
All employees who have completed 12 months service are eligible to join the plan.
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2002 the Group had an average of 38 days 2001: 41 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
The Companys trade creditors are not material.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 40,000 2001: 44,000.
No donation was made for political purposes.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on Wednesday 23 April 2003 at 12 noon.
The notice of meeting and explanation of the special business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate circular issued to shareholders with this Annual Report.
22 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors report Directors report AUDITORS Following the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP,  resigned on 23 January 2003 and the directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS At 26 February 2003 the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests in its ordinary share capital Shares % Fidelity International Ltd 4,365,156 3.20 Legal & General Investment Management 4,690,571 3.44 By order of the Board J R Ainger Secretary 26 February 2003
