30 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 31 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Graph 3 Trading profit by activity 100 Graph 5 Ratio of Earnings before interest, tax 8 and depreciation and amortisation 7 80 National newspapers and related activities to net interest payable 6 Regional newspapers and related activities 60 EBITDA: Net interest in m 5 Euromoney 40 4 Broadcasting 3 Exhibitions and related activities 20 2 Business to business information and careers 0 Unallocated central costs, rental income 1 and other activities -20 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Graph 4 Cash Flows A Inflows 295 Graph 6 Maturity Profile of Group Net Debt 1000 Interest and dividends 800 Taxation Debt & Lease finance 600 B Outflows 341.4 Acquisitions 400 Investments Capital expenditure 200 050 100 150 200 250 300 350 Other Non Cash 0 Disposals Operating activities In summary and adjusting for the year end date working Overview b Foreign Exchange Risk At the year end, fixed interest rate debt represented capital movement, the Group generated free cash flow The Group has adequate committed debt finance to i Transaction Risk approximately 72% of total net debt.
of 106 million which it used to fund net acquisitions meet current trading requirements, with over 100 million Most of the Groups businesses do not transact cross-border: of 119 million.
of unutilised facilities with terms largely of three years.
hence multi-currency transaction risk is not substantial.
d Counterparty Risk Foreign exchange risk is not a large issue for the Group as The main exception is Euromoney and its subsidiaries The Group has a policy for net deposit exposure whereby Despite the higher level of debt, the Groups interest cover the majority of its businesses are domestic.
A prudent level whose receipts are mainly US dollars and payments limits are set for banks with long-term credit ratings of ratio remained at 4.7 times this year which we consider to of fixed interest rate debt reduces the impact of interest principally sterling.
Euromoney has a series of US dollar AA or better, and a lower limit for single A rated banks.
be a comfortable ratio see Graph 5.
This is a little below rate fluctuations.
forward sale contracts in place up to 12 months forward, Institutions below this rating are not usually used for our internal target of 5 times cover but well above our debt partially to hedge its dollar revenues into sterling.
As regards other financial instruments, the covenant level of 2.5 times.
The Groups Standard & Poors a Liquidity Risk than Euromoney there were no foreign currency contracts Group is exposed to credit related losses in the event of rating has remained unchanged at BBB.
It is the Groups policy to have sufficient surplus borrowing in existence that hedge revenues or costs.
non-performance by its counterparties: the Group does headroom such that its development is not constrained.
not expect any counterparties to be unable to meet their The Group has sufficient committed debt facilities to The Group is funded by a mixture of equity, debt, and The sterling value of capital expenditure in foreign currency obligations.
Counterparties and their credit ratings are meet its foreseeable requirements.
It had surplus facilities retained profits.
Debt consists mainly of committed bank is fixed using forward currency purchases.
regularly reviewed by Group Treasury.
of 174 million at the year end, 60 million of which were facilities and bonds.
The bank facilities provide the Group used in October 2002 to repay its 2.5% Exchangeable Bonds.
with flexibility for operational requirements and acquisitions.
ii Translation Exposure Introduction of the Euro Following this repayment the Group has 480 million of Uncommitted and overdraft facilities are also utilised.
The Borrowings are principally incurred in sterling, US dollars The replacement of the local currencies of most European Bonds and bank facilities maturing in 2005 and 485 million bonds currently in issue consist of three tranches of sterling and Australian dollars.
Generally, the proportion of foreign Union countries by the Euro on 1st January, 2002 had of Bonds due for repayment in 2013 and 2021.
A further sterling deep-discount bond issue, currency debt after allowing for any hedging instrument minimal impact on the Group.
Euromoney is the only Group exchangeable for shares in Reuters Group plc, was redeemed to total net debt was approximately equal during the year business with significant European cross-border trade and Treasury Policies shortly after the year end.
Maturities of debt are spread in to the proportion of foreign operating profit, compared to with a Euroland subsidiary, its Adhesion convention The following paragraphs are a summary of the Groups order to avoid the requirement for significant repayments total Group operating profit.
This is expected to continue.
Most of the Groups other businesses trade treasury policies.
Detailed information is given in Note 28 to at any point in time, as shown in Graph 6.
Surplus funds are primarily within their own borders.
DMGT aims to have sufficient liquidity kept to a minimum: when they do arise, they are generally c Interest Rate Risk to meet both operational and capital cash flows and to deposited in money market accounts with banks that provide The Group aims to have approximately 70% to 80% of its Going Concern impose the minimum cash constraints on the management bilateral credit lines.
net debt as fixed interest rate liabilities.
The predictability The Directors have continued to adopt the going concern and operation of the Group.
Financial instruments, of interest costs is deemed to be more important than basis for the preparation of the accounts.
This has been including derivatives, are used by the Group in order to Covenants on debt instruments are kept to a minimum, the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower done since, after considering relevant information, they manage the principal financial risks that arise in the course even if this results in marginally higher interest costs.
Borrowings are made in a small number of have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the of business.
These risks are liquidity or funding risk, foreign External finance is unsecured and is usually an obligation desired currencies at either fixed or floating rates.
Interest Group have adequate resources to continue in operational exchange risk, interest rate risk and counterparty risk.
of the central holding companies rather than of trading rate swaps, caps and collars are used to help attain the existence for the foreseeable future.
The instruments are used within the parameters set by subsidiaries.
This gives management maximum flexibility Groups target level of fixed interest rate debt.
The maturity the Finance Committee of the Board, and are not traded to run the business without the distraction of meeting dates are spread in order to avoid basis, or interest rate, Peter Williams for a profit.
risk and also to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
Joined the Board in He is an independent solicitor.
Joined the Board in 1995 and the Group in 1994.
He is chairman of Westfield 1999.
He is chairman of Euromoney was appointed Chairman in 1998.
Sir Patrick Sergeant Holdings, a major shopping centre Institutional Investor plc and a He is a non-executive director Aged 78.
Joined the Board in company with interests primarily non-executive director of Allied Irish of Euromoney Institutional Investor 1983.
He was City Editor of the in Australia, the United States and Banks plc.
He joined Euromoney as plc and of the Fleming Mercantile Daily Mail from 1960 to 1984 and the United Kingdom.
He is also a editor in 1974 and was managing Investment Trust plc.
He was formerly chairman of Euromoney member of the Board of the Reserve director from 1985 to 1992. formerly managing director of the Institutional Investor plc of Bank of Australia.
Evening Standard and of the Courier which he is now president 14.
S M Gray He advises the Group on property chief executive of the Carphone Chief Executive Aged 68.
He is also chairman of Warehouse Group plc and a nonAged 54.
He was senior partner a number of mainly early stage executive director of HBOS plc.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Dixon Wilson, Chartered companies.
in 1989, having joined the Group in Accountants, and is chairman 15.
He is a non-executive director of the Audit Committee.
Professor K Schwab Portugese of Euromoney Institutional Investor German Aged 65.
Joined the Board in plc, Reuters Group plc, and of 7.
He is Chairman Schroders plc.
He is president of the and chief executive of IMPRESA, Aged 74.
G. P. S, Chairman of the European 3.
J P Williams, FCA He was formerly managing director for-profit foundation, based in Publishers Council and a former Finance Director of United Paper Mills in Finland.
Joined the Board as Group Finance Director in 1991 and the 8.
N D Jennings, FCA Group in 1982 as a Chartered Aged 67.
He is chairman of Northcliffe He has been editor of the Daily Mail Aged 42.
Appointed Company director of GWR Group plc and of Newspapers.
He was formerly since 1992 and editor-in-chief of Secretary in 1999, having joined Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
President of the Newspaper Associated Newspapers since 1998. the Group in 1988.
Society and chairman of the Press Association.
Non-executive Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee Member of the Risk Committee Board of Directors 1 5 10 14 2 6 11 13 379 15 48 12 16
