26 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 27 Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT and the Community The DMGT Group owes much of its success to the entrepreneurial ability of the management teams leading its various media divisions.
The businesses have thrived by allowing local management to take Launch of Timestars local decisions in a local context, whilst benefiting In partnership with the Media A$120,000 Trust, Teletext donates pages to from the global outlook as well as from the financial During 2002 a regional radio highlight the work of charities and station assisted the local Junior community volunteers.
resources of the wider Group.
Tennis Association to raise over A$120,000 for re-laying courts.
28,000 tonnes All our printing paper waste is recycled.
This approach has delivered benefits to a wide range dealing with issues such as inaccuracy, privacy, Energy and water consumption at the printing operations DMGT in the Community of stakeholders.
The success of many of the Groups misrepresentation and harassment.
The Commission is also monitored and this has remained relatively static The Group is a member of the Per Cent Club and annually 1 businesses is inextricably linked with understanding and adjudicates on complaints about possible breaches of the in comparison with the previous financial year.
Energy pays a minimum of 2% of its dividend to charity.
Charitable engaging with the communities that they serve, and this code and gives general guidance on related ethical issues.
consumption has fallen slightly 1% to approximately donations are allocated by a Charities Committee at DMGT, allows them to identify needs and to campaign effectively The code sets the benchmark for the professional and 119,000MWh, whilst water consumption has fallen by as well as being made on a smaller scale by divisional and 3 on the issues relevant to their customer base.
This principle ethical standards that all members of the press have 2% to 202,400m.
Charities involving the media and is as relevant to the Daily Mail, serving the whole of the a duty to maintain.
relevant to the communities within which the Group United Kingdom, as to the North Devon Journal Herald, Greenhouse gas emissions are monitored too and are a key operates are favoured.
Some examples of our involvement serving the population of Barnstaple in Devon and to 6KG, Environment focus of the UKs environmental strategy.
The direct and during the year include: one of our two radio stations serving the remote mining The Groups activities are diverse, with more than 18,000 indirect emissions of CO2 from our printing operations town of Kalgoorlie in Western Australia.
Whilst managing environmental were static in the year, reflecting minor variations in the DMG Radio Australia provides a A$5,000 scholarship issues is the responsibility of the management of individual proportions of electricity and gas used as energy sources.
to the Charles Sturt University in Bathurst NSW.
Last year we reported that we were undertaking an businesses, we are starting to develop a Corporate This is awarded yearly to support the Communications independent review of our activities against emerging Environmental Policy to provide greater consistency In the coming year we will be identifying more formal degree course: corporate social responsibility best practice.
At the same and visibility of environmental issues across the Group.
environmental performance targets and improving time, environmental and social matters were adopted Whilst all businesses have an environmental impact, our the sharing of best practice across our businesses.
Teletext in November 2001, launched Timestars in joint as one of the focus areas for the Groups Risk Committee.
efforts are concentrated within Associated Newspapers partnership with the Media Trust a body which forges links Following these steps, there have been a number of and Northcliffe Newspapers, particularly in respect of the The Group has a central Newsprint Committee and paper between charities and the Media.
Teletext donates pages, actions taken, for example: printing operations Associated Newspapers main plant is purchased centrally for all of the Groups newspaper which are devoted to highlighting the work of charities and at Harmsworth Quays and twelve Northcliffe plants, as operations, allowing coordinated review of the community volunteers, and are updated by a dedicated we have carried out a fundamental review of our health these generate the majority of our impact.
environmental credentials of paper suppliers and the journalist based at the Media Trust.
As well as the work of and safety management processes.
Many areas of good sourcing of their products.
A significant proportion of the the general public, the Timestar initiative looks at the role of practice were identified, and we are now developing a Management of environmental issues is fundamental to newsprint purchased by the Group incorporates recycled showbusiness and other celebrities involved in charity work, Corporate Health and Safety Policy to add more consistency these operations and includes a focus on energy and water paper and, where virgin fibres are used, these are sourced to encourage others to follow their example.
The business to the management and measurement of our performance consumption, and paper use and recycling, together with only from sustainable forestry.
Both Associated and has received many favourable comments on the impact of across the Group: the consumption of inks and plates.
These issues are key Northcliffe pay particular attention to waste management this initiative: components of the cost base of the businesses and effective and performance in this area is reported monthly at the we have strengthened the monitoring and internal management practice has a direct impact on profitability.
Teletext in January 2002, the business donated a page reporting of a number of our environmental impacts During the year, an Energy Committee has been established to give details of the Disaster Emergency Committee appeal and this is covered further below.
with representatives of both printing operations to facilitate We are pleased to report that all our printing paper for the victims of the volcanic eruption in the town of Goma sharing of best practice.
waste is recycled, amounting to almost 28,000 tonnes in the Democratic Republic of Congo, when up to 60,000 All of the Groups UK newspapers observe the Press in the current year.
people were forced to flee their homes.
Complaints Commission Code of Practice.
The Press Harmsworth Quays, the largest single printing site in the Complaints Commission is an independent organisation Group, has carried out a detailed environmental review of Many of the Groups titles and products deal with subjects set up in 1991 to ensure that British newspapers and operations which covered utilities, raw materials, effluent, and campaign on issues related to the environment.
magazines follow the letter and spirit of an ethical code solid waste and transport issues.
28 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 29 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 900 Graph 1 Turnover by Activity m Financial and Treasury Review 800 National newspapers and related activities 700 Regional newspapers and related activities The purpose of this review is to outline 600 Euromoney 500 Broadcasting 400 key aspects of the Groups performance over Exhibitions and related activities 300 Business to business information and careers 200 the last year and of its financial position.
Other activities 100 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Graph 2 Turnover by geographical area m 1800 1600 UK 1400 Rest of Europe 1200 North America 1000 Rest of World 800 600 400 200 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Finance Director Peter Williams Accounts 55 million, reflecting acquisitions made both in the current new media ventures, particularly Zoom and Fish4, offset disallowed for tax purposes.
This is offset by a lower rate No new accounting standards have been published this and prior years.
In the prior year, we also charged 17 million by a lower contribution from GWR Group plc.
GWRs of tax on our US profits, largely due to deductions for year.
This means that the accounts have been prepared in respect of impairments of intangible assets.
contribution for the year fell significantly due to the effects amortisation of acquired goodwill.
The reported tax rate without the need for any prior year adjustments, caused of the continued weak advertising market.
was lower due to the release of prior year provisions of by changes in accounting policies.
Additional disclosures The analysis of adjusted operating profit by activity is shown 30 million, primarily relating to agreement of open items have been included in the notes to the accounts in order in graph 3.
This shows that the exhibitions, broadcasting Income from fixed asset investments fell due to a reduction with the UK Inland Revenue.
The effect on 2002s profits to comply with the second year of the transitional and Euromoney divisions achieved increases in profitability.
in the level of dividends received from Reuters Group plc.
was to reduce the underlying tax charge by 3.8% from arrangements for the implementation of FRS 17, Retirement Within the exhibition division, the home interest sector Profit on sale of fixed assets arose mainly from the sale 2001s rate, a reduction that should largely remain in place Benefits.
Last year, this resulted in disclosure of the main grew strongly in the year, whilst the division benefited of surplus properties.
Profit on disposal of businesses in future years.
financial assumptions made in valuing the liabilities of the overall from a number of non-annual shows.
Broadcasting comprised that on sale of Eastern Counties Radio, a further Groups pension schemes and the fair value of net assets increased its profits due to a reduction in revenue profit-related payment for the earlier sale of an exhibition Cash Flow and Net Debt held.
This year disclosure has been made of amounts that investment at DMG Broadcasting and in start up losses by Euromoney and the Groups share of GWRs profit Net debt rose during the year from 875 million to would be reflected in the accounts, together with an at new radio stations in Australia.
Euromoney increased on disposal of businesses, net of its loss on sale of its 25% 922 million, an increase of 47 million.
analysis of the movement in scheme surpluses or deficits its profits as a result of strategic initiatives implemented interest in DMG Radio Australia to DMGT.
These profits which would result.
As permitted by FRS 17, the primary towards the end of the prior year, involving the closure were offset by a loss on sale of dmg world medias South Graph 4 summarises the Groups sources and use of statements continue to be prepared under SSAP 24 of loss-making businesses, together with an extensive American operations.
The net cash inflow from trading Accounting for Pension Costs.
cost cutting programme, which mitigated the impact of was 265 million, which represented 86% of operating profit the savage downturn in the financial advertising markets.
Net interest payable and similar charges rose by 1 million before depreciation and amortisation of the intangible Turnover to 69 million: net interest payable was higher due to a assets.
This reflects the timing of the year end which ended The Groups turnover in the year was 1,945 million, a The other divisions had reduced profitability: for the national higher average level of debt, whilst other financing charges on 29th September this year, as against 30th September last decrease of 1% on the previous year.
The level of acquisitions newspapers, the effect of the reduction in advertising fell due to lower deferred consideration outstanding, offset year, with significant advertising revenues being receivable of subsidiaries has been modest this year and this fall revenues was offset largely by management action early in by a premium on redemption of debt.
on the last day of the month.
Had it fallen a day later, these in turnover is due to a reduction in advertising revenues.
the year: for the regional newspapers, profits were lower due receipts would have increased operating cash flow to 96% to a lower contribution from contract printing and to revenue The reported profit before tax of 107 million was 30% higher and net debt would have been reduced by 34 million.
The analysis of turnover by activity, illustrated in graph 1, investment in the product.
The two components of the than last years figure.
Excluding amortisation and other items shows that there has been little overall change in the shape business to business information and careers division had which we regard as exceptional, the adjusted profit figure Capital expenditure of 90 million was similar to last of the graph.
Graph 2 shows the geographic split of turnover.
sharply conflicting fortunes: whilst the former nearly was 183 million, up 3% on last year.
years level, at a continuing high level during the second doubled its profits, the latter suffered from a very weak year of the programme to enhance the Groups presses.
Operating Profit graduate recruitment market and the adverse impact of the Taxation Acquisitions and investments, net of disposal proceeds, The Groups adjusted operating profit before amortisation events of 11th September, 2001 on its US English language The tax charge of 17.8 million represents 16.6% of profit cost 119 million, the largest item being the 45 million and impairment of intangible assets amounted to training market.
before tax and 10.9% of profit before amortisation.
Net tax payments fell by 19 million 242 million, a 1% increase on last years equivalent figure.
underlying rate of tax was 27.1%, lower than last years level to 25 million, reflecting the end of the transitional move This years figure is stated before charging 9 million of Profit before Tax and a little below the UK corporate tax rate, where the Group to quarterly current year tax payments in the UK.
exceptional operating costs, compared to 10 million of The contribution from joint ventures and associates rose currently makes most of its profit.
The Groups effective such costs in 2001.
Amortisation rose from 47 million to from 0.4 million to 5.1 million due to reduced losses in tax rate in the UK is higher than this due to expenditure
