33 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Directors Report The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the year ended Employees 29th September, 2002.
Under the Groups general policy of decentralised management, it is the responsibility of the management in each subsidiary to encourage Trading Results and Dividends the involvement and participation of employees in their company.
The The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to 89.6 million.
methods used depend on the wide variety of the companies but the After charging minority interests of 6.8 million, the Group profit linking to performance targets of a significant portion of remuneration for the year amounted to 82.8 million.
An interim dividend of 2.95 pence per share was paid on the Ordinary The Group gives full and fair consideration to suitable applications and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares, and the Directors recommend that from disabled persons for employment.
If existing employees become a final dividend of 6.25 pence per share be paid on 14th February, 2003 disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the making 9.2 pence per share for the year 2001 8.6 pence.
same job or, if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
Activities The principal activities of the Group are set out on pages 2 and 3.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its subsidiaries.
The analyses of turnover and operating profit for the years ended These companies have no formal code or standard which deals 29th September, 2002 and 30th September, 2001 are included as Notes specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, their policy 1 and 2 to the Profit and Loss Account.
A review of the development is to ensure that the terms of payment, as specified by, and agreed of the business of the Group during the year, of its position at the end with the supplier at the outset, are not exceeded.
of the year and of likely future developments in its business is given in the Chief Executives Review of Operations on pages 8 to 25 and The Company had no trade creditors at the year end date.
in the Financial and Treasury Review on pages 28 to 31.
The Groups average payment period, calculated on the basis of Directors year end trade creditors, is 52 days 2001 53 days, although this Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at 27th November, is dependent on the year end date and cannot therefore be regarded 2002 are set out on page 32.
The Directors remained unchanged as meaningful.
throughout the year, with the exception of Mr Dunstone who was appointed to the Board on 12th December, 2001 and the retirement Donations of Mr Ct on 13th February, 2002.
Mr Balsemo was appointed to the Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted Board on 27th November, 2002. to 330,000 2001 608,000.
The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other Group Substantial Shareholdings companies, in which the Directors or their families had an interest at As set out in Note 33, the Company has two classes of share capital the year end, are stated in the Remuneration Report on page 41.
Ordinary shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
On 27th November, 2002 the following were interested in more than In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs Sinclair, 3% of the issued Ordinary shares: Park and Fallon and Sir Patrick Sergeant retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Each, being eligible, offers Rothermere Continuation Limited and other parties to an agreement himself for re-election with special notice being given that the which comes within section 204 of the Companies Act 1985 63.1% re-election of Sir Patrick Sergeant who is over 70 years of age, will be proposed, given his continuing relevant experience and helpful Codan Trust Company Ltd and Rothschild Trust Bermuda Ltd contribution to the Board.
Shareholders will be asked to confirm trustees of the Esmond Harmsworth 1998 Settlement 25.2% the appointment of Mr Balsemo.
There is no Companies Act requirement to disclose substantial Post Balance Sheet Events interests in the A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
On 4th October, 2002, DMG Information acquired Property & Portfolio Research, an independent commercial real estate research business Auditors based in Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
The initial consideration was The auditors, Deloitte & Touche, have indicated their willingness US$18 million 11.5 million and additional consideration of up to to continue in office and, in accordance with section 385 of the US$17 million 10.8 million is payable in three years depending on Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing their reappointment the performance of the business.
will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
On 18th October, 2002, the Company redeemed its outstanding 2.5% Annual General Meeting Exchangeable Bonds for cash.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 12th February, 2003 at 11.00 am in the Garner Room at the Tangible Fixed Assets and Investments Commonwealth Institute, 230 Kensington High Street, London W8.
Changes in tangible fixed assets and investments other than Details of resolutions to be put as special business are set out in the associates and joint ventures during the year are set out in Notes 21, Notice of Meeting included in the enclosed circular to shareholders.
24 and 25 to the balance sheets.
By Order of the Board Share Capital Details of allotments in share capital during the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options, are given in Note 33.
N D Jennings, FCA Secretary 27th November, 2002 34 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 35 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Internal controls and management of risk A Risk Manager assists the Risk Committee and the divisions in the Directors Responsibilities for the Preparation of Accounts governance.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, based The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, weighing opportunities overall risk management process and in its continued improvement.
The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts for on the report of the Hampel Committee, is part of the listing rules of for potential gain against threats to overall business objectives and In the year to 29th September, 2002, the Risk Committee has enhanced each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs the Financial Services Authority.
It applied to the Company throughout profitability.
Senior management addresses the opportunities and the current divisional risk reporting processes by a formalisation of of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year the year.
uncertainties relating to the business activities of the Group.
The risk the review by the divisional boards of the quarterly risk reports and and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains and losses and cash management process consists of the identification, evaluation and through a rotational programme of presentations on risk management flows of the Group for that period.
The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration Report on pages 36 control of risks, which could threaten the achievement of the Groups issues to the Risk Committee.
to 44 set out how the Company has applied the principles laid down strategic, operational and financial objectives, as well as the active The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been by the Code.
The Company has substantially complied with the management of opportunities.
The Groups Audit Committee, which has been in existence for used and applied consistently, and that reasonable and prudent provisions of the Code, except where stated below or in the many years, comprises four non-executive directors: Messrs Gray judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of Remuneration Report.
The Group operates on a divisional basis with each of the divisions its Chairman, Hemingway, Park and Dunstone.
Only Mr Dunstone the financial statements for the year ended 29th September, 2002. described on pages 2 and 3 having considerable autonomy as regards is considered to be independent in the sense used by the Combined The Directors also confirm that applicable accounting standards have The Board its operation and establishment of control systems.
Overseeing the Code, but the Board believes that the Committee nevertheless been followed and that it is appropriate that the financial statements The Board comprises six executive Directors, including the Chairman divisional structure is a central management responsible to the Board.
have been prepared on the going concern basis.
and the Chief Executive, and nine non-executive Directors.
The Board Certain functions are undertaken centrally, notably newsprint buying, considers that five non-executive Directors may be considered to be insurance, treasury, tax and pensions.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has maintained The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, independent in the sense used in the Combined Code, namely responsibility for the review of financial risk management and of for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Messrs Hakkarainen, Lowy and Dunstone, Professor Schwab and The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups internal financial controls during the year, as these directly relate to Company and of the Group and for taking reasonable steps to prevent Mr Balsemo.
This represents a majority of the non-executive directors system of internal control and has a schedule of matters reserved the quality of financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviews and detect fraud and other irregularities.
as recommended by the Code.
The Board has not, as required by the for its consideration.
This system is designed to provide reasonable a summary of all letters to management prepared by the Groups Code, identified a senior independent non-executive Director since it assurance of the safeguarding of assets and shareholders investment external auditors following their audit procedures, receives reports On behalf of the Board believes that to identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a and the reliability of financial information.
Any such system can, from divisional finance directors on an ad hoc basis, throughout the unitary body, as the Board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of year, and approves any changes to Group accounting policies, which these matters.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the are set centrally.
Apart from these specific responsibilities, the The Companys Articles of Association were amended in February effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Committee is mandated to review all announcements of results issued Rothermere 1999 to meet the requirement of the Combined Code that all by the Group and to advise the Board on the appointment of external Chairman Directors should submit themselves for re-election at least once The Board has delegated responsibility for the evaluation of the auditors and on their remuneration.
benefits and risks of investment opportunities and financing proposals to an executive committee, the Finance Committee.
Above certain The Board has commissioned a report from an independent firm of The Board meets at least on a quarterly basis and at such other times defined levels, however, the Board must approve programmes relating accountants to assess whether it would be appropriate for the Group to as are necessary.
There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
to acquisition and divestment proposals and capital expenditure.
adopt a formal internal audit function to co-ordinate activities, carried Procedures are established to ensure that the Board receives timely out across the Group.
Its recommendations have been considered by and appropriate information both for those meetings and regularly The Board has established a process for the management of the Audit Committee and a decision will be taken in due course.
significant risks across the Group.
This has been in place for the year meantime, the Board has taken the view that control processes already under review and up to the date of approval of these accounts and in place remain adequate.
The Group does not maintain common The Board has established a number of committees with mandates to accords with the guidance provided by the Combined Code on detailed accounting or operations manuals.
Where applicable, divisions deal with specific aspects of its business.
Details of the membership of Corporate Governance.
maintain their own manuals and undertake regular internal audit work these committees are included on page 32.
All Directors have access to as part of their control process.
the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are offered such Whilst the ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control training as is considered necessary, both on appointment and at any and the review of its effectiveness resides with the Board, a Risk One of the Groups subsidiaries, Euromoney Institutional Investor plc, subsequent time.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Committee assists the Board by giving assurance on risk management is subject to the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate independent professional advice at the Companys expense, issues and processes.
Governance in its own right.
As disclosed in its latest annual if necessary.
report, it has in place its own system of internal control and risk The Risk Committee considers reports prepared by central management processes.
Relations with shareholders management, by each of the divisions of the Group and by central The Company maintains a regular programme of contact with its functions, on a quarterly basis.
These reports identify business risks for The joint ventures and associates of the Group are also not included institutional shareholders.
In the past year, this has included meetings the Group as a whole and within the divisions and assess the controls in the Groups system of internal control described above.
The most in London, Scotland and the US.
Partly to assist private shareholders, in place to manage those risks.
significant associate, GWR Group plc, is also a listed company and its the Company operates a website at www.
co. uk on which it posts own processes for the identification, evaluation and management of all announcements and general presentations given to analysts and Members of the Risk Committee also maintain direct links with each significant risks are disclosed in its own annual report.
of the main divisions through attendance at divisional Board meetings.
The Committee reports regularly to the Group Board on the results Ordinary shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General of these processes to enable the Board to determine the overall Meeting, of which 20 working days notice is given.
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
