22 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 23 Daily Mail and General Trust plc dmg world media dmg world media is one of the worlds leading international exhibition companies.
We aim to be our customers first choice, helping them to do business together and make informed choices through our range of exhibitions and related print and new media products.
We organise more than 300 market 44% 50% leading trade exhibitions, consumer shows and fairs around Arts & Antiques Almost a half of revenue is the world, supported by 85 related magazines, newspapers, Operating profits increased generated in North America.
directories, market reports and industry databases.
h h Chairman Worldwide Roger Gilbert The company maintains its Managing Director worldwide presence through Mike Cooke more than 30 offices around the world in England, France, Dubai, Canada, the United States, Argentina, Brazil, Australia and New Zealand.
dmg world media, the Groups exhibition division, had an Florida, an office equipment show in Dubai, an antiques fair This strong mix of revenues from different regions combined dmg world medias on-line strategy has been to develop excellent year and improved its adjusted operating profit in Cagnes sur Mer France, a fine art fair in New York and with a mix of different revenue streams, from exhibition and provide additional value and services to its existing by 44% on turnover up 5%.
2002 was a year of consolidation, a Mind, Body and Spirit Show in Adelaide, Australia.
stand sales, advertising, on-line revenue, and growing visitor customers, only scaling up as demand requires.
rationalisation and tight cost control, but not at the expense and reader revenues has been behind the companys Whereoware is a good example of this strategy, serving of developing the underlying business, which continued to The events of 11th September, 2001 had an immediate resilience in the face of difficult market conditions.
customers in the gift and home accessories markets where show strong revenue and profit growth.
adverse impact at the beginning of the 2002 financial we already have considerable customer contact.
However, dmg world medias strategy has been dmg world media operates predominantly in the B2B and All in all, 2002 was an important year for dmg world media.
to concentrate on developing customer value and focusing B2C products sector.
The fact that consumer spending has dmg world media is forecasting continued strong One of its major priorities was to integrate the twelve the business on building market-leading products in remained strong in most markets over the last year has underlying growth in 2003, but underlying profits are acquisitions that had been made in the previous year exhibition-led market places where customers rely on enabled the company to produce some of its largest shows projected to be lower next year as many large non-annual and to concentrate on managing three new investments, exhibitions as a place to trade.
This has meant that despite ever.
These include the Index and Big 5 shows in Dubai, shows, such as the Global Petroleum Show and Metals with which it formed business partnerships.
These were September 11th and a sluggish economy in the companys Surfexpo in Orlando, the California Gift Show in Los Angeles Engineering, do not take place in 2003.
George Little Management, Western Exhibitors and main market, North America, demand for exhibitor space and the Daily Mail Ideal Home Show in London.
2002 also marked a change in dmg world has remained strong.
This is also due to the strength of dmg world media now has a world-class platform of medias growth strategy away from being highly acquisitive exhibitions as a medium.
Exhibitions have much longer The collapse of the Argentine economy early in 2002 market leading trade shows and complementary media and towards rationalising and investing in its existing cycles than most other media, which allow them to weather decimated the countrys exhibition industry.
A decision from which to continue growing the business organically.
business to encourage organic growth.
to exit our operations in Argentina before the collapse and Its focus in the coming year will be on stepping up its an exit from one of two Brazilian businesses was made launch programme and continuing to invest in its products dmg world media successfully launched a number of new Almost a half of dmg world medias revenue is now at the same time.
As a result of exiting loss-making and service quality to produce long-term sustainable growth.
events this year, of which all but one will be held again next generated in North America, with the balance coming from businesses, the Latin American operations produced year.
These included a new home show in Palm Beach, the UK, France, Australia, New Zealand, UAE and Brazil.
24 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 25 Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMG Information RMS Addressing New Risks Based on the application of DMGIs two divisions produced contrasting trading game theory, RMS has released a new model for managing results.
The Business to Business division had terrorism risk, following the World Trade Center catastrophe.
an outstanding year, nearly doubling profits over the prior year, whilst the Careers division suffered from a very weak graduate recruitment market 5m 1.5m and the adverse impact of the events of September, Environmental Data Resources Dolphin Softwares database of 2001 on its US English language training market.
have geocoded over 5 million hazardous chemical information toxic sites from hundreds of has grown from 15,000 in individual databases.
1992 to 1,500,000 in 2002 the worlds largest collection.
h Chairman Study Group Charles Sinclair Study Group has become Managing Director 850% the single largest independent Martin Morgan source of international Hobsons unrivaled access to a students to both UK and world-wide student audience.
database has grown by 850% in 2 years to 2.4 million students.
h Business to Business controls and investment in product development paid Rapidly weakening demand was experienced by Sanborn student market research company, Trendence GmbH.
Risk Management Solutions RMS recovered quickly off by enabling the company to increase profits and gain in its geographic information and photogrammetry markets, In the US, profits were maintained in a market affected from the hiatus amongst its insurance clients following market share.
The assets of the environmental property mainly caused by the tightening of fiscal conditions by budget cuts at State funded universities, whilst the events of 11th September, 2001, and achieved a information unit of a competitor were acquired and amongst State and municipal governments in the USA Australia made satisfactory progress.
record level of new sales bookings.
and their changed priorities following the terrorist attacks.
were sales to the newly created Bermudan based This adverse trend was partially offset by increased Federal At Study Group the events of September, 2001 had a severe re insurance companies, all of which adopted RMS Shortly after the year end, Boston-based Portfolio & Property government agency security related work, although budget and immediately negative impact on student volumes in models and information.
Research PPR was acquired to expand DMGIs investment appropriations have been slow to materialise.
Costs were cut back rapidly and in commercial real estate information.
PPRs market trend a recovery in booking trends was experienced in the second RMS had an active year in new product development.
information and forecasting models will complement EDRs Careers half, but not enough to recoup the short falls in the first half.
A new model was launched in response to insurers extensive databases of property specific information.
Weak demand for graduate recruitment in the UK and heightened interest in evaluating the risks associated Germany had a significant adverse impact on Hobsons By contrast, the UK posted record trading profits, with workers compensation aspects of catastrophes.
In the UK, EDR Landmark Information Group grew strongly, results.
Advertising and other recruitment related revenue benefiting in part from a diversion of business from the A consortium of clients was formed to underwrite a as the market for property related environmental due fell by approximately 20%, compared to an already US, but also due in part to improvements in operating significant investment being made by RMS to build diligence expanded in the home conveyancing market, depressed prior year.
In Australia, profits a geographic database to measure US urban risk and as the company introduced new database products, were maintained at the prior years record level, despite concentration, a project being undertaken jointly with such as on planning.
As a result, a restructuring of UK operations was announced Australian government changes to student visa regulations DMGIs Sanborn company.
A terrorism model was at the end of September with the closure of Hobsons which negatively affected the vocational training market.
launched for the US market.
Dolphin Software had a good year and achieved respectable Cambridge office and a consolidation into the London office.
growth in what was a tight market with US companies Redundancies equivalent to approximately 35% of the UK The investment programme in the worldwide sales The Catalyst catastrophe modelling unit of the reinsurance constraining capital expenditure.
The recently launched workforce are being made.
A reduction of the product range and marketing operation was maintained and helped broker, Benfield Blanch, was acquired and merged into subscription business model has been well received and has been carried out to enable a concentration on the more the company improve its competitive position.
RMS operations, with the vendor becoming, together with increased outsourcing to India has been a success.
profitable titles with good long-term prospects.
other major brokers, one of RMSs top worldwide clients.
RMSI maintained profits in a market which experienced The performance of ditions Go in France, which completed DMGIs real estate information companies also had a adownturn in the second half, partly as a result of weaker its first full year under Hobsons management, was pleasing.
good year, albeit in rather different market conditions on demand in geographic information markets and partly In Germany and Switzerland, VerlagsGruppe Forum either side of the Atlantic.
In the USA, Environmental due to caution on the part of potential new customers in maintained its market leading position, albeit on lower Data Resources saw the US commercial real estate market outsourcing to India following the tensions over Kashmir.
revenues, and a second graduate recruitment exhibition continue its decline in transaction volumes, but tight cost was launched in Germany.
