18 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 19 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Broadcasting: Teletext At the forefront of New Media 24 hours a day Teletext offers consumers an across six platforms Teletext recorded only a small reduction in operating opportunity to obtain information 24 hours a day, via the web, profit, despite enduring a most challenging year.
television and mobile phone via sms, whether in the comfort of their home, at work or on the move.
DMG Broadcasting Chairman TV web mobile phones Roger Gilbert analogue satellite Teletext Managing Director cable Mike Stewart digital terrestrial Teletext In spite of the difficulties brought about by testing The exception, T-Mobile, is not yet able to support the This was a particularly challenging year for Teletext.
market conditions we have continued to invest in those billing system favoured by the industry.
The terrorist attack of 11th September, 2001 had a profound initiatives which we regard as key to the growth and and sustained impact on the travel industry, which is prosperity held by the business.
By contrast, the television platforms provided by ITV Digital Teletexts primary source of revenue.
In the first three and by the cable companies had a troubled year, which led months of the year travel related revenues were down Our travel website, Teletextholidays.
co. uk had an ultimately to ITV Digital losing its licence.
In view of these by 15% year-on-year.
Coupled with this, the broader outstanding year with page impressions in July exceeding difficulties, we reduced our rate of investment in services economic softening led to a weakening of our non-travel 20 million and unique users approaching one million.
We are reviewing the position following Teletext teams up revenues.
In common with others, we saw a significant the high season we were one of the top three holiday travel the launch of the new BBC BSkyB Freeview digital with Ron Atkinson drop in financial and general display advertising that has sites in the UK.
Our interactive satellite service, Teletext terrestrial service.
Teletext is well known for its remained throughout the year.
As a result, and in spite of a Holidays, launched in July 2001, has continued to build its sporting heritage, and has recently revenue performance that improved as the year progressed, user base and by August was being used regularly by over In addition to these services we have continued to develop teamed up with Big Ron to provide the latest insight into we finished the year with revenues down 6% year-on-year.
one million Sky viewers, almost 10% of the Sky audience.
the tools and infrastructure we need to publish across a the world of football.
diverse range of electronic networks at the lowest cost.
During the year we concluded the re-negotiation of our The analogue service has, inevitably, seen some softening Many of our key advertising clients have now been public service broadcasting licence with the Independent as a result of both more households moving to digital and equipped with these tools and systems and been trained Television Commission.
The terms of the new licence a decline in the viewing share of ITV.
However usage in their use.
This enables them to interact more efficiently recognise the range of revenue generating services remains very strong with some 19 million adults using the with our various services.
This capability is central to our we now deliver and allow us to exclude revenues not service every week.
We also successfully bid for the licence strategy and to the facility we offer our advertisers and attributable to our public service licence.
The effect is to provide the text service on Channel 5, giving us the business partners.
to reduce the fee significantly and this, in conjunction full set of analogue commercial services.
Channel 5 with action taken to reduce costs, allowed us to offset brings an audience demographic that we believe will In conclusion, 2002 has been a challenging year.
the impact of the revenue weakening.
be attractive to our advertisers.
Nonetheless our staff have responded with determination and vigour and given the strength of our brand and Our mobile services, launched just last year, have our key services on analogue, web and satellite we continued to flourish and we now have almost 60,000 are confident that our market position remains strong.
subscribers across three of the four major cellular networks.
20 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 21 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Broadcasting: DMG Radio October 2001 61 stations Successful launch DMG Radio Australia recorded a small and reduced of Brisbanes 97.3fm Making DMG Radio the A 50% joint venture with biggest radio network loss.
The recently launched Nova station in Melbourne ARN was launched.
and 5AA in Adelaide performed particularly well and the regional stations experienced some recovery in February 2002 difficult trading conditions.
No 1 Purchase of new Adelaides 5AA has been the FM licence in Perth highest rating commercial talk Nova 93.7FM is a 50% joint venture station in Australia this year.
The station will be managed by DMG Radio.
Chairman Roger Gilbert Managing Director Paul Thompson DMG Radio DMG Radio, in a 50% joint venture with Australian Radio DMG Radio was successful in its bid to win the new DMG Radio is the largest radio network in Australia and Network, was successful in its bid to win the new FM licence FM licence on the New South Wales Central Coast, and in December 2001 Radio Nova 100 revolutionises continues to grow, with 61 radio stations currently operating in Perth in February 2002.
The station, Nova 937 is to be October 2002 announced a joint venture with RG Capital Australian radio across five states and two more planned for launch in managed by DMG Radio and is preparing to revitalise the extending its penetration into this high growth region.
After its extremely successful the coming year.
In September, it became wholly owned Perth radio market in a December 2002 launch.
DMG and launch, Nova 100 in Melbourne, clinched the number one rating again when the Group acquired the 25% interest of ARN also jointly own Brisbanes newest FM station, 97.3FM, Earnings from our associate GWR Group, in which after only 15 weeks on air GWR Group plc.
which has exceeded its first year projections since launching DMGT has a 29.97% interest, continue to be affected by an unprecedented feat.
in October 2001. the advertising downturn.
Revenues are flat on last years Following on from last years highly successful launch of our figures, in a market showing poor forward visibility.
Sydney FM station Nova 969, the Group launched Nova 100, DMG Radios first purchase in Australia back in 1996, GWR has embarked on a vigorous programme of restructuring its Melbourne FM station in December 2001.
Nova 100s Adelaides 5AA, has capped a remarkable year and is concentrating on its UK business.
Substantial immediate success was unprecedented in Australian by consistently improving its programming and profit reductions in costs and debt have been achieved.
broadcasting, with it achieving the Number One rating performance and has been the highest rating commercial in its second Neilsen Media Research official survey after talk station in Australia in every official Neilsen Media Audiences remain strong, with Classic FM reporting record only 15 weeks on air.
Nova 100 continues to outperform all Research survey released this year.
results in six successive quarters to take the total weekly expectations and, along with Nova 969, breaks traditional audience to 6.7 million.
GWRs local stations are maintaining radio rules to ensure listeners and advertisers alike Despite a slower than expected turnaround in economic their audience in an increasingly competitive market, and encounter cutting edge radio.
conditions in regional Australia, accentuated now by the Groups digital radio interests are progressing as the worsening drought conditions, our regional stations were cost of digital radio receivers falls.
GWR operates three able to increase both revenues and profits, while also national stations on digital radio, and is second only to strengthening our portfolio of stations.
