Roger Stubbs, FCA, 51 Chief Executive Non-executive Chairman Group Finance Director Appointed a Director in June 1997.
He first Appointed Group Finance Director in He joined the Company in 1963, and joined the Company in 1977, December 1999.
He joined the was Finance Director of fide Vere becoming a Director in 1984 and Company in 1979 as Financial 5 6 4 Hotels from 1984 to 1989 when he Chief Executive in February 1997.
Controller of the Off Licence Division 7 was appointed Deputy Chairman of Following the sale of Pubs & subsequently becoming its Finance fide Vere Hotels.
He became Chief Restaurants he was appointed NonDirector.
In 1991 he became Finance 2 3 1 Executive of Premier House and executive Chairman.
He is Chairman Director of Premier House and in Village Leisure in 1995, was of Aintree Racecourse Company 1997 was appointed Finance Director appointed Managing Director of Limited, Executive Chairman of of the Hotels & Leisure Division.
He is Greenalls Hotels & Leisure in June Highland Gold Mining Limited and a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Board Committees: a Audit Committee 1997 and became Chief Executive in was formerly a Non-executive Director Accountants and a member of the February 2000.
He is a fellow of the of First Leisure Plc.
British Association of Hotel r Remuneration Committee n Nomination Committee Hotel & Catering International Accountants.
Deborah Howard, 39 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed as a Non-executive Appointed as an independent NonAppointed as an independent NonAppointed as an independent NonDirector in March 2000.
He is the executive Director in 1993 and senior executive Director in May 2001.
He is executive Director in May 2002.
She former Chairman and founder of Non-executive Director in 2002.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee chairs the Remuneration Committee Redrow Group Plc and St. Davids Chairman of the Nomination and a member of the Remuneration and is a member of the Audit and Hotels prior to its acquisition by Committee and a member of the and Nomination Committees.
She is fide Vere Group Plc.
He is also a Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Director of The Ambassador Theatre Human Resources Director of RAC plc Director of several privately owned He is Executive Chairman of City Group Ltd and a Vice President of the and sits on the Office of Government businesses.
Centre Restaurants Plc and Chairman Advertising Association.
He was formerly Deputy Chief Executive of formerly the Chairman and Chief Carlton Communications Plc and prior Executive of Inn Business Group plc.
to that was Managing Director of Capital Radio plc and previously a board member with the Post Office.
16 fide VERE GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS
