REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors have pleasure in submitting Mr S P Morgan, a Non-executive Director of how they are adding value to the business, their Report and the Accounts for the 52 the Company, is the controlling shareholder both individually and as part of a team.
weeks ended 29 September 2002. of Bridgemere Investments Limited.
The Group emphasises equal opportunities Trading Results In addition, to the substantial interests in recruitment, terms and conditions of An analysis of the operating profit by class referred to above, Lord Daresbury, Nonemployment, promotion and training for all of business is shown in Note 1 to the executive Chairman, has beneficial interests employees and encourages them to Accounts on page 32. in the Ordinary shares of the Company, develop their full potential regardless of together with other members of his family, gender, marital status, social class, age, Dividends amounting to 5.6%.
colour, national or ethnic origin, religious The Board is recommending a final belief, sexual orientation or disability.
dividend of 7.35 pence per Ordinary share Directors which, together with the interim dividend The names and brief biographical details We actively encourage employees to of 3.95 pence per Ordinary share, makes a of the Directors in office are set out on participate in the development of the total for the year ended 29 September 2002 page 16.
Mr D E Reid resigned from the business and in matters which affect them of 11.30 pence, compared with 10.6 pence Board on 30 April 2002.
Mr S P Morgan through briefings, representative and per Ordinary share for the year ended and Mr A M Jackson retire by rotation and, consultative groups, employee opinion 30 September 2001. being eligible, offer themselves for resurveys and suggestion schemes.
Ms D Howard, who was continually developing reward and Activities of the Group appointed Non-executive Director on recognition arrangements include the The main activities of the Group are stated 2 May 2002, offers herself for election.
opportunity for staff to acquire shares in in Note 11 on pages 41 and 42. the Company.
Review of the Year and Directors Share Interests Future Prospects Share Capital Health & Safety The review of the Groups trading Directors beneficial interests in Ordinary Health and safety continues to be of operations during the year and an shares as at 29 September 2002 and paramount importance to the Group.
indication of likely future developments are 30 September 2001 or date of Customer demand for safety is continuing set out on pages 2 to 15. appointment if later: to grow and the health and safety of our staff and our guests remains fundamental Share Capital Beneficial to all our activities.
2002 2001 Details of changes in share capital during the year are given in Note 19 on pages 51 At the beginning of the year we undertook Lord Daresbury 5,911,492 5,911,492 and 52.
Since the year end 303 Ordinary to complete a review of risk management 2 shares of 22 9 pence each have been P B Dermody 25,320 25,151 systems, both for food safety and health issued under the Sharesave Scheme.
Whilst we have achieved this, A M Jackson 401 401 we recognise the process will remain The authority granted by shareholders for S P Morgan 13,894,422 13,494,422 ongoing as we continue to seek to improve the Company to purchase its own shares N N Walmsley 2,000 our safety performance.
remains in force until the next AGM.
D Howard We also continue to monitor at Board Substantial Interests as at appointed 2 May 2002. level our accident and legal compliance 4 December 2002 performance.
Reportable accidents are The Company has been notified of the Details of Directors share options are set following interests pursuant to section 198 reviewed, as is local authority enforcement out on page 23. of the Companies Act 1985: activity.
Employment Report % We have continued to invest in risk In line with the Groups objective of prevention and risk control measures, and facilitating and supporting a learning Bridgemere Investments Ltd 12.4 this, together with our continued culture, fide Vere Hotels, Village Hotels & Hermes Administration 8.6 commitment to staff training, is ensuring Services Limited Leisure Clubs and G&J Greenall are that health and safety remains high on accredited Investors in People.
The Group is Guinness Peat Group 8.2 everyones agenda.
Along with the committed to developing policies which Taube Hodson Stonex 6.5 continued programme of risk reduction encourage all employees to achieve job UBS Global Management 4.1 throughout the estate, we have achieved satisfaction and career development Legal & General Investment our objective to provide a platform from through doing a worthwhile job well, Management 3.5 which to build to continuously improve knowing that their contribution is valued Aberforth Partners 3.3 safety performance to the benefit of all.
and their potential recognised and Socit Gnrale Asset Management 3.2 developed.
It is critical to the Group that staff enjoy what they do and understand REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 17 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Continued Environmental Policy Charitable Donations and Investment Energy consumption is our biggest in the Community environmental issue and our continuing Charitable donations totalled 98,700 challenge is to minimise energy use.
We 2001: 99,100 during the year and no benchmark gas and electricity consumption donation was made to any political party.
in sites across the Group and use this information to apply best practice.
Energy The Group continues to recognise its efficiency remains a key feature of our responsibility to the community and design, maintenance and refurbishment actively encourages employees to involve programmes.
themselves in the causes and charities closest to their own community.
A Various energy efficiency initiatives have substantial level of community involvement, been trialled and implemented during the staff commitment and sponsorship activity year, including alternative heating and is organised through our national network energy management schemes, the active of hotels, leisure clubs and offices.
procurement of energy efficient plant and equipment, high efficiency boilers and low Auditors energy lighting.
As a consequence, at the In accordance with section 385 of the majority of sites, average energy usage per Companies Act 1985 a resolution reunit has fallen by approximately 3% during appointing Ernst & Young LLP as auditors the year.
for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
We also monitor and benchmark water usage to allow comparisons to be made Special Business of Annual between sites and to identify areas where General Meeting savings can be achieved.
The Annual General Meeting is to be held at 11.30 am on 14 February 2003 at Our waste conservation programmes are fide Vere Oulton Hall, Rothwell Lane, continuing: the recycling of glass and Oulton, Leeds, Yorkshire, LS26 8HN.
paper is being achieved through The Notice of Meeting, Agenda and nominated group contractors and Explanations of any Special Business of compactors have been installed at several the Annual General Meeting are sent to sites to minimise the volume of waste.
We are also working with our supply-chain and encouraging our suppliers to develop By Order of the Board, environmentally superior processes and D C Edwards packaging to improve overall environmental Company Secretary performance.
This year saw the switch of 4 December 2002 our preferred supplier for cleaning chemicals to a company that have been innovative in producing a new product line and alternative packaging to lessen environmental impact.
Supplier Payment Policy The Group negotiates payment arrangements and other terms and conditions with all of its principal suppliers.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with negotiated arrangements other than in the event of a dispute.
The number of days purchases outstanding at 29 September 2002 was 57 for the Group and 52 for the Company.
18 fide VERE GROUP PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
