key points Revenue reflected ongoing difficult global demand conditions, Substantial investment was made in Dimension Datas IP to but stabilised in the second half of the year.
enhance the Groups competitive position, through a focus on four go-to-market global solution groups: Intense pressure on pricing in highly competitive marketsSecurity intensified in H2 2002, resulting in continued gross marginIP Convergence pressure.
Service Provider Solutions Customer Interactive Solutions.
Rand depreciation of 22% substantially impaired the contribution from South Africa.
Structural changes were made to drive Application Network strategy, including: Significant cost reductions of 11% largely through 19%Formation of Executive Committee reduction in headcount.
Appointment of new Group COO, Sales Director and Services CEO Fixed overheads reduced from US$530 million annualised inDedicated senior appointments to focus on solutions and 2001 to US$416 million in 2002. services Broadening of talent with new skills to balance existing Growth in contribution from value-added services and annuitysenior management based income.
Regional CEOs appointed to Executive Committee.
Global Sales focus resulted in a further improvement in the Implementation of corporate governance best practice, quality of the customer base and a number of high-profile demonstrated by a reduction in the number of executives on customer wins.
Successful launch and global rollout of the DD Way, a Subject to shareholder approval at an Extraordinary General performance-based realignment and transformation Meeting to be held on 13 December 2002, the issue to VenFin programme focused on improving the Groups competitive Ltd or its nominee of a US$100 million convertible bond.
Financial Results 2002 2001 $'000 $'000 Total turnover 2,187,331 2,460,258 Total operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 45,426 180,859 Profit for the year before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 30,100 163,804 Basic earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items US cents 2.3 13.0 Weighted average number of ordinary shares '000 1,299,075 1,255,235 Loss for the year as presented in the consolidated profit and loss account 2,583,890 1,723,659 Total net assets 639,313 3,242,759 Cash on hand 372,566 893,966 Net cash inflow from operating activities 28,952 186,342 Average number of employees 10,145 12,623 Restated - FRS 19 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 1 contents key points 1 chairmans statement 13 board of directors and executives 15 operational review 19 regional review 19 protocol 26 financial review 27 segmental analysis and related information 30 directorsreport 33 corporate governance report 36 corporate social responsibility report 40 remuneration report 43 statement of directors responsibilities 50 six-year review 51 shareholder information 55 independent auditors report 56 annual financial statements 57 glossary of technical terms 97 contacts and corporate information 99 drivingrenewal We are constantly assessing how we operate to build a common vision.
This will transform the way we work and entrench a culture of accountability to realign our business to succeed in the long term Translating change into sustainable financial results.
This drive for renewal is not established in isolation but capitalises on the intellectual capacity and world-class assets the Group has built over 20 years.
Dimension Data strives to be a leader in its field, anticipating and predicting changes in the industry.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 3 Dimension Data was founded in 1983.
The Group listed on the JSE Securities Exchange in 1987 and on the London Stock Exchange in 2000. at a glance group 4 DIMENSION DATA building a unique global proposition Dimension Data is a leading global technology services company.
It provides solutions and services that optimise and manage the performance of converging hardware and software infrastructures to enable businesses to take advantage of the latest developments in IT for example: web services, on-demand computing, utility computing.
Our current solutions, operational and professional services include: iBOSS IP Telephony Portals Contact Centre Integration Perimeter Security Insite IP VPN Storage Uptime Speech Self-Service Enterprise Content Management Surveyor We go-to-market with these solutions in each region through our core business of building and managing Enterprise Infrastructure and by focusing on four global market opportunities: Security, IP Convergence, Service Provider Solutions and Customer Interactive Solutions.
Our ability to sell and deliver these solutions across all our regions is supported by our MultiSourcing service which enables us to take advantage of high-quality IT skills in low-cost geographies.
DD Global Solution Groups Security solutions and services enable organisations to realise the true value of their information by ensuring it flows in a secure, trusted, and controlled environment without contamination.
IP Convergence solutions and services IPC enable organisations to achieve productivity enhancements, support mobility and realise infrastructure efficiencies by creating customised business applications that integrate and take advantage of consolidated voice, fax, video and data IP networks.
Service Provider solutions and services SPS address the technology and business needs of communications service providers and other organisations that manage and operate telco networks.
These solutions encompass network build-out and management, operational and business support systems and customer-focused value-added services.
Customer Interactive solutions and services CIS enable organisations to interact with their customers through multiple communication channels, retaining and increasing the value of their customer base.
6 DIMENSION DATA leading application network solutions becoming the leading provider of Application Network solutions Dimension Data recognised early that the application and network technology layers were going to converge and started to build capability through acquisitions in its regions, taking advantage of this opportunity from the mid 90s.
Since then, the business has defined its view of how it could capitalise on this opportunity.
The result has been the development of solutions based on a new proprietary architectural framework that exploits the proliferation of open standards and the convergence of applications and networks.
We call it an Application Network architecture.
Solutions based on this architecture enable organisations to develop a competitive edge by connecting devices, information, applications, business processes, people and organisations.
Businesses reduce both capital and operational IT costs by removing systems duplication and inefficiency.
By addressing areas of duplication and waste in their IT infrastructure, Dimension Data creates the opportunity for immediate and significant return on investment.
Dimension Datas combined expertise in networking, application integration and global operational services positions it uniquely to deliver these value-enhancing solutions.
The Application Network architectural framework enables Dimension Data to take a holistic view of the clients converging hardware and software infrastructure and assist that client in evolving, generating an improved return on past IT investments.
Global research by IDC indicates Application Network Integration ANI applies to a segment of the IT market which will be worth in excess of US$200 billion over the next four years.
The services market relating to ANI will grow from a worldwide total of US$31 billion to US$57 billion between 2002 and 2006 with a CAGR of 16.5% over the forecast period August 2002 IDC.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 7 maximising global reach africa asia number of employees: 3,640 number of employees: 1,500 australia number of employees: 1,000 Dimension Datas acquisitions were aimed at establishing a global footprint that would 8 DIMENSION DATA Today, Dimension Datas operations span over 30 countries on five continents with over 9,000 employees.
An integrated business offering unites all these territories, allows for the crosspollination of world-class skills and the leverage of cost bases across different territories.
usa europe number of employees: 900 number of employees: 1,020 united kingdom number of employees: 1,170 enable the Group to offer solutions and services in all the major IT markets of the world.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 9 taking action for sustainable delivery Dimension Data is transforming its operations through a global performance-based realignment and transformation programme.
The DD Way will focus on driving Group turnover and margins and enhancing the value of its proprietary technology and brands.
10 DIMENSION DATA The way to global success is the DD Way the mechanism for turning our vision of being a leading provider of Application Network solutions into reality: a global change management programme driven by dedicated senior resources keeping ourselves accountable to tough deliverables making the most of our people strengthening relationships with our clients driving efficiencies throughout the business enhancing the value of proprietary technology and brands driving Group turnover and margins.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 11 Over the past year, Dimension Data has concentrated on a careful, comprehensive evaluation of our operations and the manner in which we deliver to all our stakeholders
