board of directors and executives Directors Jeremy John Ord 45 Malcolm Thomas Rutherford 41 Patrick Keith Quarmby 48 Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Director: Corporate Finance Jeremy Ord was appointed Chairman ofMalcolm Rutherford was appointed toPatrick Quarmby was appointed to the Dimension Data Holdings in 1987.
He the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Board of Dimension Data Holdings in previously served as the Groups in 1994, as Financial Director, after 1996.
He worked as a tax partner at Managing Director and in other senior joining the Group in 1991.
He was Ernst & Young South Africa and was a positions since the Groups 1983 previously with Deloitte & Touche in director of Standard Bank in London.
He has been largely their Johannesburg and London offices.
He was appointed as Chairman of responsible for Dimension Datas He then joined UAL Merchant Bank in Datacraft Asia in July 2002.
Mr Ord is a Council South Africa, in their corporate finance non-executive director of Unitrans member and member of the Board of and investment divisions, before moving Limited.
Governors of the South Africa to Dimension Data.
He is also a member of the executive director of Coronation Board of Governors of the University of Holdings Limited.
He is a non-executive director of Datacraft Asia.
Stephen Michael Joubert 44 Director: Strategy Execution Stephen Joubert was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings in 1998.
He joined the Group in 1996 as Group Financial Director in Network Services.
Before that, he was a partner at  for a number of years.
He has been closely involved in the financial and operational aspects of the Group, and will be responsible for the execution of the Groups strategy.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 15 Non-Executive Directors David Andrew Frankel 31 Moses Modidima Moss Ngoasheng Gordon Herbert Waddell 65 David Frankel was appointed to the 45 Gordon Waddell was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings inMoss Ngoasheng was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings in 1998 as an executive director and Board in October 2002.
Mr Waddell is the Chairman of became a non-executive director in as a non-executive director on the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company.
He was previously Managing Board of Dimension Data South He serves as a non-executive director Director of The Internet Solution.
He is Executive Chairman of on the Groups regional board for 1999 he was voted South African investment company Safika Holdings Europe and the United Kingdom.
He Technology Achiever of the Century by Pty Ltd, and was previously economic was appointed senior non-executive Financial Mail.
He was the co-founder advisor to South African President director and chairman of the and Chairman of HealthBridge until Thabo Mbeki.
He also serves as a nonNomination Committee in September 2001.
He is a trustee of Foundation executive director of The Industrial 2002 and is a member of the Audit 2000, a trust fund established for Development Corporation, Micromega Committee.
welfare and education in South Africa.
Holdings Limited and New Africa Capital Limited.
Peter Dorian Wharton-Hood 63 Robert Cecil Mansfield, AO 51 Dorian Wharton-Hood was appointed to Robert Mansfield was appointed to the Roderick Rory Michael Scott 43 the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Board of Dimension Data Holdings inRory Scott was appointed to the Board in 1998.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Dimension Data Holdings in 1987 Liberty Life for eight years.
He was Officer of Optus Communications Pty and he has served as a non-executive Chairman of the Life Offices Ltd, and has been non-executive director on the Board since 1991.
He is Association of SA on three occasions Chairman of Telstra Corporation Ltd presently Managing Director of the and President of the Insurance Institute since January 2000.
In January 2000 he Scottish Knitwear Group SA Pty Ltd of SA.
He was also a member of the was awarded the Order of Australia and is Chairman of The Scientific Council of the SA Foundation and a AO medal for his contribution to Group.
He serves as chairman of the director of Business Against Crime.
In Australian business and to the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
1998 he was chairman of the telecommunications industry.
He also Governing Body of Business SA and he serves as a non-executive on the board is now a Trustee.
He is a member of the of the Groups Asian subsidiary, Remuneration and Nomination Datacraft Asia.
He is a member of the Committees.
He also sits on the Audit and Nomination Committees and Treasury Committee.
was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect 1 October 2002.
16 DIMENSION DATA BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVES Executive Committee The Executive Committee was formed on 1 October 2002.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the operational running of the business and assisting in the formulation and execution of the Groups strategy.
The Committee consists of the Executive Directors and the following members: Group Operations Solutions Brett Dawson Group Chief Operating Officer Peter Hird CEO Security Solutions Adam Craker Group Sales Director Bruce Watson CEO IP Telephony Russell Bolan CEO UK Robert Taylor CEO Offshore Resourcing Bob Cagnazzi CEO USA Mahmud Ron Cattell CEO Asia Noormohamed CEO Service Provider Solutions Allan Cawood CEO Africa Adam Craker CEO Customer Interactive Solutions Steve Nola CEO Australia Donovan Smyth CEO Europe Solutions Development Martin Chilcott Group Marketing Director Richard Came CEO Group Solutions Development Scott Gibson CFO Operations Ettienne Reinecke Chief Technology Officer Allan Burgess Chief Information Officer Marilyn Chaplin Group Human Resources Director Services Denis Hocking CEO Global Solutions Pascal Desaint Managing Director Sales Global Services ANNUAL REPORT 2002 17 Over the past few years Dimension Data has embarked on a strategy to transform the Group into a services and solutions operation targeting higher-margin, faster-growing sectors
