Protocol Business Development Fund Outlook In a challenging demand environment with Protocol Venture Capital is Dimension Significant resources and time have been limited visibility, the focus going into 2003 Datas Business Development Fund.
invested over the past year in improving is on improving the sales mix and Protocols objective is to establish strategic the Groups competitive positioning, focus profitability rather than aggressively joint ventures that enhance relationships and delivery capabilities.
We will continue to with suppliers and clients and foster new management structure is in place and strengthen our position in and protect the entrepreneurial businesses that additional high-level skills have been contribution from our core enterprise complement the Groups existing business.
recruited to supplement the existing infrastructure offerings where we will focus management team.
Increased focus has on efficiencies and on being more During the current financial year Protocol been given to solutions areas, security, selective in terms of the margins at which made four new investments and disposed customer interactive solutions, service business is accepted.
At the same time, of one, bringing its total investments at provider solutions and IP convergence.
with an increasingly value-add led sales year end to 20.
New operational services have been approach, we will be targeting a greater launched and global sales and delivery contribution from higher margin solutions.
Protocols portfolio has not been immune capabilities have been significantly We have seen some stability in the pricing to the distressed state of the information enhanced.
environment and expect gross margins in technology sector, the significant reduction 2003 to be broadly the same as the in valuations across the board and the In addition, incentivisation schemes have second half 2002 levels.
Following the scarcity of third-party investment funds been adapted to drive revenue growth in restructurings we expect operating costs that might have allowed Protocol the services and solutions sales and improve of approximately US$410 million in 2003. opportunity to both grow and or partially gross margins.
The DD Way is impacting Change is being driven by new skills, exit certain of its investments.
Protocols positively on a number of areas of our training, improved support structures and investments are valued annually based on business, including staff morale, revised incentivisation schemes.
We are each investments financial outlook and incentivisation and measurement, confident of growing demand amongst prevailing market valuations.
This resulted customer interaction and focus as well as existing customers and winning new in provisions totalling US$12.6 million supplier relationships.
customers with a differentiated and clearly being raised against a number of the defined offering of Application Network investments.
At 30 September 2002 the Solutions and GSOA services.
carrying value of Protocols portfolio was US$17.7 million compared to US$19 million at the end of 2001.
