directors report The Directors of Dimension Data present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2002.
Principal Activities Dividends Each of the solutions developed Dimension Data Holdings plc and its The Board has reviewed and maintains its incorporates a range of GSOA service subsidiaries are a global technology policy that available cash generated by offerings.
Dimension Data has launched services Group.
The Group has expertise the Group will be utilised to consolidate Lines of Business based upon the in networking, application integration and the acquisitions made in the previous success of several of the developed global managed services, and provides financial years and to implement the Solutions.
and manages IT solutions for new execution of its strategy following the architecture and enhanced infrastructures completion of its global rollout.
They A global knowledge collaboration platform known as Application Networks.
These accordingly do not expect to declare a has been developed to facilitate knowledge solutions enable businesses to operate dividend for the current financial period, sharing between all regions and staff, seamlessly and flexibly by connecting but will continue to review this policy on enhancing their ability to compete and devices, information, applications, an annual basis, or as necessary.
business processes, people and organisations.
Dividends may only be declared out of Dimension Data has teamed with worlddistributable reserves.
class technology and solution providers The Directors Report should be read in such as Cisco, EMC, HP, IBM and conjunction with the Chairmans Post Balance Sheet Events Microsoft to expand capabilities and Statement, the Operational Review and The contingency regarding Worldwide harness their support of our Dimension the Financial Review which provide African Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Data branded solutions.
information about the Groups businesses, disclosed in the 2001 Annual Report has their financial performance during the year, been settled post year end.
Details thereof Acquisitions and likely future developments.
are set out in Note 33 to the annual Details of acquisitions completed during financial statements.
the year are given in Note 26 to the Results annual financial statements on page 83.
For the year ended 30 September 2002, On 5 November 2002 the Company total turnover including associates was announced a new convertible bond issue.
Directors US$2,187 million, compared with Details thereof are disclosed in Note 33 to The current Directors are listed on pages US$2,460 million for the previous year, the annual financial statements.
The following Directors representing a decrease of 11%.
Total resigned from the Board as of 1 October operating profit before goodwill Research and Development 2002: Dirk Ackerman, Richard Came, amortisation, impairment and exceptional The Global Strategic Development Group Ronald Cattell, Raul Fernandez, Peter items was US$45 million compared with GSD, created in 2001 and based in the Harrison, Peter Hird, Ettienne Reinecke, US$181 million for the previous year.
USA and South Africa, has created, Donovan Smyth, Robert Taylor and Bruce Basic earnings per share before goodwill coordinated and project managed the Watson.
amortisation, impairment and exceptional development of repeatable solutions, items amounted to 2.3 US cents 2001: which have become Dimension Datas 13.0 US cents.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 33 As detailed in the Chairmans Statement, Directors memberships of Board The Group has a policy that all employees from 1 October 2002, the Board consists Committees are set out in the Corporate are entitled to equal opportunities within of four executives and six non-executives, Governance Report.
Details of Directors its companies globally.
Disabled persons the executives being Jeremy Ord, Stephen service contracts and remuneration are applying for employment are given fair Joubert, Patrick Quarmby and Malcolm set out in the Remuneration Report.
David Frankel, Robert Details of the Directors' interests in any disabled whilst employed will be retrained Mansfield, Rory Scott, Gordon Waddell Group Company can also be found in the wherever possible so that they can be and Dorian Wharton-Hood continue as Remuneration Report.
non-executives, and an additional nonexecutive, Moss Ngoasheng, has been Corporate Governance Details of the average number of appointed to the Board.
A report on Corporate Governance and employees are contained in Note 6 to the compliance with the Combined Code is annual financial statements on page 67.
At the forthcoming annual general set out on pages 36 to 39. meeting, Jeremy Ord, Malcolm Rutherford Authorised Share Capital and Rory Scott retire by rotation and offer Employee Involvement The authorised share capital of the themselves for re-election in accordance The Dimension Data Group seeks to Company is made up of 50,000, divided with the Articles of Association.
Dirk engage all employees in a shared into 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each, Ackerman, Richard Came, Ronald Cattell, commitment to the success of its and US$20 million divided into 2 billion Raul Fernandez, Peter Harrison, Peter business, and keeps them informed ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
Hird, Ettienne Reinecke, Donovan Smyth, regarding the business environment and Robert Taylor and Bruce Watson have matters of concern to them.
The The holders of the deferred shares have retired from 1 October 2002 and will not Corporate Social Responsibility Report no right to receive notice of any general be standing for re-election.
The contains details of communication and meeting of the Company, nor the right to Companys Articles of Association provide consultation with employees.
attend, speak or vote at such general that every director appointed to the Board meeting.
The deferred shares have no during the year shall automatically retire Dimension Data operates a share option rights to dividends and on a return of and seek election at the next general scheme and offers performance-related assets in a winding up, entitle the holder meeting following appointment.
bonus payments in order to encourage the to the repayment of the amounts paid on Shareholders will be asked to elect Moss participation of employees in the success the deferred shares after repayment of the Ngoasheng as a non-executive director.
Details of this scheme capital paid up on the ordinary shares Biographical details of the directors appear in the Remuneration Report and plus the payment of US$10 million per seeking re-election and election are set the number of outstanding options appear ordinary share.
out on pages 15 and 16. in Note 22 to the annual financial statements on pages 78 to 80.
34 DIMENSION DATA DIRECTORS REPORT Issued Share Capital Company as required by the Companies Company Secretary As at 30 September 2002 the Companys Act.
Group operating companies have no The UK company secretary is Mrs JM issued share capital was 50,000 deferred fixed payment policies but agree in Duck and the South African company shares of 1 each and 1,299,477,238 advance the best possible terms with their secretary is Mrs ML Taylor details on ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
suppliers and the Group is committed to page 99. honouring those terms.
Details of interests of 3% or more in the Annual General Meeting issued ordinary share capital of the Going Concern The Annual General Meeting of members Company are shown in Shareholder After making due enquiry, the Directors of the Company will be held at 17h00 Information on page 55. consider that, as at the date of the South African time, 15h00 London time approval of the financial statements, the on 19 February 2003 at The Wanderers, Reduction in Share Capital Group has adequate resources to The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, The Company presently has an continue in operational existence for the Bryanston, Sandton, South Africa.
The accumulated deficit on its profit and loss foreseeable future.
For this reason, they notice convening the meeting, together account.
The Board believes that it is now continue to adopt the going concern basis with the proxy form and notes explaining appropriate to cancel this deficit in order to in preparing their financial statements.
the various resolutions, is enclosed in a restructure the Companys balance sheet separate document for shareholders.
and to reflect more accurately the reality of Corporate Responsibility the Companys financial and trading Dimension Datas position on the By Order of the Board position.
Accordingly, the Board proposes environment and on charitable donations Mrs JM Duck to seek shareholders approval at the is detailed in the Corporate Social Secretary forthcoming Annual General Meeting to Responsibility Report.
No direct charitable 20 November 2002 reduce the Companys share premium donations were made to UK residents or account by US$4,334 million in order that it charities.
Donations to overseas charities be applied in cancelling the accumulated are detailed in the Corporate Social deficit of US$4,334 million on the Responsibility Report.
The Company Companys profit and loss account as at made no political donations in the year 30 September 2002.
The reserve which under review 2001: nil.
will arise on the reduction taking effect will not be distributable.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Creditor Payment Policy Touche as the Groups auditors and Dimension Data Holdings plc is a holding authorising the Directors to determine company and, as such, has no trade their remuneration will be proposed at the creditors at the year end.
It is therefore forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
not applicable to provide statistics for the ANNUAL REPORT 2002 35
