Unbeatable offers in Gentofte El Gigantens biggest store in Denmark.
Gigantti doubled its store base in Finland, growing from four to eight stores.
Thousands of customers queued to shop in the first Electro World store in Budapest, February 2002.
Shopping for fantastic offers at the Electro World opening.
22 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 The International Retail division achieved Elkjp opened 15 new stores, including 4 an operating profit of 15.2 million five El Gigantens in Sweden and four 22.3 million on sales increased by Gigantti stores in Finland, bringing its 14 per cent to 688 million 602 million.
total to 148 stores in five countries.
We intend to open a further 11 new Nordic countries stores in this financial year.
Elkjps sales increased by 12 per cent to 596 million 531 million.
Although Central Europe like for like sales were 1 per cent lower, In February, the Elkjp team launched this reected a downturn in a number the Groups first store in Hungary under of Nordic markets.
Elkjp continued to the Electro World brand.
The 43,000 gain share in each of its markets.
square feet store combines the best 5 of the Groups formats from around In July 2001, Elkjp completed Europe.
The store has quickly established the purchase of seven out of town a strong market presence.
We intend SuperRadio stores in Denmark.
to open a further Electro World store These stores have been rebranded in Budapest and our first in Prague this under Elkjps El Giganten fascia and financial year.
have shown strong initial results.
This acquisition has enabled Elkjp to grow Ireland its base in Denmark, where new store A strong performance in Ireland saw development has traditionally been total sales increase by 26 per cent to difficult, and confirms El Gigantens 56 million 44 million.
Like for like position as the market leader out of sales increased by 8 per cent.
The Group town in Denmark.
continued to expand outside Dublin, adding our twelfth store, a Dixons in Limerick during the year.
We intend to open two further stores this year.
Barkaby is home to the largest El Giganten store in Sweden.
Demonstrating the latest in built in cookers at El Giganten, Gentofte, Denmark.
Rafael Gonzalez, sales adviser, PC City, Alicante, discusses PC performance with a customer.
23 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 Spain and France Italy Operating review PC City Spain opened its first large In November, the Group acquired a International continued superstores in Zaragoza and Madrid.
24.3 per cent stake in UniEuro, one Like for like sales increased by 4 per cent.
of Italys leading electrical retailers together with an option to acquire In France, PC City opened two stores on the majority by July 2003 and the the outskirts of Paris, the first of which, balance by July 2004.
Since the in Villebon, attracted 15,000 customers acquisition, UniEuro has continued to in the first weekend and was the expand aggressively, adding a further strongest ever opening for a PC City 16 stores to bring the total to 77 or PC World launch.
Sales in the 12 months to the end of April have grown by The early enthusiasm for PC City in both 28 per cent.
Included in the Groups markets is an encouraging indication of results is a contribution of 3.8 million, the strength of its proposition across representing the Groups share of different markets.
operating profits for the five months since acquisition.
The component centre, PC City, Alicante, offers wide component choice.
Wanadoos ADSL offer displayed at PC City, Alicante.
Pablo Puerta demonstrates the high quality performance of digital cameras.
Choosing from the vast range of PC peripherals in PC City, Alicante.
24 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 European property 5 The European Property division, Codic, made an operating profit of 16 million 14.9 million, an increase of 7 per cent, on sales of 78 million 62 million.
We achieved major sales of high-quality ofce developments in prime locations in Luxembourg, Belgium, France and Germany.
Codic has continued to generate consistently high profits over recent years, while substantially reducing its capital employed.
During the year the management of Codic purchased shares in the company at net asset value.
Their initial stake of 4 per cent is expected to increase over time.
The Euralliance building in Lille, France, designed and developed by Codic.
PC City, Alicante, opened in May 2002 and at 20,000 sq ft, is the largest store in Spain.
25 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02
