co. uk 1 Operating review Currys sales were 1,607 million UK Retail 1,487 million, an increase of 8 per cent overall and 5 per cent like for like.
Currys superstore sales grew by 6 per cent like for like.
There were strong performances and good market share gains across most product categories, particularly in widescreen televisions and large domestic appliances.
The Currys Marketplace store concept has been successfully rolled out to 120 stores, offering greater selfservice on smaller ticket items, with increased availability of take-away stock.
We successfully launched the new Currysno worries service proposition and marketing campaign, offering customers free delivery seven days a week and 24-hour service support 2 underpinned by a strong price proposition.
This has had considerable impact in reinforcing Currys brand positioning and driving store trafc.
We opened or resited 18 new Currys superstores, including eight large Marketplace stores with more than 25,000 square feet of net trading space.
These stores continue to show excellent performance, ahead of the chain average.
They have strong customer appeal and provide good returns and a strong platform for future growth.
At the year end Currys had 17 stores of 25,000 square feet or more.
We estimate that around 100 markets in the UK are able to support stores of this size.
Laura Hillsdon and Lauren Gallavan answer customer enquiries at the dedicated service area in the Milton Keynes superstore.
Currys Milton Keynes is one of 120 Marketplace stores.
Choosing from the state of the art cookers.
18 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 4 7day home delivery 5 Britains biggest for low prices 6 7 4.
Elliot Smith, white goods sales adviser, with the increased laundry range at Currys.
Kalpesh Wanza, sales adviser, discusses widescreen TVs in one of the focal points of the Milton Keynes store.
Putting the latest vacuum cleaners to the test.
Nilesh Parma demonstrates the features of digital camcorders.
19 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02
