easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Directors report The Directors present the audited consolidated financial statements for easyJet plc for the year ended 30 September 2002.
Principal activity The principal activity of easyJet plc the company and its subsidiary companies the group or easyJet is the provision of a low-cost - good value airline service.
Business review easyJet plc operates one of Europes leading low-fare scheduled passenger airline businesses.
It provides high frequency services on short-haul and medium-haul point-to-point routes within Europe from its eight bases at Amsterdam, Bristol, East Midlands, Geneva, Liverpool, London Luton, London Stansted, and London Gatwick.
easyJet offers a simple, no frills service aimed at both the leisure and business travel markets.
"Fares are, on average, significantly below those offered by traditional full service, or ""multi-product"", airlines."
During the year ended 30 September 2002, easyJet acquired all the share capital of Newgo1 Limited, which is the ultimate holding company of Go Fly, a low cost airline.
Go Fly is a European low cost airline, providing services from London Stansted, Bristol and East Midlands on short-haul and medium-haul routes within Europe.
The acquisition was completed on 31 July 2002.
The integration of Go Fly and easyJet is now well under way, and is expected to occur over a period of up to 24 months from 31 July 2002, the date of acquisition.
During the year, easyJet also purchased an option from British Airways plc to acquire the entire share capital of Deutsche BA Holding GmbH Deutsche BA.
This option is exercisable at any time up until April 2003 and extendable by easyJet until August 2003.
Deutsche BA operates scheduled air passenger services primarily within Germany.
As part of the option agreement, Deutsche BA is to be transformed towards a low-cost airline model.
This may be the most attractive option for easyJet to enter the German market.
easyJet will not exercise the option unless the Directors believe that easyJet will be able to effect the transformation of Deutsche BA into a low cost airline successfully.
During the year ended 30 September 2002, easyJet flew 11.4 million passengers including those of Go Fly for the two months ended 30 September 2002.
This represented an increase of 59.5 per cent on the previous year.
easyJet generated profit before exceptional items, provision for the investment in The Airline Group Limited, goodwill amortisation and tax of 81.8 million on revenue of 552 million.
Profit before tax was 71.6 million, with profit after tax of 49.0 million.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
As at 30 September 2002 easyJet operated on 83 routes, serving 32 cities, and had a fleet of 64 Boeing B737 aircraft.
easyJet flew 89,939 sectors during the year including those of Go Fly for the two months ended 30 September 2002, an increase of 56 per cent over the prior year.
The average load factor over the financial year was 84.8 per cent, 1.8 percentage points higher than the 2001 financial year.
Year-on-year, the average net fare fell 4.4 per cent to 46.28 2001: 48.42. easyJet has entered into a purchase agreement with Boeing for 32 new next generation 737-700 aircraft.
18 of these have now been delivered with the remainder being due for delivery over the period up until May 2004.
In October 2002, easyJet selected Airbus as the aircraft manufacturer with whom it would negotiate for the supply of its next stream of new aircraft see Post balance sheet events below.
Additional information on a review of the development of the business during the financial year, the position at the end of the financial year and likely future developments are given in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and the Operational and financial review.
23 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Directors report continued Safety and security easyJets commitment to safety is the top priority of the company and management.
easyJet is committed to safe operations, which is manifested in its safety training procedures, its investment in the latest aircraft equipment and its adoption of a confidential safety issue reporting system.
Go Fly, which was acquired during the year also has a high degree of commitment to safety.
Customer service easyJet seeks to provide its customers with a safe, low-cost, good value and reliable service.
easyJet operates an entirely ticketless sales and check-in service.
This service is, easyJet believes, less burdensome for customers.
In addition, the service reduces the costs associated with ticket processing, including personnel costs, and simplifies administration and control.
In-flight service costs are kept to a minimum.
Food and drinks are served on board and are paid for by the passenger.
Third party suppliers provide the in-flight catering.
People and culture easyJets employees have defined a statement of the organisations values the orange culture.
The Directors believe that the companys stated orange values, including being up for it, passionate and sharp, help to motivate employees to be productive and to implement easyJets strategies.
The management of the group is entrusted to an executive team with extensive commercial, operational and financial experience.
In keeping with the orange culture the Directors encourage employees to contribute to the management of the business and allow employees to have access to a significant amount of information stored on the companys electronic document system.
The group is an equal opportunity employer, which actively encourages the training and development of all its employees on an ongoing basis.
It is the groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment and disabled individuals, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and to provide such individuals with equal training, development, and opportunities for promotion.
easyJet is committed to generating an awareness among its employees of the groups performance, development and progress, and to providing employees with information on matters of concern to them.
It achieves this through regular communication meetings, employee newsletters, and management briefings.
Also, communication meetings are used as a platform from which employee representatives can be consulted in order that the views of the employees can be taken into consideration in management decisions, which are likely to affect their interests.
24 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Directors report continued Internet sales easyJet sells the majority of its seats via its own websites.
easyJet believes its prominent use of the slogan the webs favourite airline and the painting of the website address on each of easyJets aircraft encourages customers to use this low-cost sales channel.
In the year to 30 September 2002, 90.9 per cent of initial bookings were made via the internet.
In September 2002 this figure was 89.9 per cent, which the Directors believe to be one of the highest percentages for an airline, hence the slogan the webs favourite airline.
Directors and directors interests The directors who held office during the year were as follows: Non-executive: Stelios Haji-Ioannou Sir Colin Chandler appointed 17 April 2002 Amir Eilon Nick Hartley Anthony Illsley Colin Day Diederik Karsten John Quelch Executive Ray Webster Chris Walton Mike Cooper resigned 17 April 2002 Vilhelm Hahn-Petersen resigned 17 April 2002 Keith McMann resigned 17 April 2002 The following directors held direct interests in the share capital of the company: 30 September 1 October 2001 2002 Stelios Haji-Ioannou 85,576,451 - Ray Webster 2,104,975 - Vilhelm Hahn-Petersen resigned 17 April 2002 n a 15,558 Colin Day 20,454 - Nick Hartley 101,575 6,732 At 1 October 2001, the shareholdings of Ray Webster and Stelios Haji-Ioannou, and 38,632 shares held by Nick Hartley were held indirectly through easyJet Holdings Limited, which until February 2002 was the ultimate parent company of easyJet plc.
In February 2002, easyJet Holdings Limited was dissolved.
Following the dissolution, the interests of Stelios Haji-Ioannou have been held indirectly through easyGroup Limited, and the interests of Ray Webster have been held indirectly through Elura Investments Limited.
25 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Directors report continued In addition, executive directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the easyJet UK Employee Share Ownership Trust and the easyJet Overseas Employee Share Ownership Trust the Trusts.
At 30 September 2002, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were as follows: Ordinary shares Total held by UK Trust of which: Allocated 63,607 Unallocated 87,065 Total held by Overseas Trust of which: Allocated 102,031 Unallocated 15,472 Details of share options and share gifts granted to the directors of the company are disclosed in note 17 to the financial statements.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The group and the company do not follow a universal code which deals specifically with payments to suppliers but, where appropriate, their practice is to: agree the terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier: ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment: and pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
At 30 September 2002, the number of creditor days outstanding for the group was 30 days 2001: 18 days, and the company, nil days 2001: nil days.
The creditor days increased compared to 2001, primarily due to the acquisition of Go Fly.
The resulting growth in the business, year on year, at the year end was approximately 125 per cent, which drives the amount of the year end trade creditors.
However, purchases measured by the overall amount incurred during the year has increased by 50 per cent.
This has overtstated the year end creditor days disclosed.
The directors consider that the group has not changed the average time taken to pay creditors during the year, and remains committed to prompt payment.
Political and charitable contributions During the year, the group made charitable contributions totalling 1,633 2001: 4,505.
In addition, the group provides free flights to selected charities.
There is minimal incremental cost to the group associated with these gifts.
There were no contributions made for political purposes.
26 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Directors report continued Post balance sheet events The following events have occurred since 30 September 2002: On 26 November 2002, Stelios Haji-Ioannou will step down as Chairman and as a director of easyJet plc.
Sir Colin Chandler will assume the chairmanship: and In October 2002, easyJet announced that it had selected Airbus as the aircraft manufacturer with whom it would negotiate for the supply of its next stream of aircraft.
The proposed order is for 120 A319 aircraft to be delivered over a five year period from approximately September 2003, with options and price protection on a further 120 A319 aircraft until 2012 and with options to switch to larger sized A320 and A321 aircraft.
The final agreement will be subject to shareholder approval and a circular will be despatched to shareholders in due course.
Substantial interests As at 21 November 2002, the company has been notified of the following disclosable interests of 3 per cent or more in its ordinary shares: Number of shares Percentage easyGroup Limited holding vehicle for Stelios Haji-Ioannou 85,576,451 21.85% Polys Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Polys Haji-Ioannou 44,278,566 11.30% Clelia Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Clelia Haji-Ioannou 44,278,566 11.30% Wellington Management Company LLP 16,318,198 4.17% Fidelity International Limited FMR 15,987,612 4.08% Britannic Asset Management 14,602,752 3.73% Auditors In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to the company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
On behalf of the board easyLand London Luton Airport C Walton Luton Director Bedfordshire LU2 9LS 25 November 2002 27 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Directors Stelios Haji-Ioannou Non-executive Chairman Stelios 35 founded easyJet in 1995.
Prior to that, he founded Stelmar Tankers, a shipping company which listed on the New York stock exchange in 2001 and in which he retains a significant shareholding, but no longer sits on the Board.
In 1998, he established the easy group of companies, with the objective of exploiting the easy brand for ventures other than easyJet.
Such ventures launched thus far include easyInternetCaf, a chain of internet cafes, and easyCar, a budget car rental business.
Sir Colin Chandler Non-executive Deputy Chairman and Chairman designate Colin 62 joined easyJet in April 2002 and is also currently Chairman of Vickers Defence Systems, a subsidiary of Rolls-Royce Plc and Deputy Chairman of Smiths Group Plc.
He is Pro-Chancellor of Cranfield University.
He was formerly Chairman and CEO of Racal Electronics 1999 2000 : a director of Guardian Royal Exchange 1995 1999 and from 1990 1999 he was variously Managing Director, Chief Executive and Chairman of Vickers Plc.
In his earlier career, he held various posts at British Aerospace Plc and its predecessor companies and undertook a four and a half year secondment to the Ministry of Defence.
Colin was knighted in 1988 for his services to export.
Ray Webster Chief Executive Prior to joining easyJet in March 1996, Ray 56 had 27 years of experience in the airline industry at Air New Zealand.
In his career with Air New Zealand he held various positions within the engineering business unit, formed their cargo business unit and had responsibility for marketing, sales and operations within the Americas market.
His last role at Air New Zealand was as General Manager of Strategic Planning, where he was responsible for the identification, evaluation and implementation of corporate development options, including the concept development, planning and implementation of a start up value based low-cost airline serving short-haul routes within the Australasian market.
Chris Walton Finance Director Prior to joining easyJet in 1999, Chris 45 had 13 years of experience in the airline industry working in finance and commercial capacities for Qantas Airways, Air New Zealand and Australian Airlines.
Chris experience includes financial planning, shareholder value management, financial reporting and control, monitoring of business area performance, investment and economic analysis.
At various times, his roles in these companies have included inter alia responsibility for commercial matters, strategic planning and the negotiation of strategic alliances.
Colin Day Independent Non-executive Director Colin 47 joined easyJet in September 2000 and is currently chief financial officer for Reckitt Benckiser Plc, the worlds largest household cleaning products company.
Before that Colin was group finance director of Aegis Plc, Europes leading media buying and planning company.
Prior to joining Aegis, Colin spent six years in a number of divisional finance director positions with ABB, latterly as group finance director of ABB Instrumentation.
Much of his earlier career was spent in various finance positions with fide La Rue Group.
Colin is also a non-executive director of Bell Group Plc, a security systems company and was previously a non-executive director of Vero Group.
Amir Eilon Non-executive Director Amir 53 spent the major part of his career working for investment banks specialising in particular in global capital markets.
Before joining easyJet in March 1999, Amir was at Credit Suisse First Boston private equity group where he had joint responsibility for Western Europe within its international group.
Prior to that, Amir was at Barclays fide Zoette Wedd for eight years where he was head of global capital markets.
Amir is also a non-executive director of easyCar, easyGroup, easyInternetCaf, easyMoney, easyValue, and Tidal Energy.
Nick Hartley Non-executive Director Nick 65 acted as a consultant to Stelios Haji-Ioannou on the business strategy for easyJet prior to its incorporation.
Prior to that, he worked as a consultant on business strategy for Stelmar Tankers and subsequently became a director and chairman of that company.
Prior to 1992, he worked at BP for 35 years, where his posts included Managing Director of BP Southern Africa and Managing Director of BP Shipping.
28 easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Directors continued Tony Illsley Independent Senior Non-executive Director Prior to joining easyJet in September 2000, Tony 46 worked at Telewest Communications plc where he was Chief Executive prior to the merger with Flextech plc.
Prior to his appointment at Telewest he was Chief Executive of Walkers Snack Foods, the UK division of Frito Lay, PepsiCos foods subsidiary, having been promoted in 1995 from the position of President of Pepsi-Cola Asia Pacific.
Before this, Tony spent four and a half years as PepsiColas President in Japan.
From 1984 to 1988 he held various positions in the groups European soft drinks operations.
Before joining PepsiCo, Tony worked for five years at Colgate Palmolive UK, holding various senior marketing roles.
Tony is non-executive chairman of Lionhead Studios plc and Leisure Link Holdings Limited, and a non-executive director of Capital Radio plc and Megabeam Networks Limited.
Diederik Karsten Independent Non-executive Director Diederik 45 joined easyJet in May 2001 and, from February 2000 to November 2001, has also been chief executive officer of KPN Mobile N. V. Previously he was Director of the business unit Mobile Telephony and director of The Mobile Net, parts of KPN Telecom.
Prior to joining KPN in 1996, Diederik held various management and marketing positions at Pepsi Co, including vice president sales and marketing Snacks Ventures Europe and sales and marketing director Pepsi Cola, Germany.
Before that, Diederik held various marketing positions at Procter & Gamble.
John Quelch Independent Non-executive Director John 51 joined easyJet in November 2000, at which time he was Dean of the London Business School and a Professor of London University.
Subsequently, he accepted the position of Senior Associate Dean, International Development and Lincoln Filene Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School.
John serves as a non-executive director of both WPP Group Plc and Blue Circle Industries Limited.
He was a founding nonexecutive director of Reebok International Limited.
As an academic, author and consultant, John is very active in business and specialises in, among other topics, international marketing, human resource management and general business management in both emerging and developing countries.
