18 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Human resources review People: the competitive advantage WE HAVE MADE SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS WITH A NUMBER OF PEOPLE-ORIENTED INITIATIVES When competent and highly motivated people are lined up behind the business strategy of a focused organisation, the chances of success in the market place are much improved.
So, with a clear strategy now in place, Enodis is seeking to ensure that we have the right people in the right places with the intention of gaining real competitive advantage in the food service equipment industry.
Additionally, we have made significant progress in this respect during the past year through a number of people-oriented initiatives.
Performance management For the first time, we have introduced a performance management system across most of our operating companies and staff functions.
Managers are now equipped with an HR system designed to align peoples contributions with the Companys values and requirements, through participative goal-setting, performance feedback and personal development planning.
The intention is to improve overall results by providing greater clarity around personal objectives and performance levels.
Succession planning A number of business authors and researchers have directly related leadership ability to the successful execution of business strategies.
For that reason we have introduced INVESTMENT OF RESOURCES IN PEOPLE IS ONE THAT CAN EASILY BE JUSTIFIED 19 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Human resources review OPPORTUNISTIC RECRUITMENT HAS BEEN SUCCESSFUL MANAGERS ARE NOW EQUIPPED TO ALIGN PEOPLES CONTRIBUTIONS WITH THE COMP ANYS V ALUES AND REQUIREMENTS succession planning in order Cross-company transfers During fiscal 2003, our Chief to systematically evaluate and Enodis is composed of a Executive Officer has attended, upgrade executive strength and number of separate operating and two other executive depth Group-wide.
Succession companies spread across the Directors are to attend, a more planning is a way of anticipating globe.
Many global companies senior programme at the same important position vacancies and engage in the practice of institution, in order to bring recognising opportunities for the transferring high-potential together leadership philosophies development of our people.
executives between companies and values throughout the Each Enodis business unit is and or across national boundaries executive team.
now required to critically evaluate for the purposes of achieving Next steps We believe that the its organisational structure and important business goals while, commercial and management management team for the purposes at the same time, further capability of Enodis has been of improvement and development.
increased during the past year.
Effective succession planning This is happening in Enodis We also believe that the Enodis not only helps in the replacement with increasing frequency.
business strategies require of key individuals who are nearing Sales Marketing training capable leadership and teamwork.
retirement, but is also a means Commercial executives are For that reason, our investment of identifying individuals with high currently being given extensive, in people is one we find easy potential earlier in their careers.
high-quality training in strategic to justify.
Enodis operating companies selling techniques and key account are now encouraged to recruit management in order to better individuals who will not only implement the food service chains perform capably in todays strategies described elsewhere in positions, but who also have the this report.
Management coaching potential to assume more senior Bob Eimers and instruction regarding product positions tomorrow.
Executive VP support, brand management and Global Human Resources Opportunistic recruitment customer marketplace analysis Outstanding individuals will be made available.
occasionally become available Leadership skills During the in the marketplace, and Enodis past year, we have invested in opportunistically recruits these our senior management team.
high-achievers, even if there is Operating company presidents no specific position for them and managing directors have to fill.
To date, this strategy has attended a strategic management been successful, as these development programme at one individuals have readily adapted to of the most highly regarded their new roles.
leadership institutes in the world.
Participants benefited from the experience, in terms of self-awareness and leadership behaviour.
