Exel plc Annual report 2002 20 Strategy Customer focus We believe that every customer faces unique challenges.
Working in close partnership, Exel provides a tailored blend of skills and experience that goes beyond traditional logistics to deliver competitive advantage.
Graham Fish Group Commercial Director Graham Fish John Coghlan Group Commercial Director Deputy Chief Executive and Group Finance Director global integrated coverage capability customer focus our our people processes Around 67,000 employees... 67, 000 Exel plc Annual report 2002 Strategy 21 creates new value Since no two customers are alike, we reject the one-size-fits-all approach.
Instead we offer fully tailored solutions for all our Exel s strategy focuses attention customers that draw from the deep resources of our key on finding new ways of creating attributes.
Our people drive innovation and have the application real value for our customers to deliver successful solutions.
Our processes ensure that best and shareholders.
Challenging practice is shared across the Company and replicated consistently.
traditional thinking by using Our global coverage ensures that we can provide the solutions our innovative processes that bring customers require, wherever in the world they need us to be.
And together Exels integrated our integrated capability pulls together the different elements of capability and global reach the supply chain, unified by end-to-end systems and management has been key.
In so doing we skills that ensure the solution is optimal.
can unlock economic profit and value that can benefit all Exel takes a wider holistic view of the supply chain and delivers involved.
solutions, often going beyond traditional logistics, to deliver value John Coghlan Deputy Chief Executive and added services.
Group Finance Director Our customers expect and are entitled to the extraordinary.
So we are constantly looking for new ideas to deliver breakthrough solutions.
By developing our teams, using state-of-the-art technology, realising new concepts and delivering beyond expectations, we will continue to be pioneers, at the forefront of the industry, constantly driving innovation and developing new ways of working.
delivering solutions for every single customer working in over 120 countries focused on seven key industry sectors 120 7 1
