Exel plc Annual report 2002 Performance 25 Having completed a successful initial of around 6m, principally in the UK.
Turnover and profit growth programme during 2002, the Group is set Nevertheless, Exel s margin at its UK and have been good, led by market to roll out the development of this initiative Ireland operations improved to 4.9% 2001: share gains and increased throughout Exel.
management to find ways of unlocking operating efficiencies.
Cash more value for our customers and at the Retail markets remained positive for Exel.
flow generation has once same time maintaining the momentum the The Group strengthened its activities with again been very strong, Group has established in finding profitable new international logistics operations for driven by an increased focus growth opportunities.
two leading fashion retailers and major contract renewals with Safeway and on working capital.
We have also taken steps to strengthen the Somerfield.
Operating issues at facilities John Allan main cornerstones of Exels strategy.
The in France and Spain sharply reduced profits Chief Executive three acquisitions announced in 2002 have in the two countries.
Consumerbusiness already had a positive effect on our global remained steady, with Exels shared use coverage, integrated capability and customer activities maintaining a high level of focus.
At the start of 2002, Exel acquired US utilisation in a competitive market.
New Consolidation Limited, based in the US and business wins were secured with Burtons Asia.
This is now a core part of Exels Foods and Heinz, amongst others.
seafreight consolidation services offering Healthcare performed steadily with new and has proved a very valuable acquisition facilities opened for the NHS in the UK and from which many of Exels customers will expanded operations for several customers benefit over time.
In September, we on the Continent.
Automotiveoperations completed the acquisition of Power in the UK performed strongly with a major Logistics.
Integration of the US operations turnaround at Exels Automotive started in October and is proceeding very Management Services business being well.
Finally, in November we announced the amongst the highlights.
Overall, acquisition of Eagle Freight, a South African improvements were partially held back company with operations in seafreight, by weaknesses in Spain, Germany and airfreight and ground-based logistics.
This Sweden, where new business with Saab was acquisition was completed in early 2003. still in its early stages and production volumes were lower than expected.
Technologyprofits increased overall, led by strong performances Europe, Middle in Belgium, France and The Netherlands and improvements in the UK.
These more than East & Africa offset the weakness in Spain, caused principally by the insolvency of a leading digital Contract logistics TV business.
Exel s Tradeteamoperation Turnover from contract logistics activities secured a major outsourcing deal with in Europe, Middle East & Africa increased by Interbrew UK.
next eight years, the contract gives T radeteam Adjusting for the impact of exchange rates, responsibility for the UK distribution of the acquisitions and disposals, organic growth brewer s leading brands, including Whitbread, was 3.3%, with improved growth in the Stella Artois and Becks.
Overall T radeteam second half led by a strong performance in delivered a mixed performance, showing UK and Ireland contract logistics.
Operating good revenue growth although margins were profit declined 6.5% to 60.1m 2001: down reflecting the impact of pricing 64.3m with margins declining to 3.8% decreases, some increased operating costs 2001: 4.3%.
Overall, performance reflected and charges related to the start up of a new the drop in Continental European profits, facility outside Glasgow.
Tankfreight led by weak performances in Spain and operations in the UK performed soundly, France, and increased insurance premiums showing a good improvement over 2001.
Over 30% of Exels revenues come from the international movement of our customers goods.
