Exel plc Annual report 2002 6 Strategy is key to competitive advantage Exel successfully strengthens its global coverage through organic growth as well as the addition of small acquisitions that introduce new skills and capabilities and enhance the Groups geographic scope.
CK Lee Chief Executive, Asia Pacific 03 T o address a growing number of trends in the supply chain, Exel has developed a range of unique solution sets that combine our strategic cornerstones to provide a clear, differentiated product offering.
One solution set, which in particular leverages Exels global coverage, is international inbound.
Focused on the international movement of goods, matching a global trend in 03 procurement strategies, this solution has recently been very successful.
Exel has now established solutions for leading retailers, major automotive businesses as well as many technology customers.
Exels consolidation solution has led to a 25% saving in transport costs for a leading US toy retailer.
International inbound solutions % An end-to-end service that removes the customer challenge of managing complex supply chain solutions.
Key components of effective international inbound solutions include: 25 Supplier management Consolidation skills Working effectively with our customers By designing optimal packaging, suppliers in different parts of the providing reusable pallets or world requires local knowledge and consolidating freight more effectively, capability, plus a clear understanding Exel can save significant transport of our customers quality standards costs and reduce the associated and processes.
Exel plc Annual report 2002 Strategy 7 As a result of our global coverage, the business continues to develop strongly all around the world.
Not every customer wants, or needs, a global service but nearly all of Exels market sectors have an increasing requirement for some international capability from their supply chain partners.
Consolidation services Acquired in 2002, Exel s consolidation services activities provide a key component to effective international inbound solutions for major retail customers.
Customs clearance and integrated contract logistics Once the freight arrives at its destination country, accurate information and planning ensures that customers receive their goods on time and in the right condition.
Lead time reductions of over 95% can be achieved using global visibility tools such as Exels Supply Chain Integrator.
Global control towers Integrated freight management Visibility across the supply chain is Having the flexibility to choose the critical to making the right decisions.
optimum transport solution is % Inventory-holding costs can be essential.
As a freight forwarder, significantly reduced if the proper Exel does not own planes or ships systems are in place to manage the and so can choose the best way to end-to-end process.
move goods around the world.
