Exel plc Annual report 2002 26 Performance Freight management second half trading at several technology second half trading at several technology Our UK operations have Turnover from freight management activities customers and volume issues during the startcustomers and volume issues during the startperformed strongly, increased to 696m 2001: 691m and up of a major automotive facility in Brazil up of a major automotive facility in Brazil compensating somewhat for operating profits improved by 52.5% to towar towar ds the end of the year ds the end of the year.
On an organic basis, pr prospects for 2003 ar ospects for 2003 ar e str e str ong following a ong following a a weaker performance from turnover fell by 2.0%, however operating pr programme of new start-ups.
During the last ogramme of new start-ups.
During the last some of our Continental profit increased by 45.9%.
A strong second eight months, 15 new facilities wer eight months, 15 new facilities wer e e European operations.
I am half performance saw profits increase by commissioned for customers ar commissioned for customers ar ound the US, ound the US, particularly pleased with how 81%.
Margins improved to 2.6% 2001: 1.7%, mainly leveraging Exel mainly leveraging Exel s existing campus s existing campus reflecting an improved mix of activities, the infrastructur infrastructur e. e. Exel has responded to the introduction of Exel s freight gateway strategy challenge of creating new and some consequential improvements in Consumer Consumerand and rretail etailactivities showed good activities showed good value for our customers, purchasing airfreight capacity.
Airweight gr growth, with the business securing several owth, with the business securing several increased by 12%.
major new contracts, including new business major new contracts, including new business matching their increasing with Coors Br with Coors Br ewing Company and The ewing Company and The expectations for efficiency Germany, The Netherlands and the UK, in Home Depot.
The acquisition of Power Home Depot.
The acquisition of Power and performance.
particular, all improved performance with Logistics in October str Logistics in October str engthens Exel engthens Exel s client s client new business gains, volume growth and base and brings expertise in secondary base and brings expertise in secondary Ian Smith purchasing efficiencies.
Disappointments packaging bundling customer pr packaging bundling customer pr oducts oducts Chief Executive, Consumer, Retail and Healthcare Europe included operations in Belgium, France together for r together for r etail sales initiatives.
The and East Africa where local operating integration of Power integration of Power s US operations is s US operations is The contract win with Interbrew issues are being addressed.
West African alr already underway eady underway.
Exel Dir ect demonstrated ect demonstrated operations performed strongly.
The 2001 further pr further pr ogr ogr ess in impr ess in impr oving its performance.
is a major step forward for acquisitions in Austria and Turkey both Healthcar Healthcare eoperations made good pr operations made good pr ogr ogr ess ess Tradeteam, confirming the made positive contributions.
In November with new business and contract extensions with new business and contract extensions business as the number one 2002, Exel announced the acquisition of fr from Bayer and Johnson & Johnson.
Exel om Bayer and Johnson & Johnson.
Exel ss Eagle Freight, a South African company automotive automotivebusiness in the US continues to business in the US continues to independentdrinks distribution with seafreight, airfreight and contract develop well.
Whilst operating performance develop well.
Whilst operating performance specialist in the UK.
Integration has has been held back by issues in Brazil, business has been held back by issues in Brazil, business started, although the business had no development has been good.
Most notably development has been good.
Most notably, , Graham Fish Group Commercial Director impact on 2002 results.
The acquisition Goodyear T Goodyear Tii r r e e and Rubber Co appointed Exel and Rubber Co appointed Exel strengthens Exels capabilities in Southern as lead logistics manager as lead logistics manager.
In this r. In this r ole, Exel will ole, Exel will Africa and will help accelerate growth in use its strategic planning and integration skills use its strategic planning and integration skills the region.
Exels international mail and to engineer innovative solutions to impr to engineer innovative solutions to impr ove ove courier businesses performed well in supply chain performance.
A similar r ole is ole is difficult markets for premium distribution being undertaken in the consumer sector being undertaken in the consumer sector services.
with The Scotts Company with The Scotts Company, a leading, a leading manufactur manufactur er of gar er of gar den car den car e pr e pr oducts.
T Technology echnologycustomers experienced weak customers experienced weak Americas demand thr demand thr oughout 2002, leading to oughout 2002, leading to r reductions in the level of supply chain activity eductions in the level of supply chain activity.. Contract logistics Whilst Exel has continued to develop its Whilst Exel has continued to develop its Turnover from contract logistics activities business, which should be positive for the business, which should be positive for the in the Americas was up 7.
5% at 707m 2001: futur future, operating margins during 2002 wer e, operating margins during 2002 wer e e 658m with operating profit down to weaker weaker.
Gr owth in Exel owth in Exel s s industrial industrial sector has sector has 34.8m 2001: 37.
On an organic basis, been good, with Cr been good, with Cr ompton Corporation, ompton Corporation, turnover was ahead 8.9% and profit down by Dal-T Dal-Tile and Inter ile and Inter national Paper all expanding national Paper all expanding 6.2%.
Margin was 4.9% 2001: 5.6%, the scope of existing contracts to include the scope of existing contracts to include 01 02 reflecting a solid performance from consumer, additional services and locations.
Exel additional services and locations.
Exel ss retail and healthcare operations across the operations in the operations in the chemical chemical sector also made sector also made 01 Ian Smith region, which was more than offset by weaker good pr good progr ogr ess, despite weak demand.
