Exel plc Annual report 2002 Strategy 17 During a major training and development management workshop, that brought together a diverse group of 26 of Exel s senior team from 11 countries, they evaluated the key values and behaviours they observed inside their own operations.
Their conclusions give an interesting insight into what makes Exels people think and work the way they do: providing value for the customer is the top priority delivering practical solutions treating everyone with trust, fairness and mutual respect succeeding through collaboration and teamwork being free to apply our full capabilities to deliver business excellence consistent in our pursuit of good results using innovation to continually differentiate.
Perry Watts Managing Director, Retail and Consumer Non-food What you have here is a frank and honest view of our management philosophy, brought together by a culturally diverse group of people from around Exel.
Over 3,000 of Exels global team are registered users of Campus, Exels online university.
3, 000 Exel plc Annual report 2002 18 Strategy make the difference The role of a lead logistics manager has Good people, working in teams, developed over a number of years.
Unlike make the critical difference to a pure consultancy or management roles, where successful supply chain solution.
the supply chain specialist manages, but Understanding the customers does not own the processes, a lead logistics manager takes ownership of key operations challenges and developing the to ensure successful execution.
The best solutions can only be combined strengths of Exels integrated achieved by forming a close freight management and contract logistics, together with a single global management partnership.
Increasingly this team and systems implementation capability, leads to us becoming part of makes the Group unique in the industry.
During 2002, Exel secured several major lead Mick Fountain logistics manager roles with companies in Chief Executive, Technology and Global Freight Management the US and Europe.
Critical to the Groups success in winning these roles were the people involved their international Exels recent lead logistics manager roles have involved extensive benchmarking and modelling the scale Lead logistics manager a partnership of benefits can be quickly identified and therefore prioritised.
Using Exels that unlocks real value for customers valuation frameworks, potential savings There are several key elements of a successful of over $50m were identified for a lead logistics management relationship: major US automotive customer.
m $50 Understanding the customer Groundwork Exel has focused sector teams who challenge conventional thinking Ensuring the success of the final understand the customers markets, to create practical solutions, often solution is driven as much by solid processes and systems.
Working in sharing best practice across groundwork as it is in managing conjunction with Exels functional market sectors.
the final stages of implementation.
experts for example in systems Detailed modelling of the supply development, freight management chain dynamics such as volumes, networks and supply chain design routes and customer demand and implementation these teams profiles can make all the difference.
Exel plc Annual report 2002 Strategy 19 Gain share relationships where the goals of the customer and Exel are aligned through profit sharing are becoming more common.
These can take different forms.
Tradeteam, Exels UK-based drinks experience, the range of skills and, most importantly, how they worked together as distribution business, was a team to create and deliver a concept that established in 1995 to create would unlock real value for the customer.
value through shared ownership In many cases Exels appointment put its with the customer.
Tradeteams teams at the heart of the customers core contract is set to run for a business, operating in their headquarters, full 14 years, through to 2009. to work with them to redesign and then implement the changes.
Aligned objectives Analysing logistics operations as a the same measures of success whole can often find significantly is essential if the right solution greater cost savings than looking at is to be achieved.
Managing change across an entire network can also carry a greater risk.
Aligning the objectives of Exel and the customer so that they are both focused on T eam work Identifying and realising these years savings can only be achieved by working as a team with the customer and drawing on the wide experience across the Exel business.
Trust and mutual respect are critical to the success of this 14 relationship.
