Exel plc Annual report 2002 2 Strategy 01 Exels strategy Exel has, for several years, followed a very clear strategy.
The core mission and individual cornerstones of this strategy are closely matched to an exciting growth market.
Exel is a global company with a single brand and a clear mission to create new value in the supply chain for our customers, employees and shareholders.
John Allan Chief Executive Our mission To be the preferred supply chain partner to our customers To be recognised as the best in the world at what we do To create new value in the supply chain for our customers, employees and shareholders Our customers are increasingly finding that global integrated an effective supply chain can provide strong coverage capability competitive advantage within their market, as well as a driver of profitability and cash generation.
As the worlds largest, pure play, supply chain specialist, Exel offers its customers an unrivalled range of skills and services that can help unlock the full customer potential of their business.
focus The cornerstones of Exels strategy are individually important, but together, create a unique competitive advantage.
Some are structural in nature global coverage and integrated capability and others are our our cultural our people and our processes.
people processes At their centre, reflecting the combined strengths of each and our clear and ongoing attention to clients needs, is customer focus the heart of how we do business.
Exel plc Annual report 2002 Strategy 3 in a growth market Exels strategy and business model make it ideally positioned to develop within the logistics market, meeting our customers needs with innovative solutions that bring together the best of Exels people, processes and core capabilities.
We are already meeting this challenge and over the next few pages you will find out more about how we differentiate ourselves.
John Allan Chief Executive Historically, Exel s logistics markets have grown Exels two major services, freight strongly, outperforming the general increases management and contract logistics, have in the world economy.
Major forces have both benefited from strong market growth.
been behind this: Independent research continues to suggest Customer expectations have challenged that they will remain very attractive markets manufacturers and retailers to source in the future.
In particular, integrated products from all over the world logistics solutions that combine both these Globalisation has led to longer and more services are expected to see the strongest complex supply chains and helped faster growth as customers focus more intensely growing economies in emerging markets on their own efficiency and the capabilities Outsourcing supply chain activities to of their suppliers.
experts such as Exel has enabled customers to capture all the benefits T echnology improvements have enabled greater supply chain optimisation through enhanced visibility, planning and accuracy.
Freight management World #3 airfreight forwarder 49% of logistics revenues Freight Long-term growth market driven management by globalisation 40% return on capital employed on incremental business Integrated Low asset intensity logistics Strong cash generation Contract logistics Contract World #1 contract logistics specialist logistics 51% of logistics revenues Long-term growth driven by outsourcing 20% return on capital employed on incremental business Contract backed assets Strong cash generation
