Exel plc Annual report 2002 12 Strategy Our processes The consistent application of well-developed processes gives Exel a proven track record, working in partnership with our customers to overcome real challenges.
Bruce Edwards Chief Executive, Consumer, Retail and Healthcare Americas Today, uniquely, Exel segregates much of Solution sets are dependent on having a its activities into solution sets.
A solution very good understanding of our customers set brings together processes and services industries and challenges.
Our people to ensure an operation within the supply bring together the necessary knowledge chain can be operated as effectively and and skills.
Effective solutions are also efficiently as possible.
Our processes are dependent on us having the right long-term strategic investments that aim technology in place.
Exel has developed IT to provide a service that matches the needs systems that underpin entire solution sets.
These solutions can then They provide the backbone for replicating be more easily adapted around the world, solutions around the world, transferring wherever our customers want to operate.
best practice wherever it is needed.
What this achieves for the customer is a solution that provides: a better service at lower cost with reduced risk Exel plc Annual report 2002 Strategy 13 Customer-focused processes design tailor-made objective solutions improve implement continuous project and change improvement management philosophy IT integration manage deliver consistent performance Customer-focused processes Solution sets create value Exels approach to developing solutions Delivery of reliable and effective solutions is relies on a detailed understanding of our critical.
Exels solution set approach ensures customers needs and objectives.
This is that customised solutions are delivered quickly essential in designing and implementing and effectively.
Each of Exel s sectors provides tailor-made solutions.
Exel also provides a core range of capabilities that ensures the ongoing management of the supply centres of excellence are available tosupport chain, ensuring that both the customers customer projects.
Solving unique customer and our own objectives are closely aligned.
challenges does not mean reinventing the Combined with a philosophy of continuous wheel, but blending a strong core product improvement that challenges the way we within different operating environments, do things, this guarantees our customers allowing Exel to deliver the solutions benefit from the latest thinking.
consistently, within budget and on time.
traditional solution set approach approach customised customised created configured 20% reapplied base 80% reapplied base 20% 80% Exels solution sets can reduce startup costs significantly by developing a stronger core base of replicable skills.
Exel plc Annual report 2002 14 Strategy unlock value without reinventing the wheel One of the strongest drivers of growth in Exels teams apply processes to world trade has been the emergence of customer challenges all over the global products standard technologies world.
Our solution set approach that are manufactured and sold around the world.
Supporting the logistics demands draws on proven capabilities for these products creates a specific set of and experience, ensuring that challenges supply chain systems that our teams can add value to the need to be easily adaptable, coping with customer without being premany different languages, customs regulations and operating environments.
occupied with reinventing the solution again and again.
Many industries are witnessing the emergence of global products: consumer Bruce Edwards Chief Executive, Consumer, Retail goods manufacturers are making global and Healthcare Americas brand products, automotive companies are designing, building and marketing cars on a global stage, technology businesses are selling standard computers, mobile phones and other equipment.
As a result, processes need to be standardised, either in the supply of raw materials or components, the manufacturing processes themselves, or the channels of distribution used for finished products.
Replicating Exels solution sets worldwide Automotive supply chains are some of the most sophisticated in the world and have traditionally led the way in logistics innovation.
One of the critical factors 3, 000 to the success of these operations has been the ability to replicate solutions in different countries.
Exel has now taken its inbound to manufacturing solution set into six countries for different automotive customers.
3, 700 Key developments in country-bycountry process replication are: 14 14 Understanding material flows The average car requires around To achieve this, not only do you and process controls 3,000 different components.
A need a clear methodology but also Optimal solutions are based on a plant in Europe, for example, may be a dynamic system that underpins detailed understanding of the working with around 700 suppliers the entire process.
material flows and process across 14 countries.
As a result, the supply components then need to be delivered chain operation can sequence to the production line at the right manufacturing with exactly the right time in direct response to individual components on a just-in-time basis.
Exel plc Annual report 2002 Strategy 15 Exels solution sets provide: Exel s inbound to manufacturing solutions are used by many consistent development of automotive and technology innovative solutions to streamline companies around the world operations and improve control at operations in: a methodology that systematically The proven ability to easily adapt 03Brazil inboundto manufacturing supply identifies problems andChina chain solutions in many countries was fundamental in demonstrating opportunities, creating detailedFinland Exels capabilities to a leading mobile plans that result in flawless phone manufacturer.
Exel is nowGermany working in eight countries all start-upsHungary around the world, including Brazil, China, Germany, Korea and Mexico, Ireland buildinga globally integrated supply an approach that analyses andchain solution that is copy-exact Korea wherever the customer wants to be.
improves processes to manageMalaysia people and projects minimisingMexico the impact of changeThe Netherlands Singapore Sweden United Kingdom United States Exels involvement in a leading manufacturers after sales operations across the US included the implementation of a replicable solution set that has now been rolled out on nine separate occasions in the last 24 months.
Not only does this provide significant cost savings and time benefits, but it also gives greater confidence with new start-ups as risk is materially reduced.
Proprietary knowledge and systems Global support Exel has developed systems and For a leading automotive manufacturer countries technology that can be transferred to in Sweden, Exel was able to provide different countries and adapted for the same technical support, managedifferent customers.
This ensures that ment team and processes during well-developed operating systems the critical start-up period of a new form the core of the solution making supplier park, which was previously implementation and operationeasier successfulin Spain and Mexico, for 14 and more cost-effective.
