Exel plc Annual report 2002 Performance 27 Freight management 3.4%, reflecting the investment made in Exels freight management Turnover from freight management activities strengthening the supply chain solutions operations in Europe and the in the Americas decreased by 1.9% to team.
This investment will help ensure that Americas have delivered solid 904m 2001: 922m and operating profit Exel maintains its rate of progress in declined by 4.8% to 17.
developing logistics activities in the region.
results in very difficult markets.
On an organic basis, turnover was broadly We have taken steps to unchanged and operating profit declined by During the year, the business secured major manage our costs and improve 14.2%.
Operating margins were unchanged wins with Amcor in Australia, Carrefour in other operating efficiencies at 2.0% 2001: 2.0%.
Korea and Procter & Gamble in the Philippines.
We also opened several new which, alongside a strong Export airweight was down 8% on a likefacilities, including a major new logistics service offering, has enabled for-like basis, compared with the prior year.
park at XingWang, near Beijing.
International operations performed well, operation, a new start-up for a significant benefiting from new business gains as well telecommunications customer, includes Mick Fountain as increased import activities from Asia.
implementing an innovative electronic Chief Executive, Technology Major new wins included .
customs free-zone, designed with the and Global Freight Management Capacity in the export market remainshigh approval of the Chinese authorities.
New and pricing has therefore remained soft.
business opportunities remain strong and, 2002 has been a good year FX Coughlin delivered year-on-year with the recent successes and strengthened improvements, partly due to more stable management capability, Exel is well placed we have won significant new volumes.
New business gains included to continue the successful development of business, leveraging the additional work with Jaguar for its X350 its contract logistics activities in Asia Pacific.
combined capabilities of our range.
The acquisition of US Consolidation Limited at the start of the year also had a Freight management contract logistics and freight positive impact on performance and Turnover from freight management management operations.
Our significantly strengthened Exel s relationships activities in Asia Pacific increased by 29% team is busy designing and with a number of key retailers.
Operating profit building operations for our development of the consolidation and increased by 23.6% to 33.0m 2001: seafreight activities within Exels global 26.7m.
On an organic basis turnover was customers which bodes well network will be greatly accelerated by this up 20.2% and operating profit increased by for 2003 and onwards.
Margins were 5.3% 2001: 5.5%, management, led by Exels transportation reflecting the consolidation of Exels share Bruce Edwards Chief Executive, Consumer, services activities, encountered weak volumes of its joint venture revenues in China 2002: Retail and Healthcare Americas throughout the year but maintained steady 40.8m for the first time, only the profits margins.
Exel s domestic airfreight operations from which had been previously included.
maintained good volume growth, although Stronger operating margins in the first six Our business in Asia has operating profit was reduced by lower months were balanced by lower margins benefited from good growth operating margins and one-off issues with during the second half as the business saw activities in Mexico from which the Group capacity restrictions emerge on key routes.
in demand for all our services.
The challenge for our team is to continue to grow our business Asia Pacific strongly whilst maintaining the very highest standards of service Contract logistics and professionalism that our Turnover from Exels contract logistics customers have come to expect.
operations in Asia Pacific, fuelled by strong organic growth, increased 32% to 89m CK Lee 2001: 68m with operating profit Chief Executive, Asia Pacific increasing by 17% to 2.7m 2001: 2.3m.
Operating margins declined to 3.0% 2001: Exels consolidation solution has led to a 25% saving in transport costs for a leading US toy retailer.
