Exel plc Annual report 2002 30 Governance 03 Our non-executive Directors Board of Directors provide a wealth of experience, reflecting their work in many different fields and geographies.
Combined with the strengths of our executive team, this provides us with a Non-executive Directors Market Limited.
Non-executive Director of Nigel Rich CBE, Chairman 01 Derby Trust plc, XL London Market Group balanced Board.
Appointed to the Board of Ocean Group plc plc, XL Winterthur International, Heineken Nigel Rich in January 1997.
Non-executive Chairman NV, The Netherlands, XL Capital Limited, Chairman of Exel plc since October 2002.
Previously Bermuda and Simon Murray & Co Limited, Managing Director of Jardine Matheson Hong Kong.
Previously Managing Director Holdings Limited and Group Chief Executive of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited.
Dutch of Trafalgar House plc.
Chairman of Hamptons Group Limited and non-executive Director of Granada plc, Fritz Ternofsky 05 CP Ships Limited and Pacific Assets Trust plc.
Appointed to the Board of former Exel plc in Co-Chairman of the Philippine British October 1998.
Formerly executive Director Business Council.
Age 57. responsible for UK and Scandinavian operations of Compass Group and a Board Sir William Wells, senior independent Director from 1993 to 2000.
Member of the non-executive Director 02 Supervisory Board of Compass Germany Appointed to the Board of former Exel plc and Austria and non-executive Director of in February 1996.
President and former Care UK plc, Dolphin Nurseries Limited and Chairman of Chesterton International plc, Kew Green Hotel Limited.
Appointed nona provider of property related services.
executive Director of UK Explorer Limited in Non-executive Director of Pearl Group April 2002 and Punch Taverns plc in May Limited, Pearl Assurance plc, AMP UK 2002.
Holdings, AMP UK plc, NPI Limited, National Provident Life Limited, Norwich Executive Directors and Peterborough Building Society and John Allan, Chief Executive 11 Chairman of the NHS Appointments Appointed Chief Executive of Ocean Group Board and committees Commission.
Graduated in Details of Board and committee functions mathematics from Edinburgh University.
can be found in the corporate governance report on pages 33 to 35.
Jean-Claude Guez 03 Started business career in marketing with Appointed to the Board of Ocean Group plc Lever Brothers, moving to Bristol-MyersAudit Committee A E Isaac Chairman in February 2000.
Currently a part-time Company Limited and Fine Fare Limited.
N M S Rich Senior Management Advisor for Accenture Joined BET plc in 1985 and appointed to the F L R Ternofsky formerly Andersen Consulting, where he Board in 1987, with specific responsibilities Nomination Committee became Partner in 1979, and Managing as Director of Business Services Europe and N M S Rich Chairman Director of the Travel and Transportation Group Marketing Director.
Non-executive J M Allan Sir William Wells Industry in Europe in 1991, following Director of Wolseley plc and PHS Group plc.
Since Member of the CBIs Presidents Committee, Remuneration Committee Sir William Wells Chairman 1998, Partner in Rocket Ventures, a group the International Advisory Committee of the J-C Guez of Information Technology Venture Capital Singapore Economic Development Board J Loudon N M S Rich Funds in Silicon Valley.
Non-executive and the University of Edinburgh Campaign Director of Eurostar Group Limited and Board.
Vice Chairman, Freight ForwardingExecutive Board J M Allan Chairman non-executive Director of Invensys plc since Europe Trade Association.
B A Edwards John Coghlan, Deputy Chief Executive G S Fish M P Fountain Tony Isaac 06 and Group Finance Director 12 C K Lee Appointed to the Board of Ocean Group plc Joined Ocean Group plc in October 1995 as S Oades I R Smith in February 1997.
Appointed Board Director Finance Director.
Appointed Deputy Chief C B Stephens in 1994, and currently Chief Executive, of Executive on the completion of the merger N Underwood The BOC Group plc.
Formerly Finance in 2000 and Group Finance Director in July Company Secretary and Corporate Director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton plcand 2001.
Joined Arthur Andersen & Company Legal Director D G Evans GEC Plessey Telecommunications Limited.
for eight years after gaining a Bachelor of Non-executive Director of International Commerce degree from University College John Devaney resigned from the Board on 30 September 2002.
Nigel Rich was appointed Power plc a leading international power Cork, followed by eight years with Tomkins Chairman of the Company on 1 October 2002. producer created from the fide-merger of plc and became Director Financial Services.
Sir William Wells was appointed senior independent National Power plc.
Appointed non-executive Director of Yell non-executive Director and appointed to the Nomination Committee on 1 October 2002.
John Loudon 04 Bruce Edwards, David Riddle, Fritz Ternofsky, and Sir William Wells retire from the Board by Appointed to the Board of Ocean Group plc rotation under the provisions of Article 86 of in 1992.
Chairman of Caneminster Limited the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
and non-executive Chairman of XL London Exel plc Annual report 2002 Governance 31 Non-executive Directors 05 06 02 04 01 03 Executive Directors 08 07 11 09 12 10 Bruce Edwards, Chief Executive, Jardine Air Cargo which was acquired by Ian Smith, Chief Executive, Consumer, Consumer, Retail and Healthcare Ocean Group plc in 1986.
In 1992, became Retail and Healthcare Europe 09 Americas 10 Vice President of the Export Division of MSAS Joined Ocean Group plc in May 1998 Joined Exel Logistics Americas in 1986, and then President and Chief Executive as Group Commercial Director.
Appointed appointed Chief Executive Officer, Exel Officer of the Americas and subsequently also to the Board in March 2001.
An Oxford Logistics Americas in 1995.
Appointed Japan, Korea and the South Pacific.
Moved graduate, holding an MBA from Harvard Board member of former Exel plc in December to current position on completion of the Business School.
Previously spent eight years at Space merger.
Also Director of Cargo 2000, Member Group plc, was Managing Director of Center, Inc, a US-based logistics company as of the Council of Logistics Management, the Monitor Company Europe, a strategy Vice President for Dallas, Houston and International Air Cargo Association and the consulting firm, where he managed the Chicago operations.
Currently responsible Sprint Global Advisory Board.
Age 49. companys relationship with a number of for consumer, retail, healthcare, chemical key global customers, providing strategic and home delivery in the Americas.
Has also David Riddle, Chief Executive, advice to a range of companies.
As Group assumed Board level responsibility for the Cory Environmental 07 Commercial Director had specific line Group s global automotive business.
Member Joined Ocean Group plc in 1971 and management responsibilities for mail and of the Council of Logistics Management, appointed to the Board in 1994.
Graduate express, the automotive sector and strategy, the Warehousing Education and Research chemist and post-graduate of the London mergers and acquisitions, and e-commerce.
Council and the Columbus Port Authority Business School.
Previously held a number Appointed to current position in July 2002 Commission.
Age 47. of positions at Ocean Group plc including and has responsibility for consumer, retail and Group Strategic Planner: Director, Marine healthcare across Europe.
Non-executive Mick Fountain, Chief Executive, Division: and Managing Director, Cory Director of MFI Furniture Group plc.
Technology and Global Freight Towage Limited.
Joined Cory Environmental Management 08 in 1990.
Non-executive Director of Appointed a Director in March 2001.
Joined Environmental Services Association Limited LEP Air Services in 1969 before moving to since November 2000.
