Directors Executive directors Professor J David Rhodes CBE FRS FREng BSc PhD DSc DEng Hon DSc Hon FIEE FIEEE aged 58 has been Executive Chairman since founding Filtronic in 1977 and also serves as Chief Executive Officer.
Professor Rhodes has been a professor of electronic and electrical engineering at Leeds University since 1975 and is an internationally recognised figure in the field of circuit theory and microwave engineering.
He has written over one hundred technical papers and books on the subject and has received several international awards.
In the 1992 New Years Honours List he was made an Officer, Order of the British Empire, for his contribution to science and technology and in 1993 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society.
In November 1998, Professor Rhodes was awarded the Mountbatten Medal by the Institution of Electronic Engineers for his outstanding contribution to the field of electronics.
In the 2000 New Years Honours List he was made a Commander, Order of the British Empire, for his contribution to engineering, research and industry.
Professor Rhodes is a non-executive director of Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC and a director of Bradford City Holdings Plc.
Professor Christopher Snowden FREng BSc MSc PhD CEng FIEE FIEEE aged 46 is Chief Executive Officer, Compound Semiconductors, having been a director since October 1998.
Prior to joining Filtronic in October 1998, Professor Snowden was head of the school of Electronic and Electrical Engineering at Leeds University.
Alan Needle aged 47 has been Managing Director since 2001.
He has operational responsibility for all of the business segments except for Compound Semiconductors.
Previously he was Managing Director of the Wireless Infrastructure business.
Dr Christopher Mobbs BSc PhD MIEEE aged 40 has been Director of Engineering since 2001.
He has served as Chief Technical Officer since 1997.
He joined Filtronic Components as an engineer after graduating from Leeds University in 1982.
John Samuel aged 46 has been Financial Director since 1991.
Prior to joining the company, he was a partner in Baker Tilly, Chartered Accountants.
Christopher Schofield aged 39 has been Company Secretary since 1995 and an executive director since August 1998.
He is a qualified solicitor and currently serves as a partner in Schofield Sweeney.
Non-executive directors Rhys Williams aged 68 is the senior non-executive director.
He has been a non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee since 1994.
Mr Williams was an executive director of GEC from 1985 to 1991.
He currently serves as non-executive chairman of Radstone Technology plc and as a non-executive director of Acal plc and Comunica Holdings plc.
Richard Blake aged 66 has been a non-executive director since 1994 and has been chairman of the audit committee since 1995.
Mr Blake was a partner in Baker Tilly from 1964 until his retirement in 1993.
Mr Blake is a non-executive director of YooMedia plc.
Professor Stephen Burbank aged 55 has been a non-executive director since 1994.
Professor Burbank is currently the David Berger Professor for the Administration of Justice at the University of Pennsylvania and is the author of numerous publications on the judiciary and civil procedure in the United States.
He is a director of the American Academy of Political and Social Science and the American Judicature Society.
Ian Hardington aged 38 has been a non-executive director since 1999.
Mr Hardington is a Principal with Mansfield Partners, Inc. a US based investment advisory firm.
Previously, he served as a managing director of European Leveraged Finance with UBS Warburg in London and as a managing director of S G Cowen Securities Corporation and of NationsBanc Capital Markets, Inc. Graham Meek aged 55 has been a non-executive director since 1999.
Mr Meek is a director of Beeson Gregory Limited and was formerly an executive director of Smith New Court plc and of Wood Mackenzie & Co.
The Board determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors, all of whom are independent.
