Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2002.
Principal activities The principal activities of the group are the design and manufacture of microwave products and compound semiconductors for cellular and broadband telecommunications systems and military applications.
Review of the business and state of the group's affairs The Executive Chairmans Statement, the Operating Review and the Financial Review on pages 2 to 8 inclusive contain a review of the groups business.
The directors are satisfied with the state of affairs of the company and the group and believe it is well positioned to grow through opportunities offered by the expansion of the worldwide cellular and broadband telecommunications and military markets.
Financial results and dividend The results for the year are set out in the profit and loss account on page 14.
The position at the end of the year is shown in the balance sheet on page 17.
Following an interim dividend of 0.90p 2001 0.90p per ordinary share, the directors are recommending payment of a final dividend of 1.80p 2001 1.80p, making a full year dividend of 2.70p 2001 2.70p per ordinary share.
Research and development Research and development costs amounted to 32.1m 2001 32.0m.
All such costs are written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Directors and their interests The directors of the company during the year were as follows: Professor J David Rhodes CBE FRS FREng BSc PhD DSc DEng Hon DSc Hon FIEE FIEEE Professor Christopher Snowden FREng BSc MSc PhD CEng FIEE FIEEE Alan Needle MBA Dr Christopher Mobbs BSc PhD MIEEE John Samuel BA FCA Christopher Schofield MA Cantab Rhys Williams BSc Richard Blake FCA Professor Stephen Burbank BA JD Ian Hardington Graham Meek Details of their interests in the share capital of the company are set out in the remuneration report on pages 49 to 53.
Professor J D Rhodes, J Samuel and I Hardington retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Annual Report 2002 9 Directors Report Substantial shareholdings The following shareholders, other than the directors, have indicated a holding of 3% or more of the issued share capital as at 19 July 2002.
Number of % of issued 10p ordinary shares share capital Prudential plc 10,290,900 13.9 Fidelity International Limited 9,069,533 12.2 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3,174,600 4.3 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 2,231,828 3.0 Political and charitable contributions No contributions were made for political purposes.
A total of 17,000 2001 53,000 was donated to various charities.
Employees The group is conscious of its obligations towards disabled persons and tries to ensure that they receive equal opportunities.
So far as particular disabilities permit, the group will continue to provide employment for any existing employee who becomes disabled.
The group will also provide relevant training, career development and promotion for disabled employees where this is appropriate.
The group operates internationally and its employment policies are designed to meet local regulations and requirements.
The group believes in keeping employees fully informed on matters which affect them through communication procedures including staff meetings, a group-wide newsletter and a culture which encourages openness and interaction between all members of staff.
Environmental policy Care for the environment is an integral part of the groups business activities worldwide.
It is the groups policy to ensure that its facilities throughout the world are safe and acceptable to the communities in which they operate.
The group is committed to ensure that their impact on the environment is minimised.
The group supports and trains its personnel to act responsibly in matters relating to the environment.
The group takes account of relevant legislation and regulations and analyses its practices, processes and products to reduce their environmental impact, and works with its customers and suppliers to achieve a high standard of product stewardship.
Wherever possible, components and materials are re-used or re-cycled.
The re-use and the utilisation and re-cycling of packaging is subject to monitoring.
The group continues to work with its customers to implement programmes to design products for disassembly and re-cycling, and in particular so as to ensure compliance with the proposed European Union directives on waste electrical and electronic equipment and the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
The Board is aware of the guidelines for socially responsible investment issued by the Association of British Insurers on 23 October 2001 and is in the process of developing appropriate policies and procedures.
Supplier payment policy It is the group's policy to abide by the terms of payment agreed with suppliers in respect of the goods and services properly invoiced to the group.
At 31 May 2002 trade creditors of 19.1m represented 43 days' purchases, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act.
10 Annual Report 2002 Directors Report Special business at the annual general meeting Remuneration report Embracing the United Kingdom governments recent proposal that there be an advisory vote by shareholders on the remuneration report, the Board proposes the remuneration report, which is set out on pages 49 to 53, for approval by a shareholders advisory vote resolution 7 in the notice of annual general meeting.
The Board considers an advisory vote to be a non-binding indication of the views of shareholders, but one which will be taken seriously into account in considering the development and operation of the companys remuneration policy.
Authority to allot shares The Companies Act 1985 requires that the authority of the directors to allot relevant securities shall be subject to the approval of shareholders in general meeting or to an authority set out in the company's Articles of Association.
Accordingly, an ordinary resolution resolution 8 set out in the notice of annual general meeting will be proposed at the annual general meeting to renew the authority granted at the annual general meeting held on 28 September 2001 and thereby authorise the directors to allot unissued ordinary shares of the company up to a total nominal value of 2,469,712 representing one third of the nominal value of the company's issued share capital.
The Companies Act 1985 also requires that any equity shares issued wholly for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This requirement was disapplied to a limited extent by a resolution passed at the annual general meeting held on 28 September 2001 and a special resolution resolution 9 set out in the notice of annual general meeting will be proposed at the annual general meeting to renew the directors' authority to allot equity shares for cash other than on a pro rata basis.
This will be limited to equity shares having a nominal value of up to 370,456 representing 5% of the issued share capital of the company.
This authority will terminate no later than fifteen months after the passing of the special resolution.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
By order of the Board C E Schofield Secretary 29 July 2002 Annual Report 2002 11
