702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:52 pm Page 14 14 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Support Services & Investments Asset Management Services We seek to build long-term partnerships in which customers can rely on the excellence of our people, the safety of our working practices and our willingness to innovate and improvise to deliver value-for-money solutions.
Results We adopt a whole life approach to This is a multi-disciplinary contract Asset Management Services our customers infrastructure and which includes specification, design, demonstrated impressive growth assets.
We seek to build long-term network management and in 2002, increasing turnover to partnerships in which customers maintenance.
It is worth in excess 57.3m from 47.8m in 2001. can rely on the excellence of our of 25m a year.
Although the Profit before tax was 1.1m, people, the safety of our working mobilisation period was reduced compared to 0.6m in 2001. practices and our willingness to from six months to three months, innovate and improvise to deliver the procedures we put in place Review value-for-money solutions.
were sufficiently robust to enable Asset Management Services us to provide emergency response provides integrated highway and We have continued to expand our to a road traffic accident an hour support services, including road highway maintenance operations, before we officially took over the maintenance, street lighting and and are now responsible for network.
We have already been traffic management.
Our operating and maintaining over able to demonstrate a capacity for comprehensive skill base in these 5,600km of the UKs road network.
innovation in this contract, by areas has created significant In partnership with Plant Services introducing quad bikes as a fast business opportunities in local and the consultancy firm Scott and effective way to provide authority outsourcing and Wilson, Asset Management as maintenance access and snow Highways Agency network AMScott won its first Highways clearance on cycleways and management.
Agency contract in HAs Area 7. footways.
Increase in order book 72% Growth in turnover 20% Asset Management Services Financial highlights Turnover Operating profit 2002 57.3m 2002 1.2m Employees 2002 380 702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:52 pm Page 15 15 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 A major innovation in 2002 was Our traffic management and street Prospects lighting operations have continued There are many opportunities for our acquisition, through Plant Services, of a specially-designed to expand in the North West and Asset Management Services: we Midlands, having been awarded have already secured prequalified fleet of 16 new vehicles, providing the highest standards of protection specialist contracts in both services status on a range of tender on Areas 9 and 10 by the Highways opportunities that leads us to for traffic management workers, whilst laying out and maintaining Agency.
Thanks in part to our longanticipate significant potential for term partnering relationship on the growth in our highway lane closures on high speed roads.
The vehicles are equipped with high Construction Management pilot maintenance and street lighting scheme in Area 10, we have operations, through selective visibility markings, crash cushions and other specifications which go become a provider of choice for targeting of PFI schemes and first the Highways Agency in relation or second generation maintenance well beyond the required health and safety specification, to traffic management and street contracts, as well as local authority lighting maintenance services on integrated services contracts establishing us as the leader in workplace safety.
network improvement schemes procured under strategic ranging between 250,000 partnership principles.
Our contract with Essex County and 5m.
Council continues to grow, generating 22m in its third year, Our street lighting business grew significantly in 2002 and we now with the potential for further extension.
Similarly, we have won a maintain over 160,000 lighting units, giving us a significant four-year extension to our highway maintenance and street lighting presence in this market.
We have dedicated street lighting contract with Rochdale MBC another example of a successful maintenance contracts with Suffolk County Council and Blackpool partnering relationship.
Borough Council, as well as the work we do under a number of We continue to win praise for our traffic management operations to general highway maintenance contracts.
maintain vehicle flow around the construction of the M6 Toll Road and for our emergency response to road traffic accidents in the area.
With over 20,000 cones and 5,000 lamps on the road at any one time, we have teams of operatives on a 24 7 basis, cleansing and replacing damaged items of equipment to ensure that road closures are maintained to the highest quality standards.
