702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:40 pm Page 09 09 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Support Services & Investments Stiell Facilities New contract wins and extensions, the integration of Inframans business and plans for further acquisitions will consolidate our position as one of the UKs leading facilities management businesses.
Results Our services are tailored to suit Stiell Facilities delivered an excellent individual client requirements, in set of results following its terms of scope and level of acquisition on 1st March, 2002: in management.
Some contracts may the ten months to year end, profit only require maintenance services before tax was 5.2m and turnover and supervisory management, was 86.4m.
while others require a broader range, including space Review management, help-desks, catering, Stiell Facilities provides facilities and cleaning and security with property management services.
Our professional personnel and senior business strategy has been built facilities management.
around clients who demand highquality services which support their Typically our services are provided business.
This can range from through long-term contracts, maintaining the technical systems ranging from three to ten years.
that ensure the resilient operation Additionally, we provide one-off of data centres and production consultancy and project facilities to developing workspaces management services.
Our that attract top quality employees consultants advise clients on issues and ensure productive business such as energy management, space operations.
planning, and systems design: and our project management team designs and delivers building fit-outs and refurbishments and manages relocations.
Stiell Facilities Financial highlights Turnover Operating profit 2002 86.4m 2002 5.2m Employees 2002 1,058 Alistair MacIntyre Workspace designer Stiell Facilities uses a range of technologies to help clients visualise their ideal workspace.
702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:40 pm Page 10 10 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Stiell Facilities continued In January 2002, Stiell Facilities focused on growing our business square metres of office and data broke new ground in the facilities by expanding our existing client centre accommodation: a 7m management market when it relationships and developing contract with Airbus to develop, announced the formation of appropriate new clients.
Notable finance and deliver a new energy Covista, a joint venture with Abbey contract renewals in 2002 include centre in Chester using Combined National.
This deal saw the spin-out the extension of our contract with Heat and Power technology with of the majority of Abbey Nationals Bank of Scotland from five to six a 10-year follow-on maintenance property and facilities management years, the expansion of our contract contract : a 5m a year contract functions into Covista, and the with Nationwide to cover their with Moorfield, the property extension of the range of facilities entire UK branch network investment company, to provide services provided by Stiell to Abbey previously we had only covered facilities management services in National.
Covista and Stiell have their English branches and the business parks and key worker already delivered additional savings renewal of our contract with accommodation developments: to Abbey National and are working National Australia Bank for up and a 17m facilities management together to secure additional clients.
contract for East Leake Schools, in a PFI project also involving Project As well as the development Turning to new business, we also Investments and Capital Projects.
of innovative new outsourcing secured: a five-year, 30m contract mechanisms like Covista, we are with EDS to manage over 110,000 702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:52 pm Page 11 11 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Client premises under management square feet 36m New business won during 2002 14 7.
5m Results that attract top quality employees Additionally, we provide one-off Stiell Facilities delivered an excellent and ensure productive business consultancy and project set of results following its operations.
Our acquisition on 1st March, 2002: in consultants advise clients on issues the ten months to year end, profit Our services are tailored to suit such as energy management, space before tax was 5.2m and turnover individual client requirements, in planning, and systems design: and was 86.4m.
terms of scope and level of our project management team management.
Some contracts may designs and delivers building Review only require maintenance services fit-outs and refurbishments and Stiell Facilities provides facilities and and supervisory management, manages relocations.
Our while others require a broader business strategy has been built range, including space In January 2002, Stiell Facilities around clients who demand highmanagement, help-desks, catering, broke new ground in the facilities quality services which support their cleaning and security with management market when it business.
This can range from professional personnel and senior announced the formation of maintaining the technical systems facilities management.
Covista, a joint venture with Abbey that ensure the resilient operation National.
This deal saw the spin-out of data centres and production Typically our services are provided of the majority of Abbey Nationals facilities to developing workspaces through long-term contracts, property and facilities management ranging from three to ten years.
functions into Covista, and the extension of the range of facilities services provided by Stiell to Abbey National.
Covista and Stiell have already delivered additional savings to Abbey National and are working
