702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:40 pm Page 05 05 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Strategic review The Boards decision in summer 2001 to dispose of the Homes business, represented a decisive strategic move and a turning point in the direction of Alfred McAlpine.
The Boards decision in summer Business Services comprises AMPL Management Services.
Our Slate provision and geographic coverage 2001 to dispose of the Homes our plant services business, Stiell and Project Investments businesses of the Group by investment in business, represented a decisive Facilities and Stiell Networks.
will continue to be run separately.
strategic move and a turning point Capital Projects comprises Civil We will continue, where appropriate, in the direction of Alfred McAlpine.
Our future strategy is clear and to follow our successful practice of Infrastructure Services comprises straightforward.
It is to further adding carefully selected bolt-on Accompanying this decision was Utility Services and Asset develop the skill base, service acquisitions to our hub businesses.
the move to create a major business stream based on support services, to complement the existing Capital Projects business stream.
Oliver Whitehead Chairman and This move into support services had Chief Executive already commenced in March 2001 with the acquisition of Kennedy, bringing new skills into the Group as a provider of services to the utilities sector.
Rebranded as Alfred McAlpine Utility Services, further small bolt-on acquisitions of Eastern Contracting and Ryan have seen this business develop into what is now the largest of our business units contributing to the Groups results.
The acquisition of Stiell in March 2002 added a well respected and growing facilities management and networks business to the Group.
Again, the small bolt-on acquisition of Inframan late last year added additional skills, geographic coverage and public sector customers to our facilities management business.
Evolution of the Group has necessitated a revised internal structure and hence from 1st January, 2003 the Group now has three principal business Ian Grice streams: Business Services, Capital Chief Executive Projects and Infrastructure Services.
