702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:02 pm Page 26 26 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Slate Our premium quality natural slate continues to be in demand on high profile projects, and we have secured long-term contracts to supply crushed slate to concrete product manufacturers and the booming gardening and landscaping markets.
The international renown of our Results Slate produced another improved roofing products is illustrated by the use of Ffestiniog slate roofing on performance in 2002: operating profit increased to 2.7m on a extensions to Princeton University, New Jersey and the use of Penrhyn turnover of 20.8m, compared with 2.4m and 21.9m slate roofing on the phased re-roofing of Notre Dame University respectively in 2001. in the United States.
Review By focusing on the higher margin Our Welsh Slate architectural business has prospered through repair and maintenance market, our premium quality natural slate successful relationships with leading architectural practices.
We supplied continues to be in demand on high profile projects.
Ffestiniog Grey slate flooring and internal linear walling to the Gateshead Baltic roofing slates are to be used in the refurbishment of St Pancras Station, Flour Mill project, while Welsh Slate walling has featured in the external and Cwt-y-Bugail Dark Blue Grey slate in the restoration of the Royal design of the Welsh Millennium Building in Cardiff.
Meanwhile, Penrhyn roofing slates The exemption of crushed slate are being used on several London Borough enveloping schemes, products from the levy on aggregates introduced in April indicating the importance of slate in urban regeneration.
2002 has enabled our road stone Laura Forde Welsh Slate Welsh Slates London venue the Business Design Centre in Islington is a convenient location where architects and designers can see the product portfolio in its many colours, finishes and applications.
702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:02 pm Page 27 27 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Order book up 82% Lost time accidents down 40% business to compete in new regions Our commitment to the Slate and market sectors.
Long-term environment has led to the Financial highlights contracts have been secured to publication of a best practice supply crushed slate to concrete manual: Restoring Habitats of Turnover Operating profit product manufacturers and to the High Conservation Value after 2002 20.8m 2002 2.7m booming gardening and landscaping Quarrying.
The manual was written Employees markets.
The prospect of using the following a three-year life-cycle 2002 370 railway at Blaenau Ffestiniog to programme at Penrhyn Quarry by transport slate aggregates leading academics in post-industrial throughout the UK has also moved landscape regeneration.
Prospects Our policy of continual Our order book increased by 82% improvement in health, safety, in 2002.
Our roofing business will environment and quality has been continue to improve by focusing furthered by the introduction of a on high returns and operational streamlined Integrated efficiencies.
Our progress in the Management System.
This achieved buoyant natural stone market will BSI accreditation in May 2002, be assisted by our involvement in complementing our other BSI high-profile projects.
The strength accreditations in Quality, of the Welsh Slate brand will help Environmental and Health and to increase demand for our Safety standards.
We now have a flooring, paving and walling fully-equipped occupational health products.
Our crushed products centre at Penrhyn, providing health business will continue to expand risk management programmes and rapidly, helped by the prospect of healthy lifestyle initiatives to help moving slate aggregates in bulk by ensure the well-being of our road and rail to the West Midlands employees.
