702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:02 pm Page 31 31 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Summary Safety, Health & Environment Report Over the last five years, the overall accident frequency rate AFR for the Group has been steadily reduced.
During 2002, our AFR was 0.28 which we believe is an excellent result.
It should be noted that the activities approach to auditing our aim to set out the open and procedures, the only reasonable across the Group are now quite operations against these systems.
straightforward values that our way to continue to operate was diversified.
For this reason, we However, accident rates are still senior management believes to to break the rules.
We have to show the accident frequency rate high relative to other UK based be vital when running a peopletackle this culture.
industries such as petrochemicals oriented set of businesses.
However, a study of the tables and pharmaceuticals.
The question We believe that further gains shows the Civil Engineering is, how can we bring about the During 2002, we carried out a can then be made by addressing business achieved a rate of 0.16, step change in performance that survey across the company, using subconscious behavioural aspects which is an exceptionally good we are all so keen to achieve?
the HSE Climate Survey Tool.
This includes performance for this sector.
very broad terms, 80% of the lapses of concentration and the The strategy we are embarking respondents gave an encouraging unintentional use of dangerous These improvements have largely upon links the need to make a response while the information working practices.
been achieved by continuously positive influence on the cultural submitted by the other 20% was developing our documented health aspects of our management and disappointing.
This at least has set In summary our strategy and safety management systems workforce, and bring about out the scale of the problem.
for accident reduction is: and by applying a rigorous improvements from a better understanding of behavioural Our response to these results is to 1.
Compliance, continue to enforce issues.
However, we realise that set out a code of conduct, which a rigorous approach.
any gains in these areas must not defines the acceptable conscious 2.
Reduce conscious violations be made at the expense of the behaviour of the management through a code of conduct.
Reduce subconscious errors standards required of directors, by introducing behavioural As a starting point we have issued managers, supervisors and the reinforcement techniques.
posters called Health and Safety: workforce and will be introduced a Positive and Fair Culture which in various ways during 2003.
This is a long-term process but Compliance with the code can a critical one for achieving health be measured in audits and in and safety standards comparable to accident near miss reviews.
We will report further next year.
Our reviews indicate that system violations sometimes take place Bob Arnold quite deliberately but with the Group Services Manager and best of intentions.
That is to say Head of the Policy and that in the perception of the person Compliance Unit who was in breach of the 702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:02 pm Page 32 32 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Summary Safety, Health & Environment Report continued Progress against health & safety objectives for 2002 In the 2001 report we made a number of commitments.
This is how we have performed against them.
Commitment Results We will collect data on our greenhouse gas emissions, water We collected data against each of these key performance indicators on six consumption and waste, in line with Government policy.
We of our operating contracts as a pilot scheme.
We were also able to collect may do so initially on a sample basis only, to test data collection data on CO2 emissions for our company car fleet.
The data acquired is systems before extending the programme across the Group.
useful in learning about the individual sites and contracts, but it is not yet We will include this data in our next SHE Report.
generally informative about our Group position.
We will continue to monitor these KPIs on a wider scale during 2003 and will publish improved data in our 2003 report.
We will continue progress by our business units towards Civil Engineering, Special Projects and Asset Management Services have achieving ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification, where already gained certification to these standards.
Utility Services has gained not already obtained.
certification to ISO 14001 for a part of the business and continues to work on the remaining contracts.
Slate has gained certification for its integrated quality, environment and safety management system.
Certification for the remaining business streams will continue in 2003.
All our business units will operate with SHE objectives and targets.
All business units have SHE objectives and targets.
Progress is reviewed Progress will be objectively and independently measured and both internally within business units and by the Group Executive reported on.
A selection of individual operations and sites is subject to audit by the Policy and Compliance Unit.
Data is published in this report which is itself independently verified.
We will promote our Safety: Positive and Fair culture by The Safety: Positive and Fair poster, signed by the Chief Executive, is demonstrating top-level commitment.
displayed in all offices and sites.
We will introduce a safety-critical work programme based on the HAZOP studies have been carried out at Capital Projects in 2001, and in outcome of HAZOP studies.
AMPL, Asset Management Services and Utility Services in 2002.
Control programmes are in place in Capital Projects and are under development in the other businesses, continuing into 2003.
We will be introducing a supervisors SHE handbook.
Now developed, published, and adopted in Civil Engineering, Asset Management Services and AMPL.
It is being reviewed for adaptation for use by Stiell, Special Projects and Utility Services.
We will report on progress in our 2002 SHE Report.
702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:02 pm Page 33 33 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 How we manage safety, health and the environment Overall responsibility for SHE lies with the Chief Executive of Alfred McAlpine PLC, Oliver Whitehead.
He is advised by Group Services Manager, Bob Arnold, who leads a small team at the SHE Policy and Compliance Unit.
Although Group documentation The chain of management responsibility at 1st January, 2003 The Policy and Compliance Unit is significant in SHE, day-to-day SHE policy within the Group is led Position Responsibility management is decentralised.
by the Policy and Compliance Unit.
Chief Executive Reports to PLC Board, has individual overall responsibility for SHE.
Each business stream has its own The unit has a number of policy statement and has its own critical roles: Business stream MD Reports to CE Board, is responsible for procedures and arrangements in a Reviewing and developing SHE implementing SHE policy within each published document.
Compliance policies, targets and objectives.
with the whole system is measured Providing independent SHE Business unit MD Reports to business stream MD, is through a system of regular audits, assessment and assurance of responsible for implementing SHE policy and businesses review their own Group SHE performance and within the business unit.
Business unit director with SHE Reports to business unit MD, is Providing guidance on training responsibility responsible for co-ordinating and directing The Chief Executive, the Executive and competence of personnel operational management and compliance Directors and the heads of the and subcontractors.
with SHE policies and procedures.
business units meet twice-yearly Disseminating information on Business unit Operational Regional Reports to business unit MD, is for a complete review of SHE current and proposed health, Area Directors responsible for implementing SHE policies issues.
Individual businesses safety and environmental and procedures under his her immediate present on their records and the control, including signing the SHE plan.
legislation, and on consolidated data is assessed and recommended procedures, SHE QUENSH Manager Reports to a business unit Director, advises reviewed.
Plans for future safety and environmental alerts, on policy, managerial and technical improvements are agreed.
statistics, and critical current arrangements and operational performance, including any revised or additional experience.
measures to be implemented following Preparing Group standard performance reviews or internal documentation.
Auditing safety, health and Contracts Manager Reports to a business unit Operational environmental compliance with Director, is responsible for implementing Group SHE systems, regulatory SHE policies and procedures for the standards, OHSAS 18001 and contracts under his her immediate control.
Project Manager Site Agent Reports to a business unit Operational Director, is responsible for implementing SHE policies and procedures at the project or site under his her immediate control.
SHE Co-ordinator Appointed at each site office location to ensure day-to-day SHE operations and administration are up to date.
Employees Responsible for co-operating with the Company to ensure the health and safety at work of all employees, and to ensure that the policy is effective.
702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:02 pm Page 34 34 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Summary Safety, Health & Environment Report continued Our commitments for the future We have set ourselves a number of objectives for 2003, as listed below.
Environmental measurement We will measure against our environmental KPIs for a six month period in 2003, taking two projects from each business for collection.
We will collect data on electricity usage for all main offices, and will continue to measure CO emissions from the company car fleet.
2 ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 All businesses will produce a plan of action to achieve ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 where certification has not already been achieved.
Audits We will conduct approximately 80 audits across the Group.
Occupational health Occupational health advice will be introduced to all businesses.
Code of conduct We will introduce a Group-wide code of conduct covering personal responsibility for maintaining health and safety.
Group safety, health and A new set of Group safety, health, and environmental standards will environmental standards be introduced by the Policy and Compliance Unit.
These will reflect the varied nature of the SHE risks being managed across the Group.
