34 GKN plc 2002 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM 01 Sir David Lees Age 66 08 Baroness Hogg Age 56 Non-executive Chairman.
Joined GKN in 1970 as an accountant becoming Group Non-executive Director.
Chairman of 3i Group plc and Frontier Finance Director in 1982.
Appointed Group Managing Director in 1987 and Chairman Economics Ltd, and non-executive Director of P&O Princess Cruises plc.
A Governor of and Chief Executive in 1988 before becoming non-executive Chairman in 1997. the BBC and former Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit.
Degree MA in Politics, Member of the National Defence Industries Council and the Panel on Takeovers Philosophy and Economics from Oxford University.
Non-executive Chairman of Tate & Lyle plc, non-executive joint Deputy 09 Neal Keating Age 48 Chairman of Brambles Industries plc and Brambles Industries Limited and nonManaging Director Aerospace Services.
Joined GKN on 19 August 2002 on executive Director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden Ltd. Former non-executive appointment to the Board and became Managing Director Aerospace Services Director of the Bank of England and non-executive Chairman of Courtaulds plc.
Prior to GKN, was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
[B, C, E] Officer, Commercial Aerospace Systems of Rockwell Collins in the US.
Spent 24 years 02 Kevin Smith CBE Age 48 with Rockwell International, latterly as Vice President and General Manager, Air Chief Executive.
Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Director Aerospace and appointed Transport Systems and Vice President and General Manager, Passenger Systems.
Prior to GKN, held Degree BS in Electrical Engineering from University of Illinois and MBA from various positions in BAE Systems over a 20 year period latterly as Group Managing University of Chicago.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
Degree BA in 10 Dr Klaus Murmann Age 71 Business Studies from the University of Central Lancashire.
Chairman of Sauer-Danfoss Inc, formed 03 Roy Brown Age 56 following the merger of Sauer-Sundstrand Group with Danfoss Fluid Power.
Non-executive Chairman of Thus plc, Sauer Getriebe AG in 1969 and, following a merger with Sundstrand in 1987, non-executive Deputy Chairman of HMV Group plc and non-executive Director of developed it into the leading global supplier of hydrostatic transmissions.
Chairman Brambles Industries plc, Brambles Industries Limited, The British United Provident of Gothaer Versicherungsbank and non-executive Director of Bankgesellschaft Association Ltd BUPA and the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
Former Berlin AG and EON Energie AG.
Degree BA in Political Science and Dr. Juris.
[B, D, E] executive Director of Unilever plc and Unilever NV.
Fellow of the Institution of 11 Nigel Stein Age 47 Mechanical Engineers and Fellow of the Institution of Electrical Engineers.
Joined GKN in 1994 and appointed to the Board as Finance BSc in Mechanical Engineering from University College London and MBA from Director in August 2001.
Has held a range of commercial, general management Harvard University.
[B, C, D, E] and finance roles within the Group, most recently Senior Vice-President, Finance 04 Richard Clowes Age 52 and Chief Financial Officer of GKN Sinter Metals.
Prior to GKN, had extensive Managing Director Powder Metallurgy, OffHighway and AutoComponents.
Joined GKN experience in the commercial vehicle and manufacturing sector.
Member of the in 1991 and appointed Chief Executive OffHighway Systems and AutoComponents in Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland.
Degree BSc in Engineering Science 1993.
Appointed to the Board in November 2001.
Prior to GKN, held various positions from Edinburgh University.
Chartered Engineer and Member of the Institution of Mechanical 12 Sir Peter Williams Age 57 Engineers.
Degree BSc in Mechanical Engineering from Birmingham University.
Chairman of the Engineering and 05 Dick Etches Age 57 Technology Board and the Japan Business Network of Trade Partners UK.
Formerly Senior Vice-President, Master of St. Catherines College Oxford, prior to which Chairman and previously Human Resources, of Grand Metropolitan plcs food sector in the US.
Degrees in Chief Executive of Oxford Instruments plc.
Non-executive Director of Advent VCT plc, Psychology BSc from Edinburgh University and Management Studies MSc from Advent 2 VCT plc and NPL Management Ltd.
Fellow of the Royal Society and of the Durham University.
[A] RoyalAcademy of Engineering and President of the British Association for the Advancement of Science.
Degree MA in Natural Sciences and PhD from Cambridge 06 Sir Ian Gibson CBE Age 56 University.
Chairman of the DTI Automotive Innovation Growth Team and Member of Court of the Bank of England, non-executive 13 Grey Denham Age 54 Director of Northern Rock plc, BPB plc and Chelys Ltd.
Formerly President of Nissan Company Secretary.
Joined GKN in 1980 and was head of the Group Legal function Europe and Senior Vice President of Nissan Motor Co. Japan and former Deputy for nine years before being appointed Company Secretary in 1996.
Holds various Chairman of ASDA Group plc.
Fellow of the Institute of Physics.
Degree BSc in positions on Industry and City bodies and currently Chairman of the Primary Markets Applied Physics from Manchester University.
[B, C, D, E] Group of the London Stock Exchange.
B from London University and a barrister.
07 Ian Griffiths Age 52 Managing Director GKN Driveline.
Appointed Chief Executive AMember of Executive Committee Automotive Driveline Division in November 2000 and to the Board in January BMember of Chairmans Committee 2001.
Responsible for the Groups worldwide operations manufacturing driveline CMember of Audit Committee components and systems.
Has been a member of the GKN senior driveline DMember of Remuneration Committee management team since 1990 during which time has been responsible for EMember of Nominations Committee operations in the US and for global marketing and engineering.
Degree BSc in The responsibilities of the Committees are described on page 78.
Mechanical, Electrical and Production Engineering from Coventry University.
[A] 01 02 03 04 08 09 10 11 35 GKN plc 2002 GKN Driveline Powder Metallurgy Aerospace Services Corporate Centre Karmelo Ayesta Sinter Metals Tom Battaglia Peter Baillie Director, Materials Management Dr Volker Arnhold Executive V-P Director, Corporate Communications V-P, Innovation & Development GKN Aerospace Richard Best Derek Butler North America Inc MD Operations Americas Dr Harald Neubert Head of Treasury V-P, Product Management and Marcus Bryson Arthur Connelly David Clarke European Sales President & CEO Operational Systems Director Head of Corporate Audit Europe Art Rogers Maureen Constantine Bill Curral Senior V-P, Human Resources Graham Chisnall Director, Human Resources Group Financial Controller Group Director Sales, Andrew Rooke Al Deane Marketing & Engineering Guy Eastaugh V-P, Finance Director, Engineering Head of Corporate Finance Paul Cocker Ken Sparks Simon Pryce Senior Vice President John Hughes Senior V-P, Manufacturing Director, Finance & Controlling Commercial Deputy Finance Director Don Spence Andy Reynolds Smith Graham Cole Rufus Ogilvie Smals President MD Operations Europe Director, Government Affairs Head of Group Legal Department Dr Manfred Weber Ted Rodewig Richard Deakin Andrew Moss Senior V-P, Technology Director, Marketing Senior Vice President Head of Employment & Development Hoeganaes Programmes Walter Rohregger David Pulling Bob Fulton MD Operations Asia Pacific Jay Fitzsimmons Head of Strategic Planning Director & President Hoeganaes President & CEO Tom Stone Corporation David Rood North America, East MD Torque Systems Group Head of Investor Relations & External OffHighway Systems AutoComponents Jimmy Johnston Reporting Rob Allen Senior Vice President, Financial Controller GKN Mike Shaw Human Resources AutoComponents Head of Taxation Jim Legler Manfred Arntz Stephen Smith President & CEO MD GKN Walterscheid GmbH General Counsel GKN North America North America, West & Acting CFO Will Hoy Financial Controller GKN OffHighway Systems Brian Montgomery General Manager Cab Systems Jochen Mller MD GKN Walterscheid GmbH Brian Newman MD GKN Wheels David Short Director, Human Resources Tim Smith MD GKN AutoComponents Martyn Vaughan CEO GKN OffHighway Systems Background image: It is the established practice of the GKN Board to visit two Group locations each year.
This provides an opportunity to see operations at first hand and to meet business unit management and employees.
During 2002 the GKN Board visited GKN Birfield SpA and GKN Sinter Metals SpA in Brunico, Italy and GKN Aerospace Services plant in 05 06 07 St Louis, Missouri, USA.
The background image above shows Directors at St Louis.
Left to right: Neal Keating with Jay Fitzsimmons, President & CEO North America, East, GKN Aerospace Services: Sir David Lees, Kevin Smith, Baroness Hogg and Ian Griffiths.
