12 GKN plc 2002 A DAY IN THE WORLD OF GKN A DAY IN THE WORLD OF GKN GKN is global.
It has operations in more than 30 countries.
Every hour of every working day GKN people are active somewhere in the world bringing highly engineered new productsto life, managing complex, precision manufacturing processes and using their skills to support their customers ambitions.
On 4 December 2002, photographers in seven different time zones stretching from Australia to the US West Coast went into GKN plants to capture a glimpse of a day in the world of GKN.
The images on the next nine pages are the result.
GKN, Worldwide 24:00HRS Eurofighter Electrical Design Area, GKN Aerospace Services, Port Melbourne, Victoria, Australia Local time 10:36 hrs, 4 December GMT 23:36 hrs, 3 December Engineers Amber Buse centre left and Kisa Christensen discussing CATIA design process used to design the electrical layout for the cockpit for all variants of the Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft.
GKNs aerospace design centre in Australia is at the heart of a follow the Victoria, Australia sun engineering philosophy which uses time zone differences to boost productivity by allowing different teams around the world to work virtually continuously on common programmes throughout 10:36HRS each 24-hour period.
Tochigi, Japan 11:42HRS Power Transfer Unit PTU manufacturing line, Tochigi Fuji Sangyo, Tochigi, Japan Local time 11:42 hrs, 4 December GMT 02:42 hrs, 4 December Mr Yoshikazu Kurihara, President and Chief Executive of Tochigi Fuji Sangyo TFS discussing in-line quality control on the PTU line with Mr Mitsuo Ohyama, Foreman of the PTU line.
GKN acquired a 33.3% stake in TFS in 2002.
GKN Sinter Metals Ltd, Ahmednagar, India Local time 10:23 hrs, 4 December GMT 05:53 hrs, 4 December Atomising molten copper.
In addition to the production of powder metal components, GKNs operation in India also produces copper powder used in the sintering process.
The photograph shows molten copper from an induction furnace being poured into a tundish from Ahmednagar, India where it will flow as a thin stream from a refractory nozzle to be atomised by high pressure water into copper powder.
The operators, 10:23HRS left to right, are: S S Kokate Operator: S G Dangde Trainee Technical Assistant, Supervisor: S B Borkar Plant Officer: D N Konge Operator.
GKN OffHighway Systems, Kirschau transmissions plant, Germany Local time 14:09 hrs, 4 December GMT 13:09 hrs, 4 December The technology used in the construction and agricultural industry is becoming more sophisticated with the underlying trend to larger Kirschau, Germany equipment with increased productivity.
The photograph shows a three-dimensional, co-ordinate measuring machine measuring the dimensions and surface condition of a gearbox housing for 14:09HRS a 430hp combine harvester.
Yeovil, UK 11:55HRS AgustaWestland, Yeovil, Somerset, UK Local time 11:55 hrs, 4 December GMT 11:55 hrs, 4 December A Super Lynx Mark 100 one of six ordered for the Royal Malaysian Navy being flown by Westland test pilot Mike Adam-Swales.
The aircraft, which is the latest variant of the Lynx with new engines and an advanced glass cockpit, is undergoing production trials to ensure that it meets all of the performance criteria demanded by the customer.
In the foreground is the rear fuselage of a WAH-64 Apache one of 67 being produced by AgustaWestland for the British Army.
GKN Automotive Inc Alamance driveline manufacturing facility, Mebane, North Carolina, USA Local time 15:38 hrs, 4 December GMT 20:38 hrs, 4 December Shaft Cropping Associates, Larry LJ Jones, Senior Manufacturing Technician left, with Vance Jacobs, Shaft Cropping Manufacturing Technician, assessing daily performance at the end of the shift to prepare their communication for the oncoming manufacturing team.
The two technicians are in conversation beside the bar stock storage area.
A team of six people have responsibility for the entire shaft North Carolina, USA cropping operation including material deliveries, changing over machines, maintenance, material handling and production.
The concept of self-managed teams plays an important role in GKN 15:38HRS Automotive Incs drive to empower employees.
21 GKN plc 2002 GKN Aerospace Chem-tronics Inc San Diego facility, El Cajon, California, USA Local time 11:59 hrs, 4 December GMT 19:59 hrs, 4 December Operator Luigi Grossi at work in the Plant 5 Blue Room installing an Outer Guide Vane, which is responsible for the bypass airflow, on a module for the Rolls-Royce Trent 800 engine used on the Boeing 777.
El Cajon, California The module assembly uses a combination of titanium, aluminium and composites.
Luigi, a composite mechanical assembler, has 35 years service with Chem-tronics making him the companys longest 11:59HRS serving employee.
