76 GKN plc 2002 DIRECTORS REPORT Business review On 16 May 2002, Sir John Parker, non-executive Director, retired from The principal businesses of the Group are described on pages 2 the Board.
On 31 December 2002, Marcus Beresford retired as Chief and 3 and in the Operating Review on pages 22 to 25.
A review of Executive, having reached his normal retirement date.
The Directors the development of those businesses in 2002, events affecting the wish to record their appreciation of the considerable contribution Group since the end of the year and likely future developments are that each has made to the Group over the years.
referred to in the Chief Executives review on pages 9 to 11 and On 1 June 2002, Sir Ian Gibson was appointed a non-executive in the Operating Review.
Reference should also be made to the Director.
On 19 August 2002, Neal Keating joined the Board as Financial Review on pages 36 to 39. an executive Director.
On 1 January 2003, Kevin Smith previously Share capital Managing Director Aerospace was appointed Chief Executive and During 2002, 5,841,627 GKN plc Ordinary Shares of 50p each were Neal Keating became Managing Director Aerospace Services.
issued in connection with the exercise of options under SAYE and As Directors appointed during the year, Sir Ian Gibson and Neal Keating Executive share option schemes.
The issued share capital at the end retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, of the year was 732,894,028 Ordinary Shares of 50p each and one offer themselves for re-election.
In accordance with the provisions Special Share of 50p.
for retirement by rotation in the articles of association, Sir David The Company has been informed of the following notifiable interests Lees, Chairman, Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, and Baroness Hogg, in the issued voting capital of the Company at 28 February 2003: non-executive Director, retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
% of issued capital Details of the executive Directors service agreements are given on Legal& General Investment Management 3.4% page 84.
The non-executive Directors do not have service agreements.
Franklin Resources Inc 3.3% Directors interests in GKN shares are shown on pages 87 to 89.
Annual General Meeting Life President The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2003, The death in July 2002, at the age of 93, of Lord Brookes, Life together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered President and former Chairman of GKN, is sadly recorded.
He was at the meeting, is contained in the AGM circular enclosed with this a Director of GKN from 1953, was appointed Managing Director in annual report.
1964, became Chairman and Managing Director in 1965 and was Dividend Chairman and Chief Executive from 1968 until his retirement in The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.6p per 50p Ordinary 1974.
He was appointed Life President upon his retirement.
Share for the year ended 31 December 2002 payable on 16 May Honours 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on The Directors record their great pleasure at the award of OBE to 14 March 2003.
This, together with the interim dividend of 3.7p Timothy Brookman, Marketing Executive, AgustaWestland, in the paid in September 2002, brings the total dividend for the year to 2002 Queens Birthday Honours: and of MBE to Vera Corbett, PA 11.3p per share.
to Richard Clowes Main Board Director, Denis Evans, Key Account Keydates for the dividend reinvestment plan as it will operate in Manager, GKN AutoStructures, Jeremy Tracy, Chief Test Pilot, respect of the proposed 2002 final dividend are given on page 93.
Westland Helicopters, and of OBE to Roger James, former Head of Region, Westland Helicopters, in the 2003 New Year Honours.
Directors The constitution of the Board and of its Committees, together with Donations biographical notes on the Directors, are shown on page 34.
In 2002, donations made by the Group to registered charities in the UK amounted to 353,000.
Further details of contributions made by the Group worldwide are given in the Social Responsibility Review on page 30.
77 GKN plc 2002 While it is the policy of the Group not to make donations to political Auditors organisations, the Groups US aerospace business does have a Following a change in the legal status of the auditors to a Limited Political Action Committee PAC which is funded entirely by employees Liability Partnership LLP, in January 2003  and their spouses.
No funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and resigned as auditors of the Company and the Directors appointed any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US aerospace  LLP in their place.
In accordance with the business are fully charged to and paid for by the PAC, and the Companies Act 1985, special notice has been received of the Company does not therefore consider these political donations.
resolution to reappoint  LLP to be proposed Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is at the Annual General Meeting.
A resolution will also be proposed placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employeeat the meeting to authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
Payments to suppliers On behalf of the Board It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers, Grey Denham provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the Secretary contract.
Given the nature and diversity of the Groups international 28 February 2003 purchasing arrangements and contracts, it is not Group policy to follow any code or standard in relation to payment practice.
GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2002.
Corporate governance The Boards statement on corporate governance matters is given on pages 78 to 80, and its report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 81 to 89.
Directors responsibility for the accounts At the end of each financial year the Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002, the most appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been used consistently and UK applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that an appropriate system of internal control is in operation to provide them with reasonable assurance that the assets of the Group are properly safeguarded and to ensure that reasonable steps are taken to prevent or detect fraud and other irregularities.
