02 02 GKN plc GKN plc 2002 2002 GKN AT A GLANCE Left: The Touareg is a new four-wheel drive vehicle from VW.
GKN Driveline supplies a total of seven drivetrain components for the Touareg four constant velocity jointed sideshafts, two propshafts and an optional electronic torque manager ETM.
GKN Driveline has used the aerospace software expertise in GKNs Aerosystems International joint venture to develop software standards and code for its ETM systems.
Automotive GKN is one of the very few, truly global suppliers of automotive product base by further developing its presence within the market for components and systems.
More than 30 GKN engineering and advanced torque management devices and systems which enhance manufacturing facilities in Japan, Asia Pacific, India, South Africa, vehicles traction, stability and safety.
Europe and the Americas support all of the worlds leading GKN is the No.
1 supplier of powder metal parts and is the No.
1 manufacturers of cars, light trucks and off-highway vehicles.
producer of metal powder in the US.
GKNs capability in the technology GKN Driveline is the worlds No.
1 supplier of constant velocity and production of powder metal parts and their raw material is unique jointed sideshafts CVJs.
This business has achieved substantial among major companies.
growth in recent years and will continue to take advantage of growth GKN is a major European and North American supplier of components in emerging markets and higher CVJ content on four-wheel drive and systems for agricultural and off-highway equipment.
It is also and all-wheel drive vehicles.
In 2002 these accounted for 25% of a leading supplier of automotive structural presswork and cylinder the 16.4 million light vehicles produced in North America.
There liners for automotive, industrial and marine applications.
Emitec, is also the potential for further growth from outsourcing of driveline a 50:50 joint venture with Siemens of Germany, is the world leader manufacture by vehicle manufacturers.
in metallic substrates for catalytic converters.
A further area of growth is driveline-related torque systems products.
GKN Driveline moved decisively in 2002 to build on its knowledge and 03 GKN plc 2002 Aerospace GKN has a significant presence in the world of aerospace.
GKN supplies structures for important US military aircraft programmes Approximately 80% of its overall aerospace revenues are derived such as the F A-18E F Super Hornet, F A-22 Raptor, C-17 Globemaster from the defence sector and this focus on defence is a significant 111 and F-35 JSF.
Within the civil sector GKN is a supplier on all Airbus strength, particularly during the current downturn in civil aerospace.
programmes including the A318 319 320 and 321 single aisle family, the A340 500 600 long range aircraft and the A380 Superjumbo.
Today, GKN operates as an international first tier supplier through GKN Aerospace Services and as a helicopter prime contractor AgustaWestland, a 50:50 joint venture with Finmeccanica of Italy, through AgustaWestland.
has one of the broadest and most balanced military and civil product portfolios in the industry.
It is a 32% partner in the European NH90 GKN Aerospace Services, which has engineering and manufacturing helicopter programme and has teamed with Lockheed Martin to address operations in Australia, Germany, the UK, US and Mexico, is a supplier a number of major US military programmes for medium-lift helicopters.
of advanced composite and high performance alloy structures to prime contractors such as Airbus, Boeing and Lockheed Martin, and On the basis of reported revenues AgustaWestland is the worlds to jet engine manufacturers such as Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney.
Right: The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, produced by a partnership led by Lockheed Martin, was conceived to provide the US Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps and the UKs Royal Navy and Royal Air Force with an affordable and stealthy tactical aircraft for the 21st century.
The programme is expected to produce 3,000 aircraft for the US and UK and many more for other worldwide customers.
In 2002 GKN Aerospace Services was awarded a significant package of development and manufacturing work on the aircrafts F135 engine.
Aircraft deliveries are scheduled to begin in 2008.
