GlaxoSmithKline 05 Description of business The Description of business discusses the activities, the resources and the operating environment of the business and identies developments and achievements in 2002, under the following headings: The business 06 History and development of the company 07 Products Operating environment 10 Competition 11 Regulation Operating activities 13 Marketing and distribution 13 Manufacture and supply 14 Research and development Operating resources 23 Intellectual property 24 Information technology 24 GlaxoSmithKline people 25 Property, plant and equipment The business and the community 26 Corporate and social responsibility 26 Responsibility for environment, health and safety 27 Access to healthcare in the developing world 27 Global community partnerships Discussion of the Groups management structures and corporate governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance pages 31 to 38.
The Remuneration report gives details of the Groups policies on Directors remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors and senior management in 2002 pages 39 to 50.
Discussion of the Groups operating and financial performance and financial resources is given in the Operating and financial review and prospects pages 51 to 72.
In this report: GlaxoSmithKline or the Group means GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings and the company means GlaxoSmithKline plc: GlaxoSmithKline share means an Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p.
American Depositary Shares ADS represent two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Throughout this report, gures quoted for market size, market share and market growth rates relate to the 12 months ended 30th September 2002 or later where available.
These are GlaxoSmithKline estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources, valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Figures quoted for product market share reect sales by GlaxoSmithKline and licensees.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks of GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with the exception of Baycol and Levitra, trade marks of Bayer AG, Bexxar, a trade mark of Corixa Corporation, Inc, Hepsera, a trademark of Gilead Services, Inc, Natrecor, a trade mark of Scios Inc, Navelbine, a trade mark of Pierre Fabre Mdicament, Nicoderm, a trade mark of Aventis SA and Pritor, a trade mark of Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, all of which are used under licence by the Group.
06 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business The business History and development of the company GlaxoSmithKline plc, and its subsidiary and associated undertakings, constitute a major global healthcare group engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical and consumer health-related products.
GlaxoSmithKline has its corporate head ofce in the London area at: 980 Great West Road Brentford Middlesex TW8 9GS England Tel: 020 8047 5000 GlaxoSmithKline also has operational headquarters in Philadelphia, PA and Research Triangle Park, NC, USA, and operations in some 102 countries, with products sold in over 150 countries.
The principal research and development R&D facilities are in the UK, the USA, Japan, Italy and Belgium.
Products are currently manufactured in some 38 countries.
The major markets for the Groups products are the USA, Japan, France, Germany, the UK and Italy.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on 6th December 1999 under English law.
On 27th December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two companies.
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were major global healthcare businesses.
On 1st October 2001 Glaxo Wellcome plc changed its name to GlaxoSmithKline Services plc and on 28th March 2002 became GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited.
Historical references to Glaxo Wellcome plc in this document have not been changed.
Business segments GlaxoSmithKline operates principally in two industry segments: Pharmaceuticals prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines Consumer Healthcare over-the-counter medicines, oral care and nutritional healthcare.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 07 Products Pharmaceuticals Therapeutic area Trade mark Compound Mechanism Indication may vary by country Central nervous Seroxat Paxil paroxetine selective serotonin re-uptake depression, panic, anxiety system inhibitor Wellbutrin bupropion noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor depression Imigran Imitrex sumatriptan 5HT agonist migraine, cluster headache 1 Naramig Amerge naratriptan 5HT agonist migraine 1 Lamictal lamotrigine sodium channel modulator epilepsy Requip ropinirole dopamine D2 agonist Parkinsons disease Zyban bupropion SR noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor smoking addiction Respiratory Flixotide Flovent uticasone propionate inhaled anti-inammatory asthma, bronchial conditions Serevent salmeterol xinafoate bronchodilator bronchial asthma, bronchitis Seretide Advair salmeterol and uticasone bronchodilator anti-inammatory asthma propionate Flixonase Flonase uticasone propionate intranasal anti-inammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis Ventolin salbutamol albuterol bronchodilator bronchial asthma, bronchitis Becotide Beclovent beclomethasone dipropionate inhaled anti-inammatory bronchial asthma, bronchitis Beconase beclomethasone dipropionate intranasal anti-inammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis Anti-virals Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS and abacavir Combivir Biovir lamivudine and zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS Epivir 3TC lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS Retrovir AZT zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS Ziagen abacavir reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV AIDS Agenerase amprenavir protease inhibitor HIV AIDS Valtrex Zelitrex valaciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor shingles, genital herpes Zovirax aciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor herpes infections, shingles, chicken pox, cold sores Zefx Heptavir lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor chronic hepatitis B infection Heptodin Epivir HBV Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxicillin broad spectrum oral injectable common infections anti-malarials clavulanate potassium antibiotic Zinnat Ceftin cefuroxime axetil oral antibiotic common infections Fortum Fortaz ceftazidime injectable antibiotic severe, life threatening infections Bactroban mupirocin topical antibiotic skin infections Amoxil amoxicillin broad spectrum oral injectable common infections antibiotic Malarone atovaquone proguanil electron transport system treatment and prophylaxis of malaria Metabolic and Avandia rosiglitazone PPAR-gamma agonist type 2 diabetes gastro-intestinal Avandamet rosiglitazone metformin PPAR-gamma agonist type 2 diabetes hydrochloride antihyperglycemic agent metformin Zantac ranitidine hydrochloride anti-secretory duodenal ulcers, stomach ulcers, reux and dyspepsia Avodart dutasteride selective inhibitor type I & II benign prostatic hyperplasia isoforms 5AR Vaccines Havrix hepatitis A Engerix-B hepatitis B Twinrix hepatitis A and B Infanrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis Oncology Zofran ondansetron 5HT receptor antagonist nausea and vomiting from cancer 3 and emesis therapy Hycamtin topotecan topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ovarian cancer, small cell lung cancer Navelbine vinorelbine cytotoxic non-small cell lung cancer, breast cancer Cardiovascular Coreg carvedilol alpha beta blocker congestive heart failure Lanoxin digoxin cardiac anti-arrhythmic congestive heart failure, cardiac arrhythmia Flolan epoprostenol inhibitor of blood clotting primary pulmonary hypertension Lacipil lacidipine calcium channel blocker hypertension Pritor telmisartan angiotensin II antagonist hypertension Arthritis Relafen nabumetone non steroidal anti-inammatory osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis 08 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Products Pharmaceuticals by therapeutic area Anti-virals Combivir, a combination of Retrovir and Epivir, has consolidated GlaxoSmithKlines principal pharmaceutical products are presently the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the directed to 10 therapeutic areas.
An analysis of sales by these cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens.
Physician therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on set out below: minimising the pill burden faced by patients.
2002 2001 2000 Sales by therapeutic area m m m Ziagen is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor.
The products potency, ease of use and resistance prole allow it to play a significant role Central nervous system 4,511 4,007 3,279 in a variety of highly active, well tolerated and simplied HIV Respiratory 3,987 3,537 2,789 treatment regimens.
Anti-virals 2,299 2,128 1,899 Anti-bacterials anti-malarials 2,210 2,604 2,472 Trizivir is a combination of Combivir and Ziagen, combining three Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 1,429 1,480 1,232 anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Vaccines 1,080 948 842 Agenerase is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, Oncology and emesis 977 838 710 the first medicine of this class to be brought to the market by Cardiovascular 655 591 463 GlaxoSmithKline.
Agenerase has a twice daily dosing regimen Arthritis 23 156 210 and no significant food or drink restrictions.
Others 824 916 1,086 Divested products 447 Zefx has been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China 17,995 17,205 15,429 and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. Valtrex is a treatment for chicken pox, zoster shingles, cold sores and episodic genital herpes as well as the long term suppression of Central nervous system CNS genital herpes.
Valtrex supersedes Zovirax, which is also widely Seroxat Paxil is a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI used to treat herpes infections.
approved for depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder and general Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials anxiety disorder.
Paxil CR, a controlled release version, was Augmentin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the launched in the USA in 2002. treatment of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA in normal particularly effective against respiratory tract infections.
Augmentin or sustained release tablet formulations.
ES-600 is an extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat children with recurrent or persistent middle ear infections.
Imigran Imitrex is a 5HT receptor agonist used for the treatment 1 Augmentin XR is an extra strength tablet form for adults to combat of severe or frequent migraine and cluster headache, and has the growing problem of bacterial resistance in the community.
become the reference product in this sector.
Naramig Amerge is a newer migraine product.
Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired infections of the lower respiratory tract.
Fortum is used in the Lamictal is a treatment for epilepsy.
Used alone or in combination hospital-based injectable antibiotics market.
with other products, it has achieved penetration of this mature market through successful treatment of severe cases.
Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
Requip is a specic dopamine D2-like receptor agonist for the treatment of Parkinsons disease.
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal Zyban is a nicotine-free prescription medicine, available Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the as a sustained-release tablet, for treating the problem of underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
combination of Avandia and metformin HCI: it is the first medicine that targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose production in Respiratory one convenient pill.
Seretide Advair, a combination of Serevent and Flixotide, offers Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range a long-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inammatory in a single of gastric acid related disorders, continues to play a major role in a inhaler.
number of markets, even where patent protection has been lost.
Serevent is a long-acting bronchodilator and Ventolin is a selective short-acting bronchodilator.
Vaccines GlaxoSmithKline markets a range of hepatitis vaccines.
Havrix Flixotide Flovent and Becotide Beclovent are inhaled steroids for the protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-B against hepatitis B. treatment of inammation associated with bronchial asthma and Twinrix is a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, protecting against chronic bronchitis.
both diseases with one vaccine and available in both adult and Flixonase Flonase and Beconase are intra-nasal preparations for the paediatric strengths.
treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
Infanrix is a range of paediatric vaccine combinations.
Infanrix provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis whooping cough.
Infanrix PeNta Pediarix provides additional protection against hepatitis B and polio, and Infanrix HeXa further adds protection against haemophilus inuenzae type b, which causes meningitis.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 09 Additionally, GlaxoSmithKline markets Priorix, a measles, The major products are: mumps and rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection Category Product against typhoid fever, and Varilrix, a vaccine against varicella or Over-the-counter medicines chicken pox.
Analgesics Panadol Dermatologicals Oxy Oncology and emesis Zovirax Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with Abreva chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in Gastro-intestinal Tums both oral and injectable forms.
It is also approved for use in the Citrucel prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
Respiratory tract Contac Hycamtin is a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and Beechams for small cell lung cancer.
Smoking control Commit Nicorette Navelbine is approved as first line treatment of non-small cell lung NicoDerm CQ cancer in combination with cisplatin or as a single agent.
NiQuitin CQ Nicabate CQ Cardiovascular Natural wellness support Abtei Coreg is an alpha beta blocker which has been proven to be effective in treating mild, moderate and severe heart failure.
Oral care Aquafresh GlaxoSmithKline has sole marketing rights in the USA.
Corega Dr Best Arthritis Macleans Relafen is a non-steroidal anti-inammatory drug for the treatment Odol of arthritis.
Polident Poligrip Other Sensodyne The other category includes the Groups principal dermatological Nutritional healthcare Horlicks products: Betnovate, the higher potency Dermovate and the newer Lucozade Cutivate are anti-inammatory steroid products used to treat skin Ribena diseases such as eczema and psoriasis.
Divested products Over-the-counter medicines In accordance with agreements for regulatory approvals of the The leading products are Panadol, a widely available merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham, the paracetamol acetominophen analgesic: Nicorette gum: the products Kytril, for the treatment of chemotherapy and Nicoderm, NiQuitin CQ and Nicabate range of smoking control radiotherapyinduced nausea and vomiting, and Famvir, an patches: Tums, a calcium based antacid: Citrucel laxative: Contac anti-viral for the treatment of shingles and herpes, were divested for the treatment of colds and inuenza: Abtei, a natural in December 2000. medicines and vitamin range: Oxy acne treatment and Zovirax and Abreva for the treatment of cold sores.
Products Consumer Healthcare In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare introduced two GlaxoSmithKlines principal consumer healthcare products are new prescription to over-the-counter switches: presently directed to three major areas.
An analysis of sales by these areas is set out below: Eumovate, a cream for clearing the skin are-up from dermatitis and eczema in the UK 2002 2001 2000 Beconase Allergy 24 hours for hayfever in Australia.
m m m Over-the-counter medicines 1,586 1,603 1,454 Oral care Oral care 1,052 1,106 642 The leading oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes Nutritional healthcare 579 575 535 under the Aquafresh, Sensodyne, Macleans and Odol brand Divested products 19 names, and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh, 3,217 3,284 2,650 Sensodyne and Dr Best names.
In addition, denture care products are available principally under the Polident, Poligrip and Corega brand names.
At constant exchange rates 2002 sales were two per cent higher than 2001.
Nutritional healthcare The leading products in this category are Lucozade glucose energy and sports drinks, Ribena blackcurrant-based juice drink rich in vitamin C, and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks.
10 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Operating environment Competition Pharmaceuticals Respiratory GlaxoSmithKlines respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
Seretide Advair, gaining patients from competitor products and GlaxoSmithKlines principal competitors are large international the cannibalisation of Serevent and Flixotide.
Ventolin and Becotide pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources.
Some of have faced generic competition for some years but have these companies and their major products are mentioned below.
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other Major respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially products during the period of patent protection and, once off in the USA, Symbicort from AstraZeneca, primarily in the European patent, from generic versions.
The manufacturers of generic Union and Spiriva from Pzer Boehringer Ingelheim, primarily in products typically do not bear significant research and development Europe.
costs and consequently are able to offer their products at considerably lower prices than the branded competitors.
A research Anti-virals and development based pharmaceutical company will normally The major competitors in the HIV market are Bristol Myers Squibb, seek to achieve a sufciently high profit margin and sales volume Merck and Pzer amongst others.
during the period of patent protection to repay the original investment and to fund research for the future.
Competition from GlaxoSmithKline has a pioneering role in the HIV market, with generic products generally occurs as patents in major markets Retrovir and Epivir acting as the cornerstone of combination expire.
Increasingly patent challenges are made prior to patent therapy, and available as Combivir in a single tablet.
of Ziagen, Agenerase and Trizivir have broadened the Groups GlaxoSmithKline undertakes a range of activities to maximise the portfolio of HIV products.
Valtrex has helped strengthen the value of its intellectual property, including introducing innovative Groups position in the anti-herpes area, although Zovirax faces products into as many markets as possible, accelerating the process competition from generic aciclovir.
Both Valtrex and Zovirax to bring new products to market and increasing brand recognition compete with Novartis Famvir.
Zefx was the first anti-viral on the among customers.
market to treat Hepatitis B. Gileads Hepsera is the second and was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA in GlaxoSmithKline believes that its competitive position is dependent September 2002. upon the discovery and development of new products, together with effective marketing of existing products.
Within the Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new products and In 2002 generic versions of both Augmentin and Ceftin Zinnat processes by competitors may affect pricing levels or result in were introduced in the USA, following successful legal challenges product replacement.
There can be no assurance that products may by generic manufacturers see Note 30 to the Financial statements, not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent or trade mark Legal proceedings.
Augmentin has already lost patent protection protection.
In addition, increasing government and other pressure in various countries in Europe.
The recently launched Augmentin for physicians and patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather XR, and Augmentin ES compete against a broad range of other than brand-name medicines, may increase competition for branded and generic antibiotics.
Malarones safety prole and products that are no longer protected by patent.
convenient dosing regimen have helped put this product in a strong position versus meoquine following its recent launch for CNS disorders malaria prophylaxis.
Major competitors to Paxil in the USA selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI market are uoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lillys Metabolic and gastro-intestinal Prozac, Zoloft from Pzer, Forest Laboratories Celexa and Lexapro.
The major competitor for Avandia is Takeda Chemicals Actos, The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin are SSRIs and which is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA.
The success of Seroxat Paxil and Wellbutrin has made them a target for generic manufacturers, Vaccines against whom GlaxoSmithKline continues to respond appropriately GlaxoSmithKlines major competitors in the vaccine market include see Note 30 to the Financial statements, Legal proceedings.
Aventis Pasteur AP, Merck and Wyeth.
Engerix-B and Havrix Imigran has grown to be one of GlaxoSmithKlines leading products compete with vaccines produced by AP and Merck Comvax and through addressing the previously unmet needs of migraine Recombivax HB for hepatitis B, and Vaqta and Avaxim for hepatitis sufferers.
Although other companies have launched competing A. Infanrixs major competitor is APs range of DTPa-based products, newer formulations of Imigran, such as the nasal spray, combination vaccines.
and the introduction of Naramig have helped the Group to retain its lead over its competitors in the migraine market and maintain growth.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 11 Competition Consumer Healthcare Grant of a marketing authorisation affords the Group a protection period during which a competitor cannot rely on condential data The main competitors in the Groups Consumer Healthcare markets in the regulatory le as a basis for its own marketing authorisation.
include the major international companies Colgate-Palmolive, The data protection period begins on the date an authorisation is Johnson & Johnson, Pzer, Procter & Gamble, Unilever and Wyeth.
first granted in the European Union and expires after ten years for In addition, there are many other companies that compete with authorisations granted via the Centralised Procedure, or ten or six GlaxoSmithKline in selected markets.
years for authorisations granted via the Mutual Recognition The major competitor products in over-the-counter OTC procedure, depending on the country concerned.
medicines are: In the USA, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term in the USA: Metamucil laxative, Clearasil acne treatment, Restoration Act of 1984 Hatch-Waxman established the current Pepcid indigestion and private label smoking control framework for approval of generic drugs, including related patent products.
Under Hatch-Waxman, the sponsor in the UK: Lemsip cold remedy, Nurofen and Anadin of an Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA can receive analgesics, and Nicorette and Nicotinell smoking control marketing approval without submitting any safety or efcacy data.
It can rely on the pioneer companys extensive pre-clinical and clinical development data, provided the proposed generic drug has In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are been demonstrated to be bioequivalent to the pioneer product.
Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
The However, generic drug approvals are subject to data protection competitors to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products while periods of five years for new chemical entities and three years for Lucozade competes with other energy drinks.
any modications supported by new clinical studies.
Moreover, GlaxoSmithKline holds leading global positions in all its key under the provisions of Hatch-Waxman, the ling of an ANDA can consumer product areas.
Worldwide it is the second largest in Oral trigger procedures that may allow patent holders to initiate patent care and the third largest in OTC medicines.
In Nutritional infringement litigation with the significant procedural advantage of healthcare it holds the leading position in the UK, India and being assured that the FDAs approval of the proposed generic Ireland.
product will be stayed for up to 30 months, pending resolution of the litigation.
These procedures have generated litigation and Regulation Pharmaceuticals controversy, particularly because, as currently applied, they have resulted in multiple, non-concurrent 30-month stays for some The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated.
The FDA has proposed changes to its National regulatory authorities administer a panoply of laws regulations to address certain aspects of the procedures that have and regulations governing the testing, approval, manufacturing, generated litigation and controversy, and reform legislation has labelling and marketing of drugs and also review the safety also been proposed in the US Congress.
and efcacy of pharmaceutical products.
These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether a In the USA, the second reauthorisation of the Prescription Drug substance can be developed into a marketable product and the User Fee Act came into effect on 1st October 2002 PDUFA III.
amount of time and expense associated with such development.
A recent General Accounting Ofce report to the Senate Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, has noted a products be authorised or registered prior to marketing and that gradual increase in the median time to gain approval for drugs such authorisation or registration be maintained subsequently.
Since 1995, the approval time for priority review drugs, judged by the FDA to represent a The national regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions, including significant therapeutic advance, has remained constant, with a the USA, the European Union, Japan and Australia, have high median time for approval of six months.
standards of technical appraisal and consequently the introduction of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy There has been an increasing gap between the approval times for approval process.
The approval time for drugs designated as a standard review reached a low of about In the European Union, there are two procedures for obtaining 13 months in 1998 before rising to about 20 months in 2000 marketing authorisations for medicinal products: and 2001.
The Centralised Procedure, with applications made direct to It remains to be seen if the substantial additional resources funded the European Medicines Evaluation Agency and leading to an under PDUFA III will result in a reduction of overall approval times authorisation valid in all member states, is compulsory for for all drugs and biologics.
The review times for certain biologics, products derived from biotechnology and optional for new other than vaccines, may be substantially impacted by a recently active substances and other innovative medicinal products.
announced consolidation of the review activities to the Center for The Mutual Recognition Procedure, which is applicable to the Drug Evaluation and Research.
These activities had previously been majority of conventional medicinal products, operates by mutual carried out by the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.
recognition of national marketing authorisations: where agreement cannot be reached, it is resolved by procedure of binding arbitration.
12 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Over the last decade, regulatory authorities have focused Value for money significant attention on measures to manage the risk associated It is becoming increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value for with the use of prescription products.
This is particularly noticeable money of new products, in particular the impact upon drug in the USA, where the FDA and the pharmaceutical industry have budget expenditure and the burden of the disease that will be been subjected to intense public scrutiny of the adequacy of treated.
measures taken to protect the public health.
Substantial funding In some markets, the need to satisfy healthcare purchasers as to for the FDA to strengthen post market surveillance activities was value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product included under PDUFA III.
Under performance goals associated acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety, efcacy with the legislation, drug manufacturers are encouraged to submit and quality.
This can delay bringing effective and improved voluntarily proposed Risk Management Plans as part of applications medicines to the market and reduce their effective patent for marketing new drugs.
These recent developments represent an protection time.
additional challenge to the market registration process in the USA.
In many markets it is becoming increasingly difficult for a On 7th June 2002, the FDA announced approval of a supplemental signicantly improved therapy to obtain a premium price over New Drug Application sNDA that allows restricted marketing of existing medication.
Philosophies founded on value-based pricing Lotronex alosetron hydrochloride to treat only women with severe are difficult to follow in such circumstances although in the USA  irritable bowel syndrome IBS.
The it is still possible to price products to reect their value.
November 2002 reintroduction followed an advisory committee review and implementation of a FDA-GlaxoSmithKline agreed risk It is not possible to predict whether, and to what extent, the management programme intended to ensure patients and Groups business may be affected by future legislative and physicians are fully informed of possible risks and benets of regulatory developments relating to specic pharmaceutical Lotronex.
Across International markets, countries outside the USA and Regulation Consumer Healthcare Europe, the regulatory environment continues to be extremely varied and challenging.
GlaxoSmithKline anticipates that the The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation introduction of new products will continue to require substantial for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing effort, time and expense to comply with regulatory requirements.
In many countries high standards of technical appraisal entail a lengthy approval process before a new product Price controls is launched.
In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the controlled by law.
Governments may also influence prices through switch of products from prescription to OTC.
The requirements their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear include long-term experience of the quality, safety and efcacy a large part of the cost of supplying products to consumers.
of the product in a wide patient population and data to confirm In the USA, debate over the reform of the healthcare system has that the relevant condition is both self-limiting and can easily be increased the focus on pricing.
Currently there are no government diagnosed by the consumer.
price controls over private sector purchases, but federal legislation requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order to be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal healthcare programmes.
In Europe, historically affected by government regulation in pricing and reimbursement, the pharmaceutical industry continues to experience pressure on its prices through a range of measures, including across-the-board cuts, linking to low-cost countries, price referencing and delays in agreeing reimbursement.
There is an increasing pressure for generic substitution and cross-border imports from low-priced markets may exert a commercial pressure on in-country pricing.
In Japan, discussions are ongoing as to which new price and reimbursement controls the government will introduce.
During 2002, the worldwide pharmaceutical market continued to experience increasing pressure on pricing and reimbursement from governments and healthcare providers, though it is non-price factors, new products and higher volumes, which are principally driving the growth of pharmaceutical expenditure.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 13 Operating activities Marketing and distribution Direct-to-consumer DTC advertising is a major component of product marketing in the USA.
DTC advertisements are now the GlaxoSmithKline sells its products worldwide through an primary source of information for patients requesting specic extensive network of subsidiaries, licensees and distributors.
brand name products from their physicians in the USA.
The gross profit margins earned on sales of pharmaceutical Outside the USA, DTC is either prohibited or has a more limited products are generally higher than those earned on sales of role in informing patients.
In the European Union, DTC of consumer products, reecting the many risks and uncertainties prescription-only products is currently prohibited.
In Australia, the inherent in developing and marketing pharmaceuticals.
These risks government allows DTC advertising of pharmacy-only products include the high level of research and development expenditure subject to certain safeguards.
In New Zealand, DTC is allowed and required to discover, test and obtain patent protection for new self-regulated by the industry in collaboration with the Advertising products and the competition from new and generic products.
Other markets allow DTC, but to date the GlaxoSmithKlines worldwide operation is subject to a number of impact has been more limited.
risks inherent in conducting business in certain countries, including In addition to the direct marketing of products by its subsidiaries possible nationalisation, expropriation and other restrictive GlaxoSmithKline has entered into agreements with other government actions such as capital regulation.
In addition, currency pharmaceutical companies for the co-marketing and co-promotion uctuations and other changes in economic conditions may occur, of their products in many markets, for example Levitra with Bayer.
which can have either a favourable or unfavourable effect on trading income.
The Group does not regard these factors as Marketing and distribution Consumer Healthcare deterrents to further expansion of its international operations.
However, it closely reviews its methods of operation, particularly in The principal markets for Consumer Healthcares OTC medicines developing countries, and develops strategies to respond to are the USA, the UK, Germany, Australia, Argentina, Italy, Mexico, changing economic and political conditions.
The principal markets for the Oral care products are the USA, Germany and the UK.
The nutritional drinks Marketing and distribution Pharmaceuticals business is particularly strong in the UK, Ireland and India, although the range of products is available in other markets.
An analysis of total pharmaceutical sales, including in 2000 divested products, by geographic region is set out below: OTC and Oral care products are primarily distributed through pharmacy or mass market outlets either directly or through 2002 2001 2000 Sales by geographic region m m m wholesalers.
Nutritional healthcare products are distributed through a similar but more extensive retail and wholesale network.
USA 9,797 9,037 7,705 Europe 4,701 4,561 4,268 Manufacture and supply International: Asia Pacic 1,177 1,119 1,049 GlaxoSmithKline has a large portfolio of products, ranging from Japan 712 741 832 tablets and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over Latin America 606 790 682 36,000 different pack sizes and presentations.
Middle East, Africa 575 539 511 Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a Canada 427 418 382 therapeutic active ingredient bulk active in a selected formulation.
17,995 17,205 15,429 Global Manufacture & Supply GMS develops manufacturing processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at GlaxoSmithKline sells its prescription medicines primarily to 'primary' manufacturing sites.
Converting active compounds into a wholesale drug distributors, independent and chain retail nished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the 'secondary' pharmacies, physicians, hospitals, clinics, government entities and manufacturing sites.
These products are ordinarily dispensed to the public by pharmacies through prescriptions written by doctors in GMS operates as a single global network of 95 sites in 38 hospitals or in doctors surgeries.
Each year GMS produces around 5,900 tonnes of bulk actives and over four billion packs, which are packaged and In the USA, the worlds largest pharmaceutical market, the delivered for sale in over 150 countries.
Throughout the world it pressure to contain healthcare costs has encouraged the growth also supports approximately 2,000 new product and line extension of managed care organisations and pharmacy benefit managers.
These intermediaries use a range of methods to lower costs, including the substitution of generic products or other cheaper GMS is focused on delivering: therapies for branded products prescribed by doctors.
Because of a secure source of supply of high quality products its increasing importance as a supplier of healthcare to the compliance with regulatory requirements and customer community, GlaxoSmithKline contracts with the managed care expectations sector through a small number of wholesalers.
best in class cost In each market, GlaxoSmithKline deploys salesforces of leading edge practices and performance at sites, in representatives and supporting medical staff to promote its procurement and in other global functions.
prescription products to medical prescribers and healthcare purchasers through personal visits.
Organisation GMS operations are structured into Supply Chains and Regions.
Promotion of GlaxoSmithKlines products is supplemented by scientific seminars, advertising in medical and other journals, television advertising, provision of samples, direct mailing and information contained on the Groups website.
14 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Primary supply chain Vaccines supply chain This is a global organisation with 13 sites, spread across 6 Vaccine production is located principally at Rixensart, Belgium, with countries, where a broad range of active ingredients for antibiotic six other sites worldwide.
Managing the vaccine supply chain and non-antibiotic products are manufactured and packaged.
The involves anticipating market needs and using a exible approach to sites are located in Australia, India, Ireland, Singapore, the UK and be able to meet uctuations in demand.
These are based on the USA.
The majority of the active ingredients manufactured by forecasts from the different markets and rm orders from health the primary supply chain are supplied to the secondary authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
Bulk, lling and pharmaceutical sites in Europe, North America and International.
packaging is carefully balanced and stocking of vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand.
Such increases are Secondary supply chain prompted by disease outbreaks or increased demand from the European region public owing to disease awareness campaigns.
There are 17 sites in the European region spread across eight countries.
Between them the European sites manufacture nearly Consumer Healthcare supply chain all of the major pharmaceutical products marketed globally by There are 27 Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites spread GlaxoSmithKline in a wide variety of nished dosage forms.
The Consumer Healthcare supply chain is diverse and includes the manufacturing and supply of OTC North America region medicines, Oral care, Nutritional healthcare and Smoking control There are six pharmaceutical sites in the North America region products.
As well as internal facilities, over 230 contract suppliers located in Puerto Rico, Canada and the USA.
International region Research and development Pharmaceuticals The International region comprises 32 manufacturing sites, in The global biological and pharmaceutical Research and 19 countries, spread across six distinct areas.
There are five sites in Development R&D function in GlaxoSmithKline is responsible for Middle East Africa, 17 sites spread across the Asia Pacic area, discovering, developing, registering, commercialising and four sites in China, one in Japan and five in Latin America.
supporting effective marketing of innovative prescription medicines, vaccines and delivery systems for the treatment and GlaxoSmithKline integration prevention of human disease.
This long-term, integrated change programme implemented at the time of the merger is called the Global Supply Network GSN and Fundamental to this goal is a thorough understanding of the is structured to deliver benets through five major streams of diseases under investigation, involving pioneering work in genetics activity: and predictive medicine, as well as more traditional research disciplines.
In addition to the work to create new medicines and Reduction in above-site infrastructure and costs vaccines, extensive efforts are made to gain a clear understanding Procurement initiatives of the unmet needs of patients and of healthcare providers and Continued network rationalisation payers as a guide to the overall direction of R&D.
Logistics improvements Operational excellence and lean sigma improvements.
In 2002 GlaxoSmithKline invested over 2.6 billion in pharmaceuticals R&D.
R&D is an organisation that benets from As part of the network rationalisation plan, production ceased in the insights of top scientists around the world and employs over 2002 at 12 sites in countries which included Argentina, India, 15,000 staff in biological and pharmaceutical R&D activities, at Japan, Kenya, Mexico, South Africa, Taiwan, Venezuela and the more than 20 sites worldwide, including: USA.
The disposal or closure of further sites were announced in UK: Beckenham, Brentford, Cambridge, Dartford, the year.
Greenford, Harlow, Stevenage, Tonbridge, Ware, Welwyn External suppliers USA: Bristol, Tennessee: Philadelphia, Upper Merion and Procurement is a global function supporting all functions and areas Upper Providence, Pennsylvania: Research Triangle of the GlaxoSmithKline business.
Manufacturing is one of the Park, North Carolina largest areas with over 2 billion spent with many external Belgium: Rixensart suppliers every year, including the purchase of active ingredients, Canada: Mississauga chemical intermediates, part-nished and nished products.
GMS France: Les Ulis, Evreux has taken appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any Italy: Verona disruption resulting from interrupted external supply through Japan: Tsukuba Science City, Takasaki appropriate stock levels, contracting and alternative registered Spain: Tres Cantos, Madrid.
During 2002, R&D continued to deliver a range of products to the market and accelerated progress in the early stages of development.
The extensive in-licensing activity begun in 2001 has continued and both the late-stage and the earlier pipeline have been signicantly enhanced.
Practical prioritisation and management of the portfolio of compounds in development has also been a focus, ensuring that GlaxoSmithKline R&D invests its resource to achieve the optimum value and deliver new medicines to patients.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 15 Product development pipeline The product development pipeline set out below shows considerable breadth and depth: at the end of 2002 GlaxoSmithKline had 177 pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in development, of which 123 are in the clinic.
Key v Vaccine Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted p Pharmaccine in volunteers Compounds in  Pharmaceuticals LLC joint venture Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of In-license or other alliance relationship with third party efcacy, conducted in a small number of patients S Date of first submission A Date of first Regulatory approval for MAA, this is the first Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo EU approval letter and or established treatment in patients to AL Approvable letter establish clinical benefit and safety MAA: Marketing authorisation application Europe NDA: New drug application USA Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Cardiovascular, Urogenital & Metabolic 249417 anti-Factor IX monoclonal antibody stroke I 427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes I 473178 thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications I of cardiovascular disease 501516 peroxisome  dyslipidaemia I receptor PPAR agonist 590735 PPAR agonist dyslipidaemia I 677954 PPAR agonist type 2 diabetes I 843362 NIN-058 oral insulin analogue type 2 diabetes I 181771 CCK-A agonist obesity II 424323 indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications II of cardiovascular disease 480848 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis II 876167 BVT933 5HT2c agonist obesity II piboserod 207266 5HT4 antagonist atrial brillation II Avandia sulphonylurea PPAR gamma agonist plus sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes III Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor prostate cancer prevention III nesiritide recombinant beta-type natriuretic peptide acute heart failure Submitted S:Sep02 N A Levitra vardenal PDE-V inhibitor erectile dysfunction Submitted S:Jan02 AL:Jul02 Avandia PPAR gamma agonist type 2 diabetes in combination with insulin Submitted AL:Feb01 Avandamet PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes Approved S:Oct02 A:Oct02 Avandia metformin combination tablet Infectious Diseases 275833 topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections I 2005 2005 Lapdap artesunate antifolate artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria I 2005 N A 270773 phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II Augmentin granules beta lactam antibiotic respiratory tract infections incl.
penicillin-resistant II 2004 N A S. pneumoniae modied release granule formulation Augmentin - ES Chewable beta lactam antibiotic acute otitis media incl.
penicillin-resistant III N A 2003 S. pneumoniae high-dose chewable tablet Augmentin XR beta lactam antibiotic treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis III 2003 2003 AECB, including complicated AECB oxibendazole polymerase inhibitor treatment of adult & paediatric helminth III 2004 N A intestinal infections sitamaquine unknown treatment of visceral leishmaniasis III 2003 N A tafenoquine 252263 8-aminoquinoline malaria prophylaxis adults III 2005 2005 Lapdap antifolate treatment of uncomplicated malaria Submitted S:Oct02 N A Anti-virals 640385 aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV infections I 695634 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections I 810781 S-1360 HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections II Ziagen Epivir reverse transcriptase inhibitors HIV infection combination tablet III 2004 2003 433908 protease inhibitor: amprenavir pro-drug HIV infection Submitted S:Dec02 S:Dec02 Valtrex nucleoside analogue HSV suppression in immunocompromised patients Submitted N A S:Sep02 Valtrex Zelitrex nucleoside analogue prevention of Herpes simplex virus HSV transmission Submitted S:Nov02 S:Oct02 16 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Neurology & Gastrointestinal 234551 endothelin A antagonist stroke I 271046 5HT6 antagonist Alzheimers disease & schizophrenia I 683699 T-0047 dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 multiple sclerosis MS & inammatory bowel I disease IBD also asthma & rheumatoid arthritis RA 723620 corticotropin releasing factor CRF-R1 irritable bowel syndrome IBS also anxiety I antagonist & depression 406381 COX-2 inhibitor second generation pain II 493838 adenosine A1 agonist neuropathic pain II 737004 S-0139 endothelin A antagonist stroke II 737552 S-8510 benzodiazepine inverse agonist Alzheimers disease & vascular dementia II carabersat 204269 benzopyran migraine prophylaxis & epilepsy II Imigran Imitrex 5HT1 agonist migraine needle-free injection II 2005 2005 talnetant 223412 tachykinin NK3 antagonist IBS also schizophrenia II 2005 2005 alvimopan ADL 8-2698 peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus III 2004 2003 Imigran Imitrex 5HT1 agonist migraine fast dissolving tablet III 2003 2003 Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor neuropathic pain III N A 2004 Requip non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinsons disease controlled release formulation III 2005 2005 Requip non-ergot dopamine agonist restless leg syndrome III 2003 2003 Imigran Imitrex 5HT1 agonist adolescent migraine nasal formulation Submitted S:Sep02 AL:Dec00 Oncology, Musculoskeletal & Inammation 251353 Gro-T CXC chemokine prevention of chemotherapy-induced cytopaenias I 462795 cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis I 485232 recombinant human interleukin-18  cancers melanoma & I immunomodulator renal cell 497115 thrombopoietin agonist chemoprotection I 681323 p38 alpha kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis also chronic obstructive I pulmonary disease 715992 kinesin inhibitor breast & ovarian cancers I 786034 vascular epidermal growth factor 2 tyrosine solid tumours I kinase inhibitor topotecan 120918 topo-isomerase l inhibitor bioenhancer cancer I 572016 ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor solid tumours breast & colorectal cancers II 2004 2004 ethynylcytidine 596168 selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer first line therapy II 2004 2004 repifermin keratinocyte Growth Factor-2 mucositis also wound care & inammatory II bowel disease Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2005 N A Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2003 2003 oral formulation Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first line therapy III 2004 2004 ibandronate bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal III 2004 2004 osteoporosis monthly oral dosing ibandronate bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal III 2004 2004 osteoporosis quarterly i. v. dosing Navelbine vinca alkaloid non-small cell lung cancer oral therapy III N A 2003 Bexxar I131 radiolabelled anti-B1 monoclonal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma Submitted N A S:Sep00 antibody Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy Submitted S:Nov02 N A ibandronate bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal Submitted S:Jun02 S:Jul02 osteoporosis daily oral regimen Psychiatry 271046 5HT6 antagonist schizophrenia & Alzheimers disease I 353162 noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression & bipolar disorder I 468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation I 679769 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 723620 corticotropin releasing factor CRF-R1 anxiety & depression also IBS I antagonist 597599 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety II talnetant 223412 tachykinin NK3 antagonist schizophrenia also for IBS II vilazodone 659746 selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI depression II 2005 2004 EMD 68843 5HT1a partial agonist Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder acute treatment III N A 2006 Paxil CR SSRI premenstrual dysphoric disorder PMDD, intermittent III N A 2003 treatment controlled release formulation Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder long-term prophylaxis Submitted S:Aug02 S:Jun02 Paxil CR SSRI PMDD continuous treatment controlled Submitted N A S:Jun02 release formulation Paxil CR SSRI social anxiety disorder Submitted N A S:Dec02 Wellbutrin XL noradrenaline dopamine reuptake inhibitor depression controlled release formulation, Submitted S:Aug02 once daily dosing Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 17 Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Respiratory 159797 TD 3327 beta2 agonist asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD I 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor asthma, COPD I & allergic rhinitis 597901 beta2 agonist asthma & COPD I 681323 p38 alpha kinase inhibitor COPD also RA I 683699 T-0047 dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 asthma & RA also MS & IBD I 766994 chemokine receptor 3 antagonist asthma & allergic rhinitis I 559090 alpha4 integrin antagonist asthma & allergic rhinitis II 685698 glucocorticoid receptor agonist asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis II 842470 AWD 12-281 PDE IV inhibitor asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis II mepolizumab 240563 anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma & atopic dermatitis II Ario PDE IV inhibitor COPD Submitted 2004 S:Dec02 Non-CFC Metered Dose Inhaler propellants 106642 Serevent beta2 agonist asthma & COPD III 2004 N A Flixotide Flovent inhaled corticosteroid asthma & COPD Approved A:Apr97 AL:Dec02 Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01 & Oct02 Diskus Accuhaler dry powder inhaler Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid adult & paediatric asthma once daily dosing III 2005 2005 Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid COPD Submitted S:Sep01 AL:Mar02 & Dec02 Serevent beta2 agonist COPD Approved 2003 A:Mar02 Hepatitis Vaccines Hepatitis E recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis II Extra strength hepatitis B recombinant extra strength hepatitis B prophylaxis III 2003 TBD Twinrix 2 doses recombinant combined hepatitis A and B prophylaxis Approved A:Sep02 2003 child adolescent Paediatric Vaccines Rotarix live attenuated oral rotavirus prophylaxis II 2005 N. meningitidis conjugated meningitis prophylaxis II 2004 Meningitis B Cuba subunit meningitis B prophylaxis II TBD S. pneumoniae paediatric conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children III 2005 MMR-varicella live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella and varicella prophylaxis III 2005 Infanrix Pediarix PeNtarecombinant diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B Approved A:Oct00 A:Dec02 HepB-IPV and inactivated polio prophylaxis Infanrix HeXa-Hep BIPV Hib conjugated recombinant diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B Approved A:Oct00 TBD and inactivated polio prophylaxis and Haemophilus inuenzae type B prophylaxis Other Vaccines Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine prophylactic use I HIV recombinant HIV prophylaxis I New inuenza subunit inuenza prophylaxis new delivery I S. pneumoniae elderly conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I Staphylococcal antibodies monoclonal antibody prevention of staphylococcal infections I Epstein-Barr virus EBV recombinant EBV prophylaxis II Human papillomavirus HPV recombinant prophylaxis of HPV infections II Malaria recombinant malaria prophylaxis II Boostrix subunit adolescent adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus Approved A:Oct00 2004 and pertussis Boostrix IPV subunit adolescent adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus, III 2003 pertussis and inactivated polio Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis III Pharmaccines GSK PowderJect recombinant hepatitis B treatment I 249553 recombinant treatment of lung cancer melanoma II The content of the portfolio will change over time as new compounds progress from research to development and from development to the market.
Owing to the nature of the drug development process, it is not unusual for some compounds, especially those in early stage of investigation, to be terminated as they progress through development.
For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some project types may not have been identied.
18 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Compounds progressed into Phase I clinical development in 2002 During 2002 several discovery projects, listed in the table below, progressed through non-clinical safety testing and into early Phase I clinical development.
These compounds are continuing their rigorous non-clinical, clinical and commercial assessments, leading to proof of concept decisions over the next 1224 months.
Compound Mechanism Indication 120918 topotecan multi-drug resistance inhibitor topoisomerase inhibitor cancer 234551 endothelin A antagonist stroke 274150 iNOS inhibitor asthma 275833 topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections 353162 norepinephrine dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression 462795 cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis 468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation 485232 interleukin 18 cancer 497115 thrombopoietin agonist chemoprotection 559090 alpha4-integrin antagonist allergic rhinitis 597901 inhaled beta2 adrenergic receptor agonist asthma 640385 aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV 677954 PPAR pan agonist diabetes 679769 neurokine 1 antagonist depression 681323 p38 alpha kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis 683699 dual alpha4-integrin antagonist multiple sclerosis irritable bowel syndrome 685698 inhaled corticosteroid asthma allergic rhinitis 695634 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV 715992 kinesin inhibitor cancer 766994 chemokine receptor antagonist asthma 786034 VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor solid tumours Lapdap artesunate chlorproguanil dapsone combination artesunate malaria HIV prophylactic vaccine HIV Dengue fever vaccine vaccine Dengue fever significant regulatory submissions in 2002 Product Country Region Description Advair USA labelling for corticosteroid sparing effect of the combination of salmeterol, a long-acting beta-blocker, and uticasone, a corticosteroid in a dry powder Diskus device Ario USA cilomilast, a PDE IV inhibitor for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Avandamet Europe combination of rosiglitazone and metformin for type 2 diabetes Coreg USA carvedilol, alpha beta-blocker in-licensed from Roche for cardiac dysfunction following heart attack Flixotide Europe lower age limit for uticasone, an inhaled corticosteroid for asthma Flovent USA CFC-free metered dose inhaler for uticasone ibandronate Europe and USA bisphosphonate, for the treatment of osteoporosis, in-licensed from Roche Lamictal Europe and USA lamotrigine, a sodium channel blocker for long-term prophylaxis prevention of bipolar disorder Lamictal Japan lamotrigine for epilepsy Levitra Europe PDE V inhibitor, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, in-licensed from Bayer nesiritide Europe natriuretic peptide in-licensed from Scios Inc for acute heart failure Paxil CR USA controlled release CR paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor for the treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder Paxil CR USA paroxetine for the treatment of social anxiety disorder 433908 Europe and USA protease inhibitor for HIV Valtrex USA and Europe valaciclovir, a DNA polymerase inhibitor for the suppression of transmission of herpes simplex virus Wellbutrin SR USA additional sustained release SR strength of bupropion, a noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor for the treatment of depression Wellbutrin XL USA extended release XL formulation of bupropion for the treatment of depression.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 19 Product approvals In 2002, approvals were received for a number of new products, including several significant new indications and formulations for existing products, as summarised in the table below.
Country Region Product Approval Date Description Augmentin XR USA October extended release formulation of amoxicillin a beta-lactam antibiotic and clavulanate a beta lactamase inhibitor for adult respiratory tract infections Avandamet USA October xed dose combination of Avandia and metformin for type 2 diabetes Avodart USA October 2 year data on dutasteride, a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor for the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy BPH Avodart Europe July dutasteride, for the treatment of BPH Epivir USA October once daily dosing with lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor, for HIV Flixotide Europe October lower age limit for uticasone, an inhaled corticosteroid for asthma Flonase USA May intranasal uticasone for nasal symptoms Flutide Japan October uticasone in a CFC-free inhaler Lotronex USA June reintroduction of alosetron for irritable bowel syndrome IBS Paxil CR USA February paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor for panic disorder Pediarix USA December combined diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B and polio vaccine for children Serevent Diskus USA March dry powder formulation of salmeterol a long-acting beta blocker for COPD Serevent MDI and Diskus Japan April salmeterol in both metered dose and dry powder inhalers for asthma Sultanol Diskus Japan March the short-acting beta blocker salbutamol in a dry powder device for asthma Twinrix 2 dose Europe September combined vaccine for hepatitis A and B Valtrex USA September valaciclovir, a DNA polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of cold sores Wellbutrin SR USA June additional strength of bupropion for depression Zovirax cream USA December aciclovir, a DNA polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of cold sores Zyloric tablets Japan March allopurinol, a xanthine-oxidase inhibitor, for the treatment of gout R&D Processes Discovery, Commercialisation & Delivery R&D measures this productivity not just by the number and innovation of the products it creates, but also by the commercial value of the product's ability to address the unmet needs of healthcare customers including patients, healthcare professionals, budget holders and regulators: each with their Centres own perspective on what constitutes a valuable new product.
"Genetics Pre-clinical Research Development R&D is now positioned to ensure that it generates the right New of Excellence Medicines safety, efcacy and quality information to respond to these of Proven for Drug Discovery different perspectives through data demonstrating the overall Discovery New Product Value Research Development social benets of the new medicine: increased length or quality ""CEDDs"" of life, and increased workplace productivity."
One of the historical contradictions in the pharmaceutical industry has been the need to lever the advantages of a large organisation without losing the creative spirit of the research environment.
In GlaxoSmithKline, R&D has been structured to balance the areas that benefit from large scale with those that take advantage of being small to enhance their productivity.
Intellectual property The key areas that benefit from being large are those that are Drugs Products validated targets and leads capital intensive or high throughput activities such as compound screening: those that require scarce skills: and R&D processes those that are highly regulated, mainly at the later end of the In line with GlaxoSmithKline's strategic intent to become the development chain.
Other areas ourish to their best indisputable leader in the industry, R&D has set itself the goal of advantage if the structural unit remains small: the units can becoming the industrys most productive R&D organisation.
Steps respond quickly to the changing environment: the opportunity to achieve this have included initiatives to both reduce the time for scientists to interact is optimised: and the need for return taken in all phases of the discovery and development chain: and on investment is focussed through the fostering of an also to gain earlier understanding of candidate molecules, entrepreneurial, accountable culture.
increasing the probability of making a new medicine available to treat patients as soon as possible.
20 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business In R&D the power of smaller units is manifest in the Centres of Discovery research Excellence for Drug Discovery CEDD.
They ensure the most The purpose of Discovery Research DR is to identify lead efficient and rapid validation of lead candidates through preclinical compounds that may form the basis of drug discovery efforts in testing against proof of concept criteria, before handing over the the CEDDs.
Investment in DR is focused on improving productivity compound to the New Product Development organisation for large in both quality and quantity.
In 2002, R&D completed construction scale clinical trials.
of new automation facilities at Tres Cantos, in Spain, and continued work on facilities at Upper Providence and Harlow.
The New Product Development function integrates the clinical, In parallel with the development of the ability to generate regulatory and commercial activities necessary to bring a new efficiently large numbers of high quality new compounds, there medicine to the marketplace.
Similarly, the New Product Supply has been substantial progress in implementing methods to evaluate organisation bridges the traditional divide between development them using high throughput biology.
This discipline, with its and manufacturing, ensuring that robust manufacturing processes integration of knowledge from both animal and human biology, are developed.
is starting to deliver highly predictive models to forecast efcacy significant progress has also been made in the integration of the of compounds and to extend understanding of human disease.
Groups R&D in Japan with the global development and commercialisation processes in order to eliminate duplication and Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery to speed up regulatory lings.
During 2002 the discovery and The two crucial steps in converting lead compounds into drug development portfolio in Japan was reviewed and prioritised in the candidates are i optimising the lead for potency, efcacy, safety context of the global R&D pipeline.
and other intrinsic characteristics of the molecule, and ii demonstrating the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis through Crucial to the success of R&D is its capacity to embrace and early clinical trials of the resulting candidate.
The CEDDs are develop new technologies to streamline the drug discovery process.
focused on specic disease areas and designed to be nimble and The technology development organisation keeps abreast of entrepreneurial with the range of skills and resources required to emerging technologies that may advance the creation of new drive mid-stage development projects from lead optimisation medicines, evaluates them and provides the investment and through to their key decision-point, demonstration of proof of knowledge required to develop selected technologies appropriately.
concept, before major investments are made to fund large-scale As R&D generates and modies technologies, it will not only focus clinical trials.
them on the Groups internal goals but also maximise the return on R&D assets through sales, spin-outs and out-licensing.
There are six CEDDs, three based in the USA and three in Europe: Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases, centred in Upper Early research and the role of genetics Merion The early stages of nding new medicines requires essentially two Metabolic & Viral Diseases, centred in Research Triangle Park components: targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms of Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including important pathological processes in human disease and cancer, centred in Upper Providence compounds, typically small molecules but also including Neurology, centred in Harlow UK macromolecules, protein therapeutics and vaccines, able to Psychiatry, centred in Verona Italy modulate the behaviour of specic targets.
Respiratory and Inammation, centred in Stevenage UK.
As part of this target validation process, GlaxoSmithKline aims to identify the genes most relevant to common diseases with large Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the optimal drug unmet medical needs, such as asthma, non-insulin dependent candidate for the desired biological effect and then assessing its diabetes, osteoarthritis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, safety and other development characteristics in preclinical screens.
early onset heart disease and Alzheimers disease.
Many diseases Once this is achieved, the CEDDs are responsible for proving that arise through complex interactions between a number of gene the compound is safe and efcacious in patients in small-scale variants and environmental factors, so the challenge involved is clinical trials the proof of concept decision point.
Identifying the genes that predispose patients to a A decision is then made on whether the information available to particular disease and understanding their role in its progression date justifies the compounds progression into late-stage drug lead to nding new ways to intervene in these diseases.
development where the necessary large-scale clinical trials are conducted to register and commercialise the product.
In 2002, a programme to identify tractable targets that are genetically associated with human diseases of interest was In 2002, the CEDDs progressed signicantly more compounds initiated.
This enables the validation of targets associated with through both first dosing in humans and initial evaluation of these diseases prior to extensive investigation.
efcacy in patients than in 2001.
See table of compounds The practical application of genetics has moved forward during progressed into Phase I on page 18.
In order to progress highly the year.
Several opportunities have been identied where promising medicines yet more rapidly without compromising safety, knowledge of specic markers for efcacy or susceptibility to selected projects are currently piloting a process that involves adverse events is enhancing the ability to focus development of running some activities in parallel, rather than sequentially.
new medicines on patients who will be most likely to benefit from them, ultimately providing reassurance to both the prescriber and the patient.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 21 As part of GlaxoSmithKlines major response to the challenges of These matrix teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide diseases affecting the developing world, the Microbial, development opportunities for each product within their remit.
Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases CEDD has responsibility for They ensure that at an early stage regional marketing needs are a drug discovery unit, based at Tres Cantos, that is dedicated to fully integrated into any development plans so that all information nding new medicines for these diseases.
Research projects at needed to support the registration, safety programmes, pricing and Tres Cantos focus on malaria and TB and, together with work formulary negotiations is available.
Careful prioritisation across all elsewhere in the Group on HIV AIDS and vaccines, address the phases of development ensures that a high potential and prevention and treatment of all three of the World Health integrated portfolio is achieved.
Organizations WHO top priority diseases.
The Group also works The teams collaborate at an early stage with the CEDDs to define with numerous external partners worldwide in the search for new target product proles for new molecules and with integrated treatment for Diseases of the Developing World DDW.
technical development and manufacturing functions to ensure rapid, effective launch and delivery of the product.
Innovative Preclinical development clinical programmes for lead molecules from the CEDDs are Preclinical Development PCD participates in a wide range of developed using cross-functional project teams.
activities within the drug development process from optimising the selection of compounds for potential development through launch During 2002 a new group, Translational Medicine & Technology, to the marketplace and enhancement of existing products by was established within NPD to optimise the use of a variety of devising more convenient formulations.
Early in the development technologies to reduce risk and cost across development.
process, the metabolic fate and safety of compounds are evaluated Cross-functional input extends to focused lifecycle management for in laboratory animals prior to testing in humans.
The testing products to deliver new indications and new presentations after required in both animals and humans is mandated and is highly the initial regulatory approval and commercial launch.
Examples of regulated by governmental agencies.
lifecycle management include the extended release formulation, PCD researchers investigate dosage form e. g. tablet or inhaled Augmentin XR, and development programmes designed to deliver and develop formulations to enhance the drugs effectiveness.
PCD new indications such as the use of Seretide Advair for chronic is also responsible for the development of drug formulations used obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
Processes and supporting analytical methods for A new initiative, Gold Pass, was implemented in 2002.
This drug synthesis and product formulation and delivery are scaled up designation, agreed between R&D, regional markets and to meet increasing supply requirements, ultimately leading to the manufacturing, is a key component of the portfolio and resource technical transfer of the processes and methods to manufacturing.
prioritisation and management process, to ensure that the The New Product Supply Process, a partnership between R&D and resources placed behind key emerging assets yield the optimum Global Manufacturing and Supply, ensures that a robust product is commercial benefit as well as the maximum medical benefit to developed for large scale commercial manufacturing and launch.
Gold Pass assets are of high value and strategic PCD is pursuing novel technologies to enhance R&D productivity importance to GlaxoSmithKline and require specic organisational by lowering the rate of project failure, reducing cycle time and visibility and urgency to meet patients needs.
Consequently, only a enhancing product value.
Predictive toxicology, an integrated multismall number of assets receive Gold Pass status at any one time, disciplinary collaboration between PCD, DR and Genetics Research, enabling the full focus of the organisation to be aligned.
has been established to improve the quality of candidate selections and reduce late-stage attrition due to toxicity.
In-licensing and research collaborations GlaxoSmithKline has continued to identify compounds that would Other key technology areas that provide ways to improve R&Ds enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations to productivity include drug delivery systems, predictive technologies, ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for both particle engineering and process innovation.
The use of particle large and small companies.
Compounds that were the subject of engineering and process innovations enhances the ability to in-licensing or co-promotion deals during 2002 and in January manufacture efficiently consistently high-quality products.
2003 were: New product development alvimopan ADL 8-2698, an oral mu-opoid antagonist, in To provide focus for the development and commercialisation Phase III for post-operative ileus, to be co-developed and process, which must proceed in unison, all the major functional co-promoted with Adolor components clinical, medical, biomedical data, regulatory, safety BVT 933 and other 5HT2C receptor agonist compounds, the and commercial strategy, have been integrated into this single most advanced of which is in Phase II for obesity, in-licensed management organisation, New Product Development NPD.
Biovitrum retains exclusive There are six cross-functional Therapeutic Area Strategy Teams, commercialisation rights for five Nordic countries, while each covering one of the following groups of diseases: GlaxoSmithKline has exclusive rights elsewhere 842470 AWD 12-281 and backup compounds, the most Cardiovascular, Urogenital and Metabolic Diseases advanced of which is in Phase II intra-nasal delivery for Infectious Diseases including DDW allergic rhinitis and Phase I inhaled for asthma and COPD, Neurology & Gastro-intestinal Diseases in-licensed from elbion AG Oncology, Musculoskeletal Diseases and Inammation a preclinical development programme of PPAR-gamma Psychiatry modulators, the most advanced of which, BAY 54-9801 is in Respiratory.
development for osteoporosis, in-licensed from Bayer AG.
Bayer retains the right to claim certain compounds for its own use in the elds of cardiovascular disease and oncology 22 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business novel selective inhibitors of the sodium-dependent renal Other late-stage projects terminated during 2002 were the glucose transporter type 2 SGLT2 compounds, in preclinical development of 237376 for cardiac arrhythmia, 660511 for development as oral anti-diabetic agents, in-licensed hypertension in Phase II and a once-daily formulation of excluding Japan, China, Korea and Taiwan, from Kissei Augmentin.
an oral formulation of an analogue of parathyroid hormone, in preclinical development for the treatment of osteoporosis, Vaccines R&D in-licensed from Unigene Laboratories, Inc As part of the Pharmaceuticals sector worldwide, vaccines R&D is novel medicines containing long-acting Beta2 agonists conducted in GlaxoSmithKlines centre in Rixensart, Belgium, LABA for the treatment of respiratory diseases licenced together with other activities related to vaccines including clinical from Theravance, Inc.
Phase I clinical studies have already development, regulatory, scaling up, production, packaging and all started support functions.
Over 1,000 research scientists are employed a cellular chemokine receptor CCR5 antagonist currently who are devoted to discovering new vaccines and developing more in development for treatment of HIV infection, as well as cost-effective and convenient combination products to prevent back-up and follow-up compounds licenced from Ono.
infections which cause serious medical problems worldwide.
GlaxoSmithKline plans to initiate Phase I clinical studies in Discovery work for new vaccines is performed, then potential the USA in the first half of 2003. candidate vaccines are expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and puried to a very high level.
This is followed by A strategic alliance was formed with Nobex Corporation for the formulation of the vaccine which involves mixing antigens with development and commercialisation of orally administered insulin selected adjuvants to stimulate a good immune response in products.
The first product to be developed collaboratively is humans.
The next step is to evaluate safety and efcacy of the 843362 NIN-058, a novel modied oral insulin, in Phase I for candidate vaccine in in-vivo models.
Once preclinical proof of type 2 diabetes.
concept has been established, the next stage is to test the An alliance was also formed with Exelixis, Inc for the development candidate vaccine in clinical trials in healthy individuals, to evaluate by Exelixis of small molecule compounds.
Using its gene-to-drugsafety and how effective the vaccine is in inducing an immune discovery technology platform these will be delivered in Phase II response to protect the body from disease encountered later in a for full development and exclusive global commercialisation and natural setting.
Large-scale eld trials in healthy individuals follow manufacturing rights.
Exelixis retains co-promotion rights in North to establish safety and efcacy in a cross section of the population.
The results obtained during clinical trials and the development of a quality production process and facilities are then combined into a The existing collaborative agreement with Tanabe Seiyaku Co Ltd regulatory le which is submitted to the authorities in the various was extended to facilitate the acceleration to candidate selection countries where the Group intends to launch the vaccine.
by Tanabe of GlaxoSmithKline hits from screening.
In addition, GlaxoSmithKline has already entered into a number of Animals and research agreements with third parties to co-develop and then co-market For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals certain compounds.
These arrangements range from milestone remains a vital part of the research and development of new payments to third parties to acquire rights to their intellectual medicines and vaccines.
Animals are only used where no property, to joint ventures to develop and commercialise specified alternative is available and GlaxoSmithKline constantly aims to compounds.
Under many of these agreements the Group has reduce the numbers used.
The Group strives to exceed industry obligations to make payments in the future if specified milestones standards in the care and welfare of the animals it uses: laboratory are achieved.
These financial commitments are summarised in animals are usually bred specifically for research and are well cared Note 26 to the Financial statements, Commitments.
for throughout their lives by qualied, trained staff.
When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or suffering Discontinuations is scrupulously avoided.
GlaxoSmithKline is actively engaged in All research and development carries a risk of failure research to develop and validate experimental methods that can commensurate with the extension of scientific knowledge of a provide more and better alternatives to the use of animals in compound and its effects.
Not all lead compounds that are research.
identied to possess positive activity against a validated target will prove to be safe enough to introduce to humans or feasible GlaxoSmithKline acknowledges that use of animals for research to manufacture on a commercial scale.
GlaxoSmithKline R&D purposes is a subject that rightly commands a high level of public endeavours to ensure that as far as possible these risks are interest.
The full GlaxoSmithKline Public Policy Position 'The care ameliorated by extensive predictive testing as early as possible in and ethical use of animals in research' is available on the website, the development process.
Despite these efforts, the ultimate test www.
com, or from the Secretariat.
for a product remains the point at which it is administered to large numbers of patients with the disease.
Research and development Consumer Healthcare In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline and Korean company LG Chem The principal centres for Consumer Healthcare R&D are in the UK Investments LGCI reviewed the status of the joint development and in the USA.
The focus of R&D is on the identication and programme for the quinolone antibiotic Factive gemioxacin.
rapid development of novel products that bring benets to As a result, the companies agreed that Factives value could be consumers in the OTC, Oral care and Nutritional healthcare better realised within LGCIs portfolio.
LGCI has taken full markets.
Consumer Healthcare liaises closely with Pharmaceuticals worldwide responsibility for the future commercialisation of the to maximise the Groups assets, where prescription products can product, including regulatory activities following a transition also nd application in the OTC marketplace.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 23 Operating resources Intellectual property Paxil Seroxat.
The patent protecting the commercial form of Paxil Seroxat is not due to expire, in most major markets, until GlaxoSmithKline regards its intellectual property as a key business 2006.
GlaxoSmithKline has initiated patent infringement litigation asset.
The effective legal protection of intellectual property is in the USA, Europe and several other markets against a number of critical in ensuring an effective return on investment in R&D.
generic manufacturers who are attempting to launch their own Intellectual property can be protected by patents, trade marks, versions of the product prior to this patent expiry.
registered designs, copyrights and domain name registrations.
Patent and trade mark rights are regarded as particularly valuable.
There are no patents on the active ingredient zidovudine.
Patents covering pharmaceutical formulations containing Patents zidovudine and their medical use are not due to expire until 2005 GlaxoSmithKlines policy is to obtain patent protection on all in the USA and 2006 in Europe.
significant products discovered or developed through its R&D Seretide Advair.
The patents on the specic combination of active activities.
Patent protection for new active ingredients is available in ingredients salmeterol and uticasone propionate are not due to all significant markets.
Protection can also be obtained for new b expire until 2010 in the USA and 2013 in Europe.
A patent pharmaceutical formulations and manufacturing processes and for challenge has been made to the combination patent in the UK.
new medical uses and special devices for administering products.
Patents on the active ingredient salmeterol xinafoate are The patent position with respect to significant products is as b b not due to expire until 2005 in most of Europe 2008 in France follows: c and 2009 in Italy and until 2008 in the USA.
In the USA patents on the key active ingredient, Valtrex.
The patents on the active ingredient valaciclovir are not potassium clavulanate, extending to 2018, were held invalid by a b due to expire until 2009 in the USA and 2009 in Europe.
decisions of a federal court in 2001 and 2002.
These decisions are under appeal.
In other markets, the patents on potassium Wellbutrin SR and Zyban.
Patents on the basic active ingredient c clavulanate have expired, except in Italy 2006. have expired.
Various formulation patents protect the currently marketed SR sustained release formulations, the latest of which Avandia and Avandamet.
The basic patent on the active ingredient is not due to expire in the USA until 2013.
These patents are under a rosiglitazone in these products is not due to expire until 2011 in legal challenge in the US courts.
In Europe, regulatory data the USA and 2013 in Europe.
Patents on the commercial form of exclusivity provides protection until at least 2005, and until 2009 the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate are not due to expire in some countries.
b until 2015 in the USA and 2014 in Europe.
The patents on the active ingredient abacavir are not due Avodart.
Patents on the active ingredient dutasteride have a a b to expire until 2011 in the USA and 2014 in Europe.
normal expiry of 2013 USA and 2014 Europe.
Requests for extension of term of these patents are pending and are expected Zofran.
The patents on the active ingredient ondansetron are a b to extend the terms of these patents to 2015 in the USA and not due to expire until 2005 in the USA and 2005 in Europe, b c 2017 in Europe.
Patents on use in treating emesis expire in 2006.
GlaxoSmithKline has initiated legal action under these patents Combivir.
The patents on the specic combination of lamivudine against generic manufacturers in the USA.
and zidovudine are not due to expire until 2012 in the USA and b 2013 in Europe.
GlaxoSmithKline is exclusive licensee under the US patent All of GlaxoSmithKlines pharmaceutical products are protected by on the active ingredient carvedilol, which is not due to expire until registered trade marks in major markets.
In general, the same mark a 2007. is used for a product in each market around the world, but there Epivir.
The patents on the active ingredient lamivudine are not due may be local variations.
For example in the USA the trade mark a b to expire until 2009 in the USA and 2011 in Europe.
Paxil is used instead of Seroxat and Advair is used instead of Seretide.
Flixotide Flovent and Flixonase Flonase.
In the USA, the patent on the active ingredient uticasone propionate expires in 2003, but Trade mark protection may generally be extended for as a long as protection is expected to be extended by virtue of paediatric the trade mark is used by renewing it when necessary.
In most European countries protection GlaxoSmithKlines trade marks on pharmaceutical products is not due to expire until 2005. generally assume an increasing importance when the patent for that product has expired in a particular country and generic Imigran Imitrex.
The patents on the active ingredient sumatriptan versions of the product become available.
b are not due to expire until 2008 in the USA and 2006 in Europe, c 2010 Italy.
In the Consumer Healthcare business trade marks are particularly important, as the business is very brand orientated and many Lamictal.
The patents on the active ingredient lamotrigine are not products do not have patent protection.
a due to expire until 2008 in the USA 2009 by virtue of paediatric b exclusivity and 2005 in Europe.
GlaxoSmithKline has initiated GlaxoSmithKline is routinely engaged in legal disputes in defence legal action in the USA against a generic manufacturer that is of intellectual property rights on many of its products see Note 30 attempting to launch its own version of the product prior to this to the Financial statements, Legal Proceedings.
GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights under the US a Including extension of term b Including extension of term by supplementary protection certicates patent on the active ingredient vardenal which is not due to c Including extension of term by national supplementary protection certicate, as expire until 2018 in the USA.
notied following a recent change in Italian law but subject to legal challenges d a Registered Trademark of Bayer AG.
24 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Information technology Access to information for regulatory agencies, clinical opinion leaders, healthcare professionals, patients and the public has been Information technology IT plays three strategic roles in enhanced in a number of markets.
Steps have been taken to GlaxoSmithKline: reduce reliance on paper based processes for clinical trials and supporting key business processes at the local, regional, registration of new medicines through use of wireless, handheld functional and global levels technologies as well as the internet.
enabling the transformation and extension of key business activities Collaborating and assessing information facilitating collaboration and access to information on a The importance to GlaxoSmithKline of the internet and the internal global basis.
Internal websites allow information to be shared across the Group on a global basis and are supported by In addition to computer infrastructure, hardware and software, the search engines analogous to those used externally on the internet.
IT organisation is responsible for voice and video technologies, The ability to provide shared access to information has enabled the monitoring business and technology trends that could have an IT growing use of virtual teams, which work collaboratively, spanning impact on GlaxoSmithKline and preparing the Group for the risks multiple geographies and time zones.
GlaxoSmithKline has associated with modern information technology.
adopted a strategy, which enables employees to choose and Integrating business systems from the two legacy companies has receive the information they most need.
remained a top priority for IT.
This has been achieved while GlaxoSmithKline project teams and departments are using their avoiding any significant disruption to critical business systems.
A standard collaboration The Groups IT function has a strong focus on improving business product suite is being deployed across the Group: included in this processes and has adopted new, rapid and cost effective methods is a new specialist tool that permits information to be shared with to do this.
external colleagues, securely and quickly.
Enhancing business performance As part of an overall internet technologies initiative, significant Virtually all GlaxoSmithKlines major business processes rely heavily savings have been achieved, for example via global learning on the use of information technology.
There are major programmes management.
Information is exchanged electronically with a broad to capture at source key information in electronic form and make it array of suppliers, customers and partners.
Protection against available wherever required.
unauthorised access to information assets and the growing risks Improving the quality and potential value of the molecules that posed by computer viruses is a major issue.
This is being addressed move from discovery to development is a key aim of R&D.
IT has through rigorous security management processes.
developed web based tools that provide scientists with the The telephone and video conferences that are a familiar aspect of information they need on candidate medicines.
In this way, early business life are being complemented by computer-based phase R&D teams can draw up shortlists of molecules for collaborative working and screen-sharing tools that help teams consideration as possible treatments for specic diseases faster respond to the practical challenges posed by operating in a global than before and with more confidence in the qualities of the organisation.
Enabling GlaxoSmithKlines knowledge workers to be shortlist.
Other areas in R&D where IT is playing an important role more productive is a key goal for IT.
A standard desktop has been are high-throughput biology, laboratory automation, imaging, adopted globally, which will assist IT in supporting employees use electronic data capture, document knowledge and clinical data of software more efficiently.
Work has continued to extend the Manufacturing Enterprise GlaxoSmithKline people Resources Planning Solution to ensure that there are compliant GlaxoSmithKline people are fundamental to the success of the systems with common processes in place.
Their skills and intellect are key components in the and middleware are being used to enable efficient movement successful implementation of sound business strategy.
This is the across the supply chain whilst at the same time allowing for human capital that maximises the potential of the Groups independent optimisation of commercial units at a regional or scientific, commercial and financial assets.
The outcome of effective functional level as well as manufacturing.
human resources policy is GlaxoSmithKlines solid reputation as an The ability to consolidate critical operations reects the growing international employer of choice.
availability and reliability of global data networks.
Employees, such To achieve this, the Group initiated Candidate Care the as US sales representatives, are benefiting from the ability to commitment to seeking and acquiring the best employment connect to systems via a virtual private network when away from candidates who reect a diversity of background, experience the ofce.
and perspective and who can contribute most to the success of GlaxoSmithKline.
Transforming and extending business activities Insights gained from genomics and proteomics are transforming Performance and reward the way that disease targets are identied and validated.
The importance of people must translate into employment Information obtained from a variety of external sources needs to practices that demonstrate the value of each individual.
be integrated with internally generated information in a rapid and Compensation and benefit packages GlaxoSmithKlines Total exible manner that relies heavily on information technology Reward aim to be competitive and innovative and are either global support.
The analysis of these databases also requires significant or local in orientation, depending on what best drives business amounts of processing power, taking full advantage of advances in performance and rewards individual contribution.
New technological approaches, such as grid computing, whereby computers are linked to use their processing power more fully, are being investigated.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 25 Compensation philosophy and programme development Comprehensive leadership development opportunities are available underscore GlaxoSmithKlines commitment to a performance to managers at all levels.
These opportunities are targeted to help culture.
Performance based pay, both base and variable, share leaders to meet the challenges they face in a global organisation.
awards, share options, performance and development planning They ensure leadership motivates and enables teams and and evaluation contribute to retention of key talent, superior individuals to do their best work.
Development opportunities are performance and accomplishment of business targets.
innovative, based on peer interaction and idea exchange, and contribute to strategy deployment.
A commitment to exible working through exi-time, teleconferencing, remote working and exible work schedules, Human Resources services and information systems recognises that employees work best in an environment that helps GlaxoSmithKlines human resource delivery strategy is designed to them integrate their work and personal lives.
make the most of technology.
Human Resources services and information are delivered through low cost, highly effective Communication and involvement channels that make it easy for job candidates, employees, and An extensive programme of open, two-way communications retirees to access information about employment, compensation stimulates employee engagement in GlaxoSmithKlines strategy and and benets, policies and programmes.
These include intuitive day-to-day operations.
This includes the publication of regular personalised web-based tools, available to employees in many summary reports from Corporate Executive Team meetings, a locations.
Chief Executive Ofcers home page featuring presentations and a Q&A area, a Group-wide magazine, town hall meetings and video Property, plant and equipment conferences.
In 2002, there was a satellite broadcast involving 60 sites in 31 countries, and watched by an employee audience of GlaxoSmithKline has operating establishments in some 102 around 30,000.
Live video streaming and video on demand options countries.
The geographical spread of the Groups activities is are being developed as additional means of ensuring employees indicated in Note 38 to the Financial statements, Principal Group have access to the most senior levels of management, and as companies.
GlaxoSmithKline conducts research and development powerful tools for building culture and driving alignment across at more than 20 sites and manufactures product at more than common goals.
Refer to Research and development Pharmaceuticals page 14 and Manufacture and supply Share ownership schemes encourage participation as owners of the page 13. business, increasing awareness of short and long term business objectives.
Global and local employee opinion surveys allow GlaxoSmithKline has invested over 4 billion in its property, with employees the opportunity to express their views and perspectives a carrying value in the Financial statements of almost 3 billion, on important Group issues.
with a further 3.6 billion, at carrying value, invested in plant and equipment and assets in construction.
In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline Diversity invested 1 billion in new and renewal property, plant and The GlaxoSmithKline Diversity Strategy focuses on creating an equipment.
This is mainly related to a large number of projects for inclusive work environment.
The approach aims to enhance the improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide employee innovation and productivity by valuing and drawing on sites.
Property is mainly held freehold.
New investment is nanced the differing knowledge, perspectives, experiences and styles from Group liquid resources.
At 31st December 2002, the Group resident in the global community.
The Corporate Executive Team had capital contractual commitments for future expenditure of leads the Diversity Initiative with its key objective: to create and some 382 million and in 2003 operating lease commitments of implement diversity strategies that measurably improve employee 168 million.
Tailored initiatives are in GlaxoSmithKlines business is science-based, technology-intensive progress to embed inclusive behaviours into GlaxoSmithKlines and highly regulated by governmental authorities.
It allocates culture and practices.
significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of GlaxoSmithKline is committed to employment policies free from its property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption discrimination against potential or existing staff on the grounds of of production and to achieve compliance with regulatory age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, standards.
The research and development and manufacture of faith or disability.
active pharmaceutical ingredients require the use of chemicals and hazardous materials.
GlaxoSmithKline observes stringent In particular GlaxoSmithKline is committed to offering people with procedures and uses specialist skills to manage environmental risks disabilities access to the full range of recruitment and career from these activities.
Environmental issues, sometimes dating from opportunities.
Every effort is made to retain and support staff who operations now modied or discontinued, are referenced under become disabled while working for the Group.
Responsibility for Environment, Health and Safety page 26 and in Note 30 to the Financial statements, Legal proceedings.
Talent management and leadership development GlaxoSmithKline believes that its facilities are adequate for its Development planning is a key element in performance planning current needs.
The integration of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline for all employees each year.
Reviews are conducted in each Beecham operations has involved a series of announcements of business and function to ensure that a diverse talent pool is fully rationalisation and potential disposal of a number of sites and developed to meet future business needs, and that successors are properties.
It is considered that there will be further changes.
26 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business The business and the community Corporate and social responsibility Objectives and targets Objectives for 2002 focused on progressing toward full This year GlaxoSmithKline has again produced a separate report on implementation of EHS management systems.
These systems are social and environmental issues.
This covers the issues that are of meant to ensure on-going compliance with legislation and primary concern to stakeholders.
These include medicines for the regulations as well as internal standards.
Sites analysed how well developing world, community investment, R&D, the environment their programmes met the requirements of the EHS Standards and and health and safety.
While metrics for environmental then developed plans to achieve any requirements that are not performance have been reported for many years, during 2002 the currently met in full.
Assistance from the corporate EHS group is Group developed indicators for other issues that will enable it to provided in the form of information materials, an intranet system show progress in addressing these.
The report is available from the to support EHS programmes and an awards programme to Secretariat and on the website at www.
Responsibility for Environment, Health and Safety Targets for EHS improvements were set in 2001 that are to be accomplished over five years.
The health and safety target is a Environment Health and Safety EHS is a key issue for the Group reduction in lost time injury and illness rate by 15 per cent per year.
Responsibility for EHS is at the highest Environmental targets include reductions in energy usage and level.
There is a corporate group reporting to the General Counsel associated greenhouse gas emissions, reductions in waste and that has overall responsibility for providing governance and services wastewater disposed and increase in waste recycled.
Within the operations, line managers are responsible for EHS and are supported by EHS and medical Performance improvement measures professionals.
GlaxoSmithKline measures its impact on the health and safety of people who work at our sites and its impact on the environment.
Environment, Health and Safety management The measure of impact on people is the lost time injury and illness GlaxoSmithKline takes a systematic approach to managing EHS rate.
This is the number of injuries and illnesses serious enough to risks and impacts.
A framework of information and programmes result in lost time per 100,000 hours worked.
The impacts on air, based on a set of universal EHS Standards guides management of water and land are measured as metric tonnes of material emitted, these issues throughout the organisation.
waste disposed and the impact on natural resources is measured as cubic metres of water used and gigajoules of energy consumed.
Environment, Health and Safety audits As part of its governance responsibility, GlaxoSmithKline conducts GlaxoSmithKline selects its measures of performance improvement EHS audits of its sites, contract manufacturers and key suppliers.
Risks are determined, in part, through evaluation The audit protocols developed and introduced during 2002 were of impacts.
The impacts considered were those with the potential derived from the EHS Standards.
A new scoring system was tested for adverse impact on people or the environment, business during the year and will be fully implemented in 2003. continuity or business reputation.
Most of the measures selected are similar to those reported by other companies and are A pilot process has begun, with Global Manufacturing and Supply, recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term, to investigate obtaining Group wide certication to the multi-stakeholder, international undertaking to develop and international standards on EHS.
This involves review by a third disseminate globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
party registrar of GlaxoSmithKlines EHS Standards and auditing procedures and completion of a number of certication audits of Product stewardship Group sites.
The aim is for the registrar to gain confidence in the GlaxoSmithKline has a global standard for product stewardship corporate auditing process as well as in the performance of that establishes requirements for responsible and ethical representative sites against the international standards to proceed management of EHS aspects of products throughout their with a full certication based on a sample of sites.
Product stewardship provides a systematic way to sites will be subject to audits by the third party registrar as part of identify product or process risks early, so that they may be obtaining certication.
Integrating product stewardship into In 2002, 21 sites were audited and seven follow-up reviews were business activities protects people and the environment, enhances performed.
As part of the continuous improvement process, compliance with local regulatory requirements and avoids progress was monitored on actions arising from issues raised on interruption of product supply.
A web based tool to assist this process was developed and will be launched in 2003.
Environmental sustainability The concept of sustainable development is central to the Groups As part of the commitment to corporate social responsibility and environmental programmes.
Work has started towards eventual the pro-active management of the GlaxoSmithKline manufacturing environmental sustainability by mitigating environmental impacts and supply base, 16 of the key contract manufacturers and and looking at ways to improve production efficiency.
The use of suppliers were also assessed.
This process evaluated the renewable raw materials and the overall balance of the management of EHS risks and impacts based on the Groups EHS consumption of resources with the generation of waste will be requirements for contract manufacturers.
Good performance was investigated in the future.
The Group has a standard on sustainable identied and recommendations were made where improvements development that defines the approach from discovery through were needed.
As part of the support for R&D, a toolkit has been developed to assist in the selection of green chemistries and processes.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 27 Access to healthcare in the developing world In 2002, evidence was uncovered that some of the companys ARVs that had been sold to Africa at not-for-profit prices were Access to healthcare in developing countries presents a unique being illegally re-imported into the European Union for sale at a challenge to the global community.
The problem, which is rooted higher price.
The victims of this trade are HIV AIDS patients in in poverty, demands a significant mobilisation of resources, an Africa and the only beneciaries are the illegal importers.
This unprecedented sense of urgency and a new spirit of partnership.
diversion threatens GlaxoSmithKlines ability to provide preferential It must be tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global prices to the developing world.
The offer of not-for-profit prices society.
The Group does not have the mandate, expertise or requires a sustainable framework, combining the Groups resources to address the underlying problems that exist.
However, commitment to preferential pricing with commitments from others GlaxoSmithKline is playing a vital role.
There are three key areas in to put in place ways to prevent product diversion and to avoid which it makes innovative, responsible and, above all, sustainable price referencing against preferentially priced medicines.
contributions to improving healthcare in the developing world: GlaxoSmithKline has taken steps to address the problem and from a regulatory perspective, it is now able to supply 31 countries with investing in R&D that targets diseases which particularly affect Combivir in a special, tri-lingual access pack to provide a barrier to the developing world diversion.
However, this alone will not fully deter illegal traders preferential pricing of its antiretrovirals ARVs, anti-malarials who are experts in the repackaging of medicines.
Stricter and vaccines regulations and enforcement to counter this illegal trade will be and community investment activities and partnerships that required.
Success through partnership R&D for diseases of the developing world During 2002, GlaxoSmithKline continued to engage with Continued investment in R&D into new drugs and vaccines for stakeholders working on improving access to healthcare in the diseases that affect the developing world is essential to long-term developing world.
The Group has a long history of supporting improvement in the health of people in these regions, not least community investment programmes and has a wide range of because of challenges such as the development of resistance to partnerships to support delivery of better health and education to current treatments and poor patient adherence to complex under-served communities around the world.
The Group also treatment regimens.
consulted and worked with governments of both the developed The Group believes GlaxoSmithKline has the industrys most and developing world, the United Nations, the WHO, NGOs and extensive portfolio of products and R&D projects for diseases of the with the investment community and will continue constructive developing world, and that it is the only Group undertaking R&D dialogue with organisations that share its aim of trying to improve into the prevention and treatment of all three of the World Health access to healthcare in the developing world.
Organisations WHO priority diseases in the developing world - GlaxoSmithKline is making a vital contribution to improving HIV AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
The Group currently has over healthcare in the developing world.
The Group will continue with 20 R&D projects and programmes of relevance to the developing its efforts, improving its initiatives by applying lessons learned and world, ten of which are aimed at producing vaccines and looking for opportunities to do more.
For example, in September medicines for diseases that disproportionally affect developing 2002 the Group further reduced its preferential prices for ARVs countries.
GlaxoSmithKline is increasingly involved in public-private by up to 33 per cent.
It looks to other stakeholders also to go partnerships to enable a wider range of projects to be undertaken.
further and play their part through embracing partnership, In addition to the R&D on HIV AIDS, an R&D group dedicated to showing political will and, above all, committing significant new Diseases of the Developing World has been created to ensure a funding.
This is critical if an improvement in healthcare and quality focus on these diseases.
Projects are prioritised primarily on their of life across the developing world is to be achieved.
socio-economic and public health benets rather than on their commercial returns.
Global community partnerships Preferential pricing arrangements GlaxoSmithKlines community investment in 2002 totalled GlaxoSmithKline has offered its vaccines to public health 239 million of which 112 million was related to the Groups programmes at significant discounts for over 20 years.
The Group patient assistance programmes in the USA.
This was equivalent to sets a single, sustainable, preferential price for each of its ARVs 4.3 per cent of Group profit before tax.
Many of the programmes and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the Least are long-term commitments that help bring about sustainable Developed Countries and sub-Saharan Africa - a total of 63 change.
The Groups community investment activities are focused countries.
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to contributing to health on health and education and include: improvements in a sustainable manner.
Preferential prices for its ARVs and anti-malarials are therefore set at levels on which no Patient assistance programmes profit is made, but that cover direct costs, so that supply can be The patient assistance programmes provide access to sustained for as long as required.
There has been notable progress GlaxoSmithKlines medicines for the most needy US patients who in expanding access through preferential pricing.
The Group has do not have prescription drug insurance.
In 2002, over 410,000 some 120 arrangements, covering 50 of the worlds poorest patients received medicines through the Groups patient assistance countries, to supply ARVs at preferential prices.
Customers include programmes, at a value of $168 million.
governments, non-governmental organisations NGOs, hospitals, academic institutions and private employers.
28 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business Public health programmes GlaxoSmithKline gave an unrestricted gift of 5 million to Imperial College London.
The gift will be used to support biomedical The Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis research in an effort to identify and develop new treatments for GlaxoSmithKline is an active and involved member of the Global disease.
Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis LF : a unique partnership The Group announced renewed support for science education by which includes the WHO, the ministries of health in endemic investing 1 million over four years in INSPIRE INnovative Scheme countries, non-governmental organisations, community based for Post-docs in Research and Education, in partnership with the organisations, academic institutions, international organisations Department for Education and Skills, Imperial College London, and and the private sector - all committed to eliminating one of the the Specialist Schools Trust.
Other 2002 education programmes included 100,000 for Science GlaxoSmithKline has committed as much of its anti-parasitic drug Across The World, an international educational programme albendazole as is required to eliminate LF over the anticipated encouraging communication and shared learning across different 20 year life of the programme.
In 2002, the fourth year of the cultures, and sponsorship of The Royal Institution Christmas programme, 66 million tablets, worth 8.7 million at wholesale Lectures, which provide an opportunity for young people to learn acquisition cost were donated to 31 countries.
These numbers will from eminent scientists.
expand as the programme extends to the one billion people at risk in 80 countries.
In addition the Group gave grants to support the The International Impact Awards UK recognise excellence in the Global Alliance to Eliminate LF totalling 750,000. work of voluntary community healthcare organisations across the UK.
This years ten winners each received an unrestricted award of Positive Action on HIV AIDS 25,000.
100,000 was donated to the Royal National Institute for In 2002 Positive Action - the Groups international programme of the Blind, in support of their new Low Vision Unit in London.
The HIV education, care and community support marked its tenth Group is also supporting the Shaw Trusts Pain Management anniversary.
Through the programme GlaxoSmithKline works in project in Wales with a donation of over 36,000. partnership with networks of people living with HIV AIDS, The Group sponsored the exhibition Art in the Making - community groups, international agencies, NGOs and governments Underdrawings in Renaissance Paintings at the National Gallery, to intensify community responses to HIV AIDS.
It is supporting Earthwatch Institutes environmental During 2002 Positive Action supported 25 international awards for primary school teachers for three years with a donation programmes in 32 countries.
Programmes included a grant of of 150,000.
$250,000 over three years to the International Center for Research on Women, to investigate the underlying factors that cause Europe HIV AIDS-related stigma and discrimination and to develop Programmes in Europe in 2002 focused on childrens health with interventions to minimise the barriers limiting access to healthcare.
total funding of 1.1 million supporting a range of long-term The project is being conducted in Ethiopia, Tanzania and Zambia.
programmes, including 335,000 for Zippys Friends: a programme run by Partnership for Children to teach coping skills to children in Following consultation with the conference community committee, Denmark and Lithuania.
Positive Action contributed over 90,000 to support attendance and participation of community representatives from underBarretstown Gang in Ireland and LEnvol in France, both of which resourced regions at the 14th International AIDS Conference, held provide therapeutic recreation for seriously ill children from across in Barcelona in July 2002.
Working with the charity HealthProm and the Azerbaijan Health African Malaria Partnership Ministry, GlaxoSmithKline invested 92,000 in 2002 as part of a In April 2002 GlaxoSmithKline launched the African Malaria four year programme to benefit nearly 250,000 refugees in Partnership to fund three behavioural development programmes Azerbaijan with a new safe childbirth initiative.
in Africa to help combat a disease that kills more than a million people every year.
North America In November 2002, it was announced that three programmes had Programmes in North America focused on improving access to been selected to share grants totalling 1 million over three years.
Funding of $13.1 million was allocated through The programmes will benefit nearly two million people in seven the North America Community Partnerships team.
$93.7 million was donated to regional community activities.
The SHARE Awards foster healthy ageing across cultures by Regional community initiatives recognising community-based programmes that meet the needs of United Kingdom older people from racially, ethnically and culturally diverse GlaxoSmithKline made corporate contributions of 4.1 million to backgrounds.
Over the past four years, GlaxoSmithKlines grants of UK charities.
More than 350 projects in science education and $6.5 million have supported SHARE awards for 51 organisations, medical research, healthcare, the arts and the environment were enabling them to improve healthcare access and delivery.
In addition GlaxoSmithKline companies in the UK provided The International Impact Awards USA acknowledge and reward a further 8.5 million for community investment purposes, giving a excellence in the non-profit healthcare community, in the Greater combined total of 12.6 million in support of projects in the UK.
Ten winners each received $40,000 as an Almost 500,000 in total was provided for medical research to The unrestricted award.
Foundation for the Study of Infant Deaths, Multiple Sclerosis Society, Action Research, Primary Immunodeciency Association and The Stroke Association.
Description of business GlaxoSmithKline 29 GlaxoSmithKline gave unrestricted gifts of $10 million to the Product donations University of Pennsylvania and $5 million to Duke University.
The GlaxoSmithKline donates essential products for humanitarian relief gifts will be used to support their discovery research efforts to efforts.
Donations are made at the request of governments and identify and develop new treatments for disease.
major charitable organisations and are generally manufactured specifically to meet these requests.
NGOs complete a needs Science in the Summer is a library-based science education assessment and then order the product needed in their programme in the Philadelphia area offering hands-on courses international communities.
This ensures that the right product taught by certied teachers.
A GlaxoSmithKline grant of $400,000 reaches the right person at the right time.
to the American Association for the Advancement of Science supports this programme.
In 2002, the total value of the Groups international product donations, excluding the lymphatic lariasis programme, was In North Carolina, Duke University Medical Center received a $23.4 million, at wholesale acquisition cost.
This is $250,000 grant over two years to expand their adult diabetes GlaxoSmithKlines wholesale list price, not including discounts and education programmes outreach to minority and underserved is a standard industry method of valuing product donations.
With a $250,000 contribution over five years, the Rescue Missions Employee involvement Ministry will set up a GlaxoSmithKline educational scholarship GlaxoSmithKline employees are encouraged to contribute to their endowment for formerly homeless people.
local communities through employee volunteering schemes.
Support for this varies around the world but includes employee The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill received $250,000 time, donations to charities where employees have completed as part of an overall $1.25 million grant for a travelling science and voluntary work and a matching gifts programme.
In 2002, in the technology bus to help improve science teaching and to encourage USA, the Group matched more than 9,000 employee gifts, at a and advance the science careers of underserved and ethnic value of $3.1 million.
GlaxoSmithKline also matched contributions by employees to the International United Way campaigns at a value of $1.6 million.
This was further GlaxoSmithKlines International Community Partnerships supplemented by GlaxoSmithKlines three year grant of $555,000 programmes addressed health education and mobilisation, to the United Way of Southeastern Pennsylvania which provides providing partnership funding of 1.1 million in 2002.
Programmes specic capacity building grants and creates more effective included: healthcare delivery at the United Ways 91 member agencies.
320,000 to support its PHASE initiative Personal Hygiene GlaxoSmithKlines Investment in Volunteer Excellence GIVE And Sanitation Education in Kenya, Uganda, Nicaragua and provided $500 grants to qualifying US non-profit organisations Peru.
PHASE targets school children and aims to reduce based on employee or partner volunteer time.
The GIVE grants diarrhoea-related disease and death.
totalled $145,000 and reect over 34,000 employee volunteer hours.
100,000 as part of a three-year commitment to fund an HIV AIDS clinic in the Masoyi tribal area of Mpumalanga, Foundations South Africa.
The Group does not operate a single charitable foundation for its The Group extended its Rural Nursing Excellence programme in corporate programmes but has a number of country-based Thailand, which sponsors female high school graduates from rural foundations including: areas to complete four-year nursing degrees.
GlaxoSmithKline has The GlaxoSmithKline France Foundation supports programmes to donated another 100,000 to train a further 50 nurses.
improve HIV AIDS prevention education, training and care, In Ethiopia GlaxoSmithKline provided 100,000 for the Integrated primarily in Africa.
As a result, over 200,000 people are expected Management of Childhood Illnesses IMCI in partnership with the to access care and support services by the end of 2005. WHO and UNICEF.
The goal is to contribute to the global reduction The North Carolina GlaxoSmithKline Foundation is an endowed, of mortality and morbidity in children under the age of five from self-funding organisation which operates as a separate entity.
The pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria, measles and malnutrition.
foundation publishes its own annual report, which is available on In China, 100,000 of GlaxoSmithKline funding is supporting the request, and uses its asset base to support math, science and development of a community-based HIV AIDS programme in health education in North Carolina.
In 2002, this foundation made collaboration with the Red Cross Movement in China, British Red donations totalling $2.2 million.
This gure is not included in the Cross and Australian Red Cross.
Groups total community investment gure.
