CORPORATE STRATEGY Spread Our objective is to create long-term shareholder value by building a business founded on a clear and sustainable The south of the country remains our principal focus due to strategic approach to our markets.
its excellent demographics and the potential for further longterm growth within it.
However, our Hungry Horse pubs and Market trends own beers already possess a growing national audience Our customers expectations continue to rise and, in because of their successful branding, and this offers us the response, we need to raise our game in order to appeal potential to profit from broadening their distribution.
successfully to their increasingly sophisticated and disparate Finance demands.
Only the best companies, combining the strongest operational standards with excellent people, outlets and Our business is highly cash generative and has great balance brands, will be able to achieve long-term success in this sheet resilience.
This enables us to improve shareholder environment.
returns by the prudent use of our funding capacity to invest in future profit growth.
Differentiation and sustainability Strategic development Differentiating our strategy and our businesses is our principal approach to securing sustainable success in a We aim to achieve continual organic growth from our changing environment.
This involves: existing assets, but will pursue those acquisition opportunities which fit our strategic profile and offer us the becoming an even stronger player in the traditional chance to generate additional long-term shareholder value.
drink and hospitality markets continually improving the quality of our people developing distinctive brands and formats with sustainable consumer appeal concentrating on those sectors of our markets Every day we sell over where economic returns are more reliable and 2,000 lbs of peas, competition is less intense.
8,000 iceberg lettuces Quality pubs and 1,700 lbs of mushrooms We believe that the traditional pub can generate superior long-term returns against its competitors for the leisure pound.
The pub can offer a uniquely flexible mix of tangible and intangible attractions which appeal to a more affluent population seeking higher levels of relaxation and enjoyment.
We achieve this by combining strong trading formats with high quality properties and excellent employees to run them.
Beer brands We aim to secure leadership in the market for traditional British beers in both cask and take-home formats.
The effective exit from this category by many of our larger competitors gives us an exceptional opportunity to achieve long-term growth by: investing sustainably in the marketing and selling of our brands offering high levels of customer service ensuring excellent product quality from the brewery to the point-of-sale.
GREYHOUND, BESSELSLEIGH, ABINGDON, OXFORDSHIRE Offering fresh, wholesome food in excellent pubs, Appletons distinction lies in its combination of a premium experience at every day prices.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT | 2001 2002 2 3 CORPORATE STRATEGY
