REMUNERATION REPORT A grant of options under the scheme was made on 4 January 2002 at an exercise price of 701p per share, these options being exercisable between 4 January 2005 and 3 January 2012, subject to the relevant performance conditions having been met.
The other executive share options outstanding were granted on 12 October 1994 at 489p per share, on 18 January 1996 at 576p per share in both cases as adjusted after the rights issue in July 1996, on 18 July 1996 at 586p per share, on 8 January 1997 at 649p per 1 1 share, on 1 July 1997 at 678p per share, on 3 December 1998 at 537 2p per share, on 23 December 1999 at 487 2p per share, on 21 1 July 2000 at 463 2p per share and on 22 December 2000 at 527p per share.
Full details of the individual option exercise periods and the prices payable on exercise by each director are set out in the register of directors interests, which is available for inspection at the registered office of the company at any time during normal working hours.
Sharesave scheme The Inland Revenue-approved sharesave scheme is open to all employees, including directors and part-time employees.
Under this scheme options are granted over the companys ordinary shares, at an option price which, at board discretion, can be at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the mid-market price at the time of granting.
The company has historically granted all such options at a 20 per cent discount and the company has taken advantage of the UITF 17 exemption for schemes of this type.
A grant of options was made under the sharesave scheme at an exercise price of 570p per share on 1 February 2001.
Options granted under this scheme can be exercised at any time during a six month period commencing on either 1 April 2005 or 1 April 2007, as selected by the participant at the commencement of the savings contract.
The directors interests in options granted under the sharesave scheme are: Granted Exercised Outstanding Option Outstanding at during during at 4 May price 28 April 2001 the period the period 2002 or later date of appointment Tim Bridge 1,666 3,470 1,666 570p 3,470 Rooney Anand - - - - - David Elliott - - 2,201 440p 2,201 Neil Gillis 1,666 - 1,666 570p - Michael Shallow - - 2,535 382p 2,535 Michael Shallows option can be exercised between 1 April and 30 September 2003.
David Elliotts option can be exercised between 1 April and 30 September 2004.
The remaining directors options can be exercised between 1 April and 30 September 2005.
Profit-sharing scheme Following the adoption of new scheme rules by shareholders at the 2001 annual general meeting, the Inland Revenue approved profit share scheme is open to all employees at the date of appropriation who have been employed throughout the whole of the previous financial year.
Shares are appropriated once annually according to a pre-set formula relating to the year-on-year increase in the companys profits.
The directors beneficial interests in Greene King shares resulting from participation in this scheme are reflected in their shareholding data given above, and the value of their entitlements for the latest period are included in the benefits-in-kind data in the remuneration table, as the shares have not yet been awarded.
Share price during the period The closing mid-market price of the companys shares on 3 May 2002 being the last business day before the financial period end was 835p 2001 - 553p.
The closing mid-market price of the companys shares during the period ranged between 555p and 835p.
49 REMUNERATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Overview Greene King is committed to high standards of corporate governance, for which the board is accountable to shareholders.
The company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period and to the date of this report.
Governance structure The board comprises a non-executive chairman and three other non-executive directors and, since 31 August 2001, five executive directors.
The division of the roles of chairman and chief executive and the balanced composition of the board are felt to create an effective forum that provides leadership and control.
The non-executive directors all exercise independent judgement and have a range of skills and experience.
The board regards Graham Greene as being the senior independent non-executive director.
He has diverse business interests which ensure his independence from management, in spite of his having been a non-executive director for many years.
The board meets regularly, has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and are provided with full and timely access to all relevant information, plus the opportunity to question management as required.
Board appointments are considered by the nomination committee under agreed terms of reference, with non-executive directors being appointed for terms of three years.
All directors are subject to re-election following their appointment and subsequently in every third year.
Where directors are appointed to the board and it is the first time they have held office in a quoted company, they are provided with access to appropriate external training, which continues to be made available during their tenure in office.
Communication Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority, with the annual report and interim statements being the principal media used.
In addition, the AGM, which is well attended, is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with shareholders, who have a full opportunity to ask questions.
The chairman of the board, as chairman of the remuneration and nomination committees, and the chairman of the audit committee are available to answer questions at the AGM.
All substantive items of business at shareholders meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman announces the results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The notice of meeting is issued in compliance with both the articles and the Combined Code.
Regular dialogue is maintained with key shareholders involving an exchange of views and information.
The company also maintains a web site to provide up-to-date, detailed information on the companys operations and brands, which includes a dedicated investor relations section.
All company announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for investment analysts briefings.
Financial reporting The annual report and interim statement are felt to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects and the board ensures that all other public, regulatory and statutory reports are similarly presented.
Internal control The company has assessed and recently re-appraised the key risks to which it is exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address these and other issues.
During the period and to the date of this report, the company had processes in place to implement in full the guidance on internal controls produced by the Turnbull Committee, and in particular to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced.
Such systems can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded, that the financial information used within the business and for external reporting is reliable, and against material misstatement or loss.
Similarly, the system can reduce, but not eliminate, the possibility of poor judgement in decision-making, human error, control processes being deliberately circumvented, management over-riding the controls and the occurrence of unforeseen circumstances.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board and the management board regularly review risk management and internal controls, including the provision of key performance indicator data on the significant risks faced.
A risk management group, comprising senior managers from all parts of the company, meets regularly to consider the effective management of risk throughout the business.
This group oversees the development of risk management strategies, monitors progress and reports to the audit committee, to whom it is accountable, on risk issues within the business.
The board acknowledges that it is ultimately responsible for the companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A formal assessment of the risk and control environment in place during the period and to the date of this report has been undertaken, based on a detailed report from, and subsequent discussions with, senior management.
No significant problems were disclosed in this report.
The control environment comprises the elements set out below: Control environment The board of directors and the management board routinely monitor all aspects of risk management and internal control, and regularly assess the data provided by the risk management group on the significant risks faced.
Any issues arising from this process are discussed with operational management as needed.
Risk management process Major risks are identified, the financial implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and effectiveness of the associated control environment analysed.
Appropriate steps are then taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks.
Data on the key exposures is prepared and reviewed regularly by the risk management group, who report their findings to the management board and the audit committee of the board.
Internal audit The controls over the groups managed houses are enhanced by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive information from the EPOS till system.
On behalf of the board, the audit committee regularly monitors the procedures and scope of internal audit within the group, including seeking the views of the external auditors.
Business plans and budgets Business plans and detailed annual budgets covering all financial aspects of the groups business are evaluated and approved by the board.
The actual results are compared against these plans and budgets on a four-weekly basis and variances analysed in order that any appropriate action can be taken.
Capital and project control There are clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project control.
These include escalating levels of authority, detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews of all major projects to compare the actual outcome with the original plan.
Certain clearly defined transactions are reserved for approval by the board.
Limits of delegated responsibility and areas of authority have been identified for employees.
Relationship with auditors The audit committee, which comprises solely independent non-executive directors, continuously monitors the relationship with the auditors and agrees the scope and reviews the results of the full year audit and interim review each year.
The committee assesses the costeffectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditors from time to time.
The company uses both the auditors and other accounting firms for non-audit work, and considers maintenance of objectivity, value for money and experience when making such decisions.
Audit independence The auditors report to the audit committee, on behalf of the board, on the actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements to ensure their independence from the company, including the periodic rotation of key team members.
The board is satisfied that the auditors are independent of the company and that best practice is being observed.
51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors statement of their responsibilities opposite, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are required by law to prepare accounts for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss for the period.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group maintains proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors consider that the accounts have been prepared using suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and confirm that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
