GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT This year we passed several important milestones, achieving turnover of over 400 million for the first time and opening our 1,200th shop.
We also undertook the preparatory work that permitted the opening of our first shop outside the UK early in 2003.
We further refined the strategic mission and vision through which we aim to achieve continued growth in the years ahead.
Ian Gregg stepped down as Chairman of the Group in August after a remarkable 38 years of service.
TRADING PERFORMANCE Greggs of Cumbria, created during the year through the rebranding of our 50 As the Chairman has noted, the Group made satisfactory progress during the year.
Birketts shops in the Lake District and adjoining counties, responded positively to the We had anticipated from the outset that like-for-like sales growth would slow as the adoption of the new fascia.
This was the final phase of our programme to create a year progressed, given the exceptionally strong performance achieved in the second single and cohesive Greggs brand nationwide.
We now have a strong platform for the half of 2001.
Our expectations were duly met, with like-for-like sales growth averaging more unified promotion of the Greggs proposition and brand across the UK, in which 6.4 per cent over the year as a whole, comprising increases of 7.6 per cent in the we will be assisted by the new advertising agency we appointed during the year.
first half 24 weeks and 5.4 per cent in the second half.
The weather was more favourable in the first half than the second, but we would consider it fairly average BAKERS OVEN BRAND for our business over the year as a whole.
Lower levels of consumer traffic on the Like-for-like sales in the four Bakers Oven divisions grew by 3.8 per cent in the first high street in the run-up to Christmas are also assumed to have contributed to half and 1.8 per cent in the second, making a 2.7 per cent increase over the year.
slower like-for-like sales progress in the final weeks of the year, when we achieved Core volume performance remained disappointing, declining by 0.4 per cent in the growth of just over 4 per cent.
first half and 1.3 per cent in the second, and so averaging 0.9 per cent for the year.
Core volumes grew by 4.5 per cent in the first half and 2.9 per cent in the second, There was a small reduction in Bakers Ovens contribution to Group operating profit.
making an increase of 3.6 per cent over the year as a whole.
Price increases Bakers Oven South continued to make satisfactory progress during the year, but averaging 2.8 per cent over the year were again driven primarily by product upgrades, the North and Scotland remained problematic.
We have made a number of though we also recovered cost increases in a number of areas including wages and appointments to strengthen the management in these regions, including the transfer insurance, where our premiums rose by some 1.7 million or 82.0 per cent.
of proven, senior people from the Greggs divisions.
Including the benefit of new shop openings in the current and prior year, total sales rose by 13.2 per cent in the first half and 11.0 per cent in the second, making an RETAIL PROFILE overall increase of 11.9 per cent for the year.
In the light of their relative performances, we have naturally concentrated our retail Operating profit grew by 11.8 per cent to 35.3 million, net interest receivable development programme on driving the successful Greggs brand, both by extending rose by 0.2 million to 1.3 million, and pre-tax profit increased by 12.0 per cent its geographic reach and by converting existing units to our new and more to 36.7 million.
In total we opened 82 new shops during the year and closed 24, giving us a net GREGGS BRAND increase of 58 to 1,202 outlets by 28 December 2002.
This was slightly ahead of The nine Greggs divisions remained the key drivers of Group sales and profits.
There were 973 Greggs and 229 Bakers Oven shops at the year end, Like-for-like sales grew by 8.8 per cent in the first half and 6.6 per cent in the second, compared with 905 and 239 respectively twelve months earlier.
We completed including core volume uplifts of 6.1 and 4.3 per cent respectively.
58 comprehensive shop refurbishments and 17 minor refits during the year.
This produced a like-for-like sales increase of 7.6 per cent for the year, including The combination of new openings and refurbishments gave us a total of 295 new core volume growth of 5.1 per cent.
format Greggs stores at the year end, comprising 30 per cent of the chain, compared The Enfield and Twickenham divisions, now combined as Greggs South East, again with 19 per cent in December 2001. made particularly pleasing progress, and Greggs of the Midlands also performed strongly.
Greggs of Scotland, already our most profitable division, achieved another record result.
6 Its our favourite fast food.
You cannot beat the chicken pasties.
Ant and Dec 7 The staff are great.
8 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 PRODUCT PROFILE launched successfully across the Group in 2002, included a ham and cheese bake The well-established trend to takeaway food categories continued to drive our sales and an egg and bacon breakfast savoury for Greggs, and a cheese and onion across the Group, led by savouries and sandwiches and supported by complementary crumble topped bake for Bakers Oven.
In addition, the centre houses one of the products such as drinks.
Cakes and confectionery products again remained fairly worlds most advanced laboratories for microbiological testing of products and stable as a proportion of our trade, while the traditional bakery staples such as ingredients, equipped to provide exceptionally rapid results that ensure our bread and rolls continued to decline.
attainment of the highest possible standards of food safety.
During the year this STRATEGIC PRINCIPLES laboratory became the first such facility in the UK to be audited to ensure compliance Greggs plc has been built on simple principles: motivating and empowering people with the International Standard ISO 17025. to deliver enjoyable, value-for-money products and provide great customer service.
As well as monitoring the sales performance of each and every product line, Our key strategic principles are outlined in our Mission Statement inside the front we also talk directly to our customers and listen to what they have to say.
cover of this report, and I am pleased to report that we made progress in each of Increasing investment in customer surveys is providing valuable feedback which our key target areas during 2002. will ensure that the next generation of products and shops is even more enjoyable and attuned to our customers changing needs.
We want our people to enjoy their work and to derive real satisfaction from what they do.
A major employee opinion survey was Business Excellence.
Listening to our employees and acting on their suggestions conducted in February 2002, the results of which were generally positive, and we is central to our philosophy.
Through effective two-way communication, we will are working hard on the areas for improvement that it highlighted.
All our managers ensure that all our people understand our corporate goals and can make a real across the Group are committed to building a positive culture that is founded on contribution to their realisation.
This is backed by our commitment to simplifying simple values: being enthusiastic and supportive, open, honest and appreciative, every area of the business as far as possible.
Best practice in products and service and treating everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
360 feedback is standards is increasingly shared across the business, aided by the research and being undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of our approach, beginning with the development work undertaken at the Group Technical Centre.
In parallel, we are executive directors and our most senior managers.
placing ever increasing focus on the development and promotion of our two We aim to create the best possible working conditions for our people, and our new distinct national brands.
Systematic targeting, benchmarking and progress shop formats are designed to improve standards for employees as well as customers.
measurement are all being pursued with ever-increasing professionalism, to ensure Similarly, we devise improvements in working practices, such as the making of the attainment of our long term strategic objectives.
sandwiches, which are designed to make these everyday tasks more enjoyable as Challenging Targets.
We are striving to achieve a turnover of 1 billion by the well as more efficient.
end of the current decade.
This will require not only the further expansion of our Opportunities for personal development are provided as widely as possible, and all shop base, to over 1,700 shops, but also the achievement of continued like-for-like our employees are encouraged to develop their leadership qualities and to use sales growth through our established outlets.
Everything we are doing in the their individual initiative, while adhering to the strict company-wide policies that are management of the business is designed to ensure that all our people are working necessary to ensure the safe preparation and handling of food.
In the longer term, we see potential for at least 2,000 During the year all of our most senior managers benefited from a visit to some shops under our existing brands in the UK, and have already begun to examine the businesses in the USA which are considered world leaders in customer service potential for our products and retail concepts on the Continent.
and in the creation of an environment and culture in which people can truly enjoy their work.
One of the founding principles of our business has Although we recognise that much remains to be done, we were pleased to achieve been a care for the communities in which we operate.
We have a long-standing recognition of our efforts to make working at Greggs an enjoyable experience when commitment to contributing in areas of deprivation, notably through the Greggs we featured for the first time in the The Sunday Times The 100 best companies Trust through which we channel the bulk of our charitable contributions, which to work for in the UK survey, published in February 2003. totalled 379,000 this year.
The Greggs Breakfast Clubs which featured in last years annual report have continued to expand successfully, and now operate in over Enjoyable Experience.
The continuous introduction of new and improved products 40 primary schools.
We are determined to remain at the forefront in exercising is an important driver of like-for-like sales growth.
Development work is undertaken corporate responsibility not only in the social arena, but also in our care and both by our divisional teams and by the new Group Technical Centre in Balliol Park, consideration for the environment.
Outstanding new products devised at Balliol Park, and 9 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 CAPITAL INVESTMENT IAN GREGG Capital expenditure during 2002 was a record 42.1 million, comprising 18.4 million Ian Gregg is a very special man, as all who know him inside and outside the business in new shops and refurbishments and 23.7 million in land, buildings and plant can testify.
He joined the family firm on the unexpected death of his father in 1964 including a substantial investment in a freehold site in west London for the further and led it up to its flotation 20 years later.
During that period he grew the company development of our business in the South East.
We also invested 3.5 million in a from a single shop in Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne, to a multi-divisional chain new cold store adjacent to our central savouries unit at Balliol Park.
This new facility with over 300 outlets.
From the outset he endowed Greggs with the fundamental was completed on schedule and in line with our budget, and has worked successfully principles of putting people first, on which our success has undoubtedly been based.
to plan since it opened in October 2002.
Its provision has enabled us to improve Equally remarkably, given his founding role and his undoubted entrepreneurial skills, the utilisation of our existing savouries production capacity, increasing efficiency and Ian readily stepped back from day-to-day management of the business on my effecting substantial savings in external storage costs.
We are continuing to develop appointment in 1984, and has given me exemplary support as a non-executive plans for the construction of a second savouries unit to ensure that we have the Chairman.
On behalf of everyone in Greggs, I would like to thank him for his unique facilities to meet continuing strong demand for these products.
and outstanding contribution over his 38 years in the chair and look forward to his During 2003 we expect to invest around 40.0 million in the business, opening continued contribution as a non-executive director.
some 45 new shops net of closures, continuing our rolling refurbishment PEOPLE campaign, and adding to our production capacity in Enfield, Birmingham, Leeds, We have written at length in this years report about the importance we attach to Manchester and Edinburgh.
putting people first, notably in my earlier comments on our strategic principles.
CASH FLOW AND BALANCE SHEET To those words I would merely like to add that the continued success of the The strongly cash generative nature of the Group enabled us to fund our record business remains a reflection of the quality of all our people.
Once again, I would capital expenditure programme from our own resources, with only a small net like to thank everyone for their individual contributions to meeting the expectations cash outflow during the year.
At 28 December 2002 we had net cash on the of our customers and shareholders.
balance sheet of 28.6 million, compared with 30.0 million at the end of 2001.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINENTAL EUROPE We are committed to continuous improvement and raising of standards.
In that Although Greggs has the potential to expand successfully in the UK for many years context, we continue to strive for good standards of corporate governance.
I feel, to come, we feel that it is important to examine the scope for future growth in however, that the ever-increasing bureaucracy and the proportion of Board time other countries.
As previously outlined, we have therefore been researching associated with this area is beginning to impact adversely on the time that can actually Continental markets for a number of years.
During 2002 we decided that our first be devoted to the running of businesses in the interests of shareholders.
It is a matter overseas trial would take place in Belgium, and appointed a local manager who of sensible balance.
spent some months in the UK familiarising himself with the Greggs culture and OUTLOOK operational style.
We have undertaken extensive consumer research and trials, and As the Chairman has noted, we have made a positive start to the current year.
our first two shops opened at Leuven and Antwerp early in 2003, offering a The outlook for ingredient costs is benign, though we anticipate a further 1.8 million mixture of local specialities and standard Greggs product lines.
We will refine and increase in our insurance costs.
Greggs has always focused on achieving long term develop our range and concept in the light of continuing consumer feedback, and growth by building a simple business that strives to be the best in its field.
Application will open a further one or two shops in Belgium as the first stage of our trial.
This is of these principles has enabled us to attain market leadership in the growing market a very closely controlled and low-risk venture, in which we expect to invest some for bakery-related takeaway food in the UK, with a potent national brand, and will 500,000 of capital in the current year.
If the trial proves successful, we will expand help us towards our ambitious targets for further growth in the years ahead.
our shop base with the aim of developing local production capabilities once we have reached a critical mass of around 20 shops.
We expect this business to be profitable in four to five years time.
Mike Darrington, Managing Director 7 March 2003 10 The breads fantastic, I eat the fresh sandwiches every day.
