Report of the directors The directors submit their report together with the consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended December 31, 2002.
Results and dividends The profit after exceptional items and taxation for the year was 187.4m.
An interim dividend of 4.55p per ordinary share was paid on September 20, 2002.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 10.85p per ordinary share which will, if approved by shareholders, be paid on May 16, 2003, to shareholders on the register on April 22, 2003.
After providing for cash dividends of 113.5m, the retained profit transferred to reserves was 73.9m note 20 to the accounts.
A financial review and prospects for the year 2003 are included within the Operating and Financial Review on pages 14 to 15.
Activities Hanson has pursued a strategy to become a focused heavy building materials company with operations in North America, Europe, Asia Pacic and Australia.
Note 1 to the accounts gives an analysis of operating profit including joint-ventures and associated undertakings, turnover and capital employed by activity and by geographical location.
Acquisitions and disposals During the year Hanson acquired businesses at a cost of 152.7m.
Net proceeds from the disposal of subsidiaries and investments during the year totalled 41.9m.
Further information is contained in note 21.
Subsequent events Material post balance sheet events are described in note 30.
Research and development The development and improvement of new and existing products is an essential continuing process in our companies.
Expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Share capital Details of changes in the share capital during the year and the number of ordinary shares reserved for issue at December 31, 2002 are shown in note 19.
Hanson has been notied of the following persons who, directly or indirectly, are interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital: Number of ordinary % of issued shares share capital Name million Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, Inc ADSs 45.7 6.2 Barclays Global Investors 33.5 4.5 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 32.9 4.5 Legal & General Investment Management 28.5 3.9 Chase Nominees Limited 28.2 3.8 Morley Fund Management 27.5 3.7 Newton Investment Management 27.5 3.7 Franklin Resources, Inc 26.5 3.6 As at December 31, 2002 American Depositary Receipts ADRs evidencing approximately 16.1m American Depositary Shares ADSs were held of record in the USA.
The 80.3m ordinary shares 10.9% of the issued share capital representing those ADSs were registered in the name of National City Nominees Limited.
The shares registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited, as at December 31, 2002, detailed above, are held as a bare nominee.
Shareholder communications Hanson values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
Constructive two-way communication with fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is promoted and encouraged within the guidance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
Additional forms of communication include the interim and annual results presentations and the AGM see details of meeting below where investors are invited to participate.
The Hanson website at www.
com provides access to information of interest to shareholders on the Company and its businesses.
Further details of the website can be found on page 81 of this report.
At the AGM the chairman will present a review of the results and current business activity.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions on items of business put before the meeting and will have the opportunity to vote separately on each resolution.
After the meeting the directors will also be available to answer questions on the business.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the AGM to be held at 11.00am on May 15, 2003, in the Ballroom at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP, incorporating explanatory notes of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, is enclosed with this report.
Report of the directors 33 Report of the directors continued Directors The present directors are: C D Collins, Chairman G Dranseld J M Schubert A J Murray, Chief Executive S L Keswick S N Vivian The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking CH J C Nicholls W F Blount The Baroness Noakes DBE Independent Non-executive Director Having been in ofce at the start of the year under review, A J H Dougal retired from the board on May 14, 2002.
D M Hoare retired from the board on January 31, 2003 having served, along with the remaining directors, throughout the year under review.
A J Murray, G Dranseld and J C Nicholls retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
J M Schubert will retire after the meeting and not seek re-election.
Brief biographical details of the directors are given on page 32.
Directors interests The interests of the directors, who held ofce at December 31, 2002, in the ordinary shares, in conditional interests in ordinary shares, and in options to acquire ordinary shares, appear in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 44.
No director had a material interest in any contract of signicance with the Company or any subsidiary during the year.
Employment policies The success of the business ultimately rests upon the people working for it.
Hanson has a wealth of skill and experience which gives it a competitive edge.
Hansons aim is to provide employment conditions that enable each employee to give their best.
Wide ranging employment policies are in place throughout the group, covering areas such as training and development, fair treatment at work and educational assistance, which are designed to provide equal opportunities for all.
An informative e-mail news bulletin is circulated group-wide each month.
Divisional companies are actively encouraged to make employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
Each divisional company produces a quarterly newsletter covering such items as business performance, operational news, health and safety, the environment, long-service recognition and community involvement.
Feedback, including ideas for improving the business, is welcomed.
Health and safety Safety and occupational health are considered the highest priorities for Hanson and a fundamental element of good business management.
The progress of the safety performance throughout the businesses worldwide is tracked and reported quarterly to the board using standard measures.
S N Vivian is the director responsible for health and safety.
Continuous improvement is required throughout Hanson in the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and visitors.
Hanson companies around the world actively engage with government agencies, trade associations and other similar bodies to promote the benets of a safe and healthy working environment.
In 2002, Hanson continued to benefit from its global network of safety professionals which aims to ensure that all operations improve by sharing best practice and learning from serious accident investigations and near misses, both within the Company and the wider industry.
The overall safety statistics for the group showed continued improvement in 2002.
Although total work hours decreased in 2001 by nearly 11%, principally as a result of the sale of operations, all classes of injuries decreased by almost 15%.
The number of injuries resulting in lost time declined by more than 12% and on average the number of days lost per lost time incident was reduced to less than 20 in 2002, evidencing significant improved case management.
The environment Hanson understands that its reputation for managing environmental issues carefully is a valuable asset.
We endeavour to achieve a high standard of environmental performance and to minimise any adverse environmental impact from our operations.
We aim constantly to balance the needs of modern society with the necessity to conserve and protect the environment.
The progress of our environmental performance is tracked and reported quarterly to the board.
S N Vivian is the director responsible for environmental matters.
Hansons environmental policy, which applies to all of Hansons operations worldwide, is: 1 to comply with environmental regulations and plan ahead for future requirements: 2 to monitor, evaluate and continuously improve environmental performance: 3 to respond to the needs and concerns of the community: 4 to strive towards sustainability, balancing todays needs with those of the future: and 5 to improve employee awareness of environmental issues and to encourage the sharing of experience and expertise among our companies.
In 2002, Hanson published an Environmental Report which is available on our website or in hard copy.
Charitable and political donations During the year, the group made worldwide charitable donations of 429,000 2001 806,000, including 129,000 2001 114,000 in the UK.
As in the previous year, no UK political donations were made.
34 Report of the directors Creditor payment policy Hanson companies aim to pay all of their suppliers within the suppliers own standard payment period and in accordance with the Confederation of British Industry prompt payment code copies available from the C. B. I. Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
At December 31, 2002 the group trade creditors represented 45 days of trade purchases.
The holding company, Hanson PLC, does not have any trade creditors.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the AGM.
The Independent auditors report is on page 38.
Corporate governance The directors are committed to high standards of corporate governance, recognising that Hansons good reputation is one of the Companys most valuable assets.
To maintain this reputation Hanson will strive to act in accordance with the laws and customs of each country in which it operates: adopt high standards of business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the culture of each country in which it operates.
A code of business conduct is in place.
The board is accountable to shareholders for good business governance and the way in which Hanson applies the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code is described within this Report of the Directors and in the Remuneration Report.
Hanson has been in full compliance with the Combined Code throughout the year under review.
The board of directors The board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
With J M Schubert retiring from the board at the AGM the Nominations Committee will look to make a recommendation to the board on the appointment of a new independent non-executive director.
There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive, and S L Keswick is the Senior Independent Director.
The board considers that the current non-executive directors bring a wide range of business and financial experience vital to the successful direction of Hanson as an international force in the heavy building materials industry.
The board meets at least six times a year.
It manages overall control of the Companys affairs with reference to the schedule of matters reserved for its authorisation and approval, review and responsibility.
Matters reserved for authorisation and approval include long-term strategy, financial statements and significant changes in accounting policy, dividend recommendations, treasury activities, major acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects or expenditure, appointment of directors, risk management policies and major changes in the groups pension arrangements.
Matters for which the board has responsibility include compliance with the groups environmental and health and safety policies and, as set out below, the groups system of internal control.
Matters which the board reviews include quarterly results, the groups management resource planning, charitable donations and the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control, as set out below.
The responsibility for managing the business, for implementing policy and for the performance of the business is delegated to the executive directors.
All directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility for ensuring that the business strategies proposed are fully discussed and critically reviewed.
This ensures the directors act in the best long-term interest of shareholders, whilst taking account of the interests of employees, customers, suppliers and the communities in which the businesses operate.
The non-executive directors also oversee the operational performance of the whole group.
To do this they have full and timely access to all relevant information, with updates also provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting the Company.
Directors, in addition to an initial induction process for those newly appointed, are also provided with the opportunity for training to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and best practice and changing commercial and other risks.
Procedures are in place for directors to seek both independent advice and the advice and services of the Company secretary in order to full their duties.
During the year an evaluation of the boards effectiveness was undertaken by the Chairman by way of a written questionnaire to all directors.
The responses were subject to review by the board and identied improvements will be introduced in 2003, during which year a similar evaluation process will be undertaken.
The non-executive directors full a key role in corporate accountability.
The remits and membership of the Remuneration, the Nominations and the Audit Committees of the board are set out below.
The terms of reference of these Committees are currently being reviewed as part of the Companys overall review of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 enacted by US Congress on July 30, 2002, the Smith report Audit Committees: Combined Code guidance and the Higgs report Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors, the latter two both proposing changes to the Combined Code.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises three non-executive directors, The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking Chairman, W F Blount and The Baroness Noakes.
Its role is described in the Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of C D Collins as Chairman and two other non-executive directors, The Rt Hon.
Lord Baker of Dorking and S L Keswick.
The Committees terms of reference provide for it to make recommendations to the board on the appointment of all directors.
New directors appointed by the board must submit themselves for election by the shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, all directors are subject to re-election every three years.
Re-appointment of the non-executive directors is not automatic and is subject to consideration by the Committee, prior to approval by the board.
Report of the directors 35 Report of the directors continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors: The Baroness Noakes Chairman, S L Keswick and C D Collins.
It meets at least three times a year, with the external auditors in attendance.
The Finance Director attends by invitation.
The Committees terms of reference comply with the Combined Code.
Its duties include the review of the objectivity and independence of the auditors, the Companys accounting policies, financial and other reporting procedures, audit fees including remuneration received by auditors for non-audit work and the Companys statement on internal control prior to endorsement by the board.
It is anticipated that on the appointment of a new independent non-executive director, C D Collins will cease to act as a member of the Audit Committee, and will be replaced by the new person.
Internal control The board recognises that it is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Combined Code introduced a requirement that the board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management, at least annually.
Subsequently, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code was published in September 1999, to provide guidance to directors in respect of this requirement.
The board confirms that procedures, which accord with the guidance, have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report by the board.
These procedures ensure that the board is aware of the key risks facing the group and that the system of internal control is regularly reviewed for effectiveness and adequacy.
However, such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In seeking to achieve these objectives the board has specifically instituted the following processes, which have been in effect throughout the reporting period and up to date of approval of the Annual Report by the board.
Risk assessment The board clearly sets out the Companys strategic objectives as part of a four-year planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by the board as part of the four-year plan, annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and forecasting cycles.
All divisions, including central functions, are required to undertake a risk proling exercise to review formally their principal areas of risk.
This formal system is based on the semi annual submission of risk reviews from each division for the measurement and assessment of risk areas, which together with the controls embedded in the relevant business processes mitigates such risks.
This review is completed twice a year and is extended to acquired businesses to ensure the group continues to have clear and consistent procedures for implementing, monitoring and updating appropriate controls to minimise the risk exposure so identied.
Control environment Experienced and professional staff are appointed, both by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to full their allotted responsibilities.
A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the board is in place, based on an annual budget with monthly reports against actual results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance indicators and regular re-forecasting.
Formal business risk reviews are performed by management which evaluate the potential financial impact of identied risks and possible new risk areas, set control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and review actual occurrences identifying improvement opportunities.
The group has an established and consistent methodology for identifying and ranking business risks and has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each significant risk that has been identied.
These strategies include not only internal controls but other approaches such as insurance.
This methodology is reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure it continues to accurately reect the relevant risks and takes into account necessary movements in the groups risk prole consequent upon changes in the business operations.
Regular treasury reports are made to the board which analyse the funding requirements of each class of assets, track the generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity, measure the groups exposure to interest and exchange rate movements and record the level of compliance with the groups funding objectives.
Well-dened procedures are in place governing the appraisal and approval of investments including detailed investment and divestment approval procedures incorporating appropriate levels of authority and regular post investment reviews.
Information and communication Divisions are required to produce detailed operating budgets prior to the start of each financial year, which are reviewed for robustness and realism.
A comprehensive system of budgetary controls including monthly and regular periodic performance reviews for each business unit is in place to ensure that major variances are promptly and thoroughly investigated.
These reviews are conducted at a detailed level within each business unit and at a high level by the board.
On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
36 Report of the directors Monitoring procedures An internal audit function which undertakes periodic examination of business units and processes and recommends improvements in controls to management.
A range of procedures to review the risk prole and monitor the effective application of internal control in the group.
These include self assessment of controls and annual certication of compliance with the groups financial and operational procedures by the managing director or senior executive of each business unit including compliance with environmental, health and safety and business conduct standards together with independent reviews by the control and compliance function.
The external auditors who are engaged to express an opinion on the Annual Report and Accounts.
An Audit Committee of the board, consisting of non-executive directors, which considers significant control matters and receives reports on internal controls and from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis.
Internal audit Each major operating division has internal audit capability and these are co-ordinated centrally.
The board has considered this and although it is satisfied that this is adequate, further development of the internal audit capability continues.
Going concern The directors confirm that, after making enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that Hanson has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors responsibilities for the accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that year.
In preparing these accounts, the directors consider that they have: selected suitable accounting policies, and applied them consistently: made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and followed applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
By order of the board Paul Tunnacliffe Secretary February 20, 2003 Report of the directors 37
