investing in our people Its a simple enough equation: growth in shareholder value Understanding our people Rewarding performance This year we carried out a global employee Were creating a performance culture equals the brands that you have at your disposal plus the opinion survey.
The response rate was which focuses not just on what we do, capabilities of your organisation.
As a brand company were phenomenal: more than 80%.
Measurement will be developing our capabilities by developing our people.
They not everything is perfect but satisfaction against our six core values in the imagery are the means by which we carry out our business strategy.
These have been developed levels of commitment to the organisation by asking our employees: what sort of We are investing in recruitment, development and career are astounding: they have a passion for it.
company would you like to work for?
We have continued to reinforce the link between They said one which is unified, diverse, performance and reward, so compensation is aligned with passionate, accountable, committed business targets and shareholder interests.
10 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 11 wines people want We are successfully building and running an international business in premium, branded wines.
Its a growing sector of the drinks industry.
We have bought the companies we wanted, with a mix of international businesses like no other.
We have a sensible strategy that we are implementing and the results are good.
Using consumer insight work tailored specifically to wine, we try to understand what people want to drink and when the time of day or the time of life.
We are concentrating on the wines that the trade and consumers want.
Market focus The US is the largest premium wine market in the world.
Yet only 20% of American adults have ever drunk wine.
The opportunities are significant, and imports are growing strongly.
This year we have set up specialist sales and marketing organisations in the US and the UK markets which together consume one third of the worlds premium wine.
A new team Wine is different.
So we established a new wine team to provide the right level of focus.
We share the same back-office, but in front of the customer, theres an enormously experienced new team mixing proven internal skills with the best people from outside.
Our champagne brands bring excellent on-premise teams to help drive where and how we are seen.
12 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 13 Operating and financial review Normalised earnings per share pence Growth through acquisition We have achieved profit growth while The future growth profile of our spirits portfolio has improved through the acquisition of 2002 32.6 investing to build sustainable growth Malibu, a leading international spirits brand.
The brand will become our ninth core and 2001 31.0 through continued improvement of the third most profitable in our portfolio with a dynamic growth profile.
Our wine business 2000 28.6 operational effectiveness, innovation has been enhanced through the addition of Bodegas y Bebidas and Mumm Cuve Napa.
We have set out clear plans to build a sustainable wine business that will deliver 1998 19.8 Philip Bowman, Chief Executive good returns and bring best value to the trade and the consumer.
We are now delivering Spirits & Wine revenue m against these plans.
2002 3,018 Summary At constant exchange rates, turnover was 2001 2,571 up 19% to 3,334m in the period and trading The addition of Malibu as our ninth core brand profit increased by 14% to 610m.
Organic 2000 2,297 will enhance the growth profile of the portfolio.
trading profit grew by 5% to 557m.
Normalised profit before tax grew by 6% 1999 2,110 to 480m.
We have delivered these results through the growth of Spirits & Wine gross margin and Key business drivers Consumer-led marketing Spirits & Wine trading profit m Spirits & Wine the continued improved performance of our We have achieved profit growth while We are now delivering exciting new marketing Total Organic Quick Service Restaurants business.
At the 2002 Growth 2002 Growth continuing to invest in sustainable future campaigns for key brands.
During the year we same time, we have increased advertising 2002 516 growth, focusing our investment on: launched an integrated marketing campaign Trading profit 516m 15% 463m 3% and promotion by 35% 21% for organic behind Ballantines Go play which is a Net turnover 2,380m 25% 2,044m 7% 2001 458 businesses, invested in reduced US trade Further aggressive management of our significant departure from traditional whisky Advertising inventories at a pre-tax cost of 19m and and promotion 443m 35% 396m 21% existing asset base particularly through marketing.
Our fully integrated through-the- 2000 414 absorbed a 16m increase in pension costs.
increased and more targeted marketing: line campaign was launched in May in over We have grown both profits and turnover of Launching consumer-led innovation: and 50 countries.
Stolichnaya in the US saw a 1999 369 We have maintained earnings growth with our Spirits & Wine business through organic Enhancing the growth profile of our portfolio significant increase in investment with See a 5% improvement in normalised earnings per growth and acquisition.
Before the benefit through acquisition in both spirits and wine.
Our latest major marketing share to 32.6p per share.
Acquisitions during of acquisitions, gross margin increased by campaign for Kahla Unleash it is being the period diluted normalised earnings per 144m.
This is partly offset by increased Marketing-led business launched in six countries through a wide Spirits & Wine advertising share by 0.8p, of which 0.5p related to Malibu advertising and promotion 69m and the In our drive to become a truly marketingrange of media from television and cinema and promotion m and its financing through debt and equity.
combined impact 62m of overheads led company, we have changed our to outdoor and radio.
Excluding this dilution, normalised earnings and a decline in other income, driven primarily 2002 443 approach to understanding the consumer.
by higher pension costs, investment in new We have committed 6m across ten Innovation systems, US listing costs and investment 2001 330 countries to develop a new modal approach We are delivering a programme of innovation.
The directors are recommending a final in ready-to-drinks.
Acquired businesses to consumer segmentation, which is enabling We launched ready-to-drink products dividend of 8.1p per share giving a total for increased gross margin by 152m, 2000 301 us to predict better consumers choice of including two in the US Stolichnaya the year of 13.0p per share, an increase advertising and promotion investment by drink and brand.
This work has given us Citrona and Sauza Diablo.
This is in line with our policy for the 47m and overheads by 52m.
the marketing tools to determine strategies developed through a commercial partnership annual dividend to be covered approximately for 11 brands and country strategies for with Miller.
As the market develops, both 2.5 times.
The organic gross margin increase of 13% our ten largest markets.
This provides a parties will explore together further 144m has been driven through enhanced rigorous basis to support our investment opportunities to extend the range of readyOutlook mix 86m in Asia Pacific and North America, New campaigns were launched for decisions across our whole portfolio.
We are to-drink beverages via our portfolio of spirits The results for the first month of the new increased pricing 25m, particularly in Latin Stolichnaya and Ballantines.
developing the creative work that brings the brands.
We also launched a major innovation financial year have been in line with our America and volumes 24m in Asia Pacific brands to life and identifying the most effective to the Tia Maria brand.
Tia Lusso is a new expectations.
We expect to continue to grow and Europe.
media to reach our target consumers with light cream liqueur that has been rolled out earnings benefiting from the contribution of integrated campaigns from television and to nine markets, with sales exceeding our our recent acquisitions while continuing to A review of Spirits & Wine brand performance cinema commercials to on-trade promotions launch expectations.
invest strongly in the business as we support is on page 16 and a regional review of and parties.
new campaigns for our core brands and drive performance is given on page 19. our programme of innovation.
14 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 15 Operating and financial review Quick Service Restaurants Quick Service Restaurants that offer all three of our Quick Service Spirits & Wine volume and net turnover growth trading profit m Trading profit up 11% to 78m Restaurant brands.
This strategy is based on Including impact of Excluding impact of US destock US destock System-wide sales growth of 9% our brands complementary daypart offering 2002 78 Net Net US same store sales growth in Dunkin and brings significant benefits to our Volume Volume turnover Volume turnover Donuts of 6% and Baskin-Robbins of 2% franchisees through improved scale and 2001 72 million growth growth growth growth Number of combination stores up 31% operating efficiencies, along with increased cases % % % % choice for consumers.
2000 64 Ballantines 5.7 4 11 4 11 Profit growth in our Quick Service Beefeater 2.3 3 2 4 4 Restaurants business has been driven Spirits & Wine brand performance 1999 53 Canadian Club 2.2 2 8 7 2 by growth in same store sales and the Total Spirits & Wine volumes and net Courvoisier 1.0 8 8 9 8 contribution from new stores.
turnover increased by 26% and 25% Kahla 3.1 9 9 5 3 respectively, driven by acquisitions.
Before Makers Mark 0.4 10 16 10 16 Dunkin Donuts has delivered another good acquisitions, net turnover grew 7% on flat Quick Service Restaurants Sauza 1.9101910 20 year of growth outpacing the overall QSR volumes.
We have achieved a significant distribution points Tia Maria 0.8131413 14 industry with system-wide sales up by 10% improvement in performance in the second Core brands 17.4 2 6 4 8 and same store sales up 6% in the US.
half through a focused approach to our key Malibu 0.5 The brand also achieved a 4% increase in brand market combinations and the positive Dunkin Donuts 51% Local market leaders 11.4 1 12 0 13 distribution points.
The restructuring of the actions we have taken in our US business.
Local market leader acquisitions 1.0 Baskin-Robbins franchise arrangements Overall organic volumes grew by 4% in the Baskin-Robbins 45% has continued to grow system-wide sales second half compared with a 3% decline Premium wine 2.2 7 10 10 12 Togos 4% by 6% and US same store sales by 2%.
Premium wine acquisitions 10.7 Baskin-Robbins has benefited from a Other wine 7.0 10 11 10 11 promotional tie-in with the animated film Other spirits 13.3 1 7 1 7 Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron which has Other Spirits & Wine brands 20.3 2 8 3 8 driven sales of the Spirit flavours Wild N Spirits & Wine net turnover m Total including acquisitions 63.5262527 26 Reckless and Smore.
In addition, the highly Note: The volumes of Stolichnaya Citrona and Sauza Diablo are not included in this table.
publicised Free Scoop Nights have continued to drive brand awareness.
Togos has successfully increased the number of We are investing more heavily in our organic We launched Stolichnaya Citrona and Sauza distribution points by 10% to grow systemCore brands 41% business with a 21% increase in advertising Diablo which have performed well in market wide sales by 1%.
A new advertising Local market leaders 21% and promotion supporting the enhanced research with target consumers.
To the end campaign Legend of Togos has been Premium wine 16% brand activation work we have developed.
of August, our partnership with Miller had launched to increase awareness of the The main focus for this investment is invested $40m behind these brands to drive Togos brand and increase system-wide sales.
Other spirits and wines 22% Ballantines in over 50 markets, Mumm and sales of 270,000 cases on an equivalent Perrier Jout in US and UK, Stolichnaya in servings basis.
We have achieved good Innovation has long been an important part the US, Imperial whisky in South Korea, the awareness of these brands through extensive of QSRs growth strategy with new products Spirits & Wine advertising and launch of Tia Lusso in nine markets and the advertising and on-premise sampling which being developed across the brand portfolio.
development of new ready-to-drink products.
in turn will benefit the equity of the respective Dunkin Donuts is now the number one player promotion m Over the past 18 months, we have enhanced mother brands but distribution of these in the QSR bagel category with 19% share our marketing capabilities through detailed products has been disappointing.
Since it of the US market and its Coffee Coolatta is consumer insight research, country and is still early days for our products, our launch number two in the QSR iced and frozen Core brands 55% marketing strategies and exciting new resulted in a small charge to the profit and loss slushy category.
Baskin-Robbins has Local market leaders 21% creative work.
We now have the consumeraccount which is reflected as an associate in developed triple-layer shakes, hot treats led initiatives and marketing tools to target this Others.
Our partnership with Miller has given and a variety of new exotic flavours including Premium wine 9% increased investment to drive sustainable us access to an efficient production and Wild amazon, Turkish delight and African Other spirits and future growth.
distribution asset base in order to gain access safari.
Togos has widened its range of wines 15% Mumm is marketed in over 100 countries and to any upside available from this category.
sandwich offerings with better quality bread is well known for its association with Formula and new toasted products.
One motor racing and premier yachting events.
Spirits & Wine net brand contribution m Our strategy of multibranded combination stores continues to be a driver of growth in new store openings with a 31% increase in the number of combination stores to over Core brands 45% 800.
There are now 74 combination stores Local market leaders 23% Premium wine 12% Other spirits and Tia Lusso, a new cream liqueur, was launched wines 20% in nine markets this year, supported by a fully integrated media campaign.
16 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 17 Operating and financial review We manage our Spirits & Wine portfolio Ballantines volumes grew 4% and net During the year, we established our premium We acquired Kuemmerling, a leading as four groups: core brands, local market turnover increased 11% on continued good wine business following recent acquisitions.
German bitters brand, at the beginning of the leaders, premium wine and other Spirits & performance in its key markets in Europe, Before the benefit of acquisitions, our wine period.
The integration has been accelerated, Wine brands.
Brand performance is reviewed Asia Pacific and duty free, particularly business grew volumes by 7% and net and is now almost complete, with all our below under these categories.
following the launch of the new campaign turnover by 10% to drive net brand German operations now in one location in Go play.
Beefeater continued to perform contribution up by 14%.
Kuemmerling has given us critical The volumes of our core brands, excluding well in Spain helping to offset a slower the wine business including our recent mass in Europes largest spirits market Malibu, grew by 2% and net turnover grew performance in the US to drive overall acquisitions is provided in the regional providing a sound economic platform for 6%, reflecting the improved second half volumes up 3% and net turnover up 2%.
performance across nearly all the brands.
The performances of both Kahla and The core brand volumes were up 8% in the Canadian Club have been held back by The volumes for the rest of the Spirits & Wine We are making good progress with the second half compared with a 3% decline in the US destock and by tougher trading portfolio grew by 2% while net turnover implementation of our major systems upgrade the first half.
This has been achieved through conditions in the US during the first half.
increased by 8% growing net brand project in key European markets with systems a more focused approach on the key brand Canadian Club has shown improving contribution by 1%.
live in France, Germany, Spain and parts of market combinations and improved trading consumption trends during the year and the UK, rolling out to other key European in the US.
The growth for the year has been Kahla should benefit from the recent launch Market review Spirits & Wine markets through to 2003.
The project will affected by our destocking of the US supply of a new campaign, Unleash it.
Courvoisier The performance of our business is reviewed significantly improve the availability and chain announced in October 2001.
Excluding benefited from strong growth in both the UK below by region.
consistency of data across the region and Sauza is the worlds second largest the impact of the destock, volumes grew by and US markets particularly following the will help drive enhanced performance.
success of the track Pass the Courvoisier Europe by Busta Rhymes and continued investment Trading profit grew by 5% to 160m driven North America We have also continued to invest strongly in the House of Courvoisier campaign in the by good performances in Spain and the UK Trading profit grew 7% to 169m driven behind our core brands with an increase of US.
The growth of Makers Mark has and through acquisition.
Trading profit before primarily by the contribution from acquisitions 11% in advertising and promotion leaving the continued with a 10% increase in volumes acquisitions was down 4% held back by and mix improvements.
On an organic basis, net brand contribution from our core brands driven by strong consumer interest, good advertising and promotion, up 11%, on net net turnover grew 4% on volumes up 1% up 1%.
We acquired Malibu in May 2002 and brand PR and advertising.
This strong investment was leading to an increase in trading profit of 1%.
this will join our core brands.
It has performed grew 10% benefiting from our investment principally behind the Go play campaign for Organic volumes grew by 3% in the second well in the first three months of our ownership in improved tequila production and net Ballantines and the launch of Tia Lusso.
half compared with a 2% decline in the first with a rapid and effective integration into our turnover increased 19% also helped by half.
This significant improvement in trading business.
We have addressed trade loading improved price and mix.
Tia Maria had a Our business in Spain has again achieved during the latter part of this financial year issues and the brand continues to show good good Christmas in the UK and the launch further market share gains for Ballantines is a direct result of our positive actions.
The House of Courvoisier is a fully integrated consumer growth trends.
of the new cream liqueur, Tia Lusso, helped and Beefeater, which grew volumes by 3% We have refined pricing by brand and by to grow volumes and net turnover by 13% and 9% respectively.
Centenario consolidated campaign that continues to support good state, improved communications within the brand growth.
its position as category leader with a 12% business, reviewed our deployment of our increase in volumes and a 14% increase sales forces and re-aligned our advertising The local market leader brands benefited from in net turnover.
Advertising and promotion and promotion spend to improve its was increased in Spain behind Ballantines, Stolichnaya in the US and the acquisition of effectiveness.
This has been achieved as Kuemmerling in Germany.
As a result, total Beefeater, Whisky DYC and Malibu.
part of our implementation of a new five year The increase in excise duty in January slowed volumes from the local market leader brands country strategy.
Significant management grew 8% while net turnover and net brand first half volume growth with core brands up changes were made including the 3% which recovered to 8% growth in the contribution grew 29% and 27% respectively.
appointment of a new president, Tom Wilen.
Before acquisitions, total volume for this second half.
In addition, a new organisational structure brand category fell by 1% largely reflecting is being implemented that will allocate our Unleash It, a new marketing campaign a 12% volume decline in Mexican brandies.
The volume performance of Ballantines resources closer to the market place and for Kahla.
outside of Spain was held back by weak In spite of this decline, caused by excise duty increase sales coverage.
This will facilitate increases in Mexico and the ongoing pressure market conditions, particularly in Germany a better understanding of customers and but still managed to grow market share of the informal spirits market, we successfully consumers and further strengthen our grew net turnover and net brand contribution across Europe.
of our Mexican brandies by 7% and 34% respectively.
Strong performances by The UK business benefited from a good The supply chain re-engineering project that Christmas and strong performances for Stolichnaya in the US and Imperial in Korea we announced in October 2001 has reduced helped to grow organic net turnover of the Teachers, Courvoisier and Tia Maria.
Over the wholesaler and retailer inventories in the US year, Teachers grew volumes by 12% gaining local market leaders by 12% and net brand with a negative impact on trading profit of contribution by 14%.
We increased our share in the off-trade.
Courvoisier also gained 19m, of which 2m related to the Wine share to become the number one selling organic advertising and promotion investment region.
Excluding the impact of the destock, behind this category by 35%, mainly behind cognac brand in the UK.
Tia Maria also organic trading profit grew 12%.
The destock performed well, as well as benefiting from Stolichnaya and Imperial.
has resulted in a reduction in shipments the launch of Tia Lusso.
compared with depletions of 0.5 million cases 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 19 Operating and financial review and has primarily affected Kahla, Beefeater, During the period, we received compensation The global wine market has experienced Canadian Club, Hiram Walker Liqueurs and of 213m awarded by the Mexican Supreme strong revenue and profit growth, particularly Californian wine.
The project is expected to Court.
This was received through a in premium branded wines.
We have continue in the year to August 2003 with combination of cash and offsetting of duties developed an international portfolio of leading a further impact on trading profit of and taxes payable.
The current estimate of wine brands to extend our reach into new around 10m.
excise duty rebate and related interest and wine territories.
inflation still to be received during the year to Stolichnaya continues to perform well, gaining August 2003 is expected to be within a range share in the imported vodka category, helped of 30m to 50m.
Courvoisier, Makers Mark and Sauza have all grown share We are making good progress with the during the year.
Kahla, Canadian Club and integration of our new wine businesses, Wine region Ballantines at Allied Distillers and Courvoisier Beefeater have been held back by the impact Bodegas y Viedos Graffigna and Viedos y For the first time our premium wine business at Jarnac.
During the year, we completed a of the US destock and by the slower trading Bodegas Sainte Sylvie, in Argentina.
We will is presented separately within the regional review of our distillation strategy in Scotland.
experienced at the beginning of the fiscal year.
increase their export potential as part of our review.
This business includes Bodegas y As a result, we are investing 6m at our global wine strategy: this will address the Bebidas, Montana, Mumm and Perrier Jout Strathclyde Distillery over the next 18 months Our objective is to work closely with our US current weak domestic trading conditions in champagnes and our enlarged US wine and have closed our distillery at Dumbarton.
distributors through a programme where we Argentina.
Profits from Brazil have been held business including Buena Vista and Mumm One-off costs of 14m relating principally to Allied Domecqs first major campaign for are the partner of choice.
We are focused back by the weak economic climate but Cuve Napa.
David Scotland was appointed the asset write-down of the balance sheet Stolichnaya, the USs premier Russian Vodka, on developing long term partnerships where Ballantines and Teachers continue to drive in January to lead the wine business and has value of the distillery and site demolition and breaks the mould for vodka campaigns.
we actively shape a sustainable model for volume growth.
put together a strong team of wine experts clearance costs have been charged as an Featuring surreal colourful images of origami both parties.
The recent changes in the US from a number of leading wine companies.
The future cash benefits animals crafted from Stolichnaya labels, it distributor environment have created new Asia Pacific The wine business delivered a trading profit of this action will be approximately 3m per invites consumers to see what unfolds.
opportunities that we are currently evaluating.
We have achieved strong growth of 20% in net of 68m on wine volumes of 13 million cases annum, initially reflected in the stock value Our US portfolio has been significantly turnover and trading profit.
The profit growth which is in line with our plans.
This includes of the grain whisky.
We have completed our enhanced through the recent acquisitions has been driven by good performances the adverse impact of the US destock.
Our $25m investment to increase the distillation of Stolichnaya, Mumm and Perrier Jout across the region, particularly in South Korea, plans support our key objective of achieving and warehousing capacity for Makers Mark in champagnes and Malibu and we shall and has been achieved after a 57% increase a return on investment above our weighted Kentucky.
We are also managing the transfer continue to provide mutual benefit through in advertising and promotion investment average cost of capital by August 2005 and of Malibu production to our sites in Walkerville, our increasingly premium portfolio in our principally behind Ballantines and Imperial.
exceed our target of 10% by August 2007.
Dumbarton and Jerez which will take place distributor relationships.
Our South Korean business, Jinro Ballantines Montanas trading profit grew by 35% in spite during the first half of the coming year.
continues to show strong growth.
Imperial, of a year of significant change and a poor Latin America South Koreas number one premium whisky, North Island harvest in 2001.
This growth Our duty free operations have shown a Trading profit for the region was up 42% and Ballantines have been the key drivers was achieved from both domestic and export marked recovery following the downturn in to 61m on net turnover up 12%.
This of this growth in the region with volumes up sales.
Bodegas y Bebidas continued its mix travel experienced earlier in the year following improvement was driven by reduced 19% and 23% respectively.
We launched a shift towards premium wine with a 7% growth September 11 and the economic recession production costs and the success of the brand extension, Ballantines Masters, which in net brand contribution on volumes down in a number of markets.
In particular, we Yo brandy promotion for our Mexican is progressing well and should benefit further 10%.
Including the impact of the destock, have seen good growth in the Ballantines brandies that helped to grow their net from a new advertising campaign.
Ballantines our US wine business is holding volumes super premium brands and a good turnover by 7% and net brand contribution 12 and 17 year old have established a in a tougher market as it benefits from the performance from the US in the second by 34% in spite of falling volumes.
Sauza strong presence in the premium aged strength of well recognised brands like Clos half of the year.
We have consistently volumes in the region have grown 14%, whisky category.
Mumm Cuve Napa was added increased our leadership position in the benefiting from our ongoing careful to our US business in May and will further super premium Scotch in duty free.
The management of the supply of the key raw Fundador continues to perform well in the support the development of our premium recent additions to our portfolio, Malibu, material, agave, and the production of tequila.
Philippines with volumes up 15% and net branded wine business.
Mumm and Perrier our champagnes and Tia Lusso are all We continue to manage supplies of Sauza turnover growth of 12%, helped particularly Jout champagnes have shown significant performing well in this channel.
between its major markets, the US and by Fundador Solera.
Australia and New growth during the year growing share in key Mexico.
The region also benefited from cost Zealand have reported strong results markets.
We have addressed the excess Geographical analysis savings during the period.
Advertising and particularly with Kahla and ready-to-drink stocks following the millennium whilst Spirits & Wine trading profit promotion for the region increased by 27% products.
We achieved a rapid launch of maintaining premium price positions.
In line with previous statements, the trading particularly behind Sauza, Ballantines and the Tia Lusso in Australia supported by marketing profits of the Spirits & Wine regions shown introduction of a high energy ready-to-drink materials developed by the central marketing Global operations in this review are on a management reporting product, Spirit.
We have continued to achieve improvements basis at constant exchange rates, rather in productivity with an increase for Spirits & than on a statutory basis at each years actual Wine of 3% measured as cases produced exchange rates, as shown in note 2 to per employee.
This improvement has largely the accounts.
been achieved through increasing production volumes through key sites, particularly 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 21 Operating and financial review Geographical analysis Spirits & Wine trading profit The impact of foreign exchange movements on the translation of profits was negative, 2001 2002 2002 Total Organic though not material, resulting principally from Growth Growth the depreciation of the US dollar in the last Reported Market Foreign At 2002 at 2002 at 2002 two months of the fiscal year.
This was partially 2001 transfers exchange exchange 2002 exchange 2002 exchange offset by the strengthening of the Euro.
m m m m m % m % Europe 142 7 3 152 160 5 146 4 Our balance sheet can be significantly North America 185 27 158 169 7 160 1 affected by currency translation movements.
Latin America 46 3 43 61 42 61 42 Our policy is to match foreign currency debt Asia Pacific 59 4 55 66 20 66 20 in proportion to foreign currency earnings so Wine region 26 26 68 29 12 as to provide a natural hedge for part of the Others 26 6 4 16 8 1 translation exposure.
Total 458 8 450 516 15 463 3 The amount of risk to any one counterpart is restricted according to credit rating.
The premium wine business has been Net debt increased by 724m during the year We continually monitor our exposure to presented separately within the regional from 1,854m to 2,578m, the main outflows our counterparties and their credit ratings.
The effect of the transfer of the being the acquisitions of Kuemmerling US wine business from North America to 125m, Bodegas y Bebidas 199m and Exposures to interest rate fluctuations on premium wine and the shift of management Malibu 555m.
In addition, we paid 231m borrowings and deposits are managed by responsibility for duty free from Others to to the shareholders of Montana being the using interest rate swaps and interest rate Europe is shown in the market transfers cash settlement of shares purchased in 2001. options.
It is our policy to keep between 50% column.
Others include Global Operations Underlying trading working capital, allowing and 70% of net debt at fixed rates of interest including profit from the sale of bulk whisky, for acquisitions and organic growth, has with a target of 60%.
standalone duty free operations and central shown a 7% 110m improvement over costs not allocated to marketing regions.
Dunkin Donuts is the US market share Other exceptional costs this financial year At 31 August 2002, enterprise value The losses arising from Others reflects leader for Quick Service Restaurants in include: 14m associated with the closure gearing net debt as a percentage of market increased pension costs and higher levels Taxation regular and flavoured hot coffee, donuts, of the Dumbarton Distillery resulting from capitalisation plus net debt was 36%, of investment in central advertising and The normalised tax rate for the year has bagels and muffins.
our review of distillery strategy: 23m for the compared with 30% at 31 August 2001. promotion in areas such as consumer remained in line with last years rate of 25%.
one-off costs associated with the planned segmentation research and new product Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred termination of an onerous land lease in In June 2002, a 600m seven year bond development including Stolichnaya Citrona Tax was adopted resulting in a 53m balance California: and 36m for the acquisition and a 250m 12 year bond were issued.
We have established a robust capital tax rate for 2001 has not changed.
The tax Pensions structure that gives us a sound Investing in our people charge for 2002 contains a credit of 10m In aggregate, the acquisitions over the last In line with other companies, market and foundation with competitive funding During the year, we recruited a professional due to an adjustment to the estimated 18 months have served to create our premium demographic dynamics over recent years and flexibility.
HR Director, Tom Brown, to reinforce our recoverable amount of a deferred tax asset in wine business, to fill portfolio category gaps Net debt m have increased the cost of providing pensions.
Graham Hetherington, commitment to our people and their key role respect of tax losses arising in prior periods.
and to create critical mass in certain markets.
Allied Domecq has absorbed an increased Group Finance Director in harnessing the value from our brands.
We expect that the normalised rate for the In combination, these have been major pension profit and loss charge of 16m in 2002 2,578 We continue to drive towards a performancenext financial year will not exceed 25%.
transforming events for the business and, the current year.
related culture through the sourcing of the as a result, costs associated with acquisition 2001 1,854 best talent, development and aligning our Goodwill and exceptional items integration are being treated as exceptional.
Recent stock market volatility has caused rewards programme with the critical Goodwill amortisation totalled 38m 2001: significant variation in the net pension liability 2000 1,252 performance measures for the business.
12m the increase being primarily due to Treasury operations when assessed under FRS 17.
At 31 August the acquisitions of Mumm and Perrier Jout The group treasury operates as a centralised 1999 1,315 2002, the post tax deficit under this Britannia Soft Drinks champagnes and Montana.
service managing interest rate and foreign accounting standard was 336m compared The groups share of Britannias profits exchange risk and financing.
The board with 25m at 31 August 2001.
This compares for the year was 16m 2001: 13m.
During 2001, 47m received in respect agrees and reviews policies and financial with Allied Domecqs enterprise value of of the Mexican excise award was reported instruments for risk management.
Operating cash flow m Cash flow in operating profit.
The group has received a prudent hedging policy.
Business trading Net cash flow from operating activities was 213m during 2002 which due to its size flows are netted by currency and hedged In aggregate, the pension funds remain well 760m 2001: 423m and free cash inflow has been treated as exceptional operating 2002 771 forward for up to 18 months using a funded and we do not anticipate having to increased to 211m 2001: 86m.
In response to the receipt of this combination of forward exchange contracts materially increase Allied Domecqs cash 2001 432 improvement was driven by increased profit cash the group has undertaken to invest and purchased foreign exchange options.
and cash generation along with the benefit approximately 11m on social and 2000 380 of the Mexican excise rebate free cash flow community projects in Mexico.
The group has a natural hedge to the impact benefit 2002: 128m: 2001: 47m.
of fluctuations of the Euro on transaction 1999 600 costs from selling into and out of Eurozone.
22 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 23
