Our strengths We are building on our strengths delivering enhanced financial performance while improving the business to ensure further sustainable growth of our brands, profits and returns.
perfecting the new Over the past 18 months we have developed a capacity for innovation and the implementation of fresh ideas that was previously beyond us and have a pipeline of new drinks to prove it.
understanding the consumer We know what our consumers want.
We have spent 15 months and 6m developing a world-class model for understanding their behaviour.
investing in our people We are investing in recruitment, development and career planning and have continued to reinforce the link between performance and reward.
wines people want We are successfully building and running an international premium, branded wine business.
We are concentrating on the wines that the trade and consumers want.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 5 understanding the consumer We know what our consumers want.
The information that we now have on who drinks what, when, and why, will underpin everything we do in advertising, promotions and new product development to ensure that we invest in the right brand in the right market with ideas that create the highest value.
With strategies now in place for all of our key brands and countries, we are putting the theory into practice to persuade consumers to buy our products in preference to those of our competitors.
Go play All men like to play young men in particular.
In May, we put our improved consumer understanding behind a major campaign for Ballantines, our biggest brand.
In four months Investing in our brands Go play was launched in over 50 countries with Were becoming a marketing-led company.
a package of activity which key customers Were spending more money up 21% have called world-class.
like for like spending almost 60% of it on our nine core brands, and spending it more precisely and effectively.
We are absolutely clear about what we need to do to create growth.
6 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 7 perfecting the new Over the past 18 months we have developed a capacity for innovation and the implementation of fresh ideas that was previously beyond us and have a pipeline of new drinks to prove it.
This year we launched new ready-to-drink products based on our brands in the Canadian, Mexican, Australian and American markets.
In the US, for example, Sauza Diablo and Stolichnaya Citrona are the perfect match of brand and market.
Innovation is also a key part of our Quick Service Restaurants business, with exciting new products for Dunkin Donuts, Baskin-Robbins and Togos.
Tia Lusso There was a need.
This new product brings together our consumer insights, our brand and country strategies, our innovation process and the experience of our marketing team.
It has already been launched in nine countries, and we will be investing heavily behind it over the next 18 months.
Dunkin Donuts Almost 20% of Dunkin Donuts turnover comes from products that we didnt even offer five years ago such as bagels and iced coffee Coolatas.
Today we sell one in five of all the bagels in America.
Dunkin is the number one Quick Service Restaurant for sales of regular coffee.
8 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 9
