Group Strategy Hays provides business support services which allow customers to focus on their core activities.
The demand for such services is growing, as individual processes become more complex and customers recognise that best-in-class services are difficult to operate in-house on a long-term basis.
We focus on activities where complexity, quality standards and economies of scale allow us to add value and make adequate returns.
Such services are often critical to the customer.
As the prime contractor, we generally sub-contract commodity services to other service providers.
Our aim is to form long-term relationships with our customers, based on a thorough understanding of their needs and on providing services that add substantial value to their businesses.
DIVISIONAL STRATEGIES Personnel To rapidly develop our position as a world leader in specialist staffing and HR outsourcing.
By aggressive revenue investment and acquisition.
By focusing on professional sectors where specialist services earn superior margins.
By accelerating our expansion in Continental Europe, taking full advantage of the attractive market opportunities there.
By expanding beyond temporary and permanent recruitment into the fast growing long-term HR outsourcing market.
By increasing the resilience of the profit stream by expanding our geographic and sector coverage whilst maintaining a flexible cost base.
Commercial To become a European leader in the fast growing market for office process outsourcing with niche service and customer sector strengths.
By building on our strengths in information management, billing, customer relationship management and offshore processing.
By managing whole office processes, not just single functions.
By strengthening our consultancy capability to re-engineer high volume office-based processes.
By enhancing our skills in integrating sophisticated IT systems into the office environment.
Mail and Express To build our position as the leading private sector mail operator in our chosen markets.
By continuing to offer more reliable and cost-effective time critical services than the Royal Mail and other competitors.
By introducing new value added services using our leading edge automated sorting equipment.
By taking advantage of new opportunities as mail markets are opened up in the UK and in France.
Logistics To be a leading provider of value added logistics services for the extended supply chain in specified market sectors across Europe.
By differentiating Logistics from its competitors through long-term relationships built on service, innovation and quality.
By offering Hays Fourth Party Solutions to selected major customers, re-engineering and managing Europe-wide supply chains, from back office functions to IT systems.
By focusing on our Europe-wide capabilities in the food, consumer goods, automotive spares and telecoms sectors.
By expanding our reusable crate management businesses in Europe and the USA.
SUMMARY Hays operates in growth markets, where it provides complex services.
The Group aims to deliver growth in both profit and cash flow, together with a return on assets significantly above the cost of capital.
