OUR LONG-TERM CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Logistics ARE BUILT ON TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION AND THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY.
OUR CONSULTING AND IT AIMS ARE TO MOVE STRATEGICALLY UP THE VALUE CHAIN.
OUR REUSABLE CRATE MANAGEMENT BUSINESS IS EXPANDING RAPIDLY.
Rudolph Tagoe foreground Stephen Smith background Hays plc 18 Hays Asset Control Solutions REVIEW OF OPERATIONS IN A GENERALLY DEPRESSED MARKET, HAYS LOGISTICS MADE SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS ON THE CONTINENT.
IN COMMON WITH THE REST OF THE INDUSTRY, WE ENJOYED MIXED SUCCESS IN THE UK.
from left to right Jerry Austen-Smith Bernard Thvenin John Lloyd Rui Marques Peter McLoughlin Patrick Ppin Yvan Salamon Business Sector Director, Finance Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Business Sector Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Hays Logistics UK and Hays Logistics Hays Logistics, Hays Logistics Spain, Hays Asset Control Hays Logistics, France Consulting Benelux France Consumer, Italy and Iveco Contract Solutions Retail and Greece Germany and Poland Hays plc 19 Key events of the year Important new business wins Successful crate management start-up in USA Significant progress in Hays Argon and Hays DSIA Strengthened relationship with Carrefour Strong growth in the retail sector in Continental Europe Hays Logistics in Continental Europe made substantial progress, despite tough market conditions, whereas Hays Logistics in the UK suffered in common with the rest of the industry.
In total, Hays Logistics achieved an operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 45.7 million on sales of 880.2 million.
By offering our customers a unique combination of consulting, IT and operational skills, Hays Logistics has become a market leader in the re-engineering and subsequent management of highly complex supply chains.
During the year we strengthened partnerships with blue chip customers such as Carrefour, Daikin, Danone, Orange, Kimberly Clark, Renault, Sara Lee, Scottish Courage, Unilever and Waitrose.
We also gained several important new customers including France Telecom, Energizer and Virgin Retail.
Such successes confirm that major customers recognise the benefits of working with Hays Logistics in the management of complex supply chains.
The strength of relationships founded upon high quality critical services assures Hays Logistics of a long-term income stream from these contracts.
Meanwhile, we are continuing to sub-contract low margin commodity operations such as transport to other service providers.
Hays Asset Control Solutions, our crate management business, has expanded significantly both in the UK and in Holland.
The 250 million seven-year Sainsburys contract is now fully operational with a pool of over eight million returnable crates, and we have won further crate management contracts with Budgens, Safeway and Waitrose.
Hays Container Services, Inc. has now started crate operations in the USA for eleven Wal-Mart suppliers and is currently negotiating with a further ten.
Although this development is still at the launch phase, the profit potential is considerable.
During the year both Hays Argon consulting and Hays DSIA IT made significant progress.
Hays Argon now has offices in Italy and Benelux as well as France, with plans to establish a presence in other major European countries shortly.
Hays DSIA won new contracts during the year with substantial customers, such as Nestl and Carrefour, and launched a new web-based tracking system specifically designed for chilled products.
At the end of the year our strategic partnership with i2 was extended for a further two years and Hays Argon became a premium integrator for the whole range of i2 supply chain software.
Discussions have continued between Hays Fourth Party Solutions Hays 4PS and a number of blue chip companies about designing and implementing fourth party solutions.
As a result, a Hays 4PS pilot project will be launched in Benelux on behalf of one of these companies later this year.
There was a further decline in Hays Retail Support and other network operations.
The market for the storage and distribution of shop fittings is weakening due to shorter product life and the availability of cheaper alternatives, exacerbated by cost pressures on the retail sector at large.
Financial Highlights 2002 2001 Turnover 880.2m 880.9m Operating Profit 45.7m 52.6m Operating net assets 311.9m 292.9m Employees average number 14,499 14,981 before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Hays plc 20 Hays Logistics and Orange Previous experience is a big advantage when it comes to winning business.
And so it proved when Hays Logistics in Continental Europe recently won a three-year contract from France Telecom Terminaux, which is principally involved with purchasing and logistics activities of Orange mobile phones.
Hays is already the biggest provider of logistics management services in the UK mobile telecoms sector.
We have been working for Orange since the launch of their UK network in 1994.
The advice which our UK planning team were able to give their French colleagues, based on eight years practical experience, played a key part in securing the contract.
One of Hays great strengths is that we are well placed to leverage our expertise not only between markets in different countries, but between different divisions within the Group.
Given our strategy of targeting blue chip customers, it is no coincidence that Hays Commercial and Hays Personnel have also won contracts with Orange.
Elisabeth Ly Hays Logistics France Hays plc 21
