Commercial WE ARE BUILDING ON OUR EXISTING STRENGTHS, NOTABLY IN INFORMATION MANAGEMENT, BILLING, CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT AND OFFSHORE PROCESSING.
COMMERCIAL IS NOW MANAGING WHOLE OFFICE PROCESSES, NOT JUST SINGLE FUNCTIONS.
IN THE SPECIALIST AREAS IN WHICH WE OPERATE, CONTINUED INVESTMENT IN NEW TECHNOLOGIES IS CRITICAL TO OUR SUCCESS.
Chamila Maduwanthi Kumari Hays plc 12 Hays Document Management REVIEW OF OPERATIONS THE REORGANISATION OF HAYS IMS IS ON SCHEDULE AND THE FOCUS ON IMPROVED SERVICE IS ALREADY PRODUCING RESULTS.
from left to right Mike Rodwell Teddy Megarbane Mick Harrison Les Cassells Stephen Booth Mark Underwood Malcolm Mottram Managing Director, Business Sector Director, Finance Director, Managing Director, Business Sector Director, Business Sector Director, Managing Director, Hays Consulting Hays Commercial Hays Commercial Hays Commercial Hays Information Hays Commercial UK Hays Consulting & Solutions NMIS Continental Europe Management Solutions and Offshore & Solutions Strategic Consulting Hays plc 13 Key events of the year Investment in a new Hays IMS facility in London Hays IMS wins a facilities management contract with DTI Major contracts renewed in Hays Document Technologies Hays Customer Solutions wins new contact centre contract Growth in offshore processing contracts In a difficult year for the business, Hays Commercial made an operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 27.6 million on sales of 227.5 million.
The reorganisation of our information management solutions business, Hays IMS, is on schedule, with the new senior team implementing a programme to move customers records to a small number of large, modern and well located storage sites and installing best-in-class IT systems.
Our focus on improved service and customer care is already producing results.
We have been awarded a 10 million contract with the DTI for the facilities management of their records centres and central enquiry service and a 3 million fiveyear contract to manage the records of a global pharmaceutical organisation.
We are investing 6.7 million in a new facility, at the heart of Londons financial centre.
This will allow Hays IMS to exit a number of smaller, less efficient premises and consolidate its operations in this purpose built centre.
Opening in January 2003, it will eventually hold up to 2.2 million records in box, file, and magnetic tape formats.
Insight, a Hays developed web-enabled ordering, tracking and information system, will be implemented across the business by the end of December 2002, and will link to a newly introduced data centre IT system, providing bar coding and tracking capability.
At Hays Consulting & Solutions, the National Management Information System NMIS framework agreement with the Police Information Technology Organisation PITO has led to further losses in the second half of the year, reflecting delays in take-up and the underutilisation of specialist consultants.
A total of 17 Forces are currently at various stages of implementing NMIS, with one implementation completed.
Discussions with PITO on a revised roll out plan are expected to reach a conclusion by the end of September 2002, when a revised implementation timetable will be launched jointly by Hays Consulting & Solutions and PITO.
Hays Document Technologies has just successfully renewed two large scale billing contracts with major mobile phone operators.
In the coming year we shall invest in advanced technologies including continuous print, highlighted colour, and more efficient enclosing equipment, to allow us to address growing demand for outsourced print fulfilment in the financial services market.
Hays Customer Solutions has won a new contact centre contract for the UK operation of a large US-based retailer, expanding our range of services both in the UK and in Continental Europe.
In Hays Document Management, we successfully renewed two long-term contracts, one a three-year 8 million back office processing contract for a large retail banking operation in Central Europe, the other a seven-year 7 million contract providing a range of data capture and information management services for one of the UKs largest public sector agencies.
Both rely on high levels of accuracy and reliability and are delivered by our offshore data processing facilities in Eastern Europe and Asia.
Our Asian offshore operations have been working with a number of key clients to develop a new range of IT-enabled real-time and voice operations.
We believe our offshore capability offers a major opportunity for growth in existing services, as well as in more sophisticated activities such as finance and accounting, and customer relationship management.
Financial Highlights 2002 2001 Turnover 227.5m 222.7m Operating Profit 27.6m 36.9m Operating net assets 119.4m 113.3m Employees average number 5,843 5,473 before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Hays plc 14 Hays Customer Solutions and British Gas Hays Customer Solutions is a prime example of the Groups ability to turn a one-off opportunity into a new business, drawing on the skills and resources of several divisions.
In 1997 Hays Personnel was appointed by British Gas to set up, staff and manage a call and process centre to handle customer demand for the supply of gas and electricity.
Initially this was a single contract operated by a small team from Hays Personnel and British Gas.
Today the operation is run from our own 700-seat contact centre in Leicester and involves incoming and outgoing communications by mail, telephone, e-mail and other interactive electronic media.
Valuable technological input also comes from Hays Document Management, who provide scanning and data-capture services.
Not only has our work for British Gas expanded greatly over the last few years, Hays Customer Solutions now provides services to more than 20 other blue chip customers, mainly on long-term contracts.
Bwezhani Ndhlovu Hays Customer Solutions Hays plc 15
