Board of Directors from left to right Back: Christopher Taylor, Graham Williams, Xavier Urbain, Neil McLachlan, Stephen Charnock.
Front: Lesley Knox, Denis Waxman, Bob Lawson, Brian Wallace, Pierre Danon.
Hays plc 24 OUR BOARD HAS BEEN GREATLY STRENGTHENED BY THE APPOINTMENT OF COLIN MATTHEWS AS CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER WITH EFFECT FROM 1 NOVEMBER 2002 AND BY THE APPOINTMENTS OF PIERRE DANON AND LESLEY KNOX AS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS.
Bob Lawson, 57, Chairman Christopher Taylor, 61, Non-Executive Director Appointed Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee on 1 July 2001, Appointed Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in December following Ronnie Frosts retirement.
Joined Hays plc as a Non-Executive Director on 1995 and is a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is a 1 July 1998 and became Deputy Chairman on 11 November 1999.
A qualified director of DBS Management plc and was previously a director of JBA Holdings plc and engineer with an MBA, his career has spanned several United Kingdom and The Economist Newspaper Limited.
Prior to that he was Finance Director of Smiths Continental groups, including three years as Managing Director of Vitec Group plc and Industries plc.
more recently 10 years as Chief Executive of Electrocomponents plc, where he Xavier Urbain, 45, Executive Director remains Non-Executive Chairman.
Chief Executive of France Distribution Systems SA FDS at the time it was acquired by Colin Matthews, 46, Chief Executive Officer Hays in August 1997, he was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director on 14 July The Company has announced the appointment of Colin Matthews as a Director and as 1998.
Before the acquisition of FDS by Hays, he had worked for 11 years at a senior level Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 November 2002.
He joins the Company from in the Mayne Nickless Group and the SDV Scac Delmas Vieljeux Group.
Prior to that he Lattice Group plc where he was the Executive Director responsible for managing had worked in logistics with Auchan in France and in finance with Deloitte & Touche.
Transco, the owner and operator of Britains gas pipeline network.
He had previously Brian Wallace, 48, Non-Executive Director held senior positions with British Airways and General Electric USA.
He is a Chartered Engineer and has an MBA from INSEAD.
Appointed Non-Executive Director on 5 March 2001, he is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and is now Senior Independent Director in Pierre Danon, 46, Non-Executive Director accordance with the Combined Code.
He is Deputy Chief Executive of the Hilton Group Appointed Non-Executive Director on 27 November 2001, he is a member of the Audit, plc and has been Finance Director of the Hilton Group plc since 1995.
Prior to that he Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is a director of BT Group plc and Chief was Group Finance Director of Geest plc.
A qualified civil engineer with a Masters in Law and an MBA, he Denis Waxman, 55, Executive Director was previously President of Xerox Europe and was also a Governor of the European Foundation for Quality Management.
Appointed Executive Director on 10 March 1998 having previously been the Business Sector Director responsible for the Hays Personnel core activity.
He has been Managing Lesley Knox, 49, Non-Executive Director Director of Hays Personnel Services since the business was acquired by the Group in Appointed Non-Executive Director on 30 April 2002, she is Chairman of the 1986 and was one of the original founder directors of that business in 1969.
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
She Graham Williams, 59, Executive Director is a founding director of the investment bank British Linen Advisers and is also a NonExecutive Director of Glenmorangie plc, HMV Group plc, MFI Furniture Group plc and the Appointed Executive Director in 1987.
A qualified accountant with an MBA from INSEAD.
She was previously a director of Kleinwort Benson.
Having joined Hays as Finance Director, he subsequently held a number of executive positions.
Before joining Hays he spent ten years with Charterhouse in the UK and Neil McLachlan, 41, Group Finance Director France.
He was also a founding director of Barclays Private Equity in 1979 where he Joined the Group in 1993 and was responsible for management of the Groups finance later became Deputy Managing Director.
function prior to his appointment to the Board as Group Finance Director on 1 March Stephen Charnock, 46, Company Secretary 1999.
He is a qualified accountant and has held senior financial posts in the retail, property and consulting sectors.
Appointed Company Secretary on 1 January 1998, he is a qualified solicitor and head of the Group legal team.
Prior to joining Hays in 1991 he had held similar positions at Whitbread plc and Automotive Products plc.
