The automated beverage dispense unit saves labour and improves order accuracy in quick service restaurants.
Pioneering beverage dispense Cornelius is the world leader in creating and providing provide innovative solutions of the highest quality.
still and carbonated beverage dispense solutions for The completion of a 16-month project to transfer beverage brand owners, retailers and restaurants.
This nearly 40 per cent of component production from the clear leadership position was consolidated during the US and Europe to Mexico and China marked the year through the introduction of a number of new culmination of a period of significant transition for products, many of them focused on the rapidly Cornelius.
This project will maintain performance, growing sector of frozen or extra cold beverages.
quality and delivery at lower cost.
In addition to the Investment in our core technologies of valves, transfer of component production, material cost refrigeration and sanitisation was also accelerated reductions were also achieved through new outduring the year, ensuring that we can continue to sourcing initiatives.
Cornelius delivers value through innovation and support for our automation projects that save us time and money Bernard Morauw Senior Director World Wide Equipment Systems McDonalds Corporation 12 retail dispense Cornelius plays a key role in our success.
A joint focus on innovation at the customer interface and beneath the bar enables us to give the best customer experience through our brands Stewart Gilliland Chief Executive Officer, Interbrew UK Ltd Managing our parts distribution more effectively has also been a high priority.
Our on-line Bevcore business is now well established and has considerable potential for cumulative growth into the broader food service market.
Significant revenue increases were achieved during the year, with a major US convenience store chain upgrading and expanding its entire frozen carbonated beverage offering, and strong activity in the UK pub sector.
13 IMI plc Annual Report 2002 This counter top display far left created for Quaker Oats by our Display Technologies business helps to sell nutritional snacks and reinforce the Quaker brand.
The interactive display left enables GE to promote a new light bulb concept in a demanding market.
Driving impulse purchase A significant percentage of all purchase decisions are Over the last two years we have added significantly to our made entirely on impulse.
Certain products are highly original business Cannon, acquiring Display Technologies influenced by the impulse decision, most notably in 2001 and, most recently, DCI in August 2002.
Customer confectionery, beverages, cosmetics and magazines, facing activities across the three businesses are being cobut also more expensive items such as game consoles ordinated, bringing a significant increase in the range and and car accessories.
Over the years we have sophistication of our products and service offers.
established a detailed understanding of consumer The acquisition of DCI Marketing was an important purchasing habits.
Our business is to create effective strategic achievement, adding valuable research merchandising displays which both optimise this capability, outstanding design processes and expertise in impulse purchase effect and reduce the labour costs of marketing services, to our core competencies.
DCI is a stock rotation handling.
Our customer list includes market-leader in developing multi-material displays, many of the worlds leading consumer products interactive kiosks and in-store category zones for retail companies and retailers.
environments, which enhance the clients image and 14 retail dispense custom-designed displays, comprehensive marketing services and dealer training programmes enable us to help riders fulfil their dreams of the perfect motorcycling experience Jim Cotton Director of Service Operations, Harley Davidson provide a positive purchasing experience.
DCIs substantial market penetration in the automotive, gaming, and telecommunications segments, complements Cannons considerable presence in the food, beverage and grocery retail markets.
Close, collaborative relationships with our clients ensure that merchandising objectives are successfully executed.
Being a trusted advisor and recognised as the merchandising expert and vendor of choice within our target industry segments will lead to organic growth, but we also continue to seek complementary acquisitions that will add additional market presence and capacity.
