The years results The Group has now constituted a European Works The Group profit and loss account is shown on page 40.
Council which meets at least once a year to exchange Group profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill views on trans-national issues facing the Group in the amortisation amounted to 99.3 million 2001 : 81.5 relevant EU member states.
million and profit before taxation amounted to The Annual Report is available to all employees.
Earnings applicable Company operates an All Employee Share Ownership to shareholders of IMI plc amounted to 55.4 million Plan covering UK employees of certain operations, 2001 : 64.5 million.
under which a bonus can be awarded to employees in shares and employees can acquire additional shares in Dividends a tax efficient manner.
A savings-related share option The directors recommend a final dividend at the rate of scheme, which is available to the majority of UK 9.5p per share on the ordinary share capital payable on employees, has operated since 1984.
An executive 27 May 2003 to shareholders on the register at the share option scheme, available to selected executives, close of business on 11 April 2003.
Together with the including executive directors, has operated since 1985 interim dividend of 6.0p per share paid on 21 October and a long term incentive plan for senior executives 2002, this final dividend brings the total distribution for was introduced in 2002. the year to 15.5p per share 2001 : 15.5p per share.
The Group encourages its operating units to train and Shareholders funds develop employees at all levels and a wide range of Shareholders funds increased from 490.7 million to business-related education and training opportunities 527.9 million at 31 December 2002. are made available.
It is Group policy to promote equal Principal activities opportunities in employment consistent with the During 2002 the Groups businesses were organised requirements of the countries in which the Group under the following main classes: Fluid Controls, Retail operates.
The policy extends to employees and Dispense and Building Products.
Subsidiary companies applicants for employment and requires companies operating within these classes of businesses are listed in the Group to seek to eliminate discrimination and on pages 68 and 69.
The turnover, profit and capital communicate and promote the policy to all employees.
employed attributable to each of these classes of Chief executives of operating units have responsibility business are shown in note 1 on page 47. for complying with the policy and each employee is required to participate in the policy.
Every effort is Review of activities made to ensure that applications for employment from The activities of the Group in 2002, together with disabled persons are fully and fairly considered and that indications of likely future developments, are reviewed disabled employees have equal opportunity in training on pages 2 to 25.
Details of acquisitions and disposals and promotion.
As a matter of longstanding policy, are given in notes 1 to 3 on pages 47 and 48. where appropriate, all employees who become Research and development disabled have been given suitable training for Expenditure on research and development in the year employment within the Group or elsewhere.
The Group was 28.0 million compared with 23.8 million in 2001. also supports charities for assisting disabled people Share capital into work.
During the year 706,048 new ordinary shares were Health, safety and the environment issued under employee share schemes.
The Company It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working has been notified of the following substantial interests conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with 3% or more in its issued share capital: regard to the environment.
A summary of the Groups AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 3.94% environmental policies and performance is set out on Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 3.38% pages 20 and 21 and further information is available on Standard Life Investments 3.00% our website - www.
com Employment policies Policy and practice on the payment of The Group continues to support employee involvement trade creditors at all levels in the organisation.
Formal joint Operating units are responsible for making their consultative machinery is operated in all except the suppliers aware of the terms of payment and agreeing smallest units where it is strongly encouraged on an such terms with their suppliers for each business informal basis.
During the year consultative transaction.
It is Group policy that payments to arrangements, including formal committees and team suppliers are made in accordance with these terms.
briefings, were used to consider and discuss employees The Company is not a trading entity.
views, to develop understanding of business aims, to Donations increase awareness of financial and economic factors 360,000 was given during 2002 for community and affecting performance, and to improve effectiveness.
similar purposes including 306,000 for charitable 28 Directors report directors report purposes.
The Group supports a range of selected and, for the first time, a resolution for the approval and national charities and smaller charitable organisations adoption of the remuneration report.
The special operating in communities where the Group has a business of the meeting relates to the renewal of presence.
A sizeable proportion of total donations powers for the Company to issue shares for cash and went into education including establishments in purchase its own shares, as further described below.
In the arts, IMI is a The directors consider it advisable to seek a renewal of founder patron of Symphony Hall, Birmingham, and the power to make rights issues in the most practical sponsors the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra manner and to make limited issues of shares for cash and the Birmingham Royal Ballet.
IMI also supports without first offering them to existing shareholders on a numerous community art and welfare Groups.
Special Resolution B1 as set out in the donations to political parties were made during notice of meeting will, if approved, authorise the the year.
directors to make rights issues in a straightforward manner up to the limit of their power of allotment and Directors otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a nominal value The directors whose names appear on page 26 were of 4,400,000, which represents just under 5% of the directors throughout the year except for Mr J W Leng, total ordinary share capital in issue at 10 March 2003. who was appointed on 1 December 2002.
Under the Renewal of the authority for the Company to purchase Companys articles of association, Mr B L Staples and Mr its own shares will also be sought at the forthcoming M J Lamb retire by rotation and are recommended for annual general meeting.
Special Resolution B2 as set re-election at the annual general meeting to be held on out in the notice of meeting will, if approved, grant 16 May 2003.
In addition, Mr J W Leng will be standing power to effect market purchases of ordinary shares up for re-election at that meeting, being the first annual to a nominal value of 8,800,000, which represents just general meeting since his appointment.
Biographical under 10% of the total ordinary share capital in issue, details appear on page 26.
Mr B L Staples and Mr J W at a price not exceeding 105% of the average of the Leng are non-executive directors and do not have a middle market prices over the five business days service contract.
Mr M J Lamb is an executive director immediately preceding the day of purchase.
The and has a service contract terminable on one years directors believe it would be advantageous to have the notice.
flexibility this authority will provide, although they have Directors interests no present intention to exercise it and would only do The interests of the persons including the interests of so if satisfied that any purchase is in the interests of their families who were directors at the end of the year shareholders and will result in an increase in earnings in the share capital of the Company, and their interests per share.
No shares have been purchased by the in the Companys share option schemes, are shown on Company under similar powers granted in prior years.
The powers to be granted under these two special Directors responsibilities for the financial resolutions would expire fifteen months after they are statements passed or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the annual The directors are required to prepare financial general meeting of the Company to be held in 2004. statements for each financial period which comply with Auditor the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and give a Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit plc true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Board and the Group as at the end of the accounting period to determine the auditors remuneration are to be and of the profit or loss for that period.
Suitable proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
accounting policies, consistently applied, supported by Registered office reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, The Companys headquarters and registered office will have been used in the preparation of the financial be relocating to the Birmingham Business Park in statements and applicable accounting standards have April 2003. been followed.
The directors are responsible for maintaining adequate By order of the Board accounting records, for safeguarding the assets of the John OShea Company Secretary Company and the Group, and for taking reasonable 10 March 2003 steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Annual general meeting Notice of the forthcoming annual general meeting is set out on pages 72 and 73.
The ordinary business of the annual general meeting includes the usual matters 29 IMI plc Annual Report 2002
