Designed to operate with steam temperatures as high as 1060F 573C at very high pressures, this steam conditioning valve is part of a major order for the Al Hidd 2 desalination plant in Bahrain.
Controlling critical processes Power, petrochemical, oil and gas, pulp and paper three-year sole supplier agreement for turbine bypass facilities depend on high integrity control systems for valves with the Calpine Corporation.
CCIs global resources and We designed the worlds largest steam conditioning engineering expertise in severe service valves minimise valve in 2002.
Measuring five metres 16 feet tall, this risk in the handling of potentially corrosive liquids substantial order is a critical component for the Al Hidd 2 being used at high temperatures, pressures and Power and Desalination Plant in Bahrain.
Investments in new technology were increased during We continued to develop close relationships with our the year.
CCI launched its latest severe service valve customers around the world.
The renewal of a global design for oil and gas applications, the rotary DRAG.
purchasing agreement with Mitsubishi Heavy With the high capacity of a rotary valve and our proven Industries MHI confirmed CCI as MHIs global supplier multistage technology, the new valve avoids any tradefor turbine bypass valve solutions.
This agreement was off between valve capacity and performance.
Other major orders include technological accomplishments have resulted in valves for the Yong Hung Power Plant in Korea and a significant orders as plant operators recognise that 6 fluid controls CCI advanced control valves enable us to store safely very large volumes of natural gas and then deliver this clean energy source, on demand, to our clients Larry Whitaker Technical Supervisor, Enstor efficient control valves minimise production costs and increase long-term reliability.
CCI has continued to develop operational capacity to meet increasing demand, and we opened new factories in Mexico and the Czech Republic.
The combination of CCIs customer knowledge, technology and expertise promises many growth opportunities.
7 IMI plc Annual Report 2002 Successful new developments from Norgren include VM10 high performance system valve technology far left.
The Air Management Unit left has been developed for Freightliner's new generation Business Class M2 trucks.
Delivering machine power Our Fluid Power business, Norgren, provides a broad The streamlining of our market-facing activities in range of sophisticated pneumatic and fluid control Europe and the USA has made significant progress.
With the focus shifting gradually to major With new manufacturing operations in Mexico and the Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs, Norgren has Czech Republic and various purchasing initiatives, this the expertise and technical resources to develop rapid, is helping us to maintain a competitive cost structure.
innovative cost-effective solutions to meet increasingly Through our key account managers, we are continually specific and technical applications.
These leading increasing the value we deliver to our OEM customers global customers account for a growing proportion of by developing an intimate understanding of their our sales.
diverse needs and operating environments.
During 2002 Norgren has strengthened and consolidated its global engineering resources by focusing on the development of differentiated platform products such as the new range of 10 mm valve islands and sector-specific solutions such as the air management unit developed for Freightliner illustrated here.
8 fluid controls Norgrens expertise in on-board technology is helping us deliver improved vehicle uptime and reliability to our truck customers Michael von Mayenburg Senior Vice President, Engineering & Technology, Freightliner LLC.
As a result, Norgrens customers continue to benefit from improved machine performance and productivity, leading to an increase in their revenues and profitability.
The onward drive towards industrial automation, coupled with the advantages of compressed air as a clean and reliable energy source, fuel the global demand for pneumatic components and systems.
Norgren is increasingly well-positioned to respond to this long-term growth opportunity.
9 IMI plc Annual Report 2002 The Norway headquarters of leading telecommunications company, Telenor, exterior, left and interior, main picture an important customer for IMI's Indoor Climate team in 2002.
Perfecting indoor climate Our Indoor Climate business develops outstanding development of a service and commissioning indoor climate products and services, to provide capability, established through a series of acquisitions comfortable energy-efficient environments inside including Asterm in France in June 2002, and most buildings.
recently Commtech in the UK in February 2003, has The emphasis is increasingly on system design greatly enhanced our full package offer for large knowledge, commissioning skills and project commercial customers.
management relationships to ensure that retailers, The adoption of sophisticated key account hotel chains and other building managers can management techniques, both in targeting customers optimise their facilities for comfort and efficiency.
and delivering high added value solutions, is Our TA and Heimeier product brands have established transforming sales efficiency and allowing us to take market leadership positions in both commercial and full advantage of a unique product, service and domestic end user applications.
10 fluid controls IMIs Indoor Climate team has helped us to deliver the right working environment for our employees Petter Russ Technical Director, Telenor Eiendom Operational improvements in the year, including rationalisation activities in Germany, the outsourcing of commodity production from Sweden to Estonia and global purchasing programmes, have helped to maintain healthy returns.
