left to right: Robert Dyrbus, Gareth Davis, Manfred Hussler and Derek Bonham.
14 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUING TO DELIVER PROFITABLE GROWTH significant growth in our international business.
I am pleased to report that Imperial Tobacco has again delivered a record Adjusted profit on ordinary activities before tax was up 26% to 642m 2001: performance in the most significant year of progress since our listing as a 509m, after charging 147m net interest 2001: 110m.
This increase in public company.
The Group has successfully continued to pursue its strategy the interest charge included the debt financing of the Reemtsma and of international growth through targeted organic expansion and acquisitions.
Tobaccor acquisitions offset by cash flow from existing operations.
The acquisition of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, completed in May These results have delivered basic earnings per share of 41.0p 2001: 56.6p 2002, marked a step change in the Groups development, promoting Imperial and adjusted earnings per share of 68.4p, an increase of 16% on 2001.
Tobacco into the top tier of global tobacco manufacturers as the worlds fourth largest international tobacco company.
This acquisition has transformed DIVIDEND Imperial Tobacco, creating a Group with a balanced international geographic spread, a comprehensive brand and product portfolio, with enhanced Your Directors are recommending a final dividend of 23.0p per share, making opportunities to deliver top line growth and increased operational efficiencies, a total dividend for the year of 33.0p, adjusted for the impact of the rights fully congruent with our strategic criteria for acquisitions.
This represents an increase of 4.2p per share, or 15% on the total 2001 dividend adjusted for the bonus element of the rights issue in April 2002 and demonstrates our continuing commitment to growing REEMTSMA ACQUISITION AND FINANCING dividends broadly in line with underlying earnings.
The acquisition of Reemtsma has significantly affected the reported results for The dividend will be paid on 21 February 2003 to shareholders on the the year.
The operating profit generated by Reemtsma 107m was offset by register at the close of business on 24 January 2003. goodwill amortisation 62m and interest in relation to the debt element of the acquisition funding 52m.
The balance of the acquisition funding was by way of a two for five discounted rights issue which was approved by shareholders on CONTINUED GROWTH 8 April 2002 and completed successfully, with a 97% take-up, at the end of April.
Creating shareholder value through continued growth is a fundamental This has increased the number of shares in issue from 521m to 729m, such that feature of our corporate strategy.
In 2002, significant progress was made by: the effective weighted average shares for the year to September 2002 was 663m.
The historic share base has been adjusted from 521m shares to 624m shares, The successful acquisition of Reemtsma, which transformed the Group resulting in earnings per share and dividend per share for prior years being by substantially enhancing its scale and growth profile.
restated to reflect the bonus element of the discounted rights issue.
In addition, Extending cigarette market leadership in the UK, complemented by the Groups results for 2002 included exceptional charges for the restructuring robust performances in other product groups.
of the business following the Reemtsma acquisition and exceptional finance charges following the refinancing of the acquisition debt facilities of 33m, The successful integration of Tobaccor and enhanced performance from principally relating to the write-off of facility arrangement fees.
the strong portfolio of acquired brands.
Focused investment in brands and infrastructure internationally, 2002 PERFORMANCE delivering continued organic growth.
The Groups continued strong progress in 2002, incorporating four and a half Realising efficiency gains across the business, generated by manufacturing months trading results from Reemtsma, was reflected in a record adjusted restructuring and cost control.
operating profit of 789m before amortisation and exceptional charges, up 27% on the 2001 adjusted operating profit of 619m, with turnover excluding duty up 51% to 2,219m.
The UK, our traditional home market, delivered a powerful performance complemented by another year of.
