21 5 Trevor T aylor 7 Simon Robertson a b c 9 Ken Hanna a b Non-executive Deputy Chairman Senior independent Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age 49.
Joined the Inchcape Board in Age 65.
Joined the Group in 1987 as Age 62.
Joined the Inchcape Board September 2001.
Ken Hanna is a Chartered Deputy Managing Director of Toyota GB, in May 1996.
He was formerly Chairman of Accountant.
He is a Partner of Compass becoming Chief Executive in 1993 and Kleinwort Benson Group plc.
He is currently Partners International Limited, which he Chief Executive of Inchcape Toyota Division President of Goldman Sachs Europe Limited joined in 1999.
Prior to this he was Group in 1995.
He joined the Inchcape Board and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs Finance Director of Dalgety now Sygen in January 1998 and resigned his executive International.
He is also a Non-executive Group plc, and Chief Executive from 1997 role with Toyota GB to become a Director of Invensys plc and Berry Bros. to 1999.
He has previous experience with Non-executive Director.
Guinness plc now Diageo plc, Avis Europe He was appointed Executive Deputy and Black & Decker.
Chairman on 1 July 1999 and became a 8 Raymond Chien Non-executive Director and Non-executive Non-executive Director Deputy Chairman on 1 February 2001, Age 51.
Joined the Inchcape Board in having relinquished his executive July 1997.
Raymond Chien is Chairman of responsibilities.
He was previously with the Hong Kong Japan Business Co-operation Ford Motor Company and the Rover Group.
Committee and the Advisory Committee on Corruption of the Independent Commission 6 Hugh Norton a b c Against Corruption.
He is also Chairman Non-executive Director of HSBC Private Equity Asia Limited, Age 66.
Joined the Inchcape Board Executive Chairman of china.
He was formerly a as well as Chairman of its subsidiary, Managing Director of the British Petroleum hongkong.
com Corporation, and is a Company plc.
He is a Non-executive Director Non-executive Director of the Hongkong of Standard Chartered plc.
and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Holdings plc, Inmarsat Ventures plc and the MTR Corporation Limited.
He was a member of the Executive Council of the 8 Hong Kong Special Administrative Region from 1997 to 2002.
