03 Board changes Recovery in the Hong Kong market is I am delighted to welcome Graeme not expected in the short term, however, Achievement Potts to Inchcape.
He joined the Board on our actions to reduce costs during 2002 should 10 September 2002 as Managing Director result in yet another robust performance for Inchcape UK and Europe having previously from this business.
held the positions of Group Managing The market should continue to grow Group financial performance Director of RAC Motoring Services and, in Singapore helping offset any margin With an increase in Headline profit before tax before goodwill amortisation and exceptional prior to that, Chief Executive of Reg Vardy plc.
pressure from competitors new product items of 12.4% and Headline earnings per share Graeme brings with him a wealth of motor introductions.
up 31.1%, this years result has yet again been retail and business services experience from The excellent strategic progress made outstanding.
which the Group will undoubtedly benefit.
in recent years, the strength of our OEM Our performance over the last three years has seen us win the European Automotive Shareholder partnerships and the robust operational Value Award presented by , Current trading and prospects base that has been established demonstrate in conjunction with Automotive News Europe.
The UK car market for 2003 is forecast that this is a high quality cash generative This award recognises the highest total at 2.38m units, a reduction from 2002 but business.
We are well placed to exploit shareholder return for automotive vehicle retail still the third highest market ever recorded.
changes arising in our industry and 2003 distributors over a three year period.
In UK Retail we will see the benefits of the should show further progress for Inchcape.
Investing in the brands full year operation of our new MercedesSustaining excellent performances and strong Benz market area.
market positions requires investment and in continue the gradual improvement seen in the year the Group invested in new facilities in Greece, Australia, Singapore and the UK.
A cost reduction These investments will help enhance the quality programme, undertaken during the last year, of our businesses and drive growth for the future.
will result in improved performances from Sir John Egan our Leasing and alternate channels to market Chairman businesses.
Overall the recovery seen in 2002 3 March 2003 in the UK is expected to continue despite our estimate that the 2003 pension charge will increase by around 3.0m to 4.0m.
In Greece and Belgium our Toyota businesses will benefit from improved supply of the new Corolla, the launch of the new Avensis and the much improved diesel variants in Belgium, which should offset the Manufacturer relationships The strength of our manufacturer relationships is projected market declines.
very important to the Group.
During the year we Australia will benefit from a full years enhanced our relationship with Toyota by taking contribution from our Subaru business in full ownership of IML in Singapore.
expanded our relationship with Mercedes-Benz in the UK through the award of a large market area and in Australia we completed the development of our Melbourne project, Subaru Docklands.
Our relationships have longevity and strength and this gives us the confidence that, overall, the Group will benefit from the recent changes to European Block Exemption.
Market success In Hong Kong, Singapore and Greece we achieved overall market leadership in 2002.
As a result these businesses were awarded the prestigious Toyota Triple Crown Award.
This accolade is presented for overall market leadership and leadership in the passenger car and light commercial vehicle segments.
Crown Motors, our exclusive Toyota Lexus retailer in Hong Kong, has won this award for eleven consecutive years and is the only company in the world to have done so.
