27 Remuneration policy Base salary The Committees policy, as approved by the Board, is underpinned This is based on the level of responsibility, experience, individual by the following principles: performance and salary levels in comparable companies.
the packages should be competitive when compared with Annual bonus those in organisations of similar size, complexity and type: During 2002, the Executive Directors participated in a bonus plan based on profit before tax, which yielded a bonus of 30.0% of base there should be a clear link between the level of remuneration salary at target and higher payments for performance above target and the performance of the Group and the individual, to the extent to a maximum of 70.0% of base salary.
The bonuses paid under that performance related elements should form a significant part of this plan for 2002 are shown in the table on page 30.
In 2003 executives total remuneration package: Peter Johnson and Alan Ferguson will participate in another target driven bonus plan, also based on profit before tax, which will the interests of the shareholders should be safeguarded have the same reward potential as under the 2002 arrangements by aligning the remuneration package of executives with described above.
Graeme Potts received a one off bonus payment shareholders interests: of 100,000, under the contractual agreement made when he joined the package as a whole should be easy to understand and the Company.
For 2003, his bonus will be based on the profit before motivating for the individual: and tax performance of the businesses for which he is responsible.
the composition of the package should reflect best practice among comparable companies.
Executive share options The Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan was approved by The Committee believes that performance related elements should shareholders in 1999.
Under the Plan, share options are granted form a significant part of executives total remuneration package.
to Executive Directors and certain other senior executives The remuneration packages for the Executive Directors are made throughout the Group.
The 2002 grant of options covered 247 up of both fixed and variable elements as described below.
In broad participants across the world.
terms, if the Group meets its target levels of performance, the As with previous option grants, the exercise of each option expected value of the variable elements will account for granted under the Plan in 2003 will be subject to a performance approximately 40.0% of the Executive Directors total remuneration target whereby growth in Company earnings per share EPS and, if the Group achieves outstanding results, approximately over a three year period must exceed the increase in the UK 65.0%.
If target performance levels are not met, then no pay out Retail Price Index over the same period by 3.0% per annum.
would be made under the incentive plans.
Total remuneration for The Committee has chosen this target to ensure that Executive these purposes comprises base salary, annual bonus and long term Directors only receive rewards if there is significant and sustained incentives.
improvement in the underlying financial performance of the The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors are Company as reflected in the share price.
EPS will normally be the made up of the following elements: earnings per ordinary share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the Companys reported accounts as this provides an independently verifiable measure.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee has the right to adjust the published EPS, as it considers appropriate.
Details of share options granted to Executive Directors in 2002 are shown in note 3 on pages 31 and 32.
