Contents 02 04 06 Chairmans statement Chief Executives review Operational review A summary of the years achievements and An outline of our strategy and the investments A detailed look at our operating performance by future growth opportunities made this year core market An international automotive services group Partnering Inchcape, as an international automotive services Our key manufacturer group, provides quality representation for its selected partners are Toyota Lexus, manufacturer partners, a choice of channels to market Subaru, Ferrari Maserati, and products for its retail customers and a range BMW and the Premier of business services for its corporate customers.
Operations are focused on the UK, Greece, Belgium, Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore.
Inchcapes activities include exclusive Import, Distribution and Retail, Business Services, automotive E-commerce and Financial Services.
Far reaching United Kingdom Belgium Hong Kong Inchcape offers a choice of products and Our Import and Distribution business in In Hong Kong we are the exclusive Importer channels to market and increasingly a range Belgium for Toyota Lexus has been part of and Retailer for Toyota Lexus, Hino, Jaguar, of Business Services, including logistics, the Group since 1979.
We sell over 25,000 Mazda and Peugeot.
Combined, these refurbishment and re-marketing, to cars per annum through a mainly independent franchises regularly achieve over 40.0% corporate customers.
In UK Retail we network of some 130 dealerships.
The Belgian of the market.
Our Crown Motors business are becoming more aligned to a number market is dominated by diesel products, has held the Toyota franchise since 1966 of selected specialist manufacturers which represent c. 64.0% of the market.
and Toyota has been market leader for including BMW, Toyota Lexus, the We also import and retail Ferrari Maserati over twelve years.
Premier Automotive Group of Ford PAG, vehicles in Belgium.
We also own 50.0% of Inchroy, Mercedes-Benz and Audi.
In Business a joint venture with Bank of America, Services we refurbish c. 90,000 nearly Australia a market leader in the provision of automotive new cars per annum and carry out over We have been the Subaru Importer and financial services.
500,000 transport movements on behalf Distributor in Australia for over ten years We were awarded the Daihatsu of our customers.
and are now also the sole retailer for franchise for this market with effect from Subaru in Melbourne, a territory which January 2003.
Greece represents some 20.0% of the Australian Inchcape has been the Importer and market.
Our facilities include our flagship Singapore Distributor in Greece for Toyota since site at Subaru Docklands where the brand We exclusively Import and Retail for 1987, now selling around 30,000 units per experience is fully demonstrated.
This is Toyota Lexus and Suzuki in Singapore.
We also provide a range of financial the worlds largest Subaru dealership.
Inchcapes market share in this territory products to the Toyota retail customer In Sydney we exclusively retail VW and comfortably exceeds 20.0%.
We have through our relationship with EFG Eurobank Jaguar through six dealerships and have held the Toyota franchise since 1967.
Ergasias, one of the leading banks in long term contracts with those manufacturers.
In this market we have to purchase, Greece.
In addition we retail Toyota Lexus We also represent Volvo and Subaru in the on the customers behalf, a Certificate of vehicles in Athens and Salonica.
We are in greater Sydney area.
In total this business sells Entitlement COE from the Government the process of expanding our Retail reach.
over 5,000 new and used cars per annum.
in order to buy a new vehicle.
Automotive Our Greek operation also holds retailers have to bid for them on a the Toyota distribution rights for Bulgaria, fortnightly basis.
