29 Chairman and other Non-executive Directors None of the Non-executive Directors are engaged on a service The Chairmans fees are determined by the other Non-executive contract with the Company.
Directors following recommendation from the senior independent Sir John Egans appointment was for an initial period of Non-executive Director.
The remuneration for Non-executive two years from 1 June 2000 and has now been extended by Directors consists of fees for their services in connection with agreement with him until 31 May 2004.
Board and Board committee meetings.
Non-executive Directors Policy on external appointments fees are determined by the Board, within the restrictions contained Inchcape recognises that its Executive Directors may well be in the Articles of Association.
Neither the Chairman nor the invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies, Non-executive Directors take part in the discussion or decision and that this additional experience is likely to benefit the Company.
Executive Directors are, therefore, allowed to accept one Fees are reviewed annually, with the Board taking advice from Non-executive appointment two in the case of the Group Towers Perrin on best practice and competitive levels, taking into Chief Executive as long as these are not likely to lead to account the individuals responsibilities and time commitment.
Any fees received for these duties may It is the policy of the Company, that neither the Chairman nor be retained by the Executive Director.
any of the other Non-executive Directors are eligible for pension scheme membership or participation in any of the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
Service contracts It is the policy of the Company for Executive Directors to have service contracts with a notice period of one year or less, in line with best practice.
Further, in the event of termination, the Company will seek fair mitigation of contractual rights.
Within legal constraints, the Remuneration Committee tailors its approach, in cases of early termination, to the circumstances of each individual case.
Each of the Executive Directors have service contracts with a notice period of one year, details of which are as follows: Name Date of contract Unexpired term Peter Johnson 1 January 1998 To normal retirement age Alan Ferguson 1 January 1999 To normal retirement age Graeme Potts 10 September 2002 To normal retirement age Their contracts include entitlements to compensation if their employment is terminated without proper notice by the Company within six months of a change of control.
In those circumstances, the compensation payable would not exceed the value of twelve months remuneration.
