25 Transactions with Directors Respect We respect all our stakeholders: our customers, principals, No transaction, arrangement or agreement required to be partners, employees, shareholders and we work hard to earn disclosed in terms of the Companies Act 1985 was outstanding their respect.
at 31 December 2002, or occurred during the year for any Director Results We set ourselves challenging targets and endeavour to and or connected person 2001 none.
Creditor payment policy We are dedicated to facilitating our employees development The Company is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions in every country and have established the Inchcape University, including terms of payment under which business transactions with a virtual university that all employees can access.
the Groups suppliers are conducted.
While the Company does not We communicate extensively with our employees regarding the follow any single external code or standard, in line with Inchcape business and issues affecting them and have a number of formal Group policy, payments to suppliers are made in accordance with and informal channels to do this.
The number of days purchases We are committed to providing a workplace free of outstanding as at 31 December 2002 in respect of our UK discrimination that gives equal opportunity to all our employees.
businesses, calculated by reference to the amount owed to trade creditors at the year end as a proportion of the amounts invoiced Environment by suppliers during the year, was 49 days 2001 51 days.
The Groups policy on environment, health and safety is shown on pages 18 and 19.
Corporate social responsibility The Company has established a Corporate Social Responsibility Annual General Meeting CSR Committee.
This Committee is chaired by the Group Chief The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00am on Thursday, Executive, who has responsibility for CSR at Board level, and 15 May 2003 at The Royal Automobile Club, 89-91 Pall Mall, London includes the Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary, SW1Y 5HS.
The notice convening the meeting and the resolutions the Director of Audit and Risk Management, the Human Resources to be put to the meeting, together with the explanatory notes, are Director and the Investor Relations Manager.
given in the circular to all shareholders which accompanies these The Companys report on key CSR areas is shown on pages Accounts.
16 and 17, Inchcape in the community, and on pages 18 and 19, The business of the meeting will include proposals to renew: Environment, health and safety.
The Company is conscious of the i existing authorities for Directors to allot securities in the importance of CSR and the Committee is looking at further ways in Company: and ii the Companys authority to purchase up to 10.0% which it may take forward the CSR programme, having particular of its own shares the Company currently has authority to purchase regard to the ABI guidelines which provide useful guidance in this up to 7,756,003 ordinary shares, approximately 10.0% of its issued respect.
Following the conversion of our auditors Charitable and political donations  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP In the UK, Inchcape and its subsidiaries have donated funds from 1 January 2003,  resigned on throughout the year totalling 0.1m 2001 0.1m.
Total charitable 27 February 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, donations made by the Group world-wide during the year were  LLP, as auditors.
No political donations were made in  LLP as auditors to the Company will be the year 2001 none.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Employment policy Inchcape recognises that our success depends on the quality, By order of the Board motivation and commitment of our employees in every country we operate in and at every level of the organisation.
The Groups employment policies and practices are designed to support these goals.
Inchcape is proud of our values, which are central to the way we work and which underpin our dealings with customers, our principals and our employees.
They are: Roy Williams Group Company Secretary Service We constantly seek to enhance our service standards for 3 March 2003 our customers and for the companies we represent.
Teamwork We work as a team within our individual businesses, across the Group as a whole and with our principals and partners.
Innovation We strive to remain at the forefront of our industry by anticipating market changes and developing new products and services.
