17 Our businesses in Hong Kong and Our colleagues in Belgium, together Caring Singapore contributed considerably to local with Toyota, subsidised the purchase of causes in 2002.
Crown Motors Ltd CML, 38 vehicles by the United Fund for Belgium.
Hong Kong, and Borneo Motors, Singapore, This is a local charity, which aims to improve came together for the thirteenth Toyota the quality of life for underprivileged and The drive to raise money in the UK Classics, an event aimed to promote the handicapped people in the country.
Our staff at an Inchcape Retail dealership in the arts and cultural exchanges throughout Asia.
Toyota Hellas in Greece encouraged UK won the Beaujolais Run, a driving event, in 2002 In total over 34,000 was raised for the staff to become involved in a number of for the third consecutive year.
The course begins Hong Chi Association, a charity that enables community projects.
These included a at the Brands Hatch circuit and finishes in Macon, the heart of the Beaujolais region in France, and mentally handicapped people to enjoy more fundraising effort for children with special requires competitors to drive the least amount fulfilling lives, and c. 15,000 was raised needs, which involved the construction of of miles possible between the two destinations.
for Beyond Social Services in Singapore, a new building to house workshops for The money raised, through drivers sponsorship, a social support programme for families, these children.
Toyota Hellas also donated amounted to over 4,000 and was donated to both the Great Ormond Street Childrens Hospital and children and the elderly.
CML has created a community spirit Inchcape and its UK subsidiaries donated amongst their staff by actively promoting 0.1m 2001 0.1m during the year to Hong Kong promote fundraising and cultural awareness.
Total charitable donations environmental awareness first ever Lexus Charity Golf day funds were made by the Group world-wide during 2002 Our Crown Motors business in Hong Kong organised raised for the Chinese Literacy Foundation, amounted to 0.2m 2001 0.1m.
an event, which combined fundraising with the promotion of environmental improvement.
which aims to provide educational opportunities In conjunction with a local environmental group, for children in very poor areas of rural China.
Eco Action, a dolphin watch boat trip was organised to see the magnificent Chinese white dolphins in their natural habitat.
The trip allowed guests to hear about green practices at Crown Motors whilst learning about the issues affecting the local marine conservation and what can be done to preserve local cultural heritage.
