05 OEM relationships across all our marques Our strategy with Ferrari Maserati is have been an important factor in our success.
to extend our Retail reach.
In the year we Investment Our most extensive relationship is with opened a new service workshop in Surrey Toyota with whom we continue to grow.
In 2002 we achieved market leadership in In the UK our key retail partners are all markets where we represent the brand, BMW and Toyota Lexus and we will seek Ferrari investment in the UK with the exception of Belgium where we further growth with these manufacturers.
During 2002 we opened the largest Ferrari Maserati service centre in the world.
This all-new, purposeincreased market share from 3.9% to 5.1%.
In addition our relationship with the Premier built facility in Surrey is dedicated to providing Toyotas new model programme Automotive Group of Ford is set to expand.
outstanding service to owners of both contemporary continues to gather pace and following We aim to represent between 5.0% and 10.0% models as well as classic Ferraris and Maseratis.
the successful launch in Europe of the of our key partners national sales volumes.
It is the only authorised service point in the UK equipped to service the F40, F50 and the brand Corolla, the new Avensis will be launched We will further leverage our OEM new Enzo model.
in mid 2003. relationships and the drive into Retail and We strengthened our partnership Business Services will be accelerated with in 2002 by further investing in the Toyota special emphasis on UK market opportunities.
brand with a complete refurbishment of our I look to the future with confidence.
facilities in Singapore, which will result in a There are challenges ahead but we have significant increase in our aftersales capacity.
built a strong platform and will continue In the UK we continue to invest and remain to move forward.
the largest Toyota Lexus dealer.
In Greece we moved into new retail premises in Athens and have further invested in Salonica, the second largest market.
We continue to look at expanding from our core markets into adjacent territories.
New service centre in Singapore The provision of excellent aftersales is critical for As an example, we have recently invested Peter Johnson customer satisfaction and is an important driver of in new Toyota sales and service facilities Group Chief Executive profits in Singapore.
During the year we invested in Sofia, Bulgaria.
We are also examining 3 March 2003 0.9m in a new service centre increasing the opportunities in China, a country which number of service bays by 30 to 202, an increase of over 17.0%.
will ultimately be the largest single growth market in Asia.
Maintaining and enhancing brand strength through investment has been a key focus of our strategy across the whole Group.
In 2002 we made a significant investment in our Subaru relationship with our new state-of-the-art facility in Melbourne, which is expected to retail in excess of 5,000 new and used vehicles in 2003.
Our 3.4% market share is the highest for the Subaru brand in any major market outside Japan.
Retail investment in Greece As part of the ongoing redevelopment of our Retail business in Greece, which includes further upgrading and improving the services offered to our customers, Toyota Hellas in Athens has consolidated their three small dealerships into a single prime site located on one of the most prestigious roads in the city.
Since opening in August 2002 the business, which incorporates the Lexus franchise, has seen an increase in both showroom visits and customer orders.
