28 Board report on remuneration continued Deferred Bonus Plan In the case of Executive Directors and certain other senior executives The Inchcape Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders in appointed after 1 June 1989 the benefits under the Inchcape Group 1999.
It is a voluntary plan available to Executive Directors and UK Pension Scheme are in respect of capped base salary.
For those certain other senior executives.
The purpose of the Deferred Bonus Executive Directors and certain other senior executives whose base Plan is to give participants a share linked reward that is related to salary is capped, a separate life assurance exists to supplement the the participants commitment to maintaining a shareholding in the approved life cover to a total lump sum benefit of four times base Company.
It is therefore used by the Group both as a retention tool salary on death in service.
and a vehicle to build executive shareholding.
As a result of this, The Inchcape Group UK Supplemental Pension Scheme a there are no performance conditions applying to the awarded shares funded unapproved contribution scheme was established under a under the Plan.
However, the award of the bonus itself is subject to central trust in 1996, with individual retirement accounts for performance targets, agreed annually by the Remuneration participating executives, to provide for those executives whose base Committee.
salary exceeded the permitted maximum salary cap.
Executives Under the terms of the Deferred Bonus Plan, participants may were able to decline membership and accept a monthly cash use a minimum of 10.0% and a maximum of 50.0% of any bonus supplement equal to the employer contribution foregone.
The award after tax to acquire ordinary shares in the Group.
Subject Scheme was closed in 2001 and there are no longer any to the participants shares being held in trust for three years and contributions payable to it.
the participant remaining an employee of the Group, the participant Executives, whose base salary is capped, are paid a monthly will become entitled to awarded shares to an amount equal to cash supplement.
The two Directors who received such the gross amount of the bonus used to acquire ordinary shares supplements in the year are Peter Johnson and Graeme Potts.
Details of the amounts paid are shown in note 1 on page 30.
Details of awards made to Executive Directors in 2002 under Taxable and other benefits the Deferred Bonus Plan are shown in note 3 on page 32.
These include such items as company car and medical and life SAYE Share Option Scheme assurance premiums.
They are in line with the remuneration policy The Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme was approved by framework outlined above.
It is open to employees in the UK with at least Performance graph three months service.
Participants make monthly savings for a The following graph illustrates the Groups total shareholder three year period.
At the end of the savings period share options return over a five year period, relative to the performance of become exercisable within a six month period.
the total return index of the FTSE mid-250 group of companies.
Retirement benefits Total shareholder return is essentially share price growth plus The Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme provides benefits for reinvested dividends.
The FTSE mid-250 has been chosen as Executive Directors and certain other senior executives at the the most suitable comparator as it is the general market index to normal retirement age of 60, equal to a maximum of two-thirds which the Inchcape Group belongs and comprises companies of final base salary, subject to completion of 20 years service.
of a similar size and complexity.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase in line with the 350 Inchcape FTSE Mid 250 lesser of 5.0% and the increase in the UK Retail Price Index.
300 A lump sum benefit of four times base salary is provided, on death in service, along with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the 250 members pension.
Childrens pensions may also be payable, up to 200 one-third of the members pension.
