32 Notes to the Board report on remuneration continued Notes on share options: i All options were granted for nil consideration.
ii The table shows Directors options over ordinary shares of 150.0p at 1 January 2002 and 31 December 2002.
The mid-market price of the shares at 31 December 2002 was 714.25p.
The price range during 2002 was 876.5p to 593.5p.
iii Options under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan are granted on a discretionary basis to full time certain other senior executives based within and outside the UK including the Executive Directors of Inchcape plc.
Such options are normally exercisable between three and ten years of grant.
iv Options may normally only be exercised if the performance target has been met.
For all options granted under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan, growth in the Companys earnings per share over a three year period must exceed the increase on the UK Retail Price Index over the same period by 3.0% per annum.
v The Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme is open to employees in the UK with at least three months service.
Participants make monthly savings for a three year period.
At the end of the savings period options become exercisable within a six month period.
vi No options were cancelled or waived during the year.
Deferred bonus awards The number of ordinary shares awarded to Executive Directors under the Inchcape Deferred Bonus Plan are: Ordinary Awarded shares Awarded Market ordinary awarded ordinary value of shares during the shares shares 31.12.02 year 1.1.
ii The executive will become entitled to the awarded ordinary shares if he remains employed by the Group for three years and retains the ordinary shares purchased with his bonus throughout that period.
The awards made will normally vest within three years of award.
Special rules apply on termination of employment and on a change of control.
By order of the Board Hugh Norton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 March 2003 Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the in business.
profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which financial statements, the Directors are required to: disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure consistently: that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the and prudent: prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The state whether applicable accounting standards have been Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Companys website.
Information published on the internet is in the financial statements: and accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
