23 Corporate governance All Directors bring an independent judgement to bear on issues of The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require listed strategy, performance, resources, including key appointments, and companies to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined standards of conduct.
In 2002 the Board had eight scheduled Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have meetings and a number of ad hoc meetings to deal with particular complied with its provisions throughout the accounting period.
In addition, a Board strategy review meeting was held.
As regards compliance going forward, the Board has noted that There is a procedure for Directors to take independent the Higgs Report and the Smith Report on corporate governance professional advice at the Companys expense where relevant to the were published on 20 January 2003.
The Board has also noted that execution of their duties.
The Board has a schedule of matters the reports are subject to a final consultation process which is not required to be brought to it for its decision.
The Board considers that due to be completed until April 2003, with a revised Combined it has been supplied with sufficient timely and accurate information Code intended to take effect from July 2003.
The Board will to enable it to discharge its duties.
continue to monitor its obligations during the year as well as those Newly appointed Directors who have not previously held listed of the Company in light of these developments.
company board appointments receive appropriate external training.
A briefing process has been developed for newly appointed Set out below is an explanation of the way in which the Company Non-executive Directors to ensure that they are fully apprised applies the principles of the Combined Code.
of the Groups activities and strategic direction.
Training is The Board available subsequently should either the Company or a Director The Chairman is Non-executive and his role is separate from that of feel it necessary.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board All members of the Board have access to the services and includes a number of other Non-executive Directors who bring a advice of the Group Company Secretary.
wide diversity of experience and expertise.
Currently the Board has Auditors independence six Non-executive Directors of which four, including the Chairman, The Company has reviewed its relationships with its auditors, are considered to be independent of the management of Inchcape  LLP, and concluded that there are and free from any business or other relationship, which could sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure the required materially interfere with the exercise of their independent level of independence.
Simon Robertson is the senior independent Non-executive Director.
Trevor Taylor is Non-executive Deputy Board committees Chairman and a Non-executive Director.
He is not regarded as The Board has three principal Committees, all with written terms independent of the management of Inchcape because he is a of reference.
Membership of each of the Board Committees is former Executive Director and, until 31 May 2002, he had a service indicated on pages 20 and 21.
The Chairmen of these Committees contract with a subsidiary of the Company for an average one day are expected to be available to answer questions at the Companys per week.
Raymond Chien is also not regarded as independent Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2003. because he previously had a service contract with Crown Motors The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range Ltd, a subsidiary of the Company in Hong Kong.
of financial matters including the interim and year-end accounts, Non-executive Directors are usually appointed for an initial litigation reports, matters relating to the external audit, corporate period of three years, which may be extended by agreement with governance matters, the preservation and promotion of good ethical the Board.
All Directors currently on the Board have submitted practices and monitoring the Groups internal controls.
The Group themselves for election or re-election as applicable within the last Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Director of Audit three years, as required by the Companys Articles of Association, and Risk Management and the external auditors attend the with the exception of Graeme Potts who was appointed to the meetings of the Committee.
The Non-executive Directors on the Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
Committee also have the opportunity at each meeting to review any The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group issues with the external auditors in the absence of executive and monitoring executive management.
It meets regularly to deal management.
Part of the Committees responsibility in relation to with strategy and policy issues, to review the Groups financial external auditors is to review the nature and the extent of non-audit performance and to examine significant acquisitions and disposals services provided.
and major operational capital expenditure.
