24 Directors report continued The Remuneration Committee is responsible for remuneration The Groups key internal control and monitoring procedures include issues regarding Executive Directors and certain other senior the following: executives within the framework recommended by the Committee Financial reportingThere is a comprehensive budgeting system with and approved by the Board as described in the Board Report on an annual budget approved by the Directors.
More details are given on pages 26 to 32. are reviewed and reported against budget and revised forecasts at The Nomination Committee is responsible for making each of the Boards scheduled meetings.
recommendations to the Board on selection and nomination of Directors and their election or re-election as applicable at Monitoring systemsThe Audit Committee receives reports arising Annual General Meetings.
from internal audits examination and evaluation of the adequacy and The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
The internal Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee meet audit group works closely with management and the external at least once a year.
In addition, the Committees hold ad hoc auditors and significant issues are reported to the Committee.
Operating unit controlsThe overall control framework for the Group Communication with shareholders is detailed in the Group Finance and Information Systems manuals The Company encourages two way communication with its and supplemented by Risk Management policies.
Compliance with institutional and private investors and responds quickly to all queries Group policies and the effectiveness of internal controls are regularly received verbally or in writing.
The preliminary and interim results are assessed through the audit process and through a process of presented publicly to analysts and other meetings with shareholders self-certification, which requires business unit management to are arranged as appropriate.
assess annually the quality of internal controls in their businesses.
Remuneration report Risk managementThe Groups management operates a risk The Companys policy on executive remuneration with details of the management process, which identifies the key risks facing each Executive Directors salaries, annual bonuses, long term incentives business unit twice a year.
A risk register, which identifies the key and pensions, and fees for Non-executive Directors appears in the risks, the impact should they occur and actions being taken to Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 32. manage those risks to the desired level, is produced for each business unit.
In addition, actions to be taken in the event that such Internal control risks crystallise and proposed improvements to the way they are The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for establishing key managed are also included.
This information is passed up the procedures designed to achieve a sound system of internal control organisation on a filter basis, culminating in the production of a and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such systems can provide only Group Risk Register, which is approved by the Risk Committee and reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material provided to and discussed with the Audit Committee.
In addition, mis-statement or loss and cannot eliminate business risk.
It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to monitor internal controls, internal audit continuously reviews financial, commercial and with its Chairman reporting the results of such reviews to the systems developments in the Groups business units to ensure Board.
In addition, the Board has entrusted executive management appropriate audit focus in the major risk areas.
with responsibility for the implementation of the systems of Investment appraisalThe Group has clearly defined policies for internal control.
These include annual budgets and detailed The Group operates a Risk Committee, which is chaired by the appraisal and review procedures.
Group Chief Executive and includes inter-alia, the Group Finance Director, Group Company Secretary, Treasury Director, Director of Going concern Audit and Risk Management and the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Committee meets quarterly to consider what changes to risk that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate management and control processes should be recommended.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern Its review covers matters such as responses to significant risks basis in preparing the accounts.
identified, output from monitoring processes, including internal audit reports, and changes made to the internal control system.
It also Statement of compliance with the Combined Code follows up on areas that require improvement and reports every The Company was in compliance throughout the year ended six months to the Audit Committee or more frequently if required.
31 December 2002 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the The Group Chief Executive also reports, on behalf of executive Combined Code appended to the Financial Services Authority management, significant changes in the business and the external Listing Rules.
environment that affect key risks to the Board.
The Group Finance The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of systems of Director provides the Board with monthly financial information, internal control in operation during the financial year through the which includes key performance and risk indicators.
