Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies 1 Accounting policies continued Basis of preparation Financial instruments The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting The Group uses interest rate and currency swaps to manage its exposure to interest rate and currency fluctuations.
The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis.
The Group has implemented FRS 19:Deferred Tax.
instruments are accounted for as hedges where designated as hedges at the inception of contracts.
The swaps are not revalued The effect of this change in accounting policy is disclosed in note 21.
Following the announcement that implementation of to fair value in the Group balance sheet at the year end but are disclosed in the fair value table in note 32.
Interest differentials are FRS 17:Retirement Benefits has been deferred until 2005, the Group continues to prepare its accounts based on SSAP 24 recognised by accruing the net interest receivable or payable.
Gains or losses arising on hedging instruments which are cancelled and to provide the additional information required by FRS 17 as revised.
due to the termination of underlying exposure are taken to the profit and loss account immediately.
Finance costs associated with debt issuance are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the instruments.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December.
Depreciation and amortisation The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired The cost of tangible fixed assets less their estimated residual value is depreciated on a straight line basis over their estimated or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the useful lives as follows: date of disposal.
Annual rate Goodwill and publishing rights Freehold buildings 2% Purchased goodwill both positive and negative arising on consolidation of acquisitions representing the excess of the fair value Short leasehold properties and property improvements Over life of lease of the consideration given over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10:Goodwill Equipment, fixtures and fittings 10% 33.3% and intangible assets was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs any Motor vehicles 20% 25% related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit and loss on disposal.
Freehold and short leasehold properties and property improvements are carried at cost less depreciation and provisions for impairment in value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life which, in the case of the majority of acquisitions to date, Fixed assets acquired on acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking are included at the original cost less depreciation to the acquired is estimated to be 20 years.
business except to the extent that their fair value is considered to be different in which case the accumulated depreciation is adjusted accordingly.
Impairment reviews are carried out in accordance with FRS11 to ensure that goodwill is not carried at above its recoverable amount.
All amortisation and any impairment of goodwill is charged to the profit and loss account.
Stocks and work in progress Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Conference costs in advance represent costs incurred for On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 January 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or conferences held or originally planned to be held after the balance sheet date.
termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
Deferred promotional expenditure No value is attributed to publishing rights acquired as the Group consider this cannot be reliably measured.
Promotional expenditure incurred during the year is matched against revenue generated by that expenditure.
Deferred promotional In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for permanent expenditure included in the balance sheet represents expenditure incurred during the year in respect of revenue which is expected impairment, if any.
to arise after the balance sheet date.
Turnover Deferred tax Turnover represents the amount receivable, excluding sales taxes, for products and services supplied to customers and is stated The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences after deduction of trade discounts and provisions for subscription returns and cancellations.
Subscription income is deferred and between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full for timing differences, recognised over the period of the subscription.
Conference income is recognised when the conference is held.
except as otherwised required by FRS 19.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable in the short term.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Currency translation Company Leased assets Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Assets held under finance leases are capitalised with the corresponding obligation to pay future rentals being included in creditors.
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are A finance lease is a lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the lessee.
The assets taken to the profit and loss account.
are valued at the equivalent purchase price and are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the unexpired portion of the lease.
The excess of the lease payments over the value of the lease obligations is treated as a finance charge and Group is allocated to accounting periods over the duration of the lease to approximate to a constant periodic rate of charge on the Trading results denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the average monthly exchange rate.
Assets and liabilities remaining balance.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The exchange difference arising on retranslation of opening net assets of overseas subsidiary undertakings is taken directly to reserves.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Differences on foreign currency borrowings, which are used to finance or provide a hedge against Group equity investments in Pension costs foreign enterprises, are taken directly to reserves so far as they offset the exchange differences on the net investment in these Certain subsidiaries operate pension schemes for employees which are defined contribution schemes.
The assets of the schemes enterprises.
The exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the profit and loss account at the year end rate are taken are held separately from the individual companies.
The pension cost charge associated with these schemes represents to reserves.
All other translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
The Group also operates a funded defined benefit scheme for employees.
The expected cost of pensions of the defined benefit pension scheme is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost over the service lives of employees in the scheme.
Variations from regular cost are spread over the remaining service lives of current employees in the schemes.
The pension cost associated with this scheme is addressed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Under the terms of FRS 17 the Group is required to adopt alternative accounting for its defined benefit scheme.
In accordance with the transitional arrangements under FRS 17 paragraph 94 additional balance sheet disclosures are required for year ended 31 December 2002.
Informa Annual Report 2002 20 Informa Annual Report 2002 21
