Board of Directors Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts Peter Rigby Richard Hooper Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state Chairman, aged 47 Senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are After qualifying as an accountant Peter Rigby joined Metal Box.
Remuneration and Nominations Committee, aged 63 required to: In 1981 he moved into the media industry joining Book Club Richard Hooper became a Non-Executive Director of LLP in select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Associates which was the joint venture between WH Smith and December 1997 and became the Senior Non-Executive Doubleday.
In 1983 he joined Stonehart Publications which was Director on the Informa Board following the merger of LLP make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: acquired by IBC in 1986.
After two years as Finance Director and IBC.
He has 27 years experience in the information and he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive and later Chief communications industry.
He was a Non-Executive Director of state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Executive, and led the expansion of the Group into North MAI plc and then United News and Media plc from November in the accounts: and America, Asia and Australia.
He became Chairman of Informa 1993 to May 1997, and was Non-Executive Chairman of prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
at the inception of the Company following the merger of IBC IMS Group plc 1997 to 2002.
Currently, he is the Chair of the and LLP.
Radio Authority which regulates all non-BBC radio in the UK, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the and Deputy Chairman of the new converged media and financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They David Gilbertson telecommunications regulator the Office of Communications have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to Chief Executive, aged 46 Ofcom.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of UK prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
David Gilbertson has some 24 years experience in the eUniversities Worldwide.
information industry having held editorial and management positions with Metal Bulletin, Reuters and Reed Elsevier.
Eric Barton Independent Auditors report to the members of Informa Group plc He joined Lloyds of London Press in 1987 as Editor of Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Lloyds List, joining the LLP Board in 1992.
He was a member Audit Committee, aged 57 We have audited the accounts on pages 16 to 39.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report of the management buy-out team which bought LLP from Eric Barton became a Non-Executive Director of LLP in that is described as having been audited.
Lloyds of London in 1995, becoming Chief Executive in 1997.
December 1995 and continued as a Non-Executive Director He took the Company to flotation on the Stock Exchange in on the Board of Informa after the merger.
He was a Director of This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. early 1998 and became Chief Executive of Informa following 3i plc, the venture capital group, from 1986 to 1999 and is Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state the merger with IBC.
currently a Non-Executive Director of Morse plc, Telecity plc, to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Azzuri Communications Ltd and Acal plc.
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Jim Wilkinson or for the opinions we have formed.
Finance Director, aged 37 Sean Watson Jim Wilkinson joined IBC in 1994 after eight years with Deloitte Non-Executive Director, aged 54 Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors & Touche in London and South Africa.
Appointed Financial Sean Watson is a solicitor and a Senior Corporate Finance The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Directors remuneration report.
As described above, this Controller of IBCs UK publishing division, he subsequently Partner at CMS Cameron McKenna.
He has extensive includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
became responsible for the Groups operations in South Africa, experience in all areas of corporate law.
He was appointed Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, Singapore and Australia.
In 1997 he was appointed Deputy to the board in May 2000. the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
Finance Director, becoming Finance Director a year later.
Member of the Audit Committee We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of Member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on pages 40 to 42 reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the  report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and the accounts and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Peter Rigby Richard Hooper Chartered Accountants Audit Plc Registered Auditor David Gilbertson Eric Barton London Jim Wilkinson Sean Watson 10 March 2003 Informa Annual Report 2002 14 Informa Annual Report 2002 15
