Chairman and Chief Executives review continued Telecoms and Media Maritime, Trade and Transport The Telecoms and Media business experienced a 29% fall in Our publishing operations fared well in tough market Maritime Trade and Transport profits declined 47% although We have continued to build our electronic services.
The amount its revenues due to the continuing difficulties in the mobile conditions, with many products improving market share.
the second half performance showed 45% growth compared of information generated by our unique shipping database has telecommunications industry.
The division responded by The newsletter business maintained profit margins at 2001 to 2001.
Almost 36% of this divisions income came from expanded substantially, and has underpinned the development cutting the number of conferences produced from 350 in 2001 levels, reporting above budget subscription levels for our new advertising in 2001 and this revenue dropped 15% in 2002. of a number of electronic news and data services for the to 229 in 2002 and by concentrating on our industry leading cutting edge publications Planet Wireless, Mobile Messaging The consequent impact on the divisions publishing business maritime market.
Previously disparate product lines have been events such as our GSM and Bluetooth series.
We also Analyst and Games Analyst.
Single subscriptions to most of was severe.
During the year we reorganised the management streamlined within Lloyds Marine Intelligence Unit LMIU to lowered the cost base of the division by reducing staff numbers our portfolio of telecoms and media newsletters have declined of the division and these changes, coupled with the biennial provide a more effective service for customers.
The strategy of significantly 35% since June 2001.
As a consequence we during the year but for the second year running we have seen appearance of our major Cruise Ferry exhibition in London migrating customers from lower-margin hard copy products to have improved the net profit margin from 15% in 2001 to 18% substantial growth in larger corporate licensing of our news in May this year, leads us to expect a significant rebound in higher-margin, value-added electronic products is fully proving in 2002. output.
It is anticipated that our corporate subscriptions which profitability from this division in 2003. its worth.
LMIUs Seasearcher database, in particular, delivered have very good renewal rates and low delivery cost will have good results, and we are confident of a continuing strong Flagship conferences and events exceeded our overall profit overtaken traditional paper single subscriptions by 2004.
Advertising revenues were particularly affected in our range performance from this division in 2003. targets for 2002.
The industry-leading 3GSM World Congress Although advertising revenues were badly dented, internal of magazines and newspapers by the economic slowdown.
in Cannes drew over 24,000 visitors and we consolidated our consolidation allowed us to reduce breakeven costs and Conference and exhibition revenues have also shown a fall.
Elsewhere, our security and investigations unit, MRC position as the leading organiser of Bluetooth events, with maintain yields.
All our publications are now available online In response, an internal review, combined with some exciting Investigations, is well placed to exploit the new ship security the support of its association, Bluetooth S. I. G. Our European through www.
new product development initiatives and more efficient regulations recently agreed by the International Maritime Bluetooth event, remains the worlds largest independent subscription management techniques, have allowed us to Organisation, requiring some 65,000 vessels to implement event, and the Bluetooth Developers Congress in San Jose in Our consultancy and electronic subscription and reports reduce costs and position our business more competitively new security classification within 18 months.
December, both attracted over 1,500 attendees.
A new Asian businesses also delivered some good results.
Some loss-making products have been closed, Bluetooth event is planned for 2003.
Our leading German dedicated telecoms and wireless database business, and we anticipate a significant recovery in operating profits.
In our conference division we reduced marginal and lossevent, the 8th International Handelsblatt Telecoms conference delivered positive margins and results in line with expectations.
making events and increased average delegate numbers.
Our and our main Netherlands event in telecoms, the 14th National Chorleywood Consulting has made inroads into the large Our flagship products continued to maintain their marketrewards included successful Bunker News events including Telecoms Conference, also performed well.
global operator market in response to the decline in spending leading positions.
The high regard in which the editorial an expansion into Russia, the Maritime Asia awards, and our from vendors and as a result saw major gains in our target expertise of Lloyd's List is held has been reflected in the way Lloyds Maritime Training Programme.
Although exhibitions Capitalising on our mobile industry reputation, we attracted Middle East and Asia regions.
ARC more than doubled its the paper has been repeatedly cited in the media in response revenue was depressed our international TOC exhibitions did over 350 attendees to the Mobile Multimedia Messaging profit contribution with specialist products including Future to a spate of maritime incidents.
On the commercial side, well during the year and bookings are already ahead for 2003.
Congress in September, and our SIM conference bucked the Mobile Handsets.
meanwhile, the papers advertising department has been This year, when our important biennial Cruise Ferry exhibition is industry trend with over 150 delegates.
Initial reaction to our re-focussed, so that, after a very slow start to the year, a much held, we are expecting to return considerably improved results.
planned 2003 Mobile Workforce EXPO is extremely positive.
stronger performance was achieved in the second half, despite Apart from the 3GSM World Congress we also ran six other the tough market conditions.
Within the magazine portfolio, regional GSM shows which all showed a solid performance.
Containerisation International, Hazardous Cargo Bulletin and Our Mobile Internet Exhibition in Paris also produced a good International Freighting Weekly performed very well in 2002 result with over 1,000 visitiors.
and MRC, our credit-rating consultancy, turned a 2001 loss into a handsome profit.
Passenger Shipping Telecoms World international IT and EMU UMTS Maritime Asia Today Compliance Informa Annual Report 2002 6 Informa Annual Report 2002 7
