Chairman and Chief Executives review continued Finance and Insurance Commodities and Energy The Finance and Insurance division became the groups respectively, targeting increased distribution channels, The Commodities and Energy division has maintained its FO Licht, our specialist sugar and coffee markets business largest business in 2002.
Despite the contractions in the offer substantial growth opportunity in 2003. profitability despite the difficulties in the Middle East affecting based in Germany, enjoyed another good year with high financial markets which affected advertising and delegate the energy sector and the commodities business being renewal rates, profits doubling target, and two successful revenues, net profits grew by 17%.
This was mainly due to a Although some of our UK businesses fell short of their affected by food industry consolidation, continued concern product launches, Biofuels Report and Molasses & Feed particularly strong performance from our largely electronically performance last year due to the depressed state of the over genetically-modified foods, and the depressed state of Report.
The web interface for our statistical source, Licht delivered data-driven subscription services to the investment, markets, there were some notable performances.
The the UK fishing industry.
Database, is also well advanced.
insurance and capital markets, which account for the majority relaunch of the market-leading Insurance Day delivered of the revenue in this division.
increased advertising and subscription levels, and Health Our Agra commodities business delivered a performance in Our Australian office has continued to develop a successful Insurance continues to go from strength to strength.
Key line with 2001 reflecting the quality of its subscription products events business centred on the mining and metals industries.
Our real time electronic commentary and analysis subscription conferences, including Insuring Export Credit and Excellence in a depressed market.
Our key subscription products, The winning events in 2002 included the Australian Longwall products in the foreign exchange and fixed income security in Claims Management, were also successful.
In Australia, such as EU Food Law, EuroFood and Dairy Markets Weekly, Mining Summit, Global Iron Ore & Steel and Global Mineral markets performed well with profit growth in excess of 15%.
we enjoyed impressive results from our AFR branded events, all reported good growth.
Although it was a tough year for Sands Exploration.
In addition we established a joint venture Screen Insider and CorporateWatch, the two main products while in Germany, the 9th Handlesblatt Real Estates advertising sales, International Sugar Journal increased with The McCloskey Group the worlds leading publisher for provided by our IIPC and MCM business divisions respectively, conference maintained our leading position in this area.
revenue on the previous year and forward bookings are the coal sector to organise a series of coal events around have seen margins and renewal levels remain high and an good.
We acquired a consultancy business Agra CEAS, the world.
The first of these, McCloskeys European Coal increase in market share.
In the banking and finance market, our leading International and launched several new products including a number of Outlook proved an outstanding success and the series should Payment Systems event, though down on last year, still new electronic subscription services.
We also achieved a develop into a significant business with forthcoming events Our other business units based in the United States, Informa delivered a healthy contribution, and Banking Technology substantial growth in the number of users of Agranet, our web including Russian Coal Markets and the Global Steelmaking Research Services, Effron, Insurance Research Group and magazine maintained its market-leading position.
In the UK our information service.
Two more major product launches both Raw Materials Conference, run in Moscow and Rotterdam iMoneyNet continued to perform ahead of expectations.
The Law & Regulation of Hedge Funds and Insurance Regulation print and electronic are planned for early 2003.
former announced two important Internet financial portal deals events both delivered good profits whilst the Insurance at the business had a number of notable successes, including a in 2002 one with CNNMoney.
edge of Change and Insurance for Industry 2002 events in record attendance at the annual World Juice Conference and The Middle East crisis served to depress performance at Finance.
These two new portals, along with Quicken.
com and Germany were well received.
Other events in Continental World Ethanol Conference.
In Asia the Asia International Sugar WPA, our US energy consulting business, and of our Investing other major financial web sites, display rate and pricing data Europe were also successful, particuarly New Insurance Rights conference in Singapore and the World Rice Commerce event in Iran and Saudi Arabia conferences.
However, energy events on their highly popular personal finance channels, while also in the Netherlands and Accounting Day in Sweden.
in Beijing were both very successful.
covering Qatar, Kazakhstan and Sakhalin, successful African providing Informa the opportunity to sell hyperlinks to financial expansion, plus new events diversifying into Wind Power and institutions.
The latters IMMFA Money Fund Report and our In the pensions sector, established events Eurofunds, Multi Uncertainty over the UK fishing market dented advertising natural gas, delivered strongly in the year and our annual first Money Fund Forum Europe event, held in London, were Pensions, Nordic Funds and Spain have continued to attract at our specialist Heighway business but overseas event joint Handlesblatt energy conference in Germany was again a both successful and promise well for the future growth of strong support from delegates and sponsors.
Specialist ventures, such as Aquasur in Chile and Aquacoltura in Italy, great success.
In 2003 we are expecting significant results money funds in Europe.
Other new product launches, such publications Pensions Today and Pensions International leave and a new international focus for the business, are expected from our Houston joint venture event with specialist energy as Analyzer and Separate Account Express web based us well placed to provide information to this market.
to deliver growth in 2003. publisher Harts E&P, as well as from the launch of a new applications of insurance and money manager data, Offshore Energy Directory.
World Life Virtual Finance Insurance Report Sugar Conference World Tea Markets Informa Annual Report 2002 8 Informa Annual Report 2002 9
