Interserve Plc Principal activities Annual report 2002 2 Facilities Services Project Services Geographical scope Geographical scope United Kingdom United Kingdom and Middle East Activities Activities Trading as Interservefm Ltd, the division provides Focusing on framework agreements, private finance outsourced support services through facilities initiative PFI projects and long-term maintenance management FM contracts.
It works with both contracts, Project Services provides services in the publicand private-sector organisations and design, construction and maintenance of buildings concentrates on opportunities where it can deliver and infrastructure.
Working closely with other benefits through integrating the management of Interserve divisions, it has established an excellent several services for one customer.
Facilities Services track record in these environments and is able to offers hard FM managing and maintaining bring the benefit of this experience to new clients.
customers premises inside and out and soft FM Interserve has a progressive approach to contracts, services for the people using the premises.
Services working in true partnership and forming long-term include mechanical and electrical maintenance, relationships with its customers and those in the communications, building fabric maintenance, supply chain.
Project Services UK and international energy monitoring, estates management, security, customers include a wide variety of government cleaning, catering, porterage and waste management.
organisations, major companies and utilities.
Typical customers are hospitals, schools, commercial and public-sector buildings, manufacturing sites and Equipment Services the Ministry of Defence.
Geographical scope Europe, Middle East, Australasia, Far East Industrial Services and South America Geographical scope Activities United Kingdom Trading as RMD Kwikform, the division operates Activities in the UK and internationally, focusing on large The division addresses the outsourcing needs of infrastructure projects and buildings in addition industrial companies through the provision of multito an underlying core of ongoing trading in its disciplined, integrated support services.
It designs, hires and sells industries, time with equipment off-line can have formwork and falsework specialised equipment enormous cost implications, and Interserves assetused in the construction of substantial concrete management approach, bringing a range of resources structures.
Equipment Services combines its to bear in a safe, planned and efficient way, is highly customer understanding with the best practice valued and rewarded by clients.
Customers are gained from its worldwide experience to create mainly in the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, food bespoke solutions wherever required.
The design and drink, nuclear, gas, power generation and expertise of its engineers and its consultancy steel industries.
Industrial Services is unique in the advice help its customers maximise the value of breadth of its activities, offering extensive specialist their projects and position Interserve as an integral expertise alongside more basic skills.
Services include part of their supply chain.
access, industrial cleaning, application of protective coatings and insulation, power transmission and distribution, mechanical installation, pipework PFI Investments fabrication and electrical control and instrumentation.
Geographical scope United Kingdom Activities This part of the Group co-ordinates all of Interserves PFI activities.
It identifies suitable target projects, selects potential bid partners and manages the Groups PFI equity investments.
At year end Interserve was involved in 18 PFI PPP contracts including three at preferred bidder stage.
Total commitment was approximately 29 million.
