Interserve Plc Directors report Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 24 The directors of Interserve Plc present their report and the At the end of the year, the Company had authority, under the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002. above-mentioned shareholders resolution, to purchase in the market up to 10,646,496 of the Companys ordinary shares at prices ranging between the nominal value for each share and Principal Activities and Business Review 105 per cent of the average of the middle market price of the Interserve Plc is the holding company of a group of integrated ordinary shares for the five business days immediately businesses providing facilities services, industrial services, preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the project services and equipment services in the United Kingdom shares concerned.
This authority expires on the date of the and overseas and with a range of PFI investments.
The principal forthcoming AGM or 9 August 2003, whichever is the earlier.
companies of the Group, together with details of their Shareholders will be asked to renew the authority for a further individual activities and their locations, may be found on pages period of up to 15 months at the AGM.
65 to 70 and in the Review of operations on pages 8 to 17 of this Report and Accounts.
Prospects for the future appear in As a result of the forgoing allotments and the cancellation, the the Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7. issued share capital at the end of the year stood at 112,963,988 ordinary shares of 10p each 11,296,398.80.
Group Results and Dividends Details of outstanding options over shares in the Company as at The Group profit from ordinary trading activities before 31 December 2002 are set out in note 25 to the Accounts on taxation and after exceptional items and amortisation of page 62. goodwill was 37.2 million 2001: 39.3 million.
The detailed results of the Group are given in the Accounts on pages 38 to Between the year end and the date of this report there have 64 and further comments on divisional results are given in the been exercises by participants in the Sharesave Scheme of Review of operations.
options over 75,423 ordinary shares of 10p at a price of 199.2p per share.
The issued share capital at the date of this report An interim dividend of 4.0p per 10p ordinary share was paid on stands at 113,039,411 ordinary shares of 10p each 1 November 2002 and the Board recommends a final dividend 11,303,941.10. of 9.0p per 10p ordinary share, making a total distribution for the year ended 31 December 2002 of 13.0p per 10p ordinary The Companies Act 1985 requires that any shares issued wholly share 2001: 12.3p.
for cash must first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings unless authorised to the Subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General contrary by a resolution of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2003 such authority were passed in 2002.
Authorities to renew for to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of one year the power of directors to allot shares pursuant to business on 21 March 2003.
The directors recommend that sections 89 and 95 of the Companies Act 1985 will be sought retained profits of 9.9 million be transferred to reserves, as from shareholders at the AGM.
indicated in note 26 to the Accounts on page 63.
Directorate and Directors Interests Share Capital The following unless otherwise noted have been directors The authorised share capital of the Company is 150,000,000 throughout the year: ordinary shares of 10p each.
M C Bottjer Group Chairman During the year 126,613 shares were allotted as follows: D C Keys Deputy Chairman C J Groom 77,500 ordinary shares of 10p to participants in the Executive S B Hagerty Share Option Scheme on the exercise of options at prices of A R Hannah 212p and 268.4p per ordinary share.
M S Lee J M F Padovan 49,113 ordinary shares of 10p to participants in the Sharesave A M Ringrose Scheme on the exercise of their options at prices of 199.2p and W S Rogers retired from the Board on 31 December 2002 439.4p per ordinary share.
J H Vyse G J Wentzell retired from the Board on 9 May 2002 The Company was granted authority by its shareholders at the AGM held on 9 May 2002 to purchase a maximum of 11,356,496 Senior Independent Director ordinary shares of 10p each.
Pursuant to this authority a total Non-executive director of 710,000 ordinary shares of 10p each were repurchased and cancelled between 30 September 2002 and 4 October 2002 at Mr G P Balfour was appointed to the Board as a non-executive prices between 228.265p and 245.767p per share at a total cost of director on 1 January 2003.
1,715,024 which represented 0.62 per cent of the Companys called-up share capital prior to such repurchases.
The reason for this repurchase was inter alia that it was earnings enhancing.
Interserve Plc Directors report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 25 As required by the Companys Articles of Association, A narrative statement on how the Company has applied the Mr Bottjer, Mr Hannah and Mr Padovan retire by rotation and, Principles and a statement explaining the extent to which the being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Balfour, who provisions in the Code have been complied with appear below.
was appointed as an additional member of the Board, retires in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Narrative Statement The Code establishes 14 Principles of Good Governance which At the date of this report the unexpired period of Mr Bottjers are split into the four areas described below.
and Mr Hannahs service contracts is one year and two years respectively.
Mr Padovan and Mr Balfour do not have service contracts with the Company.
Directors The Board Mr Keys and Mr Groom will be retiring from the Board at the The Board comprises seven executive eight during the period conclusion of the 2003 AGM and on 31 December 2003 under review until 9 May 2002 and three independent nonrespectively.
executive directors, whose biographies are set out on pages 4 and 5 of this Report and Accounts.
The Board normally meets The directors do not have any interest in any other Group monthly throughout the year, excepting January and August, company.
and has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
There are also Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, No director has, or has had, a material interest, directly or PFI, Treasury and Allotment Committees with defined terms indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any of reference.
contract significant to the Companys business other than Mr Groom and Mr Ringroses interest in the sale and purchase The Board is responsible, amongst other things, for overall agreement and loan notes issued in connection with the Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of acquisition of Building & Property Holdings Limited prior to major capital expenditure projects, approving both material their appointment as directors and Mr Hagertys interest in contracts and contracts otherwise than in the normal course of loan notes issued in connection with the acquisition of Fincham business of all subsidiary companies, employee issues and key Industrial Services Limited by Bandt Holdings Limited prior to appointments, risk management strategy including Group the acquisition of Bandt plc by the Company see notes 1, 2 insurances, health and safety, and social, environmental and and 4 respectively in the Directors remuneration report on ethical matters.
Below the Board is the Executive Committee, comprising the executive directors, Mr S Maroli and the Company Secretary, Substantial Shareholdings which has its own terms of reference.
As at 12 March 2003 the Company has been notified of the following interests in shares: Each operating company has regular board meetings chaired by an executive director, save for the smaller overseas subsidiaries 13,062,828 11.56% Henderson Global Investors Ltd in the Equipment Services division, which are visited from time 5,338,956 4.72% Aviva plc to time by the Divisional Chairman and on a regular basis by 4,435,208 3.92% Standard Life Investments Ltd the Divisional and Regional Managing Directors, Divisional 3,731,901 3.30% Legal & General Investment Financial Director and Regional Financial Controllers.
Management Ltd 3,622,350 3.20% Prudential plc M&G Investment Directors may, after consultation with the Deputy Chairman, Management Ltd take independent legal advice in furtherance of their duties at 3,579,406 3.17% ISIS Asset Management plc the Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in relation to 3,389,907 3.00% FMR Corporation any one event.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose appointment or There are no other notifiable interests, so far as the directors removal is a matter reserved for the approval of the Board or are aware, comprising material interests of 3 per cent or more, any duly delegated committee thereof.
or an aggregate of material and non-material interests of 10 per cent or more, in the issued share capital of the Company.
The individual directors have different skills, experience and qualifications with certain of their number presently or Corporate Governance previously working in other sectors of the economy, and are In June 1998 the Combined Code the Code was issued by the able to bring independent judgement to bear on matters for London Stock Exchange.
This Code is based on the Report of the consideration by the Board.
Hampel Committee and sets out Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Code Provisions which consolidate the work of Executive directors may be permitted to take a limited number the earlier Cadbury and Greenbury Committees and introduce of outside non-executive directorships in non-competing certain new Principles and Provisions.
Section 1 of the Code is companies, subject to the approval of the Remuneration applicable to companies.
Interserve Plc Directors report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 26 Every director receives appropriate training on or before Directors Remuneration appointment to the Board and thereafter as necessary.
The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Mr Keys, considers and determines the remuneration, whether by way of salary or otherwise, of the executive directors.
Group Chairman and Chief Executive The posts of Group Chairman and Chief Executive were The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 29 to 35 combined in June 1996.
The Group Chairman operates within of this Report and Accounts, and includes details of directors terms of reference set by the Board as a whole.
2003 Mr Ringrose took up his appointment as Deputy Chief Executive, with a view to him becoming Chief Executive from 1 July 2003, with Mr Bottjer continuing as Group Chairman.
Relations with Shareholders The Company encourages two-way communication with both All operational activities report through the executive directors institutional and private investors.
The Group Chairman, who focus on co-ordinating the Companys businesses and accompanied in the majority of cases by the Financial Director, implementing Group strategy.
attended 85 meetings with analysts and institutional investors in the year ended 31 December 2002.
The Board considers its non-executive directors to be of sufficient calibre and number that their views may be expected All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of to be of sufficient weight that no individual or small group can the AGM at which all directors and committee chairmen are dominate the Boards decision-making processes.
introduced and are available for questions.
The non-executive directors have no financial or contractual interest in the Company other than by way of their fees and Accountability and Audit shareholdings as disclosed in the Directors remuneration Financial reporting report.
They do not participate in the Groups share option Detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of schemes and their service is not pensionable.
the Companys operations are included in the Review of operations and Financial directors report.
The Board uses these, together with the Chairmans statement and this Supply of information Directors report, to present a balanced and understandable The Group Chairman and the Company Secretary prepare statement of the Companys position and prospects.
detailed agenda papers for each meeting of the Board, which The directors responsibility for the financial statements is are normally circulated in advance of each meeting.
described on page 36 of this Report and Accounts.
The agenda papers include sufficient information from management on financial, business and corporate issues to enable the directors to be properly briefed on issues to be Internal control considered at Board meetings.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure results, cash flows and projections to the Board on a monthly to achieve business objectives, and can only provide basis.
These are compared with budgets approved by the Board reasonable and not absolute assurance against material prior to the commencement of each financial year.
financial summaries are accompanied by a written report explaining operating and financial performance, and the cause The principal features of the system of internal control are: and effect of variance from the agreed budgets.
An established management structure comprising the Board with its various committees and an Executive Committee.
Appointments to the Board Nominations for appointments to the Board are made by the A comprehensive system for reporting financial results to Nomination Committee, which comprises the Group Chairman, the Board.
Each company prepares monthly results who is chairman of the Committee, the Deputy Chairman, the excepting January with a comparison against budget or Chief Executive and at least one other non-executive director.
forecast, together with certain key performance indicators, The Committee has its own terms of reference.
which are also presented in a consolidated form on a divisional basis.
The Board reviews these for the Group as a whole and determines appropriate action.
Re-election All directors are required by the Companys Articles of All proposals for capital expenditure below 200,000 and Association to submit themselves for re-election every three new investments are submitted for approval to the years.
Larger value proposals and company acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
Interserve Plc Directors report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 27 Manuals setting out Group policy and financial and from 1 January 2003, and has written terms of reference which operating procedures are in place, with which all Group deal clearly with its authority and duties.
It meets at least twice companies must comply.
These manuals set out the a year with the Auditors, the Group Chairman and the Financial necessary levels of authorisation applicable for different Director attending by invitation.
The Committee overviews the transactions.
monitoring of the adequacy of the Companys internal controls, accounting policies and financial reporting and provides a The Group has certain key areas which are subject to central forum through which the Companys external Auditors report management or control, which include management to the non-executive directors.
information systems, safety, legal, insurance, treasury and company secretarial.
These functions report to executive Part of the Audit Committee meetings are held between the directors and operate within defined limits and levels of non-executive directors and external Auditors in private.
During the course of each year members of the Executive Going Concern Basis Committee or other senior operational and financial After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, management visit all trading companies, including those at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is located overseas, to discuss and monitor performance of a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate those businesses.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the The Audit Committee receives and considers a report from going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
the Auditors setting out their material findings on the audit of individual companies.
These findings are also considered by the Executive Committee and matters arising are Compliance Statement discussed in depth with each company.
The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with 45 Code provisions throughout the accounting period.
The Board confirms that it has established the procedures Save for the limited exceptions outlined below, the Company necessary to implement Internal Control: Guidance for has complied throughout the accounting period ended Directors on the Combined Code.
31 December 2002 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
A risk management policy document is available to all operating companies staff comprising an introduction from the All executive directors have service contracts terminable on Group Chairman on behalf of the Board, the Boards own risk one years notice save for Mr Hannah and Mr Lee, both of management matrix, the risk management matrix applicable to whom have service contracts with two-year notice periods.
their division, and their own company internal controls in The Board considers it to be in the best interests of the Group order that they understand the significant risks which are not to disturb Mr Hannahs and Mr Lees service contracts.
relevant to the tasks which they perform, apply control strategies which are relevant to those risks and carry out the Following the appointment of three additional executive fundamentals of good risk management.
directors on 1 January 2002 the Board comprised less than one-third non-executive directors.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by all companies within the Group has been in place for the period under review and until the Charitable and Political Donations date of approval of this Report and Accounts.
Charitable donations made during the year amounted to 26,670 2001: 8,428.
No political donations were made in the period.
Internal controls are reviewed in September and March by the Board, which accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull Creditor Payment Policy Working Party.
It is the Groups normal practice to agree payment terms with its suppliers and abide by those terms.
Payment becomes due There is an ongoing process to embed internal control and risk when it can be confirmed that goods and or services have been management further into the operations of the business, to provided in accordance with the relevant contractual deal with areas of improvement which are identified from time conditions.
Trade creditors for the Company at 31 December to time and to derive the maximum benefit to the business 2002, calculated in accordance with the requirements of the through the use of risk management procedures.
Companies Act 1985, were nine days 2001: 10 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Company in the year by its suppliers and the Audit Committee and Auditors amounts due, at the year end, to trade creditors falling due for The Audit Committee is comprised solely of three non-executive payment within one year.
As figures for the Company alone are directors: the Deputy Chairman, Mr Keys, who is its chairman, not representative, trade creditors for the Group calculated on Mr Padovan, Mr Rogers until 31 December 2002 and Mr Balfour the above basis at 31 December 2002 were 67 days 2001: 63 days.
Interserve Plc Directors report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 28 Health and Safety Employee Involvement The Group health and safety policy is that each Group company Within the bounds of commercial confidentiality, management operate a documented safety management system to the disseminates information to all levels of staff about matters that OHSAS 18001 standard.
Interserve Industrial Services holds affect the progress of the Group and are of interest and concern accreditation to this standard and Interserve Project Services to them as employees.
In March 2002, following the publication achieved accreditation during 2002. of the Groups preliminary results, the Group Chairman wrote to all employees worldwide, at their home address, enclosing a A Board director is appointed to be responsible for health and copy of the results, providing a few words by way of explanation, safety policy, and all executive directors hold responsibility for expanding further upon Group strategy and providing up-to-date the health and safety performance of the operations under information on the Groups performance and range of activities.
Throughout the Group, health and safety is taken It is intended to give employees similar information on the as a line management responsibility with support and advice Groups strategy, performance and range of activities this year being provided by teams of health and safety professionals.
following the announcement of the preliminary and interim results, save that it is proposed to incorporate this information A review of the Group health and safety arrangements during within Focus, the Group newsletter produced on behalf of the the year resulted in no change to the Policy Statement, but a Executive Committee.
new policy on the use of mobile phones while driving has been approved and implemented.
The latest edition of Focus was published in February 2003, with the next edition planned for May 2003.
As part of the regular reporting process the Board receives a monthly report from the Group Health & Safety Manager covering all reportable incidents occurring during the month in question.
Disabled Employees The Group has an established policy that disabled persons, All parts of the Interserve business continue to operate with especially should they become disabled in the course of their health and safety as a key business priority and to commit employment with the Group, be employed where circumstances significant resources to achieving high standards of health and permit.
The Group endeavours to ensure that disabled safety for its employees and anyone who may be affected by employees benefit from training and career development its operations.
programmes in line with other employees.
Significant progress has been made in meeting all of the key health and safety objectives established in 2002, and all Social, Environmental and Ethical Policies objectives remain in place with revised specific targets for 2003.
A Board director is appointed to be responsible for the Group social, environmental and ethical policies.
In addition, individual companies and operations have received recognition for their safety performance through the A separate report on the Environment and the community is achievement of national safety awards: contained on pages 18 to 21 of this Report and Accounts.
Interserve Industrial Services RoSPA Commendation in the Engineering Construction Annual General Meeting Resolutions Sector The resolutions to be presented at the AGM to be held on 14 May 2003, together with the explanatory notes, appear in Interserve Project Services RoSPA Occupational Safety the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to Gold Award all shareholders.
BSC National Award Interserve House Approved by the Board of Interserve Defence RoSPA Occupational Safety Ruscombe Park Directors and signed on Gold Award Twyford behalf of the Board Reading Interserve Engineering Services RoSPA Occupational Safety Berkshire RG10 9JU Gold Award In accordance with the requirements of RIDDOR, injuries, ill health and dangerous occurrences were reported to the T. Bradbury relevant authorities.
Company Secretary 12 March 2003 The number of RIDDOR reportable injuries to employees and sub-contractors reduced by 14 per cent over the year with a corresponding reduction in the annual incidence rate of 12 per cent.
