Directors report The Directors of Intertek Testing Services plc have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and the audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal activities and review of business The Groups principal activities are the testing, inspection and certification of products and commodities against a wide range of safety, regulatory, quality and performance standards.
A review of the Company and its subsidiaries businesses and likely future developments is given in the Business description and the Operating and financial review.
The Group was created by a group reconstruction whereby, on 24 May 2002, the shareholders exchanged the whole of the issued share capital of Intertek Testing Services Holdings Limited ITSHL, formerly Intertek Testing Services Limited, in return for shares in a newly formed holding company, Intertek Testing Services plc.
The acquisition of ITSHL by Intertek Testing Services plc was accounted for in accordance with the principles of merger accounting as set out in FRS 6 and Schedule 4A to the Companies Act 1985.
By adopting this accounting treatment the consolidated financial information of Intertek Testing Services plc included in these accounts has been presented to show the results of the reconstructed group as though the reconstruction had occurred prior to 1 January 2001.
Intertek Testing Services plc was incorporated on 9 August 2001 as Alnery No.
At 31 December 2001 the Company had an issued share capital of 1 ordinary share of 1.
On 10 April 2002, the Company made an exchange offer for all the issued share capital of Intertek Testing Services Limited until then the parent company of the Group for a consideration satisfied by the issue of one new share in the Company for each corresponding share in Intertek Testing Services Limited.
On 24 May 2002, the Company was re-registered as a public limited company and changed its name to Intertek Testing Services plc.
The Board has concluded that it would be in the best interests of the Group to refocus the Groups brand on the name Intertek.
Accordingly the Board has decided that it should seek the approval of the shareholders to rename the Company, Intertek Group plc.
That proposal will be treated as Special Business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
Dividends No interim dividend was paid for the six months to 30 June 2002.
A final dividend of 5.2p per share has been proposed, which subject to shareholder approval will be paid on 18 June 2003, to shareholders on the register at 6 June 2003.
Going forward, the Group expects to recommend to shareholders, the payment of both an interim and a final dividend.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during the year are set out below.
Short biographies are set out in the Annual Review.
five Treves Non-Executive Chairman Appointed 9 May 2002 RC Nelson Chief Executive Officer Appointed 9 April 2002 W Spencer Chief Financial Officer Appointed 9 April 2002 DP Allvey Non-Executive Director Appointed 9 May 2002 W Hauser Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 November 2002 RE Sayers Non-Executive Director Appointed 9 May 2002 Alnery Incorporations No 1 Limited Director on incorporation Resigned 9 April 2002 Alnery Incorporations No 2 Limited Director on incorporation Resigned 9 April 2002 five Treves and RC Nelson retire by rotation and W Hauser, a Director appointed during the year, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
18 Intertek Annual Report and Accounts 2002 www.
com None of the Directors of the Company had a material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings, other than W Hauser who entered into a Consultancy Agreement with the Group to provide support to assist the Group in its expansion within Europe.
The terms of the Directors service contracts and the Directors interests in the shares and options of the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration report on pages 21 to 27.
Employee policies The Groups employment policy is to ensure that all employees are measured solely in terms of their ability irrespective of their race, religion, colour, age, disability, gender or sexual orientation.
In accordance with the Groups equal opportunities policy, people with disabilities are given the same consideration as others when they apply for jobs.
Depending on their skills and abilities, they enjoy the same career prospects as other employees.
Where employees become disabled, every effort will be made to retain them in their current role or to explore possibilities for retraining or redeployment within the Group.
Where necessary, the Group aims to provide employees with facilities, equipment and training to assist them in doing their jobs.
The Company is committed to offering its key employees the opportunity to enhance their personal wealth, while at the same time aligning themselves more closely with the Companys performance, through ownership of the Companys shares.
The Company operates two share option schemes for key employees and these are detailed in the Remuneration report.
The health and safety of the Groups employees is a matter of primary concern.
Accordingly, it is the Groups policy to manage its activities so as to avoid any unnecessary or unacceptable risks and to have in place procedures that conform to best practice in this area.
A small number of the Groups employees are members of trade unions and works councils, mostly in continental Europe and in Korea.
The Group communicates regularly with the union representatives and aims to maintain good labour relations with all its employees.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment practice but instead the Group has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made in accordance with those terms subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Substantial shareholdings At 3 March 2003, the Company has been notified in accordance with sections 198 to 205 of the Companies Act 1985, that the following were interested in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: Number of shares Percentage Deutsche Bank AG 21,197,283 13.81% Charterhouse Capital Limited 12,498,064 8.14% FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 10,947,772 7.13% Axa S. A.
8,514,218 5.55% Lazard Asset Management 6,881,140 4.48% The Prudential Group of Companies 6,354,312 4.14% Legal and General Group plc 4,603,517 3.00% Save for the above, no other person has reported an interest, which is notifiable under the Companies Act 1985, being an interest of 3% or more in the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
19 Intertek Annual Report and Accounts 2002 www.
com Directors report Corporate governance The Groups statement of corporate governance is set out on pages 28 to 31 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Charitable and political donations The Group made no political or charitable donations during the year.
Auditors The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going concern The operation of the Groups control procedures gives the Directors a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group accounts.
Annual general meeting The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Thursday 15 May 2003 is enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Notice details the business to be considered at the meeting, including a proposal to change the Companys name to Intertek Group plc.
By order of the Board Martin Black Company Secretary 10 March 2003 Registered Office: 25 Savile Row, London W1S 2ES Registered Number: 4267576 20 Intertek Annual Report and Accounts 2002 www.
