REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors have pleasure in presenting the annual report and Resolution 11 will be proposed at the 2003 annual general meeting accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002. to grant authority to the directors to make market purchases of up to 29,896,990 of the companys shares within prescribed limits.
No such BUSINESS REVIEW purchases were made in 2002 or up to the date of this report pursuant Information on the businesses of the group, their development during to the authority granted at last years annual general meeting.
the year and on the future outlook is contained on pages 1 to 38.
The directors will only exercise such authority to purchase shares if An analysis of the groups activities is given in note 2 on pages 57 and 58. circumstances arise in which they consider purchases would be of benefit to the company.
No purchase would be made unless the directors are The profit on ordinary activities after taxation, which amounted to of the view that it would result in an increase in earnings per share.
The 10.6 million 2001 47.4 million, is shown in the consolidated profit directors will also take into account the companys cash resources, the and loss account on page 51. effect on gearing and other possible investment opportunities before exercising this authority.
The directors recommend that a final dividend of 6.6 pence 2001 6.4 pence per ordinary share be paid which, together with the interim SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS dividend of 3.4 pence 2001 3.1 pence, results in a total ordinary Pursuant to Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, notifications have dividend for the year of 10.0 pence 2001 9.5 pence per share.
Ordinary been received by the company of shareholdings of three per cent or more dividends amounted to 29.5 million 2001 25.9 million and preference of the issued share capital as at 6 March 2003 and these are as follows: dividends amounted to nil 2001 15.8 million.
The final dividend will Number Per cent be payable on 1 July 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 May 2003.
FMR Corporation Fidelity International Ltd 20,738,639 6.94 On 5 December 2002, AMEC announced that it had exercised its options Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 11,160,201 3.73 to acquire the outstanding 54 per cent interest in SPIE S. A. AMECs French associate.
On 21 January 2003, AMEC received unconditional The Standard Life Assurance Company 9,150,515 3.06 competition clearance from the European Commission to proceed with the acquisition.
At an extraordinary general meeting held on 5 February DIRECTORS 2003, the shareholders of AMEC approved the proposed acquisition and Details of the directors of the company at the date of this report are set completion took place on 5 March 2003, following which SPIE S. A. out on page 39.
Mr P S Janson resigned from the board on 22 May 2002 became a wholly owned subsidiary of AMEC plc.
but continued as non-executive chairman of AMEC Inc. a subsidiary company of AMEC plc, until 21 August 2002.
Mr J-P Jacamon was SHARE CAPITAL appointed to the board as a non-executive director on 27 November 2002.
The authorised and issued share capital of the company as at In accordance with article 91 of the articles of association of the 31 December 2002 and movements during the year are set out in company, Mr Jacamon will retire from office at the forthcoming annual note 21 on page 69. general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
He does not have an employment contract with the company.
Mr G E Payne Subsequent to the issue of a mandatory conversion notice, all the has announced his intention to take early retirement from the company outstanding 21,621,388 convertible preference shares were converted with effect from 31 March 2003. into ordinary shares on 7 January 2002.
Mr J M Green-Armytage, Mr J A Monville, Ms E P Airey and Mr J A Dallas Authority was granted to the directors at the 2002 annual general retire in accordance with article 85 of the articles of association of meeting to allot up to 49,790,640 of ordinary share capital, of which the company and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
up to 7,204,249 could be allotted for cash other than by way of a rights None of the aforementioned directors has an employment contract issue.
This authority extends through until 8 May 2007. with the company.
The directors have no present intention of issuing any shares other than in respect of the exercise of share options.
No issue will be made which will effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
40 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company of the Internal communication is a priority for AMEC, as employees carry directors holding office at 31 December 2002 were as follows: forward the groups knowledge, brand and reputation.
AMEC provides numerous direct or electronic opportunities for employees to raise As at As at issues and discuss matters of concern with management.
31 December 1 January 2002 2002 Number Number Employees share knowledge and are kept informed of group developments through various means, including AMECnet the groups S Gillibrand 59,951 34,165 intranet, internal publications, best practice groups, news bulletins and Sir Peter Mason 86,458 91,427 announcements.
A global conference of senior managers is held each JD Early 49,382 49,382 year to discuss developing issues.
D Robson 54,130 53,788 GEPayne 68,443 68,101 The company operates an Inland Revenue approved savings related JM Green-Armytage 10,000 10,000 share option scheme open to all eligible UK employees from time to time.
J A Monville Subsequent to shareholders approval at the 2002 annual general EP Airey 18,120 14,023 meeting, the scheme will also be made available to overseas employees.
JA Dallas 2,000 M O Hesse 16,414 13,777 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE S J Siddall 10,413 3,243 The board is responsible to the shareholders for the management of the J-P Jacamon company and for the protection of its assets.
As such, it is ultimately responsible for putting in place AMECs systems of internal control and Except for interests under share option schemes and the Long-Term for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage, Incentive Plan, details of which are contained in the directors rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, remuneration report on pages 44 to 50, no director as at 31 December and consequently can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance 2002 had any other interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the share capital against material misstatement or loss.
of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
Two reports, dealing with corporate governance issues Review of On 2 January 2003, Mr Gillibrand acquired a beneficial interest in the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors Derek Higgs, a further 804 shares, pursuant to the provisions of the dividend and Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance Sir Robert Smith reinvestment plan, relating to the 2002 interim dividend.
AMEC is currently considering the impact of these reports on the way its board and committees carry out their There were no other changes in the directors interests in the share responsibilities.
Changes will be made, where applicable, to bring the capital of the company between 31 December 2002 and 6 March 2003. company into line with best practice.
No director was materially interested in any contract of significance Combined Code to AMECs businesses.
The company complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2002 and up to the date of approval of the accounts with the relevant provisions EMPLOYEES of Section 1 of the Combined Code, published in June 1998, and with In 2002, AMEC employed on average 22,964 people worldwide.
Details the recommendations of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the are given in note 6 on page 59.
Combined Code the Turnbull guidance except as noted below: The development of employees, to ensure that AMEC has the necessary For the whole of 2002, AMEC owned 46 per cent of SPIE S. A. a skills and behaviours to deliver its strategic business objectives and to company incorporated in France.
The board has not specifically provide for management succession, is given high priority.
In addition, reviewed the effectiveness of SPIEs systems of internal control but recognising the importance for the future of bringing young people into receives reports detailing the methods for the identification, the business, all businesses have well established programmes for assessment and control of risks within the SPIE group of companies.
recruiting and developing graduates and other trainees.
Prior to the acquisition of the outstanding 54 per cent interest in SPIE S. A. a due diligence exercise was undertaken and the results were Respect for cultural diversity and equal opportunities are included among reviewed by the board prior to it recommending the acquisition to AMECs guiding principles which are incorporated into management AMECs shareholders.
In addition, the board conducted a review policies and processes worldwide.
The policy is to recruit from the widest of the opportunities and risks arising from the exercise of the option labour market, determining the careers of all employees solely on merit to acquire SPIE and an alternative decision not to acquire the balance and making judgements about employees, free from the effects of bias of SPIE.
The board will carry out a more detailed review of SPIEs and prejudice.
systems of internal control during 2003.
It is AMECs policy to consider for employment suitably qualified disabled AMEC also has interests in a number of joint ventures.
Controls people and to assist them in overcoming handicaps at work.
AMEC within these joint ventures may not be reviewed as part of recognises that special arrangements are necessary, in view of the AMECs formal corporate governance process because of the nature of its main activities, to ensure that disabled employees are joint management responsibilities but are reviewed as part of properly trained for the tasks they perform.
AMEC endeavours to retrain the normal internal audit process.
any employee who develops a disability during employment, wherever practicable.
AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 41 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Management and Policy Framework The committees chaired by non-executive directors are as follows: Following the restructuring of AMEC in January 2002 and, in anticipation of the acquisition of SPIE, the board revised the management structure Audit committee Reviews and recommends approval by the board of within AMEC.
annual and interim results and related Stock Exchange announcements, including any formal profit forecast or working capital statements and AMECs businesses are managed on a decentralised basis.
While the ensures that appropriate accounting and financial policies and controls board has retained reserve powers, the day to day management of the are adhered to.
principal operations has been passed to the business leaders, within defined authority limits.
The management philosophy is to empower the It also reviews the scope and planning of external audits, reviews the business leaders to take the actions necessary to deliver the companys half year and full year reports from the external auditors, considers operational business objectives within the AMEC management and recommendations concerning the appointment and remuneration of policy framework, which establishes the standards members of the external auditors, approves the annual internal audit plan and reviews group are expected to meet.
the head of internal audits quarterly reports.
THE BOARD The committee has unrestricted access to company documents and During 2002, the board comprised the non-executive chairman, seven meets with the internal and external auditors, and any other member executive directors including Mr P S Janson, until his resignation on of staff, without the executive directors being present, as required.
22 May 2002 and four other non-executive directors see page 39 for The head of internal audit formally reports to the committee chairman.
A sixth non-executive director, Mr J-P Jacamon, was appointed to the board on 27 November 2002.
During 2002, the fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc and its associates for non-audit work were 1.3 million 2001 0.8 million, which comprised This board structure creates a balance of power such that no individual 0.6 million primarily relating to taxation and 0.7 million for other or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decisions.
The work 2001 0.7 million and 0.1 million.
All non-statutory audit or company does not combine the role of chairman and chief executive.
non-compliance tax services provided by the auditor are reported to the The chairman is responsible for the running of the board, with the chief audit committee.
executive being responsible for running the group and implementing board strategy and policy.
This ensures a clear division of responsibilities Charities committee Makes commitments and donations in support at the head of the company, so that no individual has unfettered powers of charitable, educational and cultural causes.
Compliance and ethics committee Considers and approves the The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent codes of business conduct and related compliance arrangements and by the NAPF and ABI.
Mr J M Green-Armytage is the boards senior takes responsibility for management of investigations for violations, non-executive director.
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board Nominations committee Reviews proposals for the appointment procedures are followed and all directors have access to his advice and of executive and non-executive directors or the termination or extension services.
The board met 12 times during the year.
It has a schedule of of existing appointments and recommends approval by the board.
matters reserved for its approval and is supplied in a timely manner with information which enables it to discharge its duties.
Remuneration committee Reviews salaries, performance related remuneration, pension arrangements and share incentive arrangements A formal process exists for the directors to take independent professional in respect of the chairman and executive directors see page 44 for advice and receive appropriate training in the course of their duties, at further details.
the companys expense, via the company secretary and the corporate head of human resources.
Share transaction committee Provides clearance or denies permission to relevant employees to deal in AMEC plc shares.
Board committees Under AMECs management and policy framework, the board has The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows: formally delegated specific responsibilities to various committees, all of which have written terms of reference.
Banking committee Reviews and approves borrowing, guarantees, bonds, indemnities, employee bridging facilities and interest rate The remit of each committee is set out below.
A quorum is generally and foreign exchange hedging strategies within authority limits set three directors.
Corporate transactions committee Responsible for considering acquisitions and disposals of businesses and providing guidelines in respect of such transactions within authority limits set by the board.
Pensions and retirement benefits committee Reviews proposals relating to new arrangements, amendments, discontinuance, funding or any other matters relating to pension and retirement benefits.
Risk review committee Approves the risk registers of AMEC plc and the various businesses, the AMEC plc risk transfer policy and proposals to enter into contractual commitments that fall outside the delegated authority limits of the executive directors.
42 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 Risk management processes Risks are prioritised in terms of overall impact on achieving business Through the committees described above, and at the regular board objectives and allocated an owner.
The risk owners consider the meetings, the board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating effectiveness of the existing controls and develop action plans to manage and managing significant risks faced by the company including the the risks appropriately.
groups strategy, major projects to be undertaken by the group and significant acquisitions and disposals.
Where appropriate, business The process is regularly reviewed by the risk management forum, which decisions are reached following a structured and documented review of consists of business risk managers from each of the businesses and potential opportunities and threats, taking steps designed to manage or certain heads of corporate functions.
The forum also works to identify any mitigate the risk exposure resulting from the decision.
significant or new risks facing the businesses, it disseminates best practice in risk management and it considers and circulates lessons As part of this, the board and the principal businesses have also learnt.
It reports to the risk review committee of the board at least implemented a seven-step risk management process total risk annually.
This process is a generic approach, which is flexible enough to be adopted by the diverse companies within AMEC.
The risk management process is complemented by an annual self-assessment review of controls within the principal businesses.
This process, with risk workshops carried out at many levels of the This exercise covers the areas of safety, health and the environment, organisation, aims to identify gross risks to the businesses before commercial, financial, information systems, human resources and the controls are put in place.
The resultant risk registers have been collated control environment.
The results are reviewed by the board, through and compared and the risks identified have been considered within the the audit committee, and as part of the ongoing internal audit process.
four basic areas of strategy, finance, compliance and operations.
AMECs sustainability programme also provides the board with The seven steps of TRM are as follows: information with which to monitor performance and assess significant risks and opportunities arising from corporate social responsibility matters.
Define business and project objectives GOING CONCERN The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence Define risk management plan for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY Identification Businesses are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier complies with all of its Assessment obligations in this regard.
The company had 23 days purchases oustanding at 31 December 2002 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Planning DONATIONS Donations to United Kingdom charities amounted to 142,000.
Management AUDITORS A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company.
Feedback By order of the board P J Holland Secretary 6 March 2003 Note On 10 March 2003, Toscafund Limited notified an interest in the share capital of the company of 9,588,962 shares, being 3.21 per cent of the issued share capital.
