OIL AND GAS 1 2 1 Advanced Structural Analysis, UK AMECs Advanced Engineering Services form an 3 integral part of the companys offering to clients.
2 and main photo Engineering Services, UK AMEC is a world leader in the integration of large and complex topside production facilities such as the 300,000 tonne Bonga floating production vessel.
3 Operations Support, the Philippines Services for Shells Malampaya gas production facilities are provided with support from AMECs offices in Aberdeen, UK.
AMEC IS A LEADING INTERNATIONAL PROVIDER OF TOTAL LIFE OF ASSET SERVICES TO CLIENTS IN THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY.
OIL AND GAS Percentage of total turnover 2002 19% 1.0 BILLION UPSTREAM DOWNSTREAM PIPELINES Based on total turnover with the pro forma inclusion of SPIE at 100 per cent.
CLIENTS LOOK TO AMEC TO PROVIDE PROVEN HEALTH AND SAFETY SYSTEMS, COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT, A HIGHLY SKILLED WORKFORCE, REGIONAL PRESENCE AND A STRONG RECORD OF DELIVERY.
12 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 60% Turnover 60 per cent of total turnover is now generated outside the UK.
Remote Engineering Expertise in engineering offshore facilities in hostile environments can be provided by experienced AMEC engineers in Canada for use on projects located in other regions of the world, such as Sakhalin in the Russian Far East.
200 Support Services are provided daily to over 200 facilities worldwide.
RECENT EVENTS FOCUS ON OIL AND GAS With world leading expertise working in hostile deepwater environments, AMEC is a leading February 2003 international provider of total life of asset services to clients in the oil and gas industry.
Fawley oil refinery, UK five-year contract In upstream, AMEC has market-leading positions in engineering, project management, to provide engineering maintenance integration of complex topsides and operations and maintenance services.
In downstream, services for ExxonMobil.
the company is recognised for its expertise in gas processing and operations and Sakhalin II, Russian Far East detailed maintenance, whilst in pipelines the group is one of the worlds leading large-diameter engineering, project management and pipeline contractors.
construction support contract for a Shell joint venture 140 million.
Barriers to entry in the industry are extremely high.
Clients look to AMEC to provide proven health and safety systems, commitment to the environment, a highly skilled workforce, Kizomba B deepwater floating production and offloading facility, off Angola joint regional presence and a strong record of delivery.
Trends in recent years towards alliancing venture contract to provide design, and partnering, longer-term cost-reimbursable contracts and consolidation have resulted engineering and project management in AMEC building even stronger relationships with clients including Shell, BP, ExxonMobil, services for ExxonMobil.
January 2003 Holstein and Mad Dog floating oil In recent years AMEC has successfully pursued a strategy of international growth, working production facilities, Gulf of Mexico closely with long-term clients who are developing new sources of supply around the world, hook up and commissioning often in hostile operating environments.
New contracts expected to be worth in the region services contract for BP America of 1 billion have been announced over the last 12 months in the UK, Australia, Caspian, Production Company.
Sakhalin and other regions around the world.
Recent trends towards liberalisation of December 2002 markets previously closed to the private sector have resulted in important new client Firebag Oil Sands Project, Canada relationships, including those in South Korea and Indonesia.
pipeline construction contract for Suncor Energy Inc. World demand for energy continues to rise and oil and gas is expected to remain the dominant source of supply, accounting for some 65 per cent of the total.
Nearly 200 billion October 2002 Caspian Region offshore engineering is projected to be spent worldwide in 2003 alone.
Deepwater fields are the new frontier, services and pipeline construction where development is being driven by declining production from mature fields in shallower contracts AMEC share 140 million.
AMEC is well positioned to provide support, with the three largest deepwater operators BP, ExxonMobil and Shell all being long-term AMEC clients.
September 2002 Bathgate, UK 48 million contract to design and deliver a gas compression CASE STUDY AMEC IN THE CASPIAN station for Transco.
In October 2002, AMEC secured new work on a massive oil field development in the Caspian Sea and a strategic pipeline through Georgia, which will deliver Caspian oil to world markets.
Further details are available at www.
com The awards further reinforce AMECs growing presence in the energy-rich Caspian region, which is estimated to hold 15 per cent of the worlds oil reserves, and where the company has been building relationships for the last five years.
For the vast Azeri, Chirag and Gunashli oil and gas fields, AMEC will develop plans under an AMEC has been developing technology to allow engineers, thousands of miles apart, initial 10 million contract, which has the potential for significant further AMEC work subject to communicate via virtual reality headsets.
In addition, an AMEC consortium secured a contract AMEC share 30 million to project manage a 14,500 tonne topside facility.
Both contracts were awarded AMEC has been responsible for the by the Azerbaijan International Operating Company a consortium of BP, ExxonMobil and management and integration of over 400,000 other leading oil and gas producers.
tonnes of offshore platform facilities.
AMEC uses satellite technology to track In related work, SPIE secured a joint venture contract AMEC share 100 million to design icebergs and tow them clear of clients and build 248 kilometres of oil pipeline through Georgia with associated works in Azerbaijan.
offshore facilities, and can lay claim The contract, for the BP-led Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline Company, was extended in early to having changed the course of probably 2003 to deliver a gas pipeline along the same route AMEC share 40 million.
the largest iceberg ever towed, estimated at four million tonnes.
SPIE has constructed pipelines in regions as varied as the tropical rain forests of Chad and Cameroon to heights of over 4,800 metres in the Andes.
