IND USTRIAL 1 2 1 Multi-disciplinary Services, Canada AMECs team in Trail, Canada has been responsible for design, project and construction management work at the Cominco metallurgical complex.
2 Engineering Services, US A variety of engineering services are being provided to BP Fabrics and Fibers at seven sites which develop and produce fabrics for use in furniture and carpets.
3 Engineering Support Services AMEC provides engineering support for the Cats terminal, Seal Sands, UK for BP.
3 AMEC PROVIDES ENGINEERING EXPERTISE AND SUPPORT SERVICES THAT MEET THE NEEDS OF INDUSTRIAL CLIENTS ON A GLOBAL BASIS.
INDUSTRIAL Percentage of total turnover 2002 16% 0.9 BILLION CHEMICALS ELECTRONICS AND TELECOM FOOD AND GENERAL MANUFACTURING FOREST INDUSTRY MINING AND METALS NUCLEAR PHARMACEUTICAL POWER GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION Based on total turnover with the pro forma inclusion of SPIE at 100 per cent.
FROM PROJECT EVALUATION AND DEVELOPMENT TO MAINTENANCE AND FACILITIES MANAGEMENT, AMEC OFFERS A BROAD RANGE OF MULTI-DISCIPLINARY EXPERTISE TO INDUSTRIAL CLIENTS, HELPING THEM TO ACHIEVE THEIR OBJECTIVES.
24 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 80 AMEC is a world leader in the forest industry, with 80 years experience, working in more than 70 countries, providing clients with unrivalled expertise.
Condition Monitoring, Australia Thermographic technology allows AMEC engineers to detect air leaks during gas turbine operations, identifying potential faults and assisting with maintenance planning.
20 Over the last 12 months AMEC has provided services to nearly all of the top 20 global pharmaceutical companies from dedicated offices in the UK, Germany, Switzerland and North America.
RECENT EVENTS FOCUS ON INDUSTRIAL AMEC provides engineering expertise and support services to industrial clients on a global February 2003 basis.
Activity in this market sector covers a wide range of private sector industries, with Telecom 20 million contract approximately half of total turnover being generated from walk-in engineering services, from Crown Castle International, the where AMEC acts as in-house engineer, with the balance coming from capital project activity.
UKs largest independent provider of structures for mobile communications equipment.
Total life of asset support is available, from consultancy to design, construction, commissioning, support services and decommissioning.
Working closely with clients, January 2003 operational improvements are identified for existing facilities such as cost reductions, Chemicals AMEC extends its activities systems integration and fide-bottlenecking, with AMEC often working as an extension at BP Chemicals Grangemouth of the clients own project team.
petrochemical complex in Scotland with a contract for scheduled plant maintenance on three major chemical AMEC has extensive expertise in industrial markets including the forest industry, mining production units during 2003. and metals, pharmaceuticals and telecoms.
In the forest industry, AMEC is a global market leader in pulp and paper facilities, with 80 years experience, working in more than September 2002 70 countries.
The company has designed and constructed some of the worlds largest and Pharmaceuticals Eli Lilly and Company Limited appoints AMEC to provide facilities most technologically advanced integrated mills.
Services are provided on a global basis management services at its new corporate and long-term relationships have been built with leading industry clients in North America, head office in Basingstoke and R&D site in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
In mining and metals, AMEC has internationally recognised capabilities built on more than July 2002 General Manufacturing contract to 50 years experience.
AMEC offers clients a broad range of multi-disciplinary services and provide maintenance and support services utilises sophisticated engineering tools, including steady state and dynamic simulation, project at DuPontSAs polyester manufacturing websites, 3D design, photogrammetry and laser scanning.
AMECs experience extends from site in Pontypool, South Wales.
copper, gold, silver, lead, zinc, nickel, cobalt and platinum through to potash and phosphate, diamonds, light metals and iron ore. June 2002 Power Generation contract for detailed design, engineering and procurement Over the last 12 months AMEC has provided services to nearly all of the top 20 global services from Jamaica Public Service pharmaceutical companies from dedicated offices in the UK, Germany, Switzerland Company for a 120 MW gas turbine and North America.
The companys culture of value delivery, partnering and technical combined cycle power plant in Bogue, excellence enables it to deliver research, production and distribution facilities that set Jamaica.
Further details are available at www.
com AMEC and SPIE have a comprehensive telecommunications capability, with SPIE occupying a leading market position in the design, integration and maintenance of communications DID YOU KNOW?
AMEC has been involved with over 33 diamond CASE STUDY INTERNATIONAL EXPANSION IN PHARMACHEM mine projects in the last ten years, including AMECs market-leading position in UK pharmachem has recently provided the building block all those located in the north of Canada where its engineers work in climates which for international expansion particularly in North America, where in 2002 the company can plunge to minus 65 degrees Celsius.
secured around US$70 million of new orders in this highly specialised market.
The company is also the worlds leading As part of this expansion, AMEC is bringing together its specialist construction management engineer and builder of astronomy telescopes and value engineering expertise to expand a facility for Ben Venue Laboratories in Bedford, and it has also designed and built some of the worlds most exciting theme park roller Ohio, under a US$37 million contract.
Ben Venue Laboratories is a subsidiary of global coaster rides.
business Boehringer-Ingelheim, a company with which AMEC already has an established relationship in Germany, Switzerland, the US and the UK.
AMEC is currently working for a number of other pharmachem clients in North America, including Shire, Taro and Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, while in Europe it has major contracts underway for AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline and Merck Sharpe and Dohme.
