INFRAS TRUCTU R E AMEC HAS A LONG-STANDING REPUTATION FOR DELIVERING HIGH QUALITY SERVICES, SYSTEMS AND PROJECTS IN BOTH THE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTORS.
1 Urban Regeneration Ician, an AMEC joint venture, is regenerating part of Manchester, UK into a mixed-use scheme of contemporary apartments, shops and restaurants.
2 Building Services AMEC has installed state-of-the-art building services in the world class TAG McLaren Mercedes Technology Centre, UK, where Formula One cars will be designed, built and prepared.
3 Ministry of Defence Scottish Estate New mountain rescue facility at RAF Kinloss, one of around 400 facilities where AMEC will provide property services.
1 2 3 INFRASTRUCTURE Percentage of total turnover 2002 22% 1.2 BILLION DEFENCE PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BUILDINGS URBAN RENEWAL Based on total turnover with the pro forma inclusion of SPIE at 100 per cent.
AMEC HAS PROVEN STRENGTHS IN AREAS INCLUDING DEFENCE, URBAN REGENERATION, HOSPITALS AND EDUCATION.
20 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 400 An AMEC joint venture is preferred bidder to provide ongoing property services to the Ministry of Defence at around 400 establishments in Scotland.
PFI PPP AMECs involvement in infrastructure provides it with opportunities to design, build, finance and operate major capital projects for governments, public bodies and private companies.
The company continues to be active in PPP and has been awarded ten projects to-date.
It is currently bidding a further five contracts.
2,000 An AMEC joint venture is working to deliver regeneration schemes across British Waterways 2,000-mile network.
RECENT EVENTS FOCUS ON INFRASTRUCTURE AMEC offers services to clients in the infrastructure sector ranging from architectural design January 2003 to property and infrastructure development, construction and facilities management.
Arden Campus, Manchester, UK Activities include work in urban re-development, non-transport Public Private Partnerships 11 million contract to deliver a PPP projects and the defence sectors on both sides of the Atlantic.
November 2002 The company has a proven track record in infrastructure development and offers clients Manchester, UK 59 million design flexible approaches including design build finance operate contracts, prime contracting and build contract to deliver an innovative procurement arrangements and fully financed PPP projects.
The PPP business is focused residential project known as Leftbank on the design, build, finance and operation of major capital projects for the Government Apartments for Westbury Homes.
In the PPP market, AMEC has secured two hospital projects at Carlisle September 2002 operational and UCLH, London under construction, Ayrshire water treatment plant, An AMEC joint venture is selected Scotland operational and one of the largest office complexes in Europe, for the DHSS as preferred bidder on a seven year at Longbenton operational.
contract, valued in excess of 460 million AMEC share 50 per cent, to provide AMEC has a leading position in urban renewal and has developed strong relationships with ongoing property services to the Ministry of Defence at around 400 establishments local authorities to better understand and tackle regeneration issues inside and outside cities.
It is the only private sector organisation to sit on the UK Governments City Challenge urban regeneration panel and is currently working on major schemes including British Waterways, July 2002 English Cities Fund, Reading regeneration and Ician Northern Quarter, with a total British Waterways announces a major partnership value in excess of 1 billion.
property public private partnership with AMEC and Morleys Igloo Regeneration Fund.
In the defence sector, the UK Ministry of Defence is a long-term client, whilst in France The new joint venture, named ISIS the Ministre fide la Dfense is a major SPIE client.
In the US, AMEC is well established Waterside Regeneration, will combine with key clients such as the Pentagon, various branches of the Armed Forces and other private sector expertise and finance, US government agencies.
Also in the US, corrections, or prison facilities, together with with public sector assets to deliver regeneration schemes on previously other public sector buildings are a significant market.
developed urban land working in partnership with local authorities, CASE STUDY URBAN RENEWAL public agencies and public and AMECs leading position in UK urban renewal was strengthened in 2002 through a private landowners.
partnership with British Waterways to lead the way in unlocking the hidden potential of the Further details are available at www.
com UKs neglected canals and riverside locations.
A major new property PPP ISIS Waterside Regeneration ISIS was established in July DID YOU KNOW?
2002 with AMEC, Morleys Igloo Regeneration Fund and British Waterways.
The aim of the 15-year partnership is to combine private sector expertise and finance with public sector AMEC was praised by the US Government for assets, to breathe new life into the countrys underused waterside locations.
its role in managing the recovery operations at both the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon For AMEC this represents the continuation of an approach to regeneration which dates back after 11 September 2001.
At the Pentagon, where the company had an existing contract, to the early 1990s with the regeneration of run-down areas such as Hulme in Manchester it worked day and night to meet successfully and Newcastle Quayside both of which now contain thriving mixed-use communities.
the Governments ambitious target of returning personnel to their desks in the re-built building Initially, ISIS has options for the regeneration of ten British Waterways locations with the within a year of the terrorist attack.
first sites likely to be in Manchester, Brentford and Nottingham.
Each scheme will have AMEC is a partner in the creation of the a balance of leisure, retail, commercial and residential elements, with a strong emphasis new global headquarters for Tag McLaren on sustainable regeneration and high quality architecture to enhance the waterway settings.
Mercedes where the Formula One The schemes will also deliver environmental and social benefits to the local communities motor racing team will be designed, built and visitors to the waterways.
