RE GIONAL SERVICES AMEC PROVIDES CLIENTS WITH MULTI-TECHNICAL SERVICES ACROSS EUROPE AND ENVIRONMENTAL AND GEOTECHNICAL CONSULTING IN NORTH AMERICA.
1 2 3 1 Water Resources, Canada AMEC Environmental Services help maintain and improve fish habitats by sampling water from the Fraser River near Vancouver.
2 Information and Communications, Europe Telecom services, net building and networks are provided from offices in France, the UK, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Portugal.
3 Multi-technical services, Europe Electrical, communications, HVAC shown here and mechanical and industrial services are provided to over 50,000 customers across Europe.
REGIONAL SERVICES Percentage of total turnover 2002 24% 1.3 BILLION CONTINENTAL EUROPE 300 LOCATIONS ELECTRICAL COMMUNICATIONS HVAC MECHANICAL AND INDUSTRIAL NORTH AMERICA 90 LOCATIONS ENVIRONMENTAL AND GEOTECHNICAL CONSULTING Heating, ventilation and air conditioning.
Based on total turnover with the pro forma inclusion of SPIE at 100 per cent.
THE REGIONAL SERVICES BUSINESSES HAVE A TRACK RECORD OF STABILITY, CHARACTERISED BY A VERY LARGE VOLUME OF SMALL OR RENEWABLE CONTRACTS.
28 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 400 AMECs regional services are delivered from some 400 locations across continental Europe and North America.
Environmental Services To ensure that mining exploration is environmentally safe at Windy Lake in Sudbury, Canada, operations are independently reviewed and monitored by AMEC environmental engineers, an example of specialist services being provided to local communities and clients.
50,000 SPIE provides multi-technical regional services to over 50,000 clients across Europe.
RECENT EVENTS FOCUS ON REGIONAL SERVICES AMECs regional services businesses serve clients across a wide variety of end markets.
December 2002 Principal activities are multi-technical services across Europe and environmental and AMEC is selected by the US Air Force geotechnical consulting across North America.
Services are provided on a local basis from a Center for Environmental Excellence network of over 300 locations across Europe and 90 in North America.
AFCEE as a supplier for negotiation of worldwide environmental services contracts.
These multi-market businesses follow a distinct business model focused on repeat business for numerous clients at the local level.
Historically, these businesses have been highly stable, November 2002 characterised by a very large volume of small or renewable contracts.
The growth driver Amtrak selects AMEC to be one of the for regional services is a combination of the overall economy, the ability to sell more services key suppliers of environmental services to existing customers and expansion of local relationships into larger regional or national over the next three years to the National Railroad Passenger Corp. Amtrak.
The regional services network has been progressively increased through the addition of new locations in selected niches which provide growth on top of organic increases.
August 2002 Strategic acquisitions have also improved its market position, with recent examples being the AMEC is involved in an innovative lead environmental business purchase of a branch network in 2001, which increased AMECs clean-up project at a firing range at Fort presence in the US defence market, and SPIEs acquisition of Matra Nortel Communications Dix, NJ.
The project is being conducted under RangeSafe, a US Army programme in 2002, which improved its position in the French communications market.
established to support the emergence of more effective, economical and The multi-technical services business in continental Europe provides electrical, communications, environmentally friendly technologies HVAC, mechanical and industrial services to a diversified portfolio of over 50,000 customers.
to clean up and maintain the nations The client base consists of a broad spectrum of national and regional firms and local firing range infrastructure.
communities, with the top 100 customers representing less than 50 per cent of sales.
May 2002 Services are provided through a network of over 300 locations in France, Benelux, Portugal AMEC successfully completes an and Germany.
emergency environmental cleanup of gasoline spilled during a fuel tanker The North American earth and environmental business provides services covering all rollover on New Mexico Highway 41. aspects of environmental services, geotechnical engineering, materials testing and Further details are available at www.
com engineering and water resource services.
AMEC expertise is delivered by over 2,000 scientists, geologists, engineers, biologists, environmental planners and other specialists.
Services are provided to public and private sector clients locally or globally, and often DID YOU KNOW?
With more than 90 locations across North America and around the world, AMEC truly offers local service, backed up by global reach.
AMEC is a world-leading expert in environmental clean up services and has CASE STUDY MILITARY CLEAN UP been working for over a decade to clean up pollution in Pearl Harbor including oil still AMECs North American earth and environmental business has for many years been leaking from sunken World War II warships.
working for the US Military to help it minimise the environmental effects of its activities.
The company operates technology which Indeed, AMEC is one of a select number of companies appointed by the US Air Force Center can render toxic waste harmless by for Environmental Excellence to negotiate worldwide environmental services contracts.
vitrifying it with high voltage electricity.
As a result, AMEC anticipates significant growth in its international activities for the US Air AMEC employs a team of geologists who are Force over the next five years.
willing to scale the 850 foot Hoover Dam on ropes and wildlife biologists who are working The initial Air Force spending ceiling for this extensive work programme is US$1.1 billion to protect the only officially recognised although provisions allow this to be raised to US$2.75 billion over the next five years.
Services endangered fly in the US.
to be covered include environmental restoration, conservation, planning, compliance and pollution prevention at international military installations.
AMEC is currently undertaking an innovative lead clean up project at the firing range at Fort Dix, NJ.
The project is considered critical, environmentally and militarily, both at Fort Dix where more than three million soldiers have trained over the past 85 years and at potentially many of the other 3,000 small arms military firing ranges across the US.
AMEC has also been working at the Massachusetts Military Reservation for the last five years to help the Army National Guard run an innovative programme to clean up contamination.
The 14,000-acre site, which has been used as a military reservation for over 60 years, has extensive unexploded munitions and other potential environmental issues.
