TRANSPORT DESIGN, DELIVERY AND MAINTENANCE OF RAIL, HIGHWAYS AND AIRPORTS WORLDWIDE.
1 Rail Maintenance Services The AMEC SPIE rail business provides routine rail maintenance to European clients 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
2 Airport Services Under a ten-year framework agreement with airport operator BAA, AMEC provides services at seven UK airports, including London Heathrow.
3 Public Private Partnerships A further section of the A1 M motorway in the UK is one of AMECs latest PPP projects in the transport sector.
1 3 2 TRANSPORT Percentage of total turnover 2002 19% 1.0 BILLION RAIL HIGHWAYS AIRPORTS Based on total turnover with the pro forma inclusion of SPIE at 100 per cent.
AMEC OFFERS CLIENTS A FULL RANGE OF SERVICES COVERING EVERY PHASE OF PLANNING, DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND RENOVATION OF RAIL, HIGHWAYS AND AIRPORTS.
16 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 1,000 The AMEC SPIE rail business is currently renewing 1,000 kilometres of high speed track in France.
Baggage Handling 100 per cent hold baggage screening ensures that passenger baggage has been checked and re-checked five times and is safe to carry onboard.
1 00% AMEC has provided specialist expertise in 100 per cent baggage screening projects at Londons Heathrow and Stansted airports.
RECENT EVENTS FOCUS ON TRANSPORT AMEC provides clients in rail, highways and airports with total life of asset support covering February 2003 consulting, design, maintenance, engineering and contracting services.
An AMEC joint venture signs contracts to extend the Docklands Light Railway The merger of AMEC and SPIEs rail activities creates a leading international business to London City Airport total value of serving major regional clients requiring a pooling of resources.
The AMEC SPIE rail concession over 300 million.
business is one of the two largest providers of rail services in Europe and also works on An AMEC joint venture signs contracts an international basis, with clients in the Americas, Africa and the Far East.
The company with The Highways Agency to upgrade offers specialist skills in track works, overhead catenary systems, power supply, control and and operate a 33-mile section of the A1 M communications and associated maintenance.
The AMEC SPIE rail business has expertise in Yorkshire to motorway standard total covering all aspects of railway infrastructure, from high speed and heavy goods to metro, investment value c. 245 million: AMEC share 25 per cent.
AMECs total turnover in the rail sector in 2002 exceeded 500 million.
January 2003 In highways, AMEC provides clients with project finance, design, construction, operation and BAA awards AMEC a ten-year nonmaintenance capabilities.
The company has long been a leading player in the UK and exclusive framework agreement for continues to win a significant share of that growing market.
In France, SPIE has developed work on new major infrastructure projects at its seven UK airports specialist expertise in lighting, signalling, safety, toll and traffic flow systems.
In the Americas, potential value up to 800 million.
AMECs consulting and design business specialising in highways and bridges is also well positioned in the high growth south west US states and in western Canada.
Network Rail awards a contract worth around 20 million as part of a five-year In airports, AMEC offers clients a range of infrastructure services, from design, project and programme that will ensure 16,000 kilometres of railway across the UK are construction management, to construction and maintenance.
The company has specialist equipped with the latest communications expertise in runway and taxiway renovation and maintenance, integrated solutions for IT to enhance both safety and service.
systems, baggage handling systems and the design and installation of aircraft fuel systems.
With its focus on long-term client relationships, AMEC recently signed a new ten-year Network Rail selects an AMEC SPIE Rail joint framework agreement with BAA with increased scope of work to include seven airports venture as preferred bidder to undertake high output track renewal in the UK.
work across the UKs rail network AMEC share 100 million.
CASE STUDY CHANNEL TUNNEL RAIL LINK The AMEC SPIE rail business has significant international experience of high-speed rail Further details are available at www.
com infrastructure and ongoing operation and maintenance services.
This industry-leading expertise is now providing opportunities for AMEC on some of Europes most challenging and important transport infrastructure work.
AMEC maintains some 1,500 miles of rail The Channel Tunnel Rail Link is a good example.
The contract includes the design, track in the UK and has recently checked procurement and installation of high-speed infrastructure trackwork, catenary, electronearly 1,700 miles of Scottish rail lines using mechanical for the initial section of over 75 kilometres the first time design, supply, revolutionary helicopter mounted technology.
installation and testing of a complete section of high speed rail had been entrusted to a single company in the UK.
AMEC built a newt highway to allow safe passage of Great Crested Newts during construction of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link.
The AMEC SPIE rail business is continuing to secure demanding rail infrastructure work and in 2003 has already secured a joint venture contract for track renewal work in the AMEC has been involved in major projects UK worth around 100 million to the company.
In France, the company recently completed at some of the worlds top airports including: the latest section of the French TGV network between Lyon and Marseille and is currently London, Heathrow: Paris, Charles fide Gaulle: New York, JFK: Hong Kong, Chek Lap Kok: renewing 1,000 kilometres of high speed track under a contract due for completion in 2006. and Japan, Kansai.
