It all makes sense Our products and markets Market report life sciences Note: Market numbers within text represent internal company estimates unless stated otherwise.
Fifty years have passed since the discovery of the double helix structure of DNA heralded a new era of medicine.
At the beginning of the 21st century, catalysed by the completion of the human genome, life science continues to be seen as a major driver towards improved healthcare for all.
Having the map of the human genome enabled life scientists to move into a new era of understanding biological processes at the cellular level.
This new precision in biology will lead to a fundamental shift in the practice of medicine, enabling delivery of the goal of personalised medicine by facilitating better understanding, profiling, prediction and treatment of disease.
In addition to technological advances, our knowledge-based society feeds a more informed and responsive public who continue to expect availability of cost-effective healthcare to improve their lives.
Research work in academia is critical for understanding the mechanisms of disease and underpinning improved healthcare: this has been reflected by generally stable sector funding during 2002.
Government and charity spending to support the academic segment continued to be strong with double-digit growth.
In the US, for example, the National Institutes of Health budget increased 14 per cent to approximately $23 billion in 2002, but it is anticipated that growth in funding will be decreased in future years.
Capital funding of start-up biotechnology companies has been under significant pressure this year, and sources of funding are now shifting from the public markets to a combination of the venture capital community and other private sources.
Following the sequencing of the human genome, the market is uncertain about where the next frontier will be found.
Companies are now turning towards functional biology, where the interest is in deciphering what the genes and their protein products actually do.
In addition, companies that previously commercialised software and genomic data have developed new business strategies, moving from discovery companies to therapeutic developers, eg.
Celeras acquisition of Axys Pharmaceuticals and Millenniums acquisition of Cor Therapeutics.
Consolidation is likely to continue, frequently in association with large pharmaceutical companies through marketing alliances, to create powerful biotechnology players.
Despite the availability of far more potential targets than previously, there has still been a reduction in the number of innovative drugs being registered by pharmaceutical companies.
Escalating R&D costs are lessening productivity and placing a greater importance on steps to limit the possibility of failure in the later stages of development.
By better understanding the function and variation of genes and proteins in disease and health, pharmaceutical companies will increase their opportunity of identifying disease-relevant targets leading to better-targeted molecular drugs.
In an attempt to maximise returns, companies have refocused some of their resources to later stage development to support life-cycle management.
These companies also faced additional pressures such as market pricing and increased generic competition.
In 2002 these significant issues were coupled with a backdrop of global recessionary pressure, increased focus on corporate governance and contraction of capital budgets.
Notwithstanding the global market challenges of 2002, dynamism and change remain the hallmarks of the biosciences market.
Amersham plc 17 Overview of selected market segments for Amersham Biosciences Market size Selected application segment m Competitors Bioprocess industrial protein separations 590 Millipore, Merck KgaA, Tosoh Bioscience Laboratory protein separations 345 Bio-Rad, Applied Biosystems Genomics sequencing 500 Applied Biosystems Genomics gene expression 400 Affymetrix, Agilent Proteomics 740 Applied Biosystems, Bio-Rad, Waters High throughput drug screening 1,200 Cellomics, Molecular Devices, Perkin-Elmer The market in which Amersham Biosciences competes has a Biotechnology drug candidates in clinical trials comprise a wide value of approximately 5 billion: selected application segments range of compounds including anti-sense DNA, monoclonal are shown in the accompanying table.
Customers include antibodies, DNA-based gene therapies, growth factors, research and development groups within academic and clinical interferon and vaccines.
The growth rates in this area are research laboratories, pharmaceutical companies, biotech expected to be maintained or to rise in the future as an companies and biopharmaceutical manufacturing groups.
increasing number of novel proteins, peptides and anti-sense drugs are brought to market as therapeutic products.
There are Key market drivers are the sourcing and allocation of funds in currently more than 500 biopharmaceuticals in phase I, II and these customer segments and the number of biopharmaceuticals III clinical trials worldwide.
The market growth for bioprocess in clinical trials.
Total worldwide pharmaceutical biotech R&D products will be underpinned by the increasing propensity of spend increased by approximately nine per cent in 2001: pharmaceutical companies to look for manufacturing growth has slowed to an estimated six per cent for leading technologies that further improve overall production economy.
Because of the relatively large doses required in their use, the increased number of monoclonal antibodies in later stage Growth in pharmaceutical and biotechnology R&D expenditure billion development has triggered investment in manufacturing Source: Pharmaceutical R&D compendium, SCRIP Reports, company filings capacity to meet the expected demand.
Growth in number of licensed biopharmaceuticals 60 Source: IMS data 45 30 15 0 94 95 9697 98 99 00 01 02 The biosciences market is fuelled by integrated systems, instruments, consumables and informatics, to support customers to achieve their goals faster and more efficiently.
Increasingly, sophisticated platforms such as biochips are being applied across genomics and are starting to enter proteomics.
These technologies generate large amounts of data in a much shorter time than previously achieved, and have high potential in general research as well as in other applications such as in vitro clinical diagnostics.
insulin, monoclonal antibodies, vaccines, DNA medicines continue to grow in importance.
Nine out of the 26 drug approvals by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA during 2002 were biologics.
Number first marketed Protein separations Cumulative to date Bioprocess The number of biopharmaceutical candidates in clinical trials Laboratory separations and gaining regulatory approval has continued to increase.
Chromatography is one of the core technologies used in protein There are now over 100 such biopharmaceuticals from analysis, and although affected by the slowdown in capital companies such as Amgen, Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson and spending on tools, the longer-term growth in this market is being NovoNordisk.
The key purification steps in the production of fuelled by the overall market expansion in proteomics.
these drugs require systems, membranes and chromatography Laboratory chromatography techniques are also used in method media designed and manufactured to the highest standards.
development and scale-up for biopharmaceutical manufacturing.
18 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 It all makes sense Our products and markets Genomics Informatics The genomics market is heterogeneous and is composed of The integration of the vast amounts of data generated from sub-segments such as gene sequencing, gene expression and increasingly large numbers of sample studies and multiple genetic variation, which are growing at different rates.
technology platforms represents one of the key challenges for life science research in the 21st century.
While major Sequencing efforts are now increasingly focused on exploration corporations such as IBM are becoming active in this segment, of genetic differences in the four nucleotide bases within, and current market needs are focused on laboratory information between, a variety of species.
Technologies are being applied management systems LIMS which integrate platforms, sample to improving sample preparation prior to sequencing as well and reagent logistics and enable production research by as reducing sample volumes, providing greater ease of use handling data from sample to end result.
The LIMS market is and increasing overall efficiencies.
predicted to grow to over 0.5 billion by 2007.
Measuring and monitoring the level to which different genes are expressed is increasingly performed using microarray platforms with pre-arrayed nucleic acids biochips or with technologies to allow researchers to prepare their own arrays.
Tailoring of drug treatments is an important goal of personalised medicine.
Analysis of single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs should facilitate a better understanding of individual susceptibility to disease and response to drug treatment.
The market is currently very small, but with technological advances it could show dramatic growth.
Proteomics Proteomics studies to discover the identity, function and interaction of proteins in living organisms is experiencing good growth.
Proteins are responsible for cellular structure, metabolism and function including signalling and growth, and are therefore the targets of most drug discovery efforts.
In contrast to genomics, the industrialisation of proteomics is in its infancy.
Unlike DNA, proteins cannot be readily amplified to aid detection and analysis.
Also, in contrast to the 35,000 to 45,000 human genes, there may be up to two million different types of proteins, and these have complex differences in their three-dimensional structure which affect their function.
Current trends include the drive towards integrated approaches to provide increased sample throughput, sensitivity and accuracy.
Technologies such as microarrays are just starting to be applied for protein analysis, but are considerably more complex than their DNA counterparts.
Bioassays Researchers use bioassays to measure and quantify the biological processes involved in cellular activities, metabolism and disease.
Bioassays are involved at almost every stage of the preclinical drug discovery research and development process.
Validation of target molecules, primary screening of possible drug candidates, secondary screening to select lead candidates and finally, testing of the lead candidates to validate their metabolic toxicological properties are among the hurdles that must be passed before a potential drug candidate can move into clinical trials.
The success of primary screening approaches has now led to development of the market for high information secondaryscreening formats.
Researchers are now starting to use such formats to examine how modification of selected genes within cells is translated into physiological changes.
Amersham plc 19 Creating value 20 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
