Corporate governance statement Recent events have led to an increased focus upon the appointment is to be made, consideration is given to the kind operation of corporate governance in the UK and elsewhere.
of experience which a potential new member could add to the The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate existing mix.
Each Non-Executive is encouraged to contribute governance throughout the group.
The Board is accountable to both the full Board and where appropriate its subcommittees.
to the companys shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Principles of Good Governance The Board met formally seven times during the year including and the provisions of the Code of Best Practice, identied in a two-day annual review of strategy and the full Board the London Stock Exchanges Combined Code, issued attended all meetings except for two Directors who were on 25 June 1998, are applied by the company.
unable to attend one meeting due to other commitments.
Separate terms of reference delineate the work of the Audit, The Board believes that good governance is about more Remuneration and Nomination Committees as well as any than satisfying check lists and meeting legal obligations.
other subcommittees of the Board or ad hoc groups that the The Board seeks to increase understanding of the operation Board authorises for any purpose.
of its governance and in so doing demonstrate that it exceeds the requirements as currently prescribed by law.
The Non-Executive Directors meet privately as a group with the Chairman, as necessary, at least once a year and similarly With the objective of ensuring successful creation of value with both the Chairman and the Chief Executive to consider within a framework of acceptable risk, the Board sees its role management and succession issues.
Non-Executive Directors as including: also review each year the relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure that this is working in a assisting value creation by the controlled and measured manner to the benefit of the business.
management of a wide range of business risks The Board meetings encourage open discussion, and management encouraging the proper assessment and consideration brings issues to the Board seeking advice and approval where of business opportunity appropriate.
The Board also receives presentations from advisers and where necessary, members have access to deciding, after proper consideration, the strategic direction independent advice.
and future needs of the business The Board believes that its style of involvement with the representing the interests of shareholders and satisfying management through the Chief Executive and the Executive all statutory duties to them Directors is the most effective way to provide confidence in the control environment of the company.
Through openness ensuring appropriate behaviour with respect to the various and discussion the Board endeavours to understand and codes of corporate governance and good business practices provide leadership as to the willingness of the company to take appropriate risks in the interests of the shareholders.
overseeing good corporate citizenship and ethical behaviour by the company and its employees with regard to all its internal Annually the Board considers its performance of each of the and external stakeholders roles it has set itself.
providing a challenging condential forum, free from conicts, External communications in which the Chief Executive can test strategic thinking with Amersham strives to maintain a good dialogue with shareholders an informed group having broad continuity over time and regular meetings are held with institutional shareholders throughout the year to discuss the progress of the company, requiring the Chief Executive to report openly on the future growth prospects and strategy.
The company maintains operational performance of all parts of the company an Investor Relations department to facilitate ongoing communication with shareholders.
Other channels of monitoring the effectiveness of the Chief Executive and communication include company presentations, seminars, his executive team as set against a series of performance press releases and interim and Annual Reports.
In addition, the objectives and benchmarks company website www.
com provides information on the company for all shareholders and the general public.
setting a control framework within which the Chief Executive can operate, and making decisions on major issues and The Board investments where the cost exceeds the discretionary limit The Board comprises five Executive Directors and nine of the Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout the financial year, the ofces of Chairman and Chief Executive have been held setting objectives and appropriate authority levels for the separately.
The Chairman, Mr R D Lapthorne, is an independent Chief Executive Non-Executive Director, as deemed by the Board, who will be retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on constituting subcommittees of the Board to address the 7 May 2003.
The role of Chairman will then be held by issues of remuneration, nominations and audit.
Mr D H Brydon, who is also deemed an independent Non-Executive Director.
Each member of the Board brings different experience and skills to the operation of the Board and its various subcommittees.
The Deputy Chairman, Mr J Fr Odfjell, has been identied The Board composition is kept under review and when a new as the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
40 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Biographies of the Board members appear on pages 36 to 37 to make proposals as necessary but they are not present when which also show the membership of the Nomination, their own remuneration is being considered.
The Audit Committee Apart from John Johansen, who is an employee, all the NonThe Audit Committee met four times during the year.
Executive Directors were independent of management and free The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the internal from any business or other relationship which could materially controls and accounts of the group.
It also considers the groups interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
All compliance with the Combined Code.
The Committee is Directors have access to the Company Secretary.
The Committee comprises four further independent Non-Executive Directors: Mr R D Lapthorne, The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision Mr J Fr Odfjell, Dr J S Patterson and Mr J F Rejeange.
The and the requirement for Board approval on these matters is Committee can request the external auditors, who are normally communicated widely throughout the group.
To enable the present, Executive Directors and other ofcers of the group Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge to attend its meetings.
The Audit Committee receives regular their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all reports from the Risk and Operational Review department on relevant information and appropriate resources to discharge all aspects of the groups system of internal control.
Committee recommends the appointment of the external auditors, reviews the external audit fee and audit plan and Newly appointed Directors are given training appropriate to pre-approves all non-audit work in respect of the external the level of their previous experience.
All are apprised of their auditors prior to commitment.
roles and duties as Directors of a public company.
Disclosure Committee The Board is responsible for the overall direction, strategy, As recommended in the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley performance and management of the group.
Authority for Act, a Disclosure Committee, chaired by Mr G F B Kerr and implementing the Boards policies is delegated to the Chief comprising relevant senior managers, has been established Executive within certain limits authorised by the Board.
to ensure a robust verication and disclosure control process throughout the group.
This will enable the Chief Executive The Nomination Committee and the Finance Director CFO to make the certications as The Nomination Committee met six times during the year to required by the legislation.
The Disclosure Committee reports review the composition of, and succession to, the Board and directly into the Chief Executive.
makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
The Committee Appointments to the Board comprises seven of the independent Non-Executive Directors Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the and is chaired by Mr J Fr Odfjell, the Deputy Chairman of the provisions of the companys Articles of Association, to retire Board.
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition and seek re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual of the Board in light of corporate governance regulation and General Meeting.
The Articles also require that one-third of the best practice, both current and proposed.
Directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors required to retire Members of the Committee abstain when matters affecting will be those in ofce longest since their previous appointment their own appointments are discussed.
The Committee has or re-appointment and this will usually mean that each Director available to it the services of external advisers as it deems retires at least every three years.
The Board has resolved that necessary and at the companys expense.
The Chief Executive each Director will retire at least every three years, even if this attends the meetings of the Nomination Committee.
is not strictly required by the application of the provisions of the Articles of Association.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
Compliance The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining In addition to the Principles of Good Governance, the Combined the remuneration policy and the terms and conditions of service Code also contains a Code of Best Practice detailing some of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee also forty-five provisions.
The Board has carried out a full internal determines group policy relating to share option plans and the review of compliance with its provisions.
The Board confirms level at which share options are granted to senior executives that the company has complied with these provisions within the group.
The Committee has available to it the throughout the financial year.
The company also complies services of independent advisers.
The Committee comprises to the extent applicable for foreign registrants with the six of the independent Non-Executive Directors including the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the Board and is chaired by Mr R D Lapthorne, the Chairman of the Board.
Following the Internal control retirement of Mr R D Lapthorne at the Annual General Meeting The Board is responsible for the groups system of internal to be held on 7 May 2003, the Remuneration Committee will control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of be chaired by Dr J S Patterson.
The principal terms of reference internal control can only be designed to manage rather than of the Remuneration Committee appear in the Remuneration eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and report on page 43.
The Chief Executive and the Human can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against Resources Director attend the meetings of the Committee to material misstatement or loss.
discuss the performance of the other Executive Directors and Amersham plc 41 Corporate governance statement continued The Board confirms that it has applied Principle D. 2 of the Performance monitoring Combined Code in that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Group businesses participate in periodic strategic reviews, which evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the include the consideration of long term financial projections and group, which has been in place for the year 2002 and up to the the evaluation of business alternatives.
Operating units prepare date of approval of the Annual Report & Accounts.
The Board annual budgets and five-year strategic plans: performance also confirms that this process is regularly reviewed by the against plan is actively monitored at the Board and business Board and is in accord with Internal Control: Guidance for unit level supported by regular forecasts.
Forecasts and results Directors on the Combined Code published in September 1999. are consolidated and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
In accordance with provision D. 2.1 the Board, including the Control procedures appropriate subcommittees, regularly reviews the effectiveness The group and its operating units have implemented control of the groups internal control processes.
Key elements of the procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting groups system of internal controls are set out below: for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures taken include physical controls, Control environment segregation of duties, reviews by management and operational The group is committed to high standards of business conduct review, and external audit to the extent necessary to arrive at and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations their audit opinion.
The group has in place group finance policies, a code of business conduct and employee procedures.
A process of control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has been established which provides for a documented audit The group has an appropriate organisational structure for trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business group operations and provide for successive assurances to be operations in order to achieve objectives.
Lines of responsibility given at increasingly higher levels of management and, nally, and delegations of authority are documented.
These documents are reviewed by the Risk and Operational Review department for completeness and accuracy.
Identifying and evaluating risk Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for The identication and evaluation of risk in the business is timely completion.
These processes have been reviewed and approached at different levels.
This encompasses both: where necessary revised in light of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
senior managements assessment of the groups risk prole Going concern in terms of the achievement of strategic objectives: and After making enquiries the Directors have reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to a structured assessment of risks operating within entities continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and functions.
and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view This process also involves assessing the probability, impact and the Directors have reviewed the Annual profit Plan for the year the required actions for appropriately managing risks as identied.
ending 31 December 2003 and strategic plan projections for The group seeks to understand the risks that it faces across the subsequent years.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that following broad categories: the group is in a sound financial position and that sufficient borrowing facilities will be available to meet the groups external risks arising from, for example, market, competitor foreseeable cash requirements.
or regulatory issues informational risks concerning the integrity and availability of management information On behalf of the Board R D Lapthorne, Chairman operational risks arising from, for instance, the management 26 February 2003 of our supply chain or our manufacturing processes financial risks associated with our budget and planning, liquidity position or the management of our credit strategic risks relating to our product portfolio or our planning.
Operational management is responsible for the identication and evaluation of key risks applicable to their areas of business.
The group has a formal risk identication and review process facilitated by a dedicated function, which assists management in the process.
This function reports these risks to both the Audit Committee and the Board on a regular basis.
42 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
