It all makes sense Our business idea let us show how it will benefit you We occupy a new high ground.
We can see the totality of technologies, skills and intellectual capital weve built up over the past five years.
In March 2002 we bought the We can sharpen our focus remaining stake in Amersham on the scientific, commercial Biosciences, giving us sole and financial factors that ownership of this business will help us exploit our many as well as Amersham Health.
We now have full control of the three key areas of our business protein separations, discovery systems and medical diagnostics.
As a unified company we can work closer together than before, with greater teamwork and coordination.
Together, we can use our resources to the full.
Amersham plc 1 Aligning science with market Which opportunities do we pursue?
Where, within the many strands of our business, will new investment create the most positive return?
Over to our Portfolio Committee.
Composed of senior company executives drawn from science and commercial management, as well as outstanding external scientists, the committee is charged with maximising our investments in science, commercially and strategically.
As part of this role, it identifies the wider market opportunities that spring from our crossbusiness co-ordination.
2 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 It all makes sense Our business idea opportunities The Portfolio Committee Amershams Keith Peters meets at least twice a year.
Portfolio Committee Regius Professor of Physic, It monitors the progress of Andrew Carr Cambridge and Non-Executive our total science portfolio, President, Amersham Director, Amersham plc and reviews and approves Biosciences Tony Rollins our investment in research.
Bill Castell VP, Group Intellectual Property Through the Chief Executive, Chief Executive James Rothman the committee also Bill Clarke Vice Chairman, Sloanrecommends to the Board the EVP R&D, Amersham Health Kettering Institute and Chief overall balance of investment Jean-Michel Cossry Scientist, discovery systems in science within the group.
EVP Product Strategy, Mike Stevens Amersham Health Director, Corporate The range of opportunities Peter Ehrenheim Development available from our science President, protein separations Mathias Uhln and commercial base is Mike Hayes Professor of Biotechnology, virtually unmatched within Chief Technology Officer, Royal Institute of Technology, the total healthcare market Amersham Biosciences Stockholm and Non-Executive we cover.
Our discovery systems Giles Kerr Director, Amersham plc business area, for instance, is Finance Director looking at significant new Peter Loescher opportunities in the diagnostic President, Amersham Health field.
Similarly, our medical diagnostics business area is rapidly giving us greater insight into changes in the body at the molecular level.
The Portfolio Committees task is to make sure we make the most of these exciting opportunities.
Amersham plc 3 Our breadth creates new We have an extraordinary breadth of knowledge and skills in functional biology, informatics, chemistry, physics and diagnostic medicine.
This breadth is a valuable strategic asset, enabling us to stay abreast of, and to some extent drive, advances in biomedical research.
It also gives us a broad exposure to customers in academic and pharmaceutical research, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and the medical profession.
This is a vital benefit as our businesses sharpen their focus on key customers in the markets they share.
The pharmaceutical industry is a key customer for each of our businesses.
In protein separations we have an 4 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 It all makes sense Our business idea opportunities for our customers especially direct relationship, Our broad interaction with providing a service to major the pharmaceutical industry pharmaceutical companies.
gives us unique insight into We provide the essential their needs.
This helps us manufacturing technologies develop distinctive, cutting used in more than 90 per cent edge products to help of the biopharmaceutical pharmaceutical companies drugs and vaccines currently achieve their goals more on the market.
We also effectively, and bring medical provide the protein separation discoveries more quickly technologies used in laboratory to patients.
Within medical diagnostics, we aim to collaborate with pharmaceutical companies on the development of linked diagnostics and therapeutics.
In the area of discovery systems, we provide enzyme technology and screening systems to help these companies develop and test new drugs.
Amersham plc 5 Maintaining leadership Were the market leader products by conducting new in medical diagnostics and clinical trials and obtaining new we intend to maintain this indications for key products.
In the short to Our heart diagnostic, medium term, were managing Myoview, has recently been the business through life cycle approved for breast tumour management.
This means imaging, and a new study of extending the life of our our X-ray product, Visipaque, shows that it provides increased renal safety for at-risk patients.
In the longer term, were focusing on the development of molecular diagnostics, which are able to detect cellular changes that are the first signs of disease.
Were also working with GE Medical Systems to develop synthesis systems for producing proprietary PET positron-emission tomography 6Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 It all makes sense Our business idea through innovation radiopharmaceuticals of consistently high quality.
A most exciting initiative is the Imanet network of research centres, where we partner with pharmaceutical companies such as Pfizer.
Using our advanced imaging technologies to show the effect of new compounds on cells in the body, we help companies test potential new drugs and speed up their drug development.
And, importantly, we gain access to new molecules that provide important leads for new molecular diagnostic products, fuelling our future flow of new products.
Amersham plc 7 Everyones health is a personal matter Our discovery systems business generates the new knowledge that feeds advances in diagnostics, protein separations and our basic understanding of disease.
These advances are helping us identify the next steps towards personalised medicine and bring genetic discoveries into Investigating the role clinical practice.
of genetic variation in disease, microarrays are being This fundamental change used to study patient in healthcare is already populations to more accurately happening.
DNA sequencing predict the prognosis for instruments such as individual patients.
MegaBACE are now used to study BRCA1 and BRCA2 Similarly, through genes in women genetically understanding life at the predisposed to breast cancer.
molecular level, molecular diagnostics in our pipeline show promise for detecting pulmonary embolism, brain tumours and angiogenesis with greater accuracy and sensitivity than is currently possible.
As we turn our imagination into reality, its no longer a question of if personalised medicine will happen.
Its a question of how quickly it will evolve.
8 Amersham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 It all makes sense Our business idea Amersham and personalised medicine Amershams long-term vision is to enable personalised medicine, in which the diagnosis and treatment of disease will be tailored to individuals based on their genetic makeup.
Our company is well positioned to play a key role in this development.
Personalised medicine will require increased understanding of the role of genes, proteins and cellular processes in disease and how these affect response to treatment knowledge being enabled by the discovery systems business area in Amersham Biosciences.
It will require molecular diagnostics that can detect disease before symptoms show, and link diagnosis more closelyto targeted therapeutics the kind of diagnostics being developed by Amersham Health.
It will require protein purification and bioprocess systems supplied by the protein separations business area of Amersham Biosciences for manufacturing the new biopharmaceutical drugs and vaccines that will result from biomedical research.
