DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 28 July 2002 The directors present their report and audited accounts for the Directors responsibilities year ended 28 July 2002.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view Principal activities and business review of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss for The principal activities of the company are the development and that period.
Details of progress and future developments are given on pages 3 to 6.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Results and dividends consistently, make judgements and estimates which are The profit on ordinary activities for the year after taxation reasonable and prudent, state whether applicable accounting amounted to 35,416,000.
This represents an increase of standards have been followed and prepare the financial 19% on the 2001 result of 29,860,000. statements on the going-concern basis.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose On 29 November 2002, the company proposes to pay a final with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the dividend of 2.12 pence per share, for the year ended 28 July company and which enable them to ensure that the financial 2002, to shareholders on the share register at the close of statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also business on 27 September 2002. responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Profit retained for the financial year amounted to 28,514,000 detection of fraud and other irregularities.
and will be transferred to reserves.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above As in previous years, a scrip alternative will be offered.
Many requirements in preparing the financial statements.
shareholders already participate in the scrip dividend scheme and wish to receive shares in lieu of cash, while others have previously The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of received cash dividends and may wish to continue doing so.
the companys Web site: www.
It is stated In either case, shareholders need take no further action.
If any clearly on the Web site that information published on the Internet is shareholder wishes to alter the form in which he she receives accessible in many countries and that legislation in the United his her dividends, he she should advise the companys registrars, Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Computershare Investor Services plc, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, information may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH, in writing no later than 5 November 2002.
Employment policies Only through the skill and commitment of the companys Directors employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are encouraged to The directors listed on page 16 served throughout the financial make a real commitment to the companys success and to year.
Mr Martin, Mr Jervis and Mr Herring retire by rotation and progress to more senior roles as they themselves develop.
Details of the terms under which the directors who were in office during the year serve and their A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for all levels remuneration together with their interests in the shares of the of staff: this highlights the importance placed by the company on company are given in the remuneration report on page 20. providing service to its customers.
No director has any material interest in any contractual agreement In selecting, training and promoting staff, the company has to take subsisting during or at the end of the year which is or may be account of the physically demanding nature of much of its work.
In this context, all decisions are based on merit and without reference to gender, marital status, race, age or disability.
Insurance against the liabilities of directors and officers of the Employees who become disabled will be retained, where possible, company was in place throughout the year in respect of their and retrained, where necessary.
Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well informed Companys shareholders about the companys progress, through the use of regular Details of the companys shareholders, including those beneficial newsletters, monthly videos and briefings at staff meetings at interests notified to the company as accounting for over 3% of the which employees views are discussed and taken into account.
issued share capital, are given on page 40.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 17 DIRECTORS REPORT All staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to Policy on payment of suppliers profitability and or service standards and qualify to receive share The company agrees on terms and conditions with all suppliers options after twelve months service with the company.
before business takes place and has a policy of paying agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of payment.
Trade creditors Environmental policies at the year end represented 46 2001: 47 days purchases.
The company recognises the importance of environmental issues and, throughout its commercial activities and operations, is Political and charitable contributions committed to fostering the preservation and protection of the Contributions made by the company during the year for charitable environment.
The company is also committed to improving its purposes were 10,999 2001: 10,675.
No political contributions environmental policy continuously in respect of the commercial were made.
activity of owning and managing public houses across the United Kingdom.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint the auditors, , It is the policy of the company to: will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
n minimise the extent of the environmental impact of its operations Special business at the Annual General Meeting as far as is reasonably practicable.
On page 41 is a notice convening the Annual General Meeting of n strive to minimise any emissions or effluents which may cause the company for 7 November 2002, at which shareholders will be environmental damage.
asked, as items of special business, to give power to the directors n conserve energy through minimising consumption and to allot shares, to give power to the directors to disapply the premaximising efficiency.
emption requirements of Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, n minimise the use of materials which may be harmful to the to give the directors authority to put in place a scrip dividend environment.
alternative to the 2002 final dividend and the 2003 interim dividend n promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise waste and to give power to the directors to make market purchases of and allow materials to be recycled, where appropriate.
ordinary shares in the capital of the company, subject to certain n adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce conditions.
the amount of waste going to landfill or to other disposal sites.
n embrace the use of recycled materials and to ensure that Authority to allot materials or waste generated by the business are recycled, The general authority previously given to the directors to allot where appropriate.
relevant securities will expire at the end of the Annual General n raise awareness of environmental issues among all of its Meeting, convened for 7 November 2002. employees and suppliers partners.
n ensure appropriate training, in environmental issues, of all Accordingly, resolution 7, set out in the notice of meeting, will be employees.
proposed as an ordinary resolution to authorise the directors pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot The above aims are incorporated and developed within the ordinary shares in the capital of the company up to a maximum companys Environmental Management System which is nominal amount of 1,400,000, being approximately 33% of the implemented throughout the business.
nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in issue.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire The Environmental Policy is reviewed at least annually by the on the earlier of 15 months from the date of the passing of the board of directors so as to ensure that it is reflective of the resolution or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held to businesss needs and addresses all current and relevant approve the report and accounts for the year ending 27 July 2003. environmental issues.
The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares only when The company participated in the 2002 survey by EIRIS Ethical satisfied that it is in the interests of the company to do so.
They Investment Research Service and was subsequently included in have no present intention, however, of exercising the authority, the FTSE4Good index, designed to identify those companies with except in connection with the issue of shares under the companys good records in corporate social responsibility.
share option schemes and scrip dividend scheme.
18 J D WETHERSPOON PLC DIRECTORS REPORT Disapplication of pre-emption rights Further details of the scrip dividend scheme, including the reasons The provisions of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 which, to why the directors consider it to be attractive to shareholders and the extent not disapplied, confer on shareholders rights of preadvantageous to the company and the basis of allotment of shares emption in respect of the allotment of equity securities which are under it, are set out in the scrip dividend scheme rules which can or are to be paid up in cash, other than by way of allotment to be obtained from the companys registrars, whose details are set employees under an employees share scheme apply to the out on page 16.
The existing mandate scheme pursuant to which authorised, but unissued, ordinary shares of the company to the shareholders may put in place a standing mandate to receive new extent that they are not disapplied pursuant to section 95 of the ordinary shares as an alternative to cash, in respect of any Companies Act 1985. dividends for which a scrip dividend alternative is offered will continue to be available, details of which are set out in the scrip The existing disapplication of these statutory pre-emption rights dividend scheme rules.
will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting convened by the notice of meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 8, as set out in the Repurchase of ordinary shares notice of meeting will be proposed as a special resolution to In common with many other listed companies, the company permit directors to allot shares without the application of these proposes, once again, to seek an authority from shareholders to statutory pre-emption rights, first, in relation to rights issues and, permit the company to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, secondly, in relation to the issue of ordinary shares in the capital of resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution to authorise the company for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal the company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the amount of 214,000 representing approximately 5% of the companys issued ordinary share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the company currently in nominal value of an ordinary share and not exceeding 105% of the issue.
average of the middle market quotations for the five business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will last until the earlier of 30 April 2004 and the conclusion of the next expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing of the Annual General Meeting of the company.
The directors envisage resolution or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held to that purchases would be made only after considering the effects approve the report and accounts for the year ending 27 July 2003. on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
Scrip dividend authority As at 6 September 2002, there were outstanding options over The directors would once again like to be able to offer 9,147,353 ordinary shares, representing 4.3% of the companys shareholders other than certain overseas shareholders the right issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority under resolution 10 is to elect to receive new ordinary shares as an alternative to cash in exercised in full, this percentage will increase to 4.7%.
respect of all or any part of the dividend to be declared by the company at the Annual General Meeting convened by the notice By order of the board of meeting: also, in respect of any other dividends as may be lawfully paid or declared by the company or the directors on or at Nick Cooper any time after the date of that Annual General Meeting and prior to Company Secretary the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held to approve the 6 September 2002 report and accounts for the year ending 27 July 2003.
Accordingly, resolution 9, as set out in the notice of meeting will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to permit the directors to offer a scrip dividend alternative for the dividend to be declared by the company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and also in respect of any other dividends as may be lawfully paid or declared by the company or the directors on or at any time after the date of that Annual General Meeting and prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held to approve the report and accounts for the year ending 27 July 2003.
