DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND ADVISERS Tim Martin Executive Chairman Aged 47 Tim founded the business in 1979, having previously studied law at Nottingham University and qualified as a barrister.
Jim Clarke Finance Director Aged 42 John Hutson Managing Director Aged 37 Jim joined the company and was appointed to the board in 1998, having previously worked John joined the company in 1991 and was with David Lloyd Leisure a division of appointed to the board in 1996.
He is a Whitbread plc and HP Bulmer Holdings plc.
graduate of Exeter University and previously He is a graduate from Stirling University and worked for Allied Domeq.
qualified as a chartered accountant in 1984.
Suzanne Baker Commercial Director Aged 39 Suzanne joined the company in 1992 and was appointed to the board in 1997.
She has previously worked for Grand Metropolitan plc.
Tony Lowrie Non-Executive Aged 60 Tony was appointed to the board in 1987 John Herring Non-Executive Aged 44 and is a member of both the audit committee John was appointed to the board in 1997 and is and the remuneration committee.
chairman of the audit committee and a member of He is currently chairman of ABN Amro Asia the remuneration committee.
accountant, he is a partner of Smith and Williamson.
He is a non-executive director of TeleWork Systems plc and is a former director of Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd. Brian Jervis Non-Executive Aged 67 Brian was appointed to the board in 1991 and is chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the audit committee.
A chartered secretary, Brian is a former director of John Govett and Co. Ltd.
Registered Office Registered Auditors Bankers Financial Advisers Wetherspoon House, Central Park  The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Reeds Crescent, Watford, WD24 4QL Bank of Scotland Limited Valuers Clydesdale Bank plc Company Number 1709784 Christie & Co.
Stockbrokers Scotiabank Europe plc Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Registrars Solicitors Allied Irish Banks plc Securities Limited Computershare Investor Services plc Macfarlanes PO Box 82, The Pavilions Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH 16 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
