Engineering & Production Facilities delivered strong growth and record revenues and profits in 2002.
Bill Edgar, Engineering & Production Facilities Group Director Wood Groups highly successful history in the North Sea is the result of building strong long-term relationships with customers.
8 John Wood Group PLC Engineering & Production Facilities Alliance Engineering designed the Wood Group is expanding in Australia and Shell Expros Cormorant Alpha platform in lightweight topsides for BP & Occidentals elsewhere in Asia Pacific to offer oil & gas the North Sea.
Wood Group Engineering Horn Mountain spar project which was clients a full range of local engineering North Sea joined two other contractors to light enough to be installed in a single lift solutions.
form SIGMA 3 to support Shell Expro in - substantially reducing the project cost the UK sector of the North Sea.
Deepwater topsides facilities and the Alliance contract for Engineering Conocos Magnolia topsides.
When installed, the & Production Facilities Magnolia tension leg platform, which utilises Alliances advanced lightweight topsides design capability, will be Engineering & Production Facilities provides a broad range located in a record water depth of 4,700 feet.
BP and of life-of-field engineering, modifications, maintenance Occidentals Horn Mountain spar project, completed in and operations services to oil and gas customers 2002, also uses an Alliance lightweight topsides design.
2002 saw very significant growth, as Mustang won several important new upstream contracts revenues increased 33% to a record $992.8m 2001 including the Marathon Alba contract for offshore and $746.7m and EBITA increased 41% to a record $91.7m onshore facilities in Equatorial Guinea and the fast-track 2001 $65.3m.
Mobil Equatorial Guinea, Zafiro Producer FPSO water During the year, we extended our range of engineering injection module design.
Mustang also successfully services in the design and operation of oil and gas expanded into the midstream area with a $21 million production, transportation and processing facilities, contract for a grassroots Gas-to-Liquids Demonstration building on our world-leading expertise in: Plant as part of the US Department of Energy Ultra Clean Fuels program.
topsides facilities, structures and process design for deepwater projects Mustangs pipelines group was honoured with the prestigious Pipeline Project of the Year and Pipeliner of lightweight topsides structures the Year awards for its work on the upgrading of the offshore pipeline engineering Houston ship channel, while its process plants business subsea engineering continued to develop well, including securing an Amerada Hess contract for clean fuels projects in New Jersey.
life-of-field modifications engineering Wood Group Engineering North Sea WGENS, together In North America, Mustang Engineering Mustang and with Mustang, is responsible for the design and project Alliance Engineering Alliance sustained their excellent management for BP Clair, the largest current new field progress.
We have worked on more than 50% of the development in the North Sea, which is progressing well.
deepwater projects in the last ten years worldwide and are involved in more than 60% of current Gulf of Mexico In production facilities, first oil was achieved ahead of deepwater projects.
This includes Mustangs four BP schedule and within budget from the Mirren and Madoes John Wood Group PLC 9 Engineering & Production Facilities A project team of BP, Mustang In Venezuela, Simco continued to make A Consulting Services group was formed Engineering and Wood Group Engineering good progress in its long-term production initially comprising J P Kenny, Frontier and North Sea is making good progress in support contract with PDVSA.
This will be expanded over time to the execution phase of the 650 million include other specialist disciplines.
development of the BP operated Clair field.
combining its significant North Sea engineering We are involved in more than knowledge with its innovative approach to production 60% of current Gulf of Mexico enhancement and cost control to support the more comprehensive requirements of some of our new deepwater projects.
During the year, J P Kenny carried out the BP Etap Machar gas lift project and completed the engineering field subsea tie-backs to the ETAP Central Processing Facility, in which WGENS and J P Kenny played a primary and construction management of a 422km pipeline role.
Also completed was the major BP Magnus carrying natural gas from west of Shetland connecting in enhanced oil recovery project, one of the largest of its to Magnus.
Other significant contract wins for J P Kenny kind in the North Sea, with our involvement winning an included BPs Tangguh Pipelines Project in Indonesia and Upstream Technology Innovation Award and Human the CNOOC SE Sumatra Gas FEED Engineering project.
Energy, Helios Award from BP.
Frontier and Ionik continue to make progress, with projects for Alcoa and Exxonmobil in Australia and further WGENS entered into the SIGMA 3 joint venture one third projects in Malaysia and Trinidad.
ownership in May, which was awarded a 750m sevenyear contract by Shell Expro for the management of its We have formed a Consulting Services group which will main asset clusters in the Central and Northern North initially comprise our world-leading J P Kenny subsea and Sea.
WGENS also commenced a maintenance contract pipeline engineering activities, our Frontier front-end for the Flotta Terminal as an addition to our significant engineering design and maintenance consultancies, and North Sea engineering modifications and maintenance materials specialist, Ionik.
These businesses all provide contract for Talisman Energy.
high added value input at crucial stages of our clients projects.
Consulting Services will be expanded over time In the North Sea, production enhancement and cost to include other specialist disciplines to augment our reduction remain the principal focus of the operators.
capability to add value to our customers activities.
Assets in the mature phase are increasingly changing hands with a growing number of new independents We continue to build critical mass in our Gulf of Mexico operations and maintenance activities with the acquisition entering the UK continental shelf.
WGENS is increasing of Louisiana-based Operators and Consulting Services, its focus on operations and production management and 10 John Wood Group PLC Mustang played a major role in the J P Kenny teams in Aberdeen and London Processing facility equipment for Colombia deepwater projects for Kerr McGees shared the workscope on Shell Expros being loaded onto an Antonov Aircraft at Nansen, Boomvang and Gunnison fast-track Penguins project - a cluster of Lake Charles, Louisiana.
developments in the Gulf of Mexico.
five fields collectively containing the third largest undeveloped accumulation of hydrocarbons on the UK continental shelf.
complementing our 2001 acquisition of Production provides offshore modifications and maintenance services Services Group in Texas and increasing our combined Gulf principally to Petrobras and its acquisition will enhance of Mexico operations and maintenance personnel to our ability to serve the significant Brazilian offshore approximately 1,000 people.
In Indonesia we have already obtained contracts for the provision of engineering services to CNOOC and In Venezuela, Simco continued its good performance, Unocal.
Vepica won a number of contracts including the Ameriven TAEJ terminal expansion project, won jointly with Willbros, and worked with Mustang to win the PDVSA Nafta Hydrotreater project.
In Colombia, Equipo extended its maintenance, operations, field engineering, inventory and supply chain management contract for BPs Cusiana and Cupiagua field interests and was awarded further BP contracts for the engineering construction, operation and maintenance of an early production processing facility in the Recetor block and an intermediate processing facility in the Florea field.
During the year, we extended our international operations with the opening of our Trinidad and Tobago office, the acquisition of Santos Barbosa in Brazil and the establishment of operations in Indonesia.
The Trinidad and Tobago office will increase our access to this important market, with Mustang and J P Kenny already winning a contract from British Gas Trinidad for the upgrade of the East Coast Dolphin Deep facility.
Both are also involved in projects for BP and Alliance was awarded the EOG field Wood Group Production Services, Morgan City, Louisiana engineering design contract.
In Brazil, Santos Barbosa John Wood Group PLC 11
