Gas Turbine Services Allister Langlands, Deputy Chief Executive and Group Director Gas Turbine Services Wood Group Gas Turbine Services enhanced its US field service capability with the acquisition of Thomason Mechanical Corporation TMC.
arrangements have been made for the provision of these Gas Turbine Services services.
Wood Group Gas Turbine Services is the worlds leading Wood Group Light Industrial Turbines continues to expand independent provider of maintenance, repair and overhaul its range of services and, with the opening of a new services for industrial gas turbines used in the oil & gas $10m Aberdeen test facility, now offers full performance and power generation industries.
Gas Turbine Services testing for Alstom Tornado and Typhoon gas turbines.
In also provides repair and overhaul services for gas turbine addition, the construction of two new test cells in Dubai accessories and components and for steam turbines.
adds the capability to performance test Solar Mars and During the year we extended our service range and Solar Centaur engines.
All of these test facilities set new geographical coverage with acquisitions in field service standards of service and choice for gas turbine customers and generator repair and entered the turbine controls around the world.
In line with our strategy to grow our market share in 2002 revenues increased by 17% to $352.0m 2001 heavy industrial turbines HIT, we have created a new US $300.7m and EBITA increased 14% to $43.1m 2001 Center of Excellence with the opening in December of $37.8m.
Although the North American power market our East Windsor Connecticut facility.
This brings together was slow in 2002 we benefited from significant oil & gas our US-based industrial gas turbine advanced technology related revenue, a growing power business outside North component repair capabilities and will include a new America and acquisitions to achieve good progress in our turbine rotor overhaul facility.
We have also greatly enhanced our HIT field service Rolls Wood Group sustained its strong performance and capability with the acquisition of Thomason Mechanical won a number of significant contracts including a seven Corporation TMC.
TMC is one of the largest year healthcare contract with Statoil covering four gas independent providers of rotating and reciprocating compression and three power generation gas turbine equipment field services to the North American power packages.
A fire in October at the Dyce Component and petrochemical industries.
This acquisition Repair facility caused substantial damage, but alternative complements our existing US field service capabilities.
Figures exclude discontinuing operations 14 John Wood Group PLC We continue to extend our service range, geographical spread Weld tip repair of a MW701B fuel nozzle at Wood Group Fuel and market leadership.
John Wood Group PLC 15 Gas Turbine Services Overhaul work being carried out on a Wood Group Light Industrial Turbines TransCanada Turbines brought onstream Rolls-Royce Avon engine at Rolls Wood WGLIT in Aberdeen have a successful its General Electric LM6000 repair Groups Aberdeen facility.
four year apprenticeship scheme, capabilities and completed its first full introduced in 1998. overhaul.
In the Eastern Hemisphere we significantly enhanced our overhaul capability on several new industrial HIT and HIT field services business.
This worldwide expansion of aero-derivative products.
our HIT field services activities will provide improved Wood Group Component Repair in Dundee saw a access to end users of our HIT aftermarket services, downturn in workload this year as RB199 orders were including component repair and parts supply.
delayed into 2003 but is satisfactorily developing its During the year we acquired Industrial Repair Services, an non-military business.
In February 2003, we renewed electrical generator services company in New Mexico, our Ministry of Defence RB199 contract for a further providing specialised generator maintenance, field outage four years.
engineering and high voltage coil support services to In January 2003, David Baillie joined as Chief Executive power companies throughout the Americas.
We also of Wood Group Gas Turbine Services.
David previously acquired UK-based Rotary Electrical which provides held a number of senior management roles with similar services in the Eastern Hemisphere.
Schlumberger and his broad international experience To further extend our capabilities, we have also and significant oil and gas knowledge will provide key established Wood Group Turbine Control Services, based additional leadership and expertise as we continue to in Colorado, to provide a broad range of control system grow Gas Turbine Services.
repairs, retrofits, upgrades and solutions.
TransCanada Turbines continued its rapid growth, substantially increasing its revenues, bringing on stream its General Electric LM6000 repair capabilities and completing its first full LM6000 overhaul.
Wood Group Fuel Systems, in Aberdeen and Connecticut, won a series of new and extended contracts for fuel system repairs this year, as airlines and air-motives continued to outsource non-core product lines.
Fuel Systems continued to see sales and market share growth in fuel nozzle repair for power generation engines.
JTC in Dublin also introduced 16 John Wood Group PLC
