Board of Directors Left to right: Sir Ian Wood, Allister G Langlands, Alan G Semple, Wendell R Brooks and William Edgar.
Sir Ian Wood Wendell R Brooks Chairman and Chief Executive since January 1982 and Group Director responsible for the Well Support business Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Joined the Group in 1994 and in 1995 became J W Holdings Limited, one of Scotlands larger fishing President of the Pressure Control business.
From 1985 to groups, a member of PILOT, a body that succeeded the UK 1994 served as President of Del Norte Inc. and from 1970 to Governments Oil & Gas Industry Task Force and Co- 1985 was employed by Geosource, Inc. a publicly listed oil Chairman of the UK Oil & Gas Industry Leadership Team.
and gas services company, where he was involved in Former Chairman of Scottish Enterprise and former nonBusiness Development and served as President of two executive director of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
William Edgar Allister G Langlands Group Director responsible for the Engineering & Production Deputy Chief Executive since 1999 and Group Director Facilities business since 1995.
Also Chairman of the UK responsible for the Gas Turbine Services business.
Also a Offshore Contractors Association and Vice President of the non-executive director of ASCO plc.
Served as Group Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
Joined the Group from Finance Director from 1991 to 2000 and prior to joining National Engineering Laboratory where he was Chief Wood Group was a partner with Coopers & Lybrand Executive.
Previously served as Executive Chairman of Deloitte now , specialising in Cochranes Shipbuilders, a director of Vickers Marine corporate finance.
Engineering division and a director of Seaforth Maritime Limited.
Alan G Semple Group Finance Director since 2000.
Served as Finance Director for the Well Support business from 1997 to 2000 and prior to joining Wood Group was Finance Director of GRT Bus Group plc, now part of FirstGroup plc, a transportation company.
From 1987 to 1994 was Finance Director of Seaforth Maritime Group Limited, an energy services company.
24 John Wood Group PLC Left to right: Ewan Brown, Dr Christopher Masters, Roberto Monti, John C Morgan and D John Ogren.
Ewan Brown John C Morgan Non-executive Director since 1983.
An executive director of Non-executive Director since 1998 and Chairman of the Noble Grossart Limited, Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland Remuneration Committee.
Also non-executive Chairman of plc and Chairman of Transport Initiative Edinburgh Ltd. A Venture Production Company plc and Concept Systems non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, Stagecoach Holdings Ltd.
Joined the Group after 30 years of Holdings plc and of a number of other privately held international experience with BP in a range of management companies.
Age 61. roles including President of BP Exploration Alaska.
Dr Christopher Masters D John Ogren Non-executive Director since March 2002, Chairman of the Non-executive Director since March 2001.
A director of Core Audit Committee and the senior independent Director on Laboratories N. V. and Advisory Director of Intrepid Energy the Board.
Is Chairman of Babtie Group Ltd and of Voxar UK Ltd.
Served as President of Production Operators, Inc Ltd, a non-executive director of British Assets Trust PLC and from 1994 until 1999.
From 1989 until 1992 served as of The Alliance Trust PLC.
Also Chairman of the Scottish Senior Vice President of Conoco, Inc. and from 1992 until Higher Education Funding Council and of the Festival City 1994 served as Senior Vice President of E. I.
Du Pont fide Theatres Trust.
Previously served as Chairman of Aggreko Nemours and Company.
Age 60. plc, a world leader in the supply of temporary power, temperature control and oil-free compressed air services.
Roberto Monti Non-executive Director since 2001.
A non-executive director of Transocean and of PeCom S. A..
Served as Executive Vice President of Exploration and Production for Repsol YPF between 1999 and 2002 and was President and Chief Executive Officer of YPF S. A. from 1995 to 1999 prior to its Member of the Remuneration Committee acquisition by Repsol.
From 1993 to 1995, served as Member of the Audit Committee President of Dowell, a division of Schlumberger.
Member of the Nomination Committee John Wood Group PLC 25
