Well Support We sustained our strong US market positions and continued to develop our international business, long-term contracts and Wendell Brooks, Well Support Group Director new product ranges.
Wood Group ESP Well Support The six year pay-for-performance contract with PD Oman, In 2002, Wood Group Well Support consolidated its the largest contract of its kind awarded, has made a good position as one of the top three providers worldwide of start and we are now operating on more than 433 wells in artificial lift services using electric submersible pumps, a challenging desert environment without a single lost and as number two in the United States and number four time incident.
We have also just commenced a five year in the world in the provision of surface wellheads and pay-for-performance contract for Joint Operations in choke valves.
During the year, we continued our Kuwait for the installation, maintenance, on-going expansion programme outside the US, opening new service and support of over 300 wells and a operations in China, Ecuador, Algeria and Kuwait and significant pay-for-performance contract for now have 34 international locations.
We have also Kinder Morgan in the US.
increased our use of long-term pay-for-performance During the year we expanded into Ecuador contracts and maintained our extensive new product and China, receiving our first order for development programme.
more than $2m from Devon China and won As expected, the reduced North American rig count and contracts with Sibneft in Russia and Caltex more difficult political and economic conditions in parts of VSO in Indonesia.
We also opened a new South America resulted in lower revenues of $360.0m electric submersible pump manufacturing, test and 2001 $412.1m and EBITA of $21.7m 2001 $30.2m, but repair facility in Comodoro Rivadavia, to enhance our participation in markets outside North America and the ability to serve the growing Argentine artificial lift market.
anticipated recovery in North American gas drilling Our Engineering Technology Centre in Oklahoma, should underpin growth in 2003. dedicated to research and development of innovative pumping technology, opened in March 2002.
The first products being developed at the Centre include a high performance Variable Speed Drive Vector III, a new generation of gas separators and new, high efficiency pump stage designs.
These products, along with several others, will be introduced in 2003.
12 John Wood Group PLC Wood Group ESP is operating on more Wood Group Pressure Control is Wood Group expanded its wireline than 433 wells under a currently manufacturing Saudi Aramco's services into Texas with the six year pay-forfirst order of Khuff gas xmas trees at its establishment of operations at Pearland, performance recently expanded Peterhead Fairfield and Alice.
contract with manufacturing facility in Scotland.
Wood Group Pressure Control Wood Group Logging Services Wood Group Pressure Control Wood Group Logging Services expanded slickline sustained its strong US market services into Texas with the establishment of position and continued to develop operations at Pearland, Fairfield and Alice.
The new its international business.
In the locations offer slickline well intervention services Americas, we successfully extended a specifically tailored for high-pressure, difficult number of contracts with key customers, environments and complement our significant cased including ConocoPhillips, BP Amoco and XTO.
hole electric wireline services in the region.
Our Revenues from our Eastern Hemisphere operations smart slickline services continued to grow during the increased by more than 60% during the year, including year as we added additional technology and personnel.
our new facilities in Indonesia and Algeria, and Our cased hole logging services business in Argentina international contract awards during the year included performed well in 2002 during very uncertain market wellheads for Saudi Aramco and choke valves for BP Clair conditions.
During January 2003 we disposed of our Wood Group Production Technology continues to make small drilling products business.
good progress with its Shell contract in the Gulf of Field testing was completed on the companys next Mexico and was selected by Enterprise Oil and Drilgeneration of split speedheads and a new Quip to provide wellhead sensors for Enterprises economical gate valve product line.
Bijupir and Salema Project in Brazil.
Production Both, when introduced in 2003, Technology also enhanced its product offering in 2002 will generate cost savings with the introduction of ElectroFiber, combining the for customers and reliability of electronic systems with distributive fibre enhance safety.
optic measurements into one cable.
Main photograph: ESP has opened new operations in Ecuador.
