20 -21 Johnson Matthey environment Typical targets include: Training Reduction in waste or emissions to air or water.
Over the last year a number of facilities have adopted interactive Reduction in energy or commodity use.
training systems in order to improve employee awareness of health Completion of EHS training programmes.
and safety in the workplace.
These systems are designed to Completion of inspection programmes.
complement conventional site training methods.
Completing risk assessments and implementing controls.
Target Setting Environmental, Health and Safety Reporting One of the key aims of Johnson Mattheys EHS policies is to Johnson Matthey is committed to reporting on its EHS demonstrate continuous improvement in EHS performance.
During 2002 we plan to publish a detailed review of are set locally by business units to drive improvement and systems group environmental, health and safety activity on the Internet.
During are in place to measure performance.
this period we also plan to assess options for third party verification of the review.
Environment, Health and Safety Policy Statement The companys Environment, Health and Safety policies Provide good communication internally and externally and have been widely disseminated and provide the guiding encourage employee involvement and cooperation at all levels principles necessary to ensure that high standards are achieved in the organisation in meeting EHS objectives.
at all sites around the world.
They also afford a means of Ensure competence on EHS matters through education, promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk training and awareness at all levels in the organisation, assessment and comprehensive EHS management systems, including creating an understanding of individual against which all sites are audited.
responsibilities for health and safety and the environment.
Undertake assessments to identify the risks to health, safety This policy and its associated procedures are designed to and the environment from company operations and ensure achieve the following corporate objectives: that appropriate control measures are implemented.
That all locations meet legal and group environment, health Ensure that new investments are designed and operated to and safety requirements.
the latest standards so as to eliminate or minimise risks to That the design, manufacture and supply of products is health, safety and the environment.
undertaken so as to satisfy the highest standards of health, Investigate incidents to identify the root cause and take action safety, environmental protection and resource efficiency.
That management systems are effective in maintaining Promote programmes to achieve energy and resource efficiency.
standards and fulfilling the challenge of securing continuous Set key corporate objectives and performance targets that improvement in environmental, health and safety performance.
can be measured and assessed, reporting results in a meaningful and transparent way both internally and externally.
In order to achieve these objectives we will: Undertake regular EHS inspections and audits of operations, Provide leadership and commitment as an expression of the and review performance to ensure continuous improvement importance that the board and the senior management team in EHS management.
Ensure accountability by holding corporate management and The group EHS management systems will be reviewed senior executives within each operating division and business regularly to ensure that they reflect international best practice and unit responsible for EHS performance.
our growing understanding of the practical application of Provide the financial and human resources to allow EHS sustainable development.
issues to be given an appropriate level of priority.
Board of Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2002 1.
H M P Miles OBE Chief Executive, age 60: joined Johnson Matthey in 1962: Chairman, age 66: joined Johnson Matthey as a nonheaded Johnson Mattheys platinum marketing operations executive director in March 1990: appointed Chairman in before assuming responsibility for Catalytic Systems Division in June 1998.
Currently a director of ING Baring Holdings 1988, and, additionally, Colour and Print in 1990.
Appointed an Limited, Chairman of Korea-Europe Fund Plc and a nonexecutive director in March 1990 and Group Managing Director executive director of BP plc, Balfour Beatty plc and other in September 1995.
Became Chief Operating Officer in July companies.
Previously Chairman of Cathay Pacific Airways, 1996 and appointed Chief Executive in June 1998.
Currently a Swire Group Hong Kong, a Director of HSBC, and John non-executive director of FKI plc.
Swire & Sons Ltd, and a Vice President of the China Britain Business Council.
J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT Group Finance Director, age 52: joined Johnson Matthey 5.
N A P Carson BSc as Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and Executive Director, Catalysts & Chemicals, age 45: joined assumed current job title in September 1995.
Additionally Johnson Matthey in 1980: appointed Division Director, Catalytic responsible for Pharmaceutical Materials from July 1999.
Systems in 1997 after having held senior management Currently a non-executive director of API Group Plc.
Previously positions in the Precious Metals Division as well as Catalytic Group Treasurer of The BOC Group plc.
Systems in both the UK and the US.
Appointed Managing Director, Catalysts & Chemicals in August 1999.
Currently a non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
I C Strachan Age 59: appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
Currently a director of Reuters Group plc, Transocean 6.
H E Fitzgibbons CVO, BA, JD Sedco Forex Inc. Instinet Group Inc. and Harsco Corporation.
Age 65: appointed a non-executive director in May 1990.
Previously, Deputy Chairman of Invensys Plc, Chief Executive of Currently Managing Director of Top Technology Ventures Ltd BTR plc and Deputy Chief Executive of Rio Tinto plc.
A, M, N and several technology venture capital funds.
