18 -19 Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials Division performed very well in 2001 02 with operating profits 74% up at 31.3 million.
Pharmaceutical Materials was created as a separate division in 2001 following the acquisition of Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. and Meconic plc.
During the fiscal year 2001 02, Johnson Matthey acquired Macfarlan Smith Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. and Meconic plc, the parent company Based in Edinburgh, UK, Macfarlan Smith is a world leader in of Macfarlan Smith.
These acquisitions, along with Johnson the manufacture and marketing of controlled drugs.
Johnson Mattheys long established active pharmaceutical ingredient API Matthey acquired Meconic plc, Macfarlan Smiths parent company in manufacturing business in West Deptford, USA, enable the newly July 2001, and the business has performed well in Johnson formed Pharmaceutical Materials Division to provide the Mattheys first nine months of ownership.
Macfarlan Smiths product pharmaceutical industry with chemical synthesis, process line of bulk opiates such as codeine, morphine and dihydrocodeine development and manufacturing services throughout the entire life yielded good sales, and those of specialist opiates, several of which cycle of both proprietary and generic drugs.
In addition, Macfarlan are being used in new applications or in novel dosage forms, Smith provides Pharmaceutical Materials with a European base and showed excellent sales growth.
Other established non-controlled offers major opportunities for cross selling and collaboration in products such as Bitrex, an extremely bitter substance added to development of new products for both the European and American many household and garden products to prevent accidental markets, especially in the field of controlled drugs.
poisoning, and galantamine, used in the treatment of Alzheimers disease, also performed strongly.
Late in the year, Macfarlan Smith West Deptford completed a new manufacturing plant on its Edinburgh site.
This The divisions West Deptford facility manufactures a range of facility was constructed to manufacture key specialist opiate and small to medium volume, high value active pharmaceutical other controlled drug products and contains space for additional ingredients, mainly metal based and controlled substances.
These capacity to support expected growth in these products.
products comprise ingredients used in both generic and proprietary drugs, including the platinum anticancer drugs cisplatin and Pharm-Eco carboplatin and the powerful painkillers fentanyl and hydromorphone.
Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. based near Boston, USA, was In 2001 02 sales at West Deptford increased 12% over the prior acquired by Johnson Matthey in April 2001.
Pharm-Eco is a leading year despite a drop in revenues from platinum pharmaceuticals provider of contract chemistry services to the pharmaceutical resulting from the termination of patent protection on cisplatin.
Most industry, including medicinal chemistry, process development and of this growth occurred in the second half of the year when the the manufacturing of drugs in the early and middle phases of their business received regulatory approval for three new products, all development cycle.
Outsourcing of chemistry services by both small of which were developed for new customers and were launched and large drug companies is a growing trend, and Pharm-Eco made in early calendar year 2002.
In support of these and other new excellent progress in all segments of its business during the year.
products, a major expansion of manufacturing and laboratory Major new contracts were obtained in the areas of medicinal facilities on the site is nearing completion with plant validation and chemistry, as well as the small scale manufacture of products for commissioning early in fiscal year 2002 03.
This expansion will use in clinical trials.
Pharm-Eco has also expanded its activities in immediately increase plant capacity by up to 40% and includes analytical chemistry services and by adding specialised equipment space for additional reactors as well as the necessary laboratories to perform process hazard assessments for customers.
The to support further growth.
business sales grew well throughout the year with particularly strong growth in the second half of 2001 02.
In support of this, a long term programme of installing additional laboratories and manufacturing capacity has been initiated at Pharm-Ecos principal site in Devens, Massachusetts.
Employee numbers have grown by 33% from the time of acquisition.
Environment, Health and Safety Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of protection to the environment and to safeguard the health and safety of its employees, customers and the community.
The companys Environment, Health and Safety EHS policies provide the guiding principles that ensure high standards are achieved at all sites around the world and afford a means of promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk assessment and comprehensive EHS management systems.
These policies, summarised in the companys policy statement EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson Mattheys see box on page 21, are reviewed at regular intervals and a corporate EHS management system.
During the year 37 in-depth detailed revision was completed during the year with the assistance EHS audits were completed across our operations in Europe, North of external consultants.
This work has given greater emphasis to America, Asia and Australia.
Formal exit interviews with local site formal management systems, in order to bring a systematic management are a feature of these audits and audit reports are improvement in performance.
Employee information and training reviewed by the EHSC with routine follow up on any outstanding requirements and the designation of corporate targets and issues.
During the year further site visits were made to oversee health performance measures for the businesses have also been surveillance programmes by the Group Occupational Physician.
Corporate policies provide a framework for all Johnson The year has seen a continued high level of capital investment in Matthey businesses, which are required to formulate site specific new plant and equipment within our existing businesses.
In addition policies to meet local requirements.
During the year these issues to introducing environmental improvements this has presented an were reviewed at a series of workshops and meetings that brought opportunity to develop and operate processes that are inherently together general management and senior EHS professionals from safer and more resource efficient than previous designs.
efficiency is a discipline that is second nature to managers in the Board responsibility for EHS rests with the Group Managing businesses who are charged with the responsibility of handling Director who chairs the Environment, Health and Safety Committee materials and products of high intrinsic value, many of which are EHSC, a sub-committee of the board.
The EHSC meets every two recyclable.
months to review and monitor EHS performance and consider key policy and operational issues.
The division directors of Johnson ISO 14001 Mattheys manufacturing operations are members of the committee ISO 14001 is the international standard representing best practice together with the director of EHS.
In addition the board undertakes a in environmental management.
The standard requires a critical third formal review of EHS performance annually and considers items of party assessment of the systems and performance of a business.
topical interest as they occur.
Many of our major sites have adopted this standard and others are To ensure effective monitoring of performance, health and safety continuing to develop their environmental management systems.
data is compiled monthly for consideration by the EHSC and general In the last year our autocatalyst plant in Pilar, Argentina, the management.
Environmental and resource efficiency information for precious metal fabrication business in Melbourne, Australia, and our the group is monitored locally and analysed annually.
glass products facility in Maastricht, Netherlands, succeeded in achieving ISO 14001 certification.
The Maastricht facility represents the first business in the Colours & Coatings Division to achieve certification to this prestigious standard.
In total this brings the percentage of employees who work at sites with ISO 14001 accreditation to 28%, representing some 2,000 staff.
