16 -17 Johnson Matthey leading Turnover Operating Profit Research and Development Research for the Colours & Coatings Division is based at the Johnson 32.1m Matthey Technology Centre and at the divisions main European facilities.
253m 251m Research activities include fundamental studies into the base chemistry of the businesses core products as well as new product development.
25.5m The introduction of new products and new application effects is an important part of the divisions strategy for growth.
Its customer markets are fashion driven and so development programmes are closely linked to the need to develop innovative new ways of using colours and to match changing consumer tastes.
Increasing environmental requirements are also leading to the development of heavy metal free ranges for all product areas and an increased focus on recyclability.
There is also an increasing focus on new process development as well as new product development.
New milling 2001 2002 2001 2002 and drying technologies are reducing costs in zircon and glass.
UV drying technology is reducing printing times and costs in decal, while a new gelling process has improved our liquid gold products.
Good progress is being made on reducing process costs in colour production.
Pharmaceutical Materials Annual Report and Accounts 2002 increase Turnover Operating Profit Research and Development Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions research and development activities are primarily focused on developing manufacturing processes for active 106m 31.3m pharmaceutical ingredients.
At West Deptford and Macfarlan Smith, the development of novel manufacturing and analytical methods for new products provides a steady pipeline of products for these businesses.
Collaboration between the research and development groups at West 18.0m Deptford and Macfarlan Smith is enabling the development of common products and implementation of the most efficient manufacturing processes within the two businesses.
Macfarlan Smith has particularly strong 35m extraction technology that complements West Deptfords strength in drug synthesis.
This provides opportunities for synergies through the sharing of production technology and expertise.
Pharm-Eco provides synthesis and process development services for drugs in pre-clinical and the early to middle phases of clinical trials.
The ultimate success of any drug in these 2001 2002 2001 2002 stages of clinical development is uncertain.
However, Pharm-Ecos experience in product development and scale-up places Johnson Matthey in a strong position to manufacture commercial quantities for Pharm-Ecos clients should their products obtain regulatory approval.
