14 -15 Johnson Matthey Precious Metals Divisions operating profits were 3% down on last year at 55.9 million.
Trading conditions for the divisions global platinum group metal pgm trading and marketing business proved less favourable as prices declined from the exceptional levels of recent years.
However, demand for platinum and for fabricated pgm products continued to grow.
Platinum Gold and Silver Platinum and palladium prices fell sharply in the first half of Johnson Mattheys gold and silver refineries located in Salt Lake 2001 02 from the highs seen in January 2001.
The prospect of a City USA, Brampton Canada, Royston UK, Melbourne Australia global economic slowdown, the liquidation of long positions held by and Hong Kong enjoyed mixed fortunes.
With world gold production speculators and, in the case of palladium, a sharp fall in consumer unchanged, the market for primary gold refining continued to be very demand, saw prices reach their low points in October.
Thereafter the competitive but an improvement in the gold price in the second half prices of both metals enjoyed a modest recovery as economic of the year contributed to an increase in secondary refining.
The sentiment improved in the USA and Russian palladium sales were performance of our Royston operation was impacted by high metal curtailed.
holdings at the start of the year as the refinery was reorganised to Although negative market sentiment undermined the price of improve processing efficiency.
The rationalisation of our Canadian platinum, the metals fundamentals remained strong with demand business was completed during the year and the benefits of exiting outstripping supply.
Autocatalyst demand increased as the market low margin activities contributed to a further growth in profits.
From share of diesel engine cars, which use platinum based catalysts, 11th September onwards a series of gold price spikes stimulated grew significantly and new tougher legislation came into force in dishoarding throughout the Asia region, which benefited the Europe.
Although jewellery demand declined in the USA and Japan refineries in Hong Kong and Australia.
In addition, the Hong Kong as consumer spending fell, the market in China once again refinery achieved Good Delivery accreditation for its gold bars in displayed remarkable growth.
Industrial demand grew modestly August and Brampton was awarded similar status for its silver bars overall, with increased use in glassmaking, petroleum refining and in December 2001. dental alloys, partly offset by weaker demand for coating computer disks, as manufacturers cut production and inventory levels.
The palladium market moved into surplus during the year, with falling demand from all the main consuming sectors.
Auto manufacturers continued to thrift palladium on autocatalysts and to shift back to platinum based catalysts for gasoline engines, while demand from dental alloy producers and electronic component manufacturers was affected by aggressive substitution away from palladium and a slump in demand for electronic goods.
The average price of platinum for the year was $503 per oz, 13% lower than in 2000 01.
The average price of palladium was also lower at $473 per oz, down 39% in the same period.
This decline in prices and the thin trading conditions experienced for much of the year reduced the profits of the divisions marketing and trading operations from the record levels enjoyed in 2000 01.
Despite the difficult economic climate for our traditional products, profits from the divisions pgm manufacturing activities in the UK and USA increased again this year.
Our industry leading metallurgical expertise, combined with our capabilities in precision forming and machining, further strengthened our technological advantage in key sectors.
New product introductions were well received by our customers and, additionally, generated revenue from technology licensing in selected markets.
Our medical components business, based in the USA, had another good year with continued growth of base and precious metal components for surgical devices.
Colours & Coatings Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Colours & Coatings Divisions operating profits were 21% down on last year at 25.5 million as the result of intense margin pressure and difficult market conditions, particularly in the third quarter.
The Colours & Coatings Division is one of the worlds leading suppliers of inorganic colours and the associated frits, glazes and enamels by which they are applied to a wide range of substrates.
The division serves a number of markets including automotive, Glass glass, tile, sanitaryware, tableware, plastics, inks and surface The Glass sector performed well in the face of very difficult coatings.
The division is organised into three sectors reflecting its market conditions.
Sales grew slightly and operating profits were major markets: Structural Ceramics, which combines the Tile, similar to last year.
The completion during the year of the business Sanitaryware and Zircon businesses: Glass, which serves the 4 million expansion programme at the Glass masterplant in Maastricht automotive glass, architectural glass and glass packaging markets: enabled it to achieve record output of glass enamels.
While both the and Speciality Coatings, which serves the tableware, plastics and European and North American markets for automotive black surface coatings industries.
obscuration enamels were slower than in previous years, the business 2001 02 saw the completion of expansion projects to serve saw good growth in sales of conductive silver pastes.
Consolidation of growth markets in the tile and glass businesses.
These are already suppliers to the US market place is offering good opportunities to win delivering benefits.
However, the sharp decline in the tableware new business.
The business has a strong pipeline of new products market necessitated a review of the divisions UK business, which and is conducting research into related market niches.
will result in the closure of its Meir facility by early 2003.
This has led to an exceptional charge of 24 million in the year.
This Speciality Coatings rationalisation will result in savings of 3 million in 2002 03 and The newly formed Speciality Coatings sector combines the 7 million per annum from 2003 04 and should be cash positive divisions Tableware and Pigments and Dispersions businesses.
Its following the sale of assets.
activities remain organised on market facing lines to serve the needs of the tableware, plastics and surface coatings industries.
Sales and Structural Ceramics profits in the Tableware business fell sharply during the year as its The Structural Ceramics sector achieved modest sales market continued to contract, especially in the UK.
The closure of growth despite a considerable softening of its market during the the Meir facility will reduce Tablewares cost base significantly, yet will second half.
However, while the business is well protected in a not significantly impact sales as most production will be relocated to downturn by having some of the lowest unit costs in the industry, other plants.
The business also sold its decal printing facility in margin pressure was intense, particularly in the frit and zircon Limoges to local management in September as part of a reduction in businesses, and operating profits fell slightly from last years its global capacity.
Outside the UK and US, tableware sales record levels.
Work has been completed on the construction of a increased slightly.
Two important new colour ranges were launched new highly automated frit manufacturing facility in Spain and the during the year, targeted at the needs of porcelain and stoneware first kilns are now operational.
A new frit plant in Brazil is nearing producers, and a new screen printing gold was also introduced to completion and will be operational early in 2002 03.
Investment in the decorative gold facility in Royston has facility will be the first to produce high quality, gas fired frits in the progressed well, delivering both a new range of products and country and will provide both higher product quality and lower environmental benefits.
The Pigments and Dispersions business had production costs.
Asian markets slowed during 2001 02, but a difficult year, with a small decline in sales in tough markets.
Sales there was good growth in Eastern Europe.
Products currently grew in Asia and the USA.
Cadmium and transparent iron oxide made by Structural Ceramics on the Meir site will be transferred margins were under pressure, but there was good growth in the to Spain and Italy.
Colourplex, Micraflo and Timbasol product groups.
