6 Kidde plc 2002 directors report The directors present their Report and the audited Financial SERVICE CONTRACTS Statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
The executive directors have service contracts that are terminable on 12 months notice by the Company and by the director.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES As non-executive directors, Sir Nigel Rudd, Norman Askew, The principal activities of the Group are the supply of fire and The Rt Hon John Gummer, John Poulter and Michael Kirkwood safety products, systems and services.
do not have service contracts with the Company.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS DIRECTORS INTERESTS Details of the progress made in the financial year under review and The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are the Groups prospects are contained in the Chairmans Statement, set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 9 to 13. the Chief Executives Review and the Business Review on pages Apart from their service contracts, none of the directors had, 1 to 17 of the Annual Review.
The Operating and Financial Review during the year, any material interest in any contract relating on pages 2 to 5 of this Report provides an analysis of the overall to the Groups business.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS DIVIDENDS At the date of this Report, the Company has received notifications The directors propose a final dividend for the year of 1.7p per share of the following interests in 3% or more of its issued ordinary which, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 23 May 2003 share capital: to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2003.
Total dividends paid and proposed in the year under review amount to 21.2m, representing NO.
OF SHARES % NOTIFIED 2.55p 2001 2.4p per share.
The retained profit for the year of Franklin Resources, Inc. 143,343,530 17.28 25.3m has been transferred to reserves.
Lazard Frres & Co. LLC 41,345,792 4.99 Standard Life Investments 33,264,023 4.01 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Legal & General Group Plc 26,207,638 3.15 The Group has one of the foremost technology teams in the fire protection industry.
Leading edge technology enables the Group SHARE CAPITAL to provide customers with the widest portfolio of existing and Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 22 new products.
The profit and loss account charge for the year to the Financial Statements.
for research and development was 18.4m 2001 20.7m.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES DIRECTORS At the last AGM, shareholder authority was obtained for the The names of the directors during the year are set out below.
Company to purchase its own shares up to a maximum of 5% of Short biographies, including details of membership of Board the number of shares in issue on 31 March 2002 subject to certain Committees, are set out on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Review.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman non-executive director.
Companys next AGM or on 23 August 2003, whichever is earlier.
N B M Askew, Deputy Chairman non-executive director, The notice of AGM contains a resolution to renew this authority.
Sir Michael Bishop non-executive director, resigned 23 May 2002.
The Rt Hon J S Gummer non-executive director.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr Gummer and Mr Nicholas will retire at the Companys AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Askew will retire and offer himself for election.
Kidde plc 2002 7 EMPLOYEES We support charitable causes that are able to help our employees, Our most valuable assets are our people they make our Group customers, suppliers or the local environment in which the business successful today and will help us achieve our goals in the future.
We know that our first duty is to provide good working conditions We work closely with fire services around the world to increase and equal opportunities for all.
We believe that training, communication awareness and raise money to support their training and development and involvement are the best ways to make the most of our programmes.
Employee fund raising activities in North America include sponsorship Safe, healthy and hygienic working conditions are good for our staff of projects such as the United Way.
In the UK, our businesses have and for business.
We aim for best practice and are always looking raised money for various good causes.
As a result, we have an international health and safety record to be proud of.
Further information about the Groups community involvement initiatives is set out on page 19 of the Annual Review, and a separate Our aim is to find the best-qualified person for each job and to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report is available on request make sure that training and promotion possibilities are open to all and at www.
Everyone applying for a job and working at Kidde is treated equally, regardless of sex, sexual orientation, disability, race, POLICY AND PRACTICE ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS colour, religion, age, marital status, physical appearance, nationality The Group has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business with Applications for employment from disabled people are given full each supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is and fair consideration and we make sure they are reviewed when made in accordance with those terms.
The Company has no trade suitable opportunities arise.
If a Kidde employee becomes disabled, creditors in its balance sheet.
we will make arrangements wherever possible to continue their employment and training.
ENVIRONMENT The Groups environmental report is contained on pages 18 to 19 of We keep our staff up to date with the future of the Group through the Annual Review, with further information available in a separate a wide range of internal communications including our quarterly CSR Report, available on request and at www.
newspaper Kidde Newsline, e-mail, video, noticeboards, individual business communications and conferences.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our employees have valuable comments and ideas and we take The Groups statement of corporate governance is set out on pages these into account in developing our business.
We recognise trades unions and the role of union representatives NEW LEGISLATION REGULATIONS in orderly staff consultation and communicate with them regularly.
The Group is monitoring the introduction of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act In the UK and US, 48% and 19%, respectively, of our employees in the USA and the regulations that relate to it and the Higgs and have taken the opportunity to be involved in the performance Smith Reports in the UK.
of our business by joining savings schemes linked to the Companys shares.
Where practicable, we plan to set up further schemes in AGM order to take into account changing legislation or to benefit our The third AGM of the Company will be held on Tuesday, 29 April other overseas employees.
2003 at 10.00am at 100 New Bridge Street, London, EC4V 6JA.
The notice of AGM is enclosed with this document.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year, in addition to its fundraising activities, the Group made charitable donations totalling 150,000 2001 117,000, principally to charities connected to fire safety.
No political donations were made.
8 Kidde plc 2002 directors report continued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES AUDITORS Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial Statements Following the conversion of  to a Limited for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of have resigned as auditors and have been replaced by the Group for that period.
In preparing those Financial Statements,  LLP with effect from 28 January 2003.
In the directors are required to: accordance with section 394 of the Companies Act 1985, there were no circumstances connected with the resignation which needed to Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently be brought to the notice of shareholders or creditors of Kidde plc.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, A resolution to reappoint  LLP will be proposed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the at the AGM, for which special notice has been given.
A copy of the Financial Statements resolution is set out in the notice of AGM.
Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless By Order of the Board it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group D Quinlan will continue in business.
Company Secretary The directors confirm that they have complied with the above 4 March 2003 requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The maintenance and integrity of the Kidde plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
