Betting and Gaming The introduction of tax-free betting in late 2001 has been a catalyst for growth, leading to a widening of the choice of betting opportunities in all distribution channels.
Business Review point of sale systems and touch screen betting Ladbrokes continues to build on the facilities, have also proved to be extremely unprecedented levels of change experienced in popular.
The introduction of tax-free betting in late 2001 has been a catalyst for growth, The eGaming business continues to grow leading to a widening of the choice of betting at encouraging levels and benefited from opportunities in all distribution channels.
the popularity of the World Cup when over 1.2 million bets were placed by over This wider set of commercial opportunities, 62,000 customers.
13 languages are now coupled with the strength of the Ladbrokes supported across an increased range of brand, depth of management and experience products, accepting 15 different currencies.
Christopher Bell and investment in technology, has generated Chief Executive record gross win and profit.
Particular success included the expansion Ladbrokes Worldwide of the rapid keno style game Balls and the The Governments objectives to create a more launch in May of ladbrokespoker.
The enlightened approach to betting with a keen sportsbook continues to grow and remains the awareness of customer needs appears to be on key recruitment vehicle from ladbrokes.
Gambling is now a mainstream leisure the other eGaming sites.
com product and is rightly being treated as such.
site is also developing rapidly and is now recognised as a leading player in the industry.
Throughout 2002, Ladbrokes has continued Jackpot games now offer customers the chance to invest in technology enabling the launch of to win over US$1 million.
The success of innovative new products and greater service these games is helping eGaming to generate delivery to the customer.
In April, the bookmakers reached agreement The telephone betting operation continues with British racing over payment for the use to grow rapidly, with over 100,000 active of data rights and in May an agreement was customers, an increase of 14%.
Investment reached with 49 British racecourses to secure has and still is being made in improving betting shop picture rights.
The other ten customer service, including development of racecourses have contracts with SIS until 2007. a speech recognition system for automated With the stability that is being generated both call handling.
The business also benets from through these agreements and from a our One Account service, enabling customers reinvigorated market in general, Ladbrokes is to bet with Ladbrokes using just one account installing new visual systems to provide accessible by phone, internet, interactive enhanced information and increased betting TV and, in the first half of 2003, throughout opportunities for customers.
This will enable customers to, for example, bet from The roll out of these digital systems will be their ofce, using the telephone or internet complete by mid 2003 and will allow tailorand then pick up their winnings from their made broadcasts by chosen shop or region.
local Ladbrokes shop on their way home from the ofce.
No other competitor offers Technology has also been exploited through customers this level of accessibility.
our electronic point of sale system, which allows customers bets to be captured Vernons continues to perform well, with electronically so saving time and money the growth of online games products and through increased staff productivity.
The numbers games available through mail and recently introduced mark sense lottery style telephone offsetting the industry decline in slips, made possible through the electronic traditional pools betting.
Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2002 7
