Managing the group Sir Ian Robinson BSC FRENG Christopher Bell Patrick Lupo Chairman Chief Executive, Ladbrokes Worldwide He was appointed non-executive director on He was appointed Chairman of the Board on He was appointed to the Board on 1 June 26 January 2001.
Patrick Lupo is a director 1 October 2001, having joined the board as a 2000.
He joined Ladbrokes in 1991 and and former Chief Executive of DHL non-executive director and Deputy Chairman became Managing Director in 1995.
Prior Worldwide, where he has held a number on 22 February 2001.
Sir Ian was Chief to joining Ladbrokes he held a number of senior positions since 1975.
He is also Executive of Scottish Power plc from 1995 to of senior positions with Allied Domecq.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy He is also Vice-Chairman of the Association WH Smith Group plc.
He will become senior of Engineering and is non-executive Chairman of British Bookmakers, a member of the independent director following the 2003 AGM.
of Amey plc and Scottish Enterprise.
Bookmakers Committee and a director Age 51. of Satellite Information Services.
Chris Bell David Michels was appointed a non-executive director of Louise Patten MA Oxon Group Chief Executive Game Group plc in January 2003.
She was appointed non-executive director He was appointed Group Chief Executive in 1993.
Louise Patten is a member of of Hilton Group on 1 June 2000.
He joined Anthony Harris the Advisory Board of Bain & Company, the Board in March 1999 and was appointed 1955-2003 the strategy consultants, and is a non-executive Chief Executive of Hilton International in He was appointed Chief Executive officer of director of GUS, Brixton and Somereld.
A graduate of the London Hotel Hilton International and joined the board on Previously she has held positions in School, David Michels was formerly Chief 1 June 2000.
He joined Hilton International management consultancy, corporate banking Executive of Stakis plc.
He is also a nonin March 1999 as Managing Director for the and retail financial services.
Age 49. executive director of British Land plc and UK and Ireland and became Chief Operating Hilton Hotels Corporation.
Age 56. officer, Hilton International in the early Russell Walls BSC FCCA part of 2000.
Prior to joining Hilton, he He was appointed non-executive director Brian Wallace MA ACA was Deputy Chief Executive and Managing in June 1996 and is the senior independent Deputy Group Chief Executive Director of Stakis plc.
Russell Walls was formerly Group and Group Finance Director on 11 March 2003, aged just 47.
Finance Director of BAA and previously held He became Deputy Group Chief Executive similar positions with Wellcome and Coats on 1 June 2000.
He was appointed Group Stephen Bollenbach Viyella.
He is also a non-executive director Finance Director and joined the Group Board He was appointed non-executive director of Stagecoach Group, Signet Group and The in April 1995.
He was formerly Group Finance in January 1997.
Stephen F Bollenbach Mersey Docks and Harbour Company.
Director of Geest and has held financial is President and Chief Executive officer appointments with APV, Schlumberger and of Hilton Hotels Corporation.
He is also Nicholas Jones Price Waterhouse.
He is also a non-executive Chairman of Park Place Entertainment and A qualied accountant and business director of Hays plc.
Age 48. is on the board of AOL Time Warner and school graduate, Nicholas Jones is a distinguished Catellus Development Corporation.
Age 60. corporate nancier and is Vice Chairman of Lazard Brothers, a position he has held since 1999.
His other interests include horseracing and from 1991-2000 he was Chairman of the National Stud.
14 Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2002 Senior Management Koos Klein President Hilton International, Mike Ashton Middle East & Asia Pacic Senior Vice President Marketing, Hilton International Wolfgang M Neumann President Hilton International, Tim Davis UK and Ireland Senior Vice President Distribution and eCommerce, Hilton International John OReilly Managing Director, Roger Devlin Ladbrokes eGaming Corporate Development Director Alex Pagett Jrgen Fischer Corporate Affairs Director President Hilton International, Europe and Africa Alan Ross Managing Director, Ladbrokes Howard Friedman President Hilton International, The Americas Bryan Taker Head of Group Human Resources Paul Harvey and Legal Services Managing Director, LivingWell Desmond Taljaard Senior Vice President Real Estate, Hilton International Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2002 15
