Directors biographies Cor Stutterheim Martin Read Seamus Keating Jim McKenna Ian Taylor Anthony Cole Royston Hoggarth Chris McDermott Cor Stutterheim 56 # Jim McKenna 47 Royston Hoggarth 41 Cor was appointed non-executive chairman of Jim was appointed chief executive, UK and Royston was appointed chief executive, LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica and Ireland, and continued as a member of the International, of LogicaCMG following the CMG in December 2002.
He was previously LogicaCMG board following the merger of merger of Logica and CMG.
Royston joined chairman of CMG for seven years.
Cor joined Logica and CMG in December 2002.
Prior to Logica in 1997 as director of international lines CMG in the Netherlands in 1970 as a systems this appointment, Jim was supervisory of business and group marketing director, with and programming consultant and held various managing director for Logica in continental responsibility for the company's strategic management positions before being appointed Europe and the Middle East and a member of development in the financial services, telecoms, to the board in 1977.
He became deputy the Logica main board.
He formerly worked energy and utilities, and industry, distribution chairman in January 1995 and was appointed for GEC-Marconi and also Plessey Company and transport sectors.
Royston has previously chairman in August 1995.
He is a non-executive director of AWG plc.
been supervisory managing director for Logica director of Polar Capital Partners Ltd and a mobile networks and consulting and was also member of the advisory board of ABN AMRO Ian Taylor 57 responsible for Logica's business across Asia Holding N. V and GIMV-ICT.
Ian was appointed group human resources Pacific.
He was formerly a general manager at director and a member of the LogicaCMG IBM, where he was responsible for the group's Martin Read 53 board following the merger of Logica and retail brands and products worldwide.
He is a Martin became group chief executive of CMG.
Ian was previously human resources and non-executive director of Intercede Group plc.
LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica organisation director of CMG from April and CMG in December 2002.
Martin joined 2000, having joined CMG in 1994 as chairman Chris McDermott 45 the Logica board as managing director and of its UK operations.
Prior to joining CMG Ian Chris was appointed chief executive, wireless chief executive in 1993.
He was formerly ran his own consulting business.
Between 1983 networks, and continued as an executive managing director of the GEC Marconi and 1993 he was managing director and committee member of LogicaCMG following Radar and Control Systems group of subsequently chief executive of Datasolve.
the merger of Logica and CMG.
Martin is a non-executive Before 1983 he was responsible for all ICL Logica in May 2001 and had been supervisory director of Boots Group plc, having been system development programmes and later managing director responsible for messaging appointed a non-executive director of The ICL's worldwide customer service organisation.
Prior to that, he was vice Boots Company plc in 1999, and a nonHe is a director of Intellect Information president and general manager of the executive director of British Airways plc.
Technology, Telecommunications & worldwide public sector business at Unisys, He was a non-executive director of ASDA Electronics Association and chairman of its having previously run their worldwide Group plc from 1996 to 1999. operations board.
commercial and European telecoms business.
Before Unisys, Chris enjoyed successful spells at Seamus Keating 39 Anthony Cole 41 Nortel and GEC Avionics.
Seamus was appointed group finance director Anthony was appointed chief executive, France, and continued as a member of the LogicaCMG Germany and Central Europe, and continued as Hugo Schaap 55 board following the merger of Logica and a member of the executive committee of Hugo was appointed group marketing director CMG in December 2002, having been Logica LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica and a member of the executive committee of group finance director since February that year and CMG.
Prior to this appointment, Anthony LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica and director of group finance since 1999.
He was supervisory managing director of Logica and CMG.
He joined CMG in 1973 as a joined Logica from Getronics, where he was UK and chairman of the energy and utility consultant and held various management finance director of Olivetti Solutions, the global international line of business of Logica.
He has positions before becoming a national director IT solutions business of the Olivetti group, been a Logica executive committee member in 1989, responsible for CMG's business in the immediately prior to its purchase by Wang in since May 2000.
From 1994 to 1997, Anthony finance sector.
He was appointed country turn purchased by Getronics.
Prior to that was divisional director of Logica's UK defence chairman for Benelux in September 1996 and appointment, he was finance director of division and director of the UK energy and became a group director in April 2000.
Olivetti's UK operations, having joined its utilities division from 1997 to 1999. finance function in 1989.
32 Directors biographies LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Hugo Schaap Thomas Ivarson Bernd Lantermann Wout Koppers Wim Dik Angela Knight George Loudon Helmut Mamsch Richard North Thomas Ivarson 48 Wim Dik 64 # George Loudon 59 # Thomas was appointed executive vice president, Wim was appointed a non-executive director George was appointed a non-executive wireless networks and a member of the executive of LogicaCMG in December 2002, having director of LogicaCMG in December 2002, committee of LogicaCMG following the merger of been a non-executive director of CMG since having previously been a non-executive Logica and CMG.
He was previously CEO of CMG May 2001.
He is a professor at the Technical director of CMG since 1998.
He was also Wireless Data Solutions.
Thomas joined CMG in University Delft in the Technology and chairman of the CMG group's remuneration October 2001, bringing extensive experience of Management Faculty.
"Previously he was committee and a member of the audit and international telecoms and software products in the chairman and CEO of ""Koninklijke KPN NV"", nomination committees."
He is currently a wireless and wireline data market, covering all Royal Dutch Telecom.
Prior to that he was director of The Evolution Group plc formerly aspects of business management.
He worked for chairman and CEO of Royal PTT Nederland Beeson Gregory Group plc, as well as holding Ericsson from 1980 to 1995 where he held a telecom and post, chairman of Unilever's other non-executive positions.
From 1988 until number of positions in engineering, product Dutch operations and Minister for Foreign 1992 he was a director of Midland Bank plc.
management and marketing, and finally as general Trade in the Dutch Government 1981-82.
Previously he spent 12 years with Amsterdammanager of software for end-user features in local He holds non-executive positions with: Rotterdam Bank NV, five years as a member switching systems.
Between 1995 and 2001, he was Unilever, ABN AMRO Bank, TNT Post Group, of the managing board.
the CEO of EHPT, a joint venture company of Holland Casino, Van Gansewinkel Groep, Ericsson and Hewlett-Packard, focused on customer AVIVA plc formerly Commercial General and Helmut Mamsch 58 # and network management applications.
Norwich Union plc, Tele Atlas, Spencer Helmut continued as a non-executive director Stuart, Ernst & Young Netherlands.
of LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica Bernd Lantermann 58 Wim is a Grand Officer in the order of and CMG, having been a non-executive Bernd was appointed group international Oranje Nassau and a Commander in the director of Logica since 1997.
He is the senior lines of business director and a member of order of the North Star Sweden.
independent non-executive director and the executive committee of LogicaCMG deputy chairman.
He is a former member of following the merger of Logica and CMG.
Angela Knight 52 # the board of management of VEBA AG now He joined CMG in 1993 as chairman of its Angela continued as a non-executive director E. ON AG and was concurrently, since 1998, German operations and became a group of LogicaCMG following the merger of chairman of VEBA Electronics Inc, St director in April 2000.
Previously, he worked Logica and CMG, having been a nonClara USA and MEMC Electronic Materials as vice president and partner in Booz-Allen executive director of Logica since July 1999.
Previously he was chairman & Hamilton Inc. responsible for its IT She is currently chief executive of the of Stinnes AG.
business in Germany, Austria and Association of Private Client Investment Switzerland.
Prior to that, he worked for the Managers and Stockbrokers APCIMS.
She is Richard North 53 # CAP Gemini group as managing director also deputy chairman of Scottish Widows and Richard continued as a non-executive director responsible for its German operations.
a non-executive director of South East Water of LogicaCMG following the merger of Logica plc, International Financial Services London and CMG, having been appointed as a nonWout Koppers 58 IFSL and the Port of London Authority.
executive director of Logica in February 2002 Wout was appointed chief executive, the Angela was previously the Member of and as chairman of the audit committee of Netherlands and Belgium, on 4 March 2003.
Parliament for Erewash 1992-97 and Logica in April 2002.
He is currently chief Prior to this appointment, Wout was chief Economic Secretary to HM Treasury between executive officer of Six Continents Hotels and executive of LogicaCMG, the Netherlands.
1995 and 1997. group finance director of Six Continents plc.
He Wout joined CMG in the Netherlands in is chairman of Britvic Soft Drinks and is a non- 1971 as a consultant and held various executive director of FelCor Trust Inc. management positions before being appointed to the Dutch board in 1978.
He Executive director was appointed chief executive, Benelux, in Executive committee member 2000 and in that capacity was a member of Non-executive director # the executive committee of CMG.
