Report of directors The directors present their report together with the financial Prior to the merger, CMG plc paid an interim dividend of 1.1p per statements of the company and its subsidiaries for the six months share on 15 November 2002.
The directors are recommending a ended 31 December 2002.
Following the merger of Logica plc final dividend of 3.0p per share.
If approved, the final dividend with CMG plc during the period, the companys year end was will be paid on 16 May 2003 to eligible shareholders on the changed from 30 June to 31 December.
These financial register at close of business on 22 April 2003. statements have been prepared using merger accounting principles.
The financial statements contain unaudited pro forma Retained losses amounting to 480.3 million have been carried information for the 12 months to December 2002.
The financial to reserves year ended 30 June 2002: 877.3 million loss.
statements will be laid before the shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held on 15 May 2003. Business review A review of the development of the business during the year is Principal activities given on pages 10 to 19.
Included in the review are references Throughout the period, LogicaCMG companies, including to LogicaCMG's future prospects.
branches, were in the business of providing information technology services, concentrating on: Acquisitions Details of the acquisitions completed during the period are the marketing, design, production, integration and given in note 22 to the accounts.
maintenance of custom-built software and associated hardware systems Creditor payment policy and practice The Companies Act 1985 Directors Report Statement of consultancy, applications management, outsourcing Payment Practice Regulations 1997 requires the company to and project management in the field of information make a statement of its policy and practice on the payment of technology and creditors.
The company and its subsidiaries seek the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate to their businesses the design, development, implementation and marketing of and, in placing orders, give consideration to quality, delivery, software products and the reusable elements of applications price and the terms of payment which will be agreed with software, called systems kernels suppliers when the details of each transaction are agreed.
The company and its subsidiaries will continue to honour their Merger contractual and other legal obligations and to pay creditors on On 5 November 2002, the boards of Logica plc and CMG plc the dates agreed in contract and purchase orders.
As at announced that they had agreed the terms for a proposed 31 December 2002 the number of days of annual purchases merger of the two companies.
Under the merger, CMG plcs represented by year end creditors for the group amounted to shareholders received 0.4827 Logica plc shares for each CMG plc 52 days year ended 30 June 2002: 53 days.
Shareholder approval for the merger was obtained at the extraordinary general meeting on 20 December 2002 which Research and development also approved the change of the companys name to LogicaCMG During the period, LogicaCMG invested 32.0 million in plc.
On 30 December 2002, the company announced the research and development year ended 30 June 2002: 82.5 completion of the merger with CMG plc.
These figures are net of funding by European research institutions and other clients.
LogicaCMG believes that research Results and dividends and development is also effective when done in close coConsolidated turnover amounted to 882.5 million for the six operation with clients and so continues to undertake research months to 31 December 2002, compared with 2,008.8 million for and development work on a funded basis, ensuring that real the year ended 30 June 2002.
Loss attributable to shareholders market needs are being directly addressed.
was 458.3 million for the period, compared with a loss of 835.2 million for the year ended 30 June 2002.
Profit before tax No development costs have been capitalised.
before goodwill, restructuring costs, exceptional items and amounts written off investments was 54.5 million compared to 160.1 million for the previous year.
Adjusted basic earnings per share before goodwill, restructuring costs, exceptional items and amounts written off investments were 5.2p year ended 30 June 2002: 15.6p.
The basic unadjusted losses per share were 62.4p year ended 30 June 2002: unadjusted losses per share of 114.2p.
Net debt balances and liquid resources at 31 December 2002 stood at 107.1 million 30 June 2002: 91.7 million.
34 Report of directors LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Directors Substantial holdings The directors are listed on pages 32 and 33.
As at 5 March 2003 the company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the company's There have been the following changes in the composition of share capital: the board: Name No.
of shares Percentage on 30 December 2002 Alistair Crawford was appointed an FMR Corp and its direct and 68,087,847 9.09 executive director indirect subsidiaries and Fidelity International Limited and on 30 December 2002 Wim Dik was appointed as a nonits direct and indirect subsidiaries executive director UBS Global Asset Management 75,397,124 10.06 Holding No.
2 Limited on 30 December 2002 George Loudon was appointed as a Legal and General Investment 26,835,154 3.58 non-executive director Management Limited Morley Fund Management Limited 30,193,508 4.03 on 30 December 2002 Cor Stutterheim was appointed as non-executive chairman Employment policies The group operates in a number of countries and its on 30 December 2002 Ian Taylor was appointed an executive employment practices vary to meet local conditions and director requirements.
In all cases they are established on the basis of best practice in that country.
It is group policy to ensure equal on 30 December 2002 Sir Frank Barlow retired as nonopportunity for employment of disabled people, ethnic executive chairman minorities and women.
Wherever possible the employment of members of staff who become disabled will be continued and on 30 December 2002 Roxanne Decyk retired as a nonappropriate training and career development will be offered.
executive director Employee participation on 30 December 2002 Andrew Given retired as an executive One of the group's key objectives is to achieve a shared director and commitment by all employees to the success of the business.
Throughout the world there is close consultation between on 4 March 2003 Alistair Crawford resigned as an executive employees and management on matters of mutual interest and director information is disseminated through individual performance reviews, team briefings and in-house newsletters.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the company are shown in the report of the remuneration committee.
The LogicaCMG Employee Communication Forum the Forum, with elected employee representatives, exists with the None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of aim of establishing a means of social dialogue for information significance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a and communications with the employees of the LogicaCMG party during the financial year.
The Forum promotes the exchange of views and information with the aim of extending understanding At the forthcoming annual general meeting Helmut Mamsch and and facilitating the introduction of policy changes to the Jim McKenna retire and offer themselves for re-election in LogicaCMG group.
The Forum has been set up under the accordance with the Articles of Association.
Wim Dik, George voluntary arrangements in the EU Directives on European Loudon, Cor Stutterheim and Ian Taylor, having been appointed Works Councils.
since the last annual general meeting, offer themselves for election in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the progress and profitability of the group through the Employee Equity Directors and officers insurance Partnership Plan, savings related share option schemes, the US The company maintains insurance cover for all directors and Stock Purchase Plan and performance related bonus payments.
officers of group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them while acting as directors and officers.
com Report of directors 35 Auditors Environmental policy Due to the planned conversion of our auditors Recognising that LogicaCMG's operations are themselves of  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP minimal environmental impact, LogicaCMG's environmental policy is to: from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 31 December 2002 and the directors appointed its successor, meet the statutory requirements placed on us  LLP and Deloitte & Touche, as joint auditors.
 and Deloitte & Touche were apply good environmental practice both in our business Logica plcs and CMG plcs previous auditors respectively.
A operations and in the development of systems and products resolution to reappoint  LLP and for our customers, recognising however that we become Deloitte & Touche as joint auditors to the company will be contractually obliged to conform with their requirements and proposed at the annual general meeting.
aim to recycle as much of our waste products as is economically Repurchase of company shares practicable to do.
Those items that cannot be recycled will be Resolution number 11 in the notice of the forthcoming annual disposed of in an environmentally friendly way general meeting proposes granting the directors the unconditional and general authority to make one or more Charitable donations and policy market purchases for the purposes of Section 166 of the The company does not make financial donations to charities, as Companies Act 1985 of the companys ordinary shares on such it believes this is a matter for individual stakeholders.
However, terms and in such manner as the directors shall determine, the company actively encourages and supports staff to subject to the following: volunteer their time and skills to local community and charitable activities or to participate in corporate events that the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share also share charitable objectives.
For example, employees have shall not exceed 5% above the mid-market prices of the used their expertise to install computers in schools, both in the ordinary shares of the company as derived from the Daily UK and overseas, and have worked on projects at charities such Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five as Shelter, a UK charity supporting homeless people.
Where business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price legal restrictions allow, the company provides direct support to per ordinary share is the nominal value thereof and in each good causes through donations of redundant assets such as case will be exclusive of any expenses payable by the company computer equipment.
the maximum aggregate number of shares that may be Staff may also contribute to charities by making regular purchased pursuant to this authority shall be limited to payments directly from salary through our give-as-you-earn 74,904,768 shares, which is equivalent to 10% of the schemes.
These schemes aim to provide funds that will make a companys issued share capital as at 5 March 2003 valuable contribution to the work of charities operating in a wide range of charitable sectors and geographic regions.
In the this authority shall remain in force until the conclusion of the UK, the scheme is managed in conjunction with the Charities next annual general meeting of the company but will Aid Foundation.
Activities vary widely, from support for terminate on the date falling 12 months from the date that charities such as Brainwave in the UK, which provides home this resolution is passed if the annual general meeting has not monitors for brain-injured children, to the provision of funding been held by that date and for locally produced textbooks for schools in Malawi.
the company may agree before the above authority terminates Staff also raised over 70,000 for the Save the Children charity to purchase ordinary shares where the purchase will or may be when the company participated in the BT Global Challenge executed after the authority terminates either in whole or in yacht race.
The company may complete such a purchase even though the authority has ended Fixed assets The changes in the fixed assets of the group are disclosed in notes 12, 13 and 14 to the accounts.
Remuneration committee report The remuneration committee report is set out on pages 38 to 45.
36 Report of directors LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Amendment to the companys Articles of Association Authority to allot securities Resolution number 16 in the notice of the forthcoming annual Resolution number 12 in the notice of the forthcoming annual general meeting proposes an amendment to the companys general meeting proposes the renewal, in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, of the period expiring on Articles of Association, which will increase the maximum the date of the 2003 annual general meeting, of the directors aggregate amounts payable to non-executive directors from authority to allot the authorised but as yet unissued share capital 200,000 to 600,000 per annum.
It is proposed that the Articles of the company at the date of this years annual general meeting.
of Association be amended by deleting the amount 200,000 in The maximum amount of shares subject to such an authority the present Article 107 and replacing it with 600,000. would be 249,682,560 representing 33% of the companys total issued share capital at 5 March 2003.
The directors do not have It is normal practice for companies to state within their Articles any present intention of exercising this authority other than in of Association a maximum aggregate cap for non-executive connection with the group's employee share schemes.
The companys current annual cap of 200,000 was adopted by shareholders in 1994.
The proposed Under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, equity securities in amendment reflects the need to increase the cap in line with the company may not be allotted for cash otherwise than in business needs, in particular the increase in the number of nonrespect of an employee share scheme without first being offered executive directors and the additional responsibilities assumed pro rata to existing shareholders, unless the prior approval of the by the new chairman and deputy chairman.
This increase also shareholders is given in a general meeting.
The directors consider provides sufficient headroom for future flexibility.
that it is in the best interests of the company that the relevant authority given at the annual general meeting in 2002, which By order of the board expires on the date of the 2003 annual general meeting, should be renewed in similar terms.
Accordingly, a special resolution to P Weaver FCIS this effect is proposed as Resolution number 13 in the notice of Company secretary the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The proposed authority 5 March 2003 expires at the date of the 2004 annual general meeting and permits the directors during this period to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,745,238 representing 5% of the issued share capital at 5 March 2003 without first offering them to existing shareholders.
UK Sharesave Scheme Resolution number 14 in the notice of the forthcoming annual general meeting proposes changes to the companys 1995 UK sharesave scheme that will allow the grant of three year options and authorises the directors to do all such acts as they consider necessary to carry the changes into effect including making such minor amendments as may be necessary to obtain the approval of the Inland Revenue and or such other approvals as the directors consider necessary.
International Sharesave Scheme Resolution number 15 in the notice of the forthcoming annual general meeting proposes changes to the companys 1995 international sharesave scheme that will allow the grant of three-year options and authorises the directors to do all such acts as they consider necessary to carry the changes into effect, including making such minor amendments as may be necessary to obtain such approvals as the directors consider necessary.
