Remuneration committee Remuneration report Components of remuneration This report by the remuneration committee has been approved by This part of the remuneration report is unaudited the board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the The components of the remuneration packages for executive Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. directors are as follows: The remuneration committee the committee Base salary This part of the remuneration report is unaudited This is a fixed cash sum, payable monthly.
Salaries are reviewed The committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive annually in the light of individual performance and market directors.
The current members are: Angela Knight chairman, comparisons for similar jobs.
Factors taken into account for George Loudon from 30 December 2002 and Helmut Mamsch.
comparison purposes include company type and sector, measures of George Loudon was previously chairman of the CMG plc company size market capitalisation, turnover and employee remuneration committee and replaces Sir Frank Barlow who retired numbers and degree of international scope.
Base salary is the only from the board on 30 December 2002.
The committee meets element of remuneration that is pensionable.
regularly, normally at least four times per year.
Seamus Keatings salary was reviewed upon his appointment to the The committee is responsible to the board and shareholders for: board as group finance director in February 2002 and a further setting the overall policy on senior executive remuneration adjustment to 250,000 will be implemented in March 2003.
The determining the remuneration packages of each of the executive salaries of former Logica executive directors were reviewed, but not directors and executive committee members and increased, with effect from 1 July 2002, and those of former CMG overseeing the operation of the companys employee group executive directors were reviewed on 1 January 2002 and share schemes were also not increased.
Alistair Crawfords salary was increased to 350,000 on 1 March 2002, following his appointment as chief It has appointed and takes advice from independent executive executive officer of CMG plc.
Logica plc moved its main annual remuneration consultants New Bridge Street Consultants, as well as salary review date for all employees to 1 December, although the consulting information from other independent sources and the 2002 review in the UK, which included executive directors, was group human resources director.
New Bridge Street Consultants also deferred and the position will be re-examined in March 2003.
Any provides assistance on the administration of the companys share increases then awarded will be backdated to 1 December 2002. schemes.
Any of the executive directors may be invited to attend the committees meetings, although no individual would be present Benefits when their own remuneration was being discussed.
In addition to their pension provisions, described below, all executive directors are entitled to company life assurance at four times annual The constitution and operation of the committee complies with the salary, permanent health cover, private medical insurance benefits Code of Best Practice provisions on directors remuneration in the and medical check ups.
Martin Read, Jim McKenna and Seamus Combined Code of the UK Listing Authority.
Keating are also entitled to car benefits or cash allowance in lieu, an interest free season ticket loan and personal accident insurance.
Remuneration policy Andrew Given was also entitled to these benefits until his retirement This part of the remuneration report is unaudited from the company on 31 December 2002.
The objectives of the remuneration policy for executive directors are: total remuneration, and its components, should be commercially Annual bonus competitive to attract, motivate and retain executives of the The structure of annual bonus arrangements for 2003 is described calibre required below.
These arrangements were implemented from 1 July 2002 remuneration should align the interests of executives with those for the previous Logica financial year of 1 July 2002 to of shareholders through the use of a combination of 30 June 2003.
Following the merger with CMG, the bonus performance-driven cash and equity based rewards in addition to arrangements were applied to the six-month period ended base salary and benefits 31 December 2002 on a pro rata basis and a new scheme year of the bulk of the total reward potential comprising annual bonus, 1 January to 31 December 2003 was introduced.
long-term incentives the Executive Equity Partnership Plan and share options for each individual executive director should be related to company performance performance targets should be stretching and the details of remuneration should be clear and easily understood The remuneration policy is currently under review following the merger.
38 Remuneration committee LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Annual bonuses may be paid up to an overall cap of 100% of salary Options may be exercised between the third and tenth provided a combination of business and personal objectives are anniversary of the date of grant, provided the performance achieved.
A baseline bonus figure is generated according to condition has been met.
The performance condition approved by performance against a financial measure, which for 2003 will be shareholders in 1996 was that the growth in earnings per share earnings per share as it was for the period 1 July to EPS should exceed the growth in UK Retail Price Index RPI 31 December 2002 and for the previous Logica 2001 02 financial by an average of at least 7% per annum for any relevant threeyear.
From 1 July 2002, an additional measure of cash conversion year period following the date of grant.
The performance pre-exceptionals was introduced.
A multiplier between 0.5 and 1.1 conditions for future grants will be that EPS growth should for the period ended 31 December 2002, and between 0.5 and 1.3 exceed growth in UK RPI by an average of at least 7% per for 2003 derived from achievements against cash conversion annum.
If the average EPS growth during the performance period targets, is applied to this baseline bonus.
A personal performance is between 3% and 7% per annum, awards will be exercisable on multiplier normally between 0.7 and 1.3 is then applied to the a pro rata basis between 20% and 100%.
For performance below resulting bonus figure.
This multiplier may be zero, in a case where 3% per annum no options will be exercisable.
an executive directors personal performance is judged unacceptable, with the consequence that no bonus would be payable.
The remuneration committee has determined that, for future grants, retesting will be limited to two retests following The threshold earnings per share figure set by the committee maturity, although the committee will reserve the right to before bonuses could be triggered was not met for the Logica restrict this to a single retest if this is deemed appropriate.
In financial year ended 30 June 2002 and was also not met for the addition, the base point for the performance period will remain period 1 July to 31 December 2002. fixed for all tests.
The committee considers annually the choice of performance Option grants are made with the expectation that the option measures and the targets to be met.
holders will, upon exercise, retain at least 20% of the shares after taking account of the associated costs of exercise.
Executive Equity Partnership Plan The company will continue to operate this plan which was approved Performance conditions Executive Equity Partnership Plan and by Logica shareholders in 1998 and allows executive directors, and Executive Share Option Scheme other senior executives by invitation, to invest up to 50% of their EPS is used as a share scheme performance measure in over 70% after tax annual bonus payment in company shares.
If they remain in of share option schemes operated by FTSE 350 companies.
The the companys employment and retain the shares for three years, companys EPS growth remains substantially within the control of then subject to a performance condition being satisfied, the the directors and is therefore an appropriate measure of their company will match those shares up to a 1:1 gross of tax basis.
The use of sliding scale performance criteria was incorporated to reflect best practice as recommended by UK Although the plan was operated in 2002, Martin Read, institutional shareholders.
These performance conditions represent Jim McKenna and Seamus Keating were unable to participate as a a stretching target that ensures the grant of options achieves the consequence of no bonus payments being made to them.
objective of motivating and incentivising management for good Andrew Given was not eligible to join the plan due to his long-term performance.
All employee share schemes Alistair Crawford is not eligible to participate in the plan in the Logica operated three share schemes, at least one of which was coming year were it to operate due to his resignation as an open to the majority of employees globally, subject to local executive director.
Both Sharesave and the Employee Equity Partnership Plan were operated in the UK and the Executive share options executive directors were consequently eligible to participate in The company will continue to operate the Executive Share Option these schemes.
These schemes will be the basis for Scheme which was approved by shareholders in 1996.
Option LogicaCMGs all employee share schemes in the future.
grants are made to senior executives and managers across the group, as well as to other staff with high potential, or to recognise Sharesave significant achievements.
For executive directors, grants are All eligible employees were able to contribute up to 250 per month normally made after the declaration of the results.
However, for over a five-year term to purchase the companys shares at a discount 2003 any award will be deferred until after the declaration of the of up to 20% of the market price at the time the share options were companys interim results.
As part of the ongoing review of granted.
For the 2002 grant, the discount was 20%.
In the UK, this executive remuneration following the merger, the maximum scheme is approved by the Inland Revenue.
The executive directors allocation of options to an individual within a single financial year were eligible to participate in this scheme.
Due to the restrictions in will be re-examined.
the number of shares available under this scheme, shareholders are being requested to approve a change from a five to a three-year savings period for both the companys UK and international sharesave schemes.
