Business overview Our business Industry, distribution and transport Our business is broadly based by sector This year has been a challenging Our industry, distribution and transport and geography.
This strategic approach environment for all concerned.
Clients business focuses mainly on the allows us to better respond to the highs have been restricting any new expenditure automotive and transport industries, and lows of the global economy.
With our to mission-critical activities and have been working with some of the biggest focus traditionally centred on five key demanding greater value from suppliers companies in these sectors.
New sectors: financial services, energy and and partners.
We are striving to position acquisitions, in Australia and the US, utilities, telecoms, industry, distribution the newly enlarged LogicaCMG group at mean that more than 65% of the and transport, and the public sector, we the heart of our clients businesses and to business is now outside the UK, have created a balanced business portfolio.
continue to successfully deliver solutions providing the capability to support global across all our market sectors.
The coming together of our two organisations has both improved our The merger expanded our automotive position in many of these key markets and client base, bringing together Logica opened up cross-selling opportunities both customers, such as Ford, Renault and within and across sectors.
Volkswagen, with major CMG clients such as PSA Peugeot Citron.
In November 2002, we were awarded a 31.5 million, five-year contract with Lotus to provide ongoing consultancy, IT support and procurement for their operations in the UK, Malaysia and the US.
10 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 We are focused on the automotive and transport sectors and have strong relationships with many major international companies, such as Ford and Volkswagen.
Through the merger and some significant acquisitions that we made during the year we have expanded and strengthened our customer base.
John Lieblang, Ford global account director, LogicaCMG In transport, we have a track record of LogicaCMGs expanded SAP Enterprise Looking ahead, we envisage new delivering complex, safety-critical Solutions business enables us to support opportunities in employee relationship systems for air, rail and travel customers pan-European and global SAP roll-outs management where customers are looking such as Deutsche Bahn, Schiphol Airport, through an enlarged network of 1,800 for more effective means of managing Dutch Railways and Network Rail.
In addition to our extensive large, often remotely-based, workforces.
range of SAP consultancy and Our position as the only mobile-enabled We are well placed to seize opportunities implementation services, we offer full systems integrator gives us a unique in the rapidly growing market for SAP outsourcing, taking over capability to tackle these issues.
Our strength in responsibility for applications on behalf such areas as human resources and our of our clients.
This offering has been strong UK outsourcing base puts us in a enhanced by our September 2002 good position to extend into mainland acquisition of eGlobal Pacific, a leading Europe.
Integral to LogicaCMGs strategy Australian SAP consultancy.
is our focus on the business process outsourcing market, which is the fastest We also acquired the Great Lakes growing part of the outsourcing arena.
Technologies Group, a Michigan-based We are already winning significant automotive IT solutions company, in contracts in this area, such as a November 2002.
This acquisition 16 million contract with Countrywide enhances our global position with major Property Lawyers in 2002 to manage its automotive companies such as Ford.
brought with it DaimlerChrysler as a new key account.
We also won a contract with General Motors to pilot a global customer relationship management solution in the UK and Germany.
com Business overview 11 We have a strong heritage of delivering and supporting missioncritical systems for our banking and insurance clients.
We have expertise in such areas as payments solutions, regulatory reporting, channels and effective operations, as well as a broad geographical spread.
Our critical mass in some of the worlds key financial centres makes us the partner of choice for many financial institutions.
Jane Tweddle, managing director, financial services, LogicaCMG Financial services We built on our strong track record of In another EFT win, in January 2003, we LogicaCMG has a track record of improving operational effectiveness by were selected by Luottokunta, the leading delivering mission-critical systems to many integrating new technology with, for payment card service company in Finland, of the worlds leading financial instance, a contract for ING in the Czech to provide the worlds first national organisations, including ABN AMRO, ING Republic to provide a new payments pre and implementation of a new end-to-end and Barclays Group.
More than 150 post processing solution.
The project built card processing solution.
The solution international banks use LogicaCMG on our strong relationship with ING, whose enables multi-application smart cards systems to move their funds and, every European data centres we are currently to be issued.
day, $3 trillion is transmitted with the consolidating and for whom we already support of our software solutions.
provide a back office managed service.
LogicaCMG has introduced Real Time Gross Settlement RTGS Systems around In 2002, the difficult commercial During the year, we demonstrated our the world.
In December 2002, an environment meant that financial strength in the electronic funds transfer agreement to implement the RTGS and institutions concentrated on cost EFT sector with significant wins.
The Scripless Securities Settlement SSS reduction, rather than on investing in new Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency SAMA Systems for the Central Bank of Sri projects.
In response, we focused on areas selected us to supply, implement and Lanka, followed a RTGS system of particular customer demand, such as support a new EFT payments network in agreement with Bangko Sentral ng payments, risk and regulatory reporting, the kingdom, in partnership with Oasis Pilipinas earlier that year.
operational effectiveness, channels to Technology.
LogicaCMG is also providing market, and managed services.
SAMA with consultancy services, electronic bill presentment and payment EBPP, e-Commerce, m-Commerce and a smart card strategy.
12 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Our expertise in risk and regulatory reporting helps us assist businesses to cope with increasing levels of regulation.
In 2002, we continued to invest in product development and complementary consultancy services to help institutions meet the requirements of the Basel II Accord.
We grew our risk business with a contract to implement BESS payments and HotScan compliance solutions to First In 2002, we built on our agreement with the In 2002, our technical capabilities received Tennessee Bank of Memphis, Tennessee.
Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial external recognition.
We won an award The solutions will increase FTBs payments Telecommunications SWIFT with an from Financial Sector Technology magazine performance and security and is a key agreement to re-market the SWIFTAlliance for our work implementing the Royal & element of the banks USA Patriot Act range of messaging products.
The result is a SunAlliance More Th n portal.
broader portfolio of product offerings, Towry Law, whose supply chain we reenabling our financial services customers engineered to ensure effective and to take advantage of new interactive efficient independent services, we also and browser-based services over the received the Money Marketing award for new internet protocol IP based best use of new media.
com Business overview 13 LogicaCMG is a thought leader in the creation and operation of competitive energy markets.
While some, such as the UK, are now mature, our deep understanding of the complex issues involved at each stage makes us a strong outsourcing partner for market operators and participants alike.
Our industry knowledge also enables us to develop and deliver costeffective globally repeatable solutions to our clients.
Alexandra Lemerova, LogicaCMGs divisional director for energy and utilities in the Czech Republic Energy and utilities In 2002, we continued to help our We have a strong track record of delivering customers meet the regulatory and innovative services for energy and utilities commercial requirements of liberalisation customers in Europe, North America, Asia, in the energy and utilities sector.
However, Australasia and the Middle East.
In revenues declined in a difficult market.
addition to our strength in systems Consolidation further reduced the integration, our offerings include number of global energy companies consultancy, business process outsourcing, requiring large, mission-critical projects, managed services and SAP consultancy, while the Californian energy crisis and the delivery and support.
collapse of Enron effectively halted further deregulation in the US.
Despite LogicaCMG provides a broad approach to such issues, demand for outsourcing the business challenges of energy and services grew as companies focused on utility companies, based on in-depth their core activities in the more knowledge and experience of the industry competitive environment.
itself, in addition to our ability to draw on expertise from other sectors.
This includes Outsourcing is particularly well developed in capabilities in e-Commerce, customer the liberalised UK marketplace.
During relationship management and enterprise 2002, we were awarded a 20 million, 10- solutions software that have already year contract to implement and operate a proved successful in industries such as solution based on mySAP Business Suite for telecoms, banking and retail.
British Waterways, which runs much of the UKs inland waterway network.
We also won a major outsourcing contract for Northern Electric and, in February 2003, another for infrastructure management group AWG.
14 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 In Australia, we were selected by South In Europe, despite the slow progress towards LogicaCMG has a broad energy and East Water, one of the countrys largest implementing European Union directives on utilities customer base that includes water companies, to develop a fully liberalisation, we continued to exploit our some of the largest oil, gas, electricity integrated customer contact and workflow strong thought leadership in the sector.
In and water companies in the world.
This initiative will November 2002, we were awarded a Although the market remains difficult, considerably improve customer contract to provide our Prodis solution for our breadth of offerings and our record communications by bringing together gas shipping logistics to Dansk Olie og of delivering mission-critical solutions disparate systems and by utilising Naturgas, as part of the gas liberalisation put us in pole position to benefit from a e-Business channels such as the internet.
The solution supports future market recovery.
the key business processes required by We continue to offer cost-effective, European gas shippers and minimises their repeatable solutions to our clients.
In the exposure to penalties for failing to match US, our Work Management Information supply with demand.
System went live with the City Public Service of San Antonio.
In February 2003, We also helped Electricidad do Portugal we unveiled our integrated Asset and EDP launch a new competitive supply Resource Management product suite, business for the liberalising Portuguese which helps utilities to improve customer electricity market.
We defined the service and reduce operating costs processes and systems needed by this new through increased systems reliability and business and implemented a customer extended asset life span.
relationship management system for it.
com Business overview 15 Telecoms We remain the world leader in SMS short However, despite this difficult climate, we LogicaCMG has a broad portfolio of message service messaging solutions and were successful in winning the contract to telecoms services, solutions and products have real strength in MMS multimedia provide a total messaging solution to with a customer base spanning mobile messaging service, which allows such Hutchison 3G Ltd, holder of the UKs operators, such as Vodafone and Cingular, services as photo messaging.
Our uOne largest 3G mobile phone licence.
The and wireline companies, like BT and KPN.
unified messaging platform integrates solution includes our unified voice, fax and email across multiple communications solutions, the multimedia Our wireless business has the scale to networks and devices.
messaging service centre, wireless service compete with the largest infrastructure broker and the short message service and handset vendors.
Its offerings range In 2002, trading conditions remained centre.
LogicaCMG will also enable from messaging and wireless portals to tough and our revenues declined as Hutchison 3G to deliver rich media unified communications, mobile payments, operators continued to reduce spending.
content, including the transmission of operational support services and Inevitably, this delayed investment in third video and audio clips to handsets.
Our expertise in managing generation 3G services and the the delivery of content, billing for service infrastructure to support them.
Operator In Singapore, we supported the launch of usage and the handling of customer and focus shifted instead to retaining users and SingTel Mobiles MMS service.
We were third party relationships is a clear launching value-added services.
We also awarded a contract by Telecom Italia differentiator against providers of pure continued to help customers exploit SpA, a leading fixed line and wireless product propositions.
market trends and patterns in order to operator, to supply wireless messaging develop new products and packages to solutions across the Telecom Italia Group maximise the value of their customers.
in South America and Europe.
16 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 We offer full service provision to our clients with solutions across the entire range of telecoms services, from messaging to billing and customer relations.
We are also supporting the roll-out of third generation services.
Our scale and the strength of our offerings enable us to add real value to customers operations and to compete effectively with the very best companies in the sector.
Stphane Dubois, LogicaCMGs managing director, telecoms, France In 2002, we delivered our prepaid solution The sector outlook remains difficult with to Cosmote, the leading mobile operator continued capital spending restraints and in Greece.
This will enable Cosmote to increasing competition from offshore migrate seamlessly from 2.5G to 3G service providers.
It also provides prepaid growing opportunities in some parts of services that will support the operators the world, such as Asia, Eastern Europe two million subscribers and has the and the Middle East.
Our new scale and capability to extend capacity to extra users.
breadth, together with our own offshore capabilities, position us well to weather Customers are increasingly seeking to current market difficulties and continue consolidate multiple systems, such as as a sector leader.
We are well placed to meet this demand and were selected by Vodafone Sweden to provide a customer care and billing solution to support its next generation mobile services.
com Business overview 17 In the public sector we have a reputation for delivering mission-critical systems, both for government customers and space and defence programmes.
In an arena where projects are under constant scrutiny, our proven account management skills mean customers trust us to deliver complex systems and services on time and within their budget.
Kevin Gorman, managing director, UK government division, LogicaCMG Public sector Our range of skills positions us well to take Our track record in government includes LogicaCMGs public sector business focuses advantage of the growing trend towards us having supported every Dutch on the central government, local authority business process and IT outsourcing.
In Government department and having and space and defence markets.
In 2002, 2002, we successfully piloted our case worked across the whole UK public sector, our reputation for delivering mission-critical management system for the Crown with customers such as the Department of systems and our expertise in systems Prosecution Service CPS in Guildford, Trade and Industry and the Health & Safety development, applications management Stafford and Leeds.
This is part of our Executive.
In 2002, substantial new and business and technical consulting again 10-year, 200 million contract to manage opportunities began to emerge in the enabled us to win major contracts.
National Health Service, in the criminal justice community and in local authorities.
We continued to see growth in the sector as Our strength in the UK and Benelux For example, we won a contract to provide clients focused on improving performance markets provides a platform to deliver a business change solution based on in response to sustained pressure for repeatable solutions in other countries.
mySAP Business Suite for the London publicly-funded organisations to be more This was demonstrated in 2002 when we Borough of Waltham Forest.
headed the consortium which won an AUS$25 million contract to develop an Space and defence Government e-Marketplace for the Department In space and defence, our new scale and LogicaCMG has a particularly strong of Public Works and Services in the breadth and our ability to deliver bespoke presence in the UK and Benelux Australian state of New South Wales.
software for mission-critical applications markets where we support the drive for meets our customers desire for long-term, e-Government.
In the government arena, dependable suppliers who are capable of there was strong demand for such delivering complex projects.
solutions as information management and delivery, case management and workflow applications, and e-Service delivery.
18 Business overview LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 LogicaCMGs client base includes many of Strong partnerships are an essential step to The public sector has remained partially the leading organisations in the sector, securing major space and defence insulated from the economic slowdown that including the UK Ministry of Defence programmes.
In 2002, we teamed up with has made trading difficult in other markets.
MoD, Astrium, the European Space General Dynamics UK, QinetiQ and Clients and programmes are under constant Agency and the UK Hydrographic Office.
Nickleby to win a contract to conduct a scrutiny and, despite increasing competition, The merger has created considerable concept study for the Joint Effects Tactical our 30 years of sector experience, our opportunities for cross-selling in areas Targeting System JETTS for the MoD.
reputation and our new scale make us a such as managed services, training and The system will enable effective formidable force for the future.
Additionally, the broader coordination of naval, air and army assets capability of the merged organisation throughout the land battlespace.
The team reinforces our position as the number one builds on the successful partnership supplier of consultancy services through between Logica and General Dynamics to the MoDs Defence Communication deliver a fire control Battlefield Information Services Agency Catalogue.
System Application for the British Armys BOWMAN communications infrastructure.
The MoD also confirmed the Paradigm team, which includes LogicaCMG, as preferred bidder for the Skynet 5 programme.
This will deliver a highly advanced satellite communications system for the British armed forces.
