Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Share Capital Report and Financial Statements for the year Details of the share capital and allotments during ended 31 December 2002. the year, which arose solely from the exercise of options, are set out in Note 21 on page 54.
Details of outstanding options under Employee Share Principal Activities and Business Review Schemes are set out in Note 21 on page 55.
As The principal activities of the Group are the outlined in the Financial Review on page 14, the manufacture and supply of specialist landscape, 10% Cumulative Preference Shares were cancelled clay and natural stone products.
Further details of and repaid during the year.
the principal activities of the Group are set out in Note 33 on page 62.
Acquisitions The Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to 7 and the On 6 December 2002, the Group acquired the Operating Reviews on pages 8 to 13 contain a entire issued share capital of Lloyds Quarries & review of these activities.
Sand & Gravel Co. Limited, a company engaged in the extraction and sale of sand and gravel.
Details of the Groups policy in relation to employees and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed on page 19.
Disposals On 29 November 2002, the Group sold the Details of the Groups policies in relation to trade, fixed assets and stock of its Flooring Corporate Governance are disclosed on pages 26 business for a cash consideration of 13.1 million.
In addition, the Group has received the surplus funds that have arisen from the collection of debtors and payment of creditors.
Group Results The consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2002 is shown on page Payment to Suppliers 36.
An analysis of the operating profit by activity is shown in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code and operates and abides by a clearly defined payment policy which has been agreed with all major Dividends suppliers.
The Groups creditor payment period at 31 December 2002 was 46 days 2001 : 49 days.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.70p per share 2001: 6.35p which, together with the interim dividend of 3.30p 2001: 3.15p per Fixed Assets share, makes a total for the year ended 31 December 2002 of 10.00p 2001: 9.50p per share.
In the opinion of the Directors, the market value of Payment of the final dividend, if approved at the the Groups properties is not materially different Annual General Meeting, will be made on 7 July from the value included in the Group Financial 2003 to shareholders registered at the close of Statements.
24 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 Development Expenditure Statement of Directors Responsibilities Development of new products is a continuous Company law requires the Directors to prepare process and expenditure is written off as incurred.
Financial Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or Directors loss for that period.
In preparing those Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: The names of the Directors as at the date of this report together with biographical details are set.
select suitable accounting policies and then out on page 17.
They comprised the Board for the apply them consistently: whole of the year under review except that.
make judgements and estimates that are Mr R. B. Illingworth resigned as a Director on 18 reasonable and prudent:.
February 2002 and ceased to be an employee on state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any 18 March 2002.
Mr M. A. Stacey resigned as a material departures disclosed and explained in Director on 7 January 2003. the Financial Statements: and.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going In accordance with the Articles of Association, Mr concern basis unless it is inappropriate to J. D. Marshall and Mr J. W. Footman retire by presume that the Group will continue in business.
rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr J. W. Footman is not seeking The Directors are responsible for keeping proper re-election, however, Mr J. D. Marshall, being accounting records which disclose with eligible, offers himself for re-election.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to Mr J. D. Marshall has a service contract which ensure that the Financial Statements comply with provides for twelve months notice of termination the Companies Act 1985.
They have general by the Company.
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and the share capital of the Company and of their other irregularities.
share options are set out on pages 29 to 34 of the Remuneration Report.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Substantial Shareholdings Meeting to be held at Birkby Grange at 12 noon As at 7 March 2003, the Company had been on Wednesday 28 May 2003 together with notified of the following substantial interests of explanatory notes on the resolutions to be 3 per cent or more in its ordinary issued share proposed is contained in a circular to be sent to capital: shareholders with this Report.
3.64 Auditors Sun Life of Canada 3.08 In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Threadneedle Asset Management Limited 3.00 Act 1985 a resolution re-appointing KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Richard Monro Company Secretary 7 March 2003 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 25
