McCarthy & Stone plc Around The Country Top from left: Keith Johnson, Steve Phillips, Trevor Thompson, Paul Trofimov, Andrew Oliver.
Bottom from left: Chris Tyrer, Steve Wiseman, Derek Field, Mike French.
South West South East North London The South West enjoyed another successful year The South East Region produced very good By the end of our second year of operation we in a market that was buoyant overall but showed financial results achieving record profits with have built up a strong foundation.
It was a quite wide variations, with demand that was average selling prices increasing by 13% to successful year with targets of five land generally stronger towards the London area than 140,000.
The housing market has been buoyant acquisitions and seven planning consents being the West.
Profitability was excellent with good since the New Year and in the six months to June achieved.
A full construction programme is now margins.
Towards the end of the year the release 2002 over 300 reservations were taken, assisted by in place for the next 18 months.
of five new developments contributed to the the release of six new sites.
In the final quarter of last year, the Regions steady rise in average selling prices.
Despite the difficulties associated with acquiring first development opened and its first unit sales The Region is well positioned for further growth land and obtaining planning in the South East, achieved.
The recruitment of quality key staff is with some excellent land acquired in the year.
the Region was able to achieve its objectives of essential to keep pace with the expansion of the Achieving the necessary planning remains one of ten land exchanges and eight planning consents.
operation as its focus shifts towards construction the biggest challenges, with Affordable Housing This has maintained an active construction and sales.
programme to replenish stock levels and we will We will be moving into our new offices in have ten sites under construction at the end of Despite the shortages of skilled labour and Potters Bar next year and look forward to this calendar year.
pressure on materials prices, we were able to building up our contribution to Group profits contain build costs and meet deadlines for the Both build costs and overheads continue to be as the year progresses.
Resident referrals tightly controlled to optimise profits and the Andrew Oliver, Regional Managing Director, are an important part of our marketing demand for our product remains strong.
North London Region strategy and our increased commitment to I am anticipating another successful year.
improving Customer Service at all levels should Mike French, Regional Managing Director, help to increase this vital component of our South East Region selling process.
Some attractive new developments and a realistic construction programme should ensure we are in a strong position to achieve a good result for the coming year provided the market remains sound.
Derek Field, Regional Managing Director, South West Region Page 18 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc Midlands The Region has had yet another excellent year with sales exceeding budget by 13%.
This performance, combined with a buoyant market helped to make the Midlands one of the more profitable Regions within the Group.
We achieved six planning approvals during the year, which is very commendable as two of these sites did not exchange contracts until early 2002.
Land is still proving very difficult to acquire and, during the next few months, we will be concentrating on ways to improve this situation.
We were pleased that our Construction Team was able to complete flats at Llandudno and Bingley on behalf of other Regions, which also helped the Group to achieve such successful results.
Keith Johnson, Regional Managing Director, Midlands Region Assisted Living Typical Bedroom The Division finished the year with an outstanding achievement in sales.
We sold out our first Scotland North East development at Bicester and launched the highly The Scottish Region enjoyed another successful The North East Region made a valuable successful development in Llandudno, North Wales.
We over achieved our sales budget and contribution to Group profits.
We exceeded Construction commenced on the Groups third matched both land exchange and planning budgeted revenue and profit with good selling Assisted Living scheme at Bingley during May.
targets which, together with 55 forward sales, price increases.
Our emphasis on land Planning was achieved on a fourth site at East puts us in an excellent position for the next acquisition enabled us to exceed our land targets, Grinstead and the Division remains confident of financial year.
which will underpin the continued growth of the securing a consent at Bedford, where the Region.
Despite a frustrating planning system we Market penetration continues to increase with our application was refused despite having obtained gained planning consents on four sites.
geographic area of operations expanding.
These sites will commence construction in this The Regions first venture into Inverness is now The Division secured five sites during the year and financial year giving valuable finished stock and under construction with sales forecast for the 3rd has recently further strengthened its land team for work in progress.
This site, together with our second future growth, which is focused primarily in the The Region has a good forward sales position Aberdeen project due to commence in February South East.
and expects to make a significant contribution 2003, gives us an excellent opportunity in a Paul Trofimov, Managing Director, this year.
Our aims are: further controlled growth area.
Assisted Living Division growth through land acquisition, managing our Our success in land purchase and planning during costs and maximising our sales revenue.
the year will allow us to continue to grow the Trevor Thompson, Regional Managing business north of the border and, with seven new Director, North East Region sales outlets available next year, we may surpass the 200 unit sales mark.
Steve Wiseman, Regional Managing North West Director, Scottish Region The Region has built on earlier successes and, once again, improved both average selling prices and overall turnover with the result that margin Western and profit have increased further year-on-year.
A very good year for the Region saw profit Current activity extends from Shropshire in the increase by 40%.
The average selling price rose to south to Cumbria in the north with other areas almost 100,000 whilst build costs and overheads including Derbyshire, Cheshire and West were tightly controlled.
Our Land team has again been Closing stock, work in progress and planning successful in acquiring sites in accordance with permissions achieved were all up year-on-year and our strategic objectives and we are looking although the number of land purchases remained forward to a number of developments in the same as last year, more homes were built.
Much of this is attributable to good teamwork Emphasis is placed upon planned growth of the which puts us in an excellent position to Region, which will necessitate further land continue the carefully managed growth of the purchases and the ability to respond to an ever Region.
We hope to double the number of sales more complex and demanding planning regime.
outlets during the forthcoming year.
Chris Tyrer, Regional Managing Director, Steve Phillips, Regional Managing Director, North West Region Western Region McCarthy & Stone plc Page 19
