McCarthy & Stone plc Award Winning Retirement Flats The best move we ever made.
It's like living in a first class hotel.
We spent 35 years in our old house and I can honestly say I havent given it a thought since we came here.
Peter and Jackie Smith, Padfield Court, Wembley.
The Industry Leader Providing What The Easy Life It seems a long time ago now that Residents Our aim is to provide a comfortable and easy Customers Need moved into the Companys first ever purpose built lifestyle that is enjoyable for all.
With external One of the keys to our continued success is the retirement development, Waverley House, in New maintenance and gardening chores taken care of, focus we place on delivering a product that closely Milton, Hampshire in early 1978.
Waverley House owners often find they dont need to rely so much matches the needs of our customers.
Design is was a ground breaking project, being the very on friends and relatives to help keep up their continuously evolving, guided by an ongoing first scheme of private, purpose built retirement home.
In addition, McCarthy & Stone programme of customer research and feedback, flats available for sale in the UK.
It laid the developments are always located with essential concentrating on those tried and tested features foundations for a brand new sector of the shops and services in mind.
So, for residents that that benefit the older homebuyer.
Simple touches housing industry, a sector in which McCarthy & dont drive, or for those that plan to give up such as plug points at waist level to eliminate Stone continues to lead the way.
driving in the future, the independence gained by stooping, lever taps to aid use by arthritis sufferers having everything close at hand can be enjoyed, Much has changed since those modest beginnings and the provision of laundry facilities, with day in, day out further reducing the need to rely in 1978, but the one thing that remains constant is washers and driers on raised plinths for easy on others.
the continued demand for well-located, quality loading and unloading, are all good examples built retirement flats.
That fact was clearly of our customer focused philosophy.
underlined this year as the Company celebrated Safety & Security the sale of its 25,000th flat.
Fear of crime can become a burden to many older Award Winning homeowners, particularly those living alone.
That is why security remains one of the primary factors Developments in the design of each McCarthy & Stone scheme.
2002 also saw the Company Features such as a camera entry system, allowing winning a fourth successive Gold owners to monitor visitors by simply switching to Trophy in the annual Daily a pre-selected channel on their own TV set, Express British Housebuilder provide extra peace of mind.
This accolade is made all door and ground floor window is alarmed and a the more gratifying by virtue of smoke detector guards each individual flat.
the fact the awards are judged by asking purAdding to this sense of security is the assurance chasers their personal opinions on provided by the House Manager - whose job it is topics raging from the quality of their chosen to keep a neighbourly eye on things and manage home to the helpfulness of the staff they the affairs of the development - in addition to the encountered throughout the purchasing process.
Carline service, providing access to assistance 24 Continued success in this competition not only hours a day, 365 days a year.
Whats more, loved highlights the care we take in building our flats, ones can be confident they will be contacted but also underlines our commitment to purchasers should ever the need arise.
Page 2 McCarthy & Stone plc Churchill Court, Marlborough
