McCarthy & Stone plc PLC Board J S McCarthy MBE, FCIOB, Non Executive Chairman John McCarthy, 62, started work in the building industry in 1955 and co-founded the Company in 1963.
He was awarded an MBE in 1984 for services to the elderly.
He has represented the Industry on a number of key working parties and study groups.
In February 1997 he took on the responsibility of investigating retirement housing concepts in other developed economies.
He is a member of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
K Lovelock FRICS, FCIOB, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Keith Lovelock, 62, joined the Group in 1986 having worked previously with Rush & Tomkins, Wimpey and Federated Housing.
He has obtained considerable overseas experience.
He was appointed a Main Board Director in 1989 and became Chief Executive in 1993.
On 1 January 2001 he also became Deputy Chairman.
M W J Thorne MA, FCA, Group Finance Director Matthew Thorne, 50, joined the Board in 1993.
He qualified with Price Waterhouse and worked in corporate finance with County NatWest Limited.
He was formerly Investment Director of Beazer plc and Finance Director of Ricardo Group plc.
M J Jennings BSc Building, MCIOB, Operations Director, South Mike Jennings, 55, joined the Group as a Director on 1 December 1997.
He worked previously for Tarmac, McLean Homes in the UK and the US and, prior to joining McCarthy & Stone, for Redrow Homes.
In addition to plc responsibilities he is responsible for the South East, South West, Western and North London Regions as well as Assisted Living.
Page 20 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc H P S Phillips BSc, MBA, FRICS, Operations Director, North Howard Phillips, 42, joined the Board on 1 October 2000.
He has 14 years experience of the retirement sector with McCarthy & Stone, ten of which as a Regional Managing Director.
In addition to plc responsibilities he is responsible for the Scottish, North West, North East and Midlands Regions.
G N Day, MRTPI, Land and Planning Director Gary Day, 44, joined the Board on 1st October 2002.
He has over 27 years experience in planning and development matters, including 14 years experience in the retirement housing sector with McCarthy & Stone, heading up the Group's Planning Bureau.
He is responsible for Group Land, including Legal Conveyancing, Planning, Political Public Relations and he is Chairman of the Group's Environmental Committee.
S E K Purser, FCA, Senior Independent Non-Executive Simon Purser, 55, has a background in corporate financial advice.
He was a Director of County NatWest Limited, 1984-1989 and Chief Executive of Buckland Corporate Finance Limited, 1990-1996.
He is now a financial consultant and a Non-Executive Director of Holmes Place plc.
He joined the Board in 1990 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Right Honourable Sir George Young, Bt MP, Independent Non-Executive Sir George Young, 61, is MP for North West Hampshire.
From 1990-1994 he was Minister of State at the Department of the Environment with particular responsibility for housing and planning.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Company Secretary Trevor Green, 55, qualified as a solicitor in private practice with Eversheds in Birmingham.
He joined the Tarmac Group in 1975, being appointed Head of the Legal Service to the Tarmac Housing division in 1979.
He joined the Company in 1988 as Head of Legal Services and was appointed Company Secretary the following year.
