AEROSPACE EQUIPMENT A group of leading electro-mechanical engineering businesses specialising in smart engineering for extreme environments.
Their products are on virtually every aircraft in service, ensuring stable aftermarket revenues over the long term.
GULFSTREAM G650 The recently launched long range Gulfstream G650 jet, which will become the fastest civil aircraft, will carry Meggitt wheels, brakes and integrated brakeby-wire, uid control and sensing and ignition systems.
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT MILLIONS MILLIONS GROUP REVENUE 230.6 763.7 MARKETS CAPABILITIES 65.7 Civil aerospace: large, regional and Wheels, brakes and brake business jets and general aviation control systems Military: xed wing and rotary aircraft, Thermal management ground vehicles, ships, unmanned Fluid control air vehicles Safety systems Energy Polymer solutions AEROSPACE EQUIPMENT CONTINUED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GROWTH STRATEGY Invest in component design and Acquire complementary businesses technology to meet next generation that align with strategic intent platform requirements and create 30.
2% Stabilise product cost base through enduring value RETURN ON SALES astute supply chain management Adapt ne w aftermarket business Consolidate oper ations further to models to ensure stable, long-term deliver ef ciencies revenues Further integrate engineering Develop pro table integrated resources to increase depth and solutions and sub-systems that breadth of capabilities 32.
6% add value to our customers ORDER INTAKE UP KEY POINTS Divisional overview fuel tanks to the KC-135 aircraft.
It was integrated into Meggitt Thermal Systems Meggitt Aerospace Equipment represents Total revenues up 45% to as part of an initiative to realign assets and over 65% of total revenues at 763.7 million 763.7 million 14% organic resources around primary environmental and generates 63% of its revenues from control and ice protection sub-system the aftermarket and 37% from original Underlying operating pro t strategies.
Both target the business jet equipment.
of 230.6 million, up 46% and general aviation and helicopter Meggitts Aerospace Equipment markets, with attractive opportunities 10% organic businesses had a good year in 2008 with in ice protection being pursued in some Returns on sales, 30.2% strong revenue and underlying operating commercial aviation segments.
Meggitt 2007: 30.0% pro t growth, underpinned by healthy Thermal Systems new electro-thermal order intake.
ice protection system, in line with Order intake up 32.6% on 2007 developments in More Electric aircraft, Meggitt Fluid Controls secured contracts addresses commercial and regulatory including the gearbox and brake system pressure to cut aircraft fuel burn and for the Future Combat Systems MULE emissions, using 50% less energy than Multifunction Utility and Logistics traditional bleed air systems while Equipment vehicle and fans for the optimising performance.
Meggitt Polymer Solutions received Winning the pneumatic bleed air system numerous orders for seals from customers for Embraers Legacy 500 mid-size and as diverse as Alenia Aermacchi, Spirit 450 mid-light jets validated Meggitt Fluid AeroSystems, Hawker Beechcraft, Summa Controls investment in motor controller Technologies, Boeing, GKN and Cessna technology.
This enables a range of and continued to develop its composite Meggitt components to be packaged materials and manufacturing processes.
A into sub-systems that increase platform major customer is evaluating a pioneering content.
Its modular approach enables Meggitt polymer that weighs up to 20% equipment to be customised quickly for less than the industry standard.
Meggitt virtually any system in any of its markets Polymer Solutions site consolidation in military aircraft and ground vehicles, civil Loughborough UK was completed and, aerospace and energyproviding with the Oregon, USA facility, is bene ting opportunities worth hundreds of millions from signi cant operational excellence of dollars over a programme lifetime.
initiatives including brand-new factory EFC, our exible bladder fuel tanks layout to enable modern manufacturing and ice protection business, won techniques to be implemented.
numerous contracts including its record Meggitt Safety Systems had a record year, US$41 million follow-on contract to supply which included securing the contract for 20 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 SYSTEMS MARKETING CONTROL TECHNOLOGY FOR SUB-SYSTEMS Systems engineering deals with multiple elements and products and making them work together really drives me.
At Meggitt Fluid Controls, Ive been able to achieve something more: build a multidisciplinary engineering team capable of winning systems work based on superior control technology.
This technology consists of a set of modules that can be embedded in Meggitt products across the Group and customised, quickly, for any system.
Whether for cabin temperature and pressure control in aircraft, fuel management in industrial power plants or wheel speed and braking in military ground vehicles, its about more convenience and less risk for customers all round.
And thats why we won the valves and the bleed air system for Embraers Legacy 450 and 500 series aircraft.
We added real value, generating a relationship, not just a transaction.
Selling multiple products with this enabling technology proves that managing and marketing groups of complementary Meggitt businesses as one not only boosts sales but elevates our professional standing and delivers stimulating work for our talented people.
STEVE NEEMEH Controls and Embedded Systems Manager, Meggitt Fluid Controls the design, development, manufacture Military orders included a multi-million Our compact heat exchanger manufacturer, and support of the Airbus A350 re pound follow-on contract from which serves the oil and gas exploration detection systems.
AgustaWestland to develop and produce market, won multi-million pound orders in the differential brake control system Australia and Malaysia.
Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems components for the Future Lynx helicopter continued to win signi cant contracts on and an additional Euro ghter Typhoon new aircraft, winning virtually every major order.
A contract from BAE Systems for braking system bid it entered.
This the wheels, brakes and brake control included the wheel, brakes and brake system for the Mantis unmanned control system on the Gulfstream G650 jet.
technology demonstrator reinforced our This was Meggitts biggest business leading position in wheel and brake aviation award to date and could provide technology for unmanned air vehicles.
revenues worth hundreds of millions of dollars over the life of the programme.
Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems products were tested successfully on the first ights In addition, advanced brake control of the Cessna CJ4: Phenom 300: Aermacchi technology, which includes individual M346: Gripen demonstrator: Tranche 2 wheel, brake-by-wire and anti-skid control Euro ghter Typhoon and the F35 STOVL for maximum stopping performance, aircraft.
In October, a Bombardier test automatic braking and brake temperature aircraft ew entirely equipped with monitoring was selected for Gulfstreams Meggitts electrically actuated carbon super mid-size G250 in a year in which the brake system Ebrake, a civil aviation 50th anniversary of the Gulfstream I was first.
Electric braking can improve dispatch celebrated.
This aircraft was equipped with reliability: eliminates the risk of hydraulic Meggitt equipment and we remain the uid res: reduces aircraft operating and exclusive braking system supplier for all maintenance costs: and responds to the seven of Gulfstreams current aircraft.
fuel-ef cient, uid-free aspirations of the Dassaults Falcon 900LX derivative will More Electric aircraft.
We will continue to be equipped with Meggitts Falcon 900EX invest in developing Ebrake technology integrated braking system.
Hawker and friction materials in 2009.
Beechcraft will be supplied with compact, Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems continued long-life, lightweight main wheels and to improve its carbon materials latest brakes for the high-performance Premier formulations improve longevity by 25% II.
The integrated braking system win on the current standard and it started on the Embraer Legacy 450 500 was the developing the friction materials first programme to be executed by a technologies and know-how of its team from our newly-integrated US and combined operations in dual locations UK facilities.
Business review 21 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
