GROUP STRATEGY Meggitts goal is to continue to deliver sustainable returns to our shareholders.
We do this through smart engineering for extreme environments, focusing on selected markets where we can occupy pro table leadership positions.
These include our primary aerospace, defence and energy markets and related elds where our core technologies are a natural t. TERRY TWIGGER Chief Executive Delivering our strategy low-cost manufacturing, which enhances on recruitment and management pay and our competitiveness.
a review of all discretionary costs, current In 2008, Meggitt delivered another overhead structures, headcount and back excellent set of financial results.
We continued to invest in organisational of ce and administrative activity.
We have A performance based on a strategy that infrastructure and leadership, making our also strengthened our financial position by enables us to grow consistently in a increasingly integrated Group more renegotiating bank facilities so we require favourable economic climate and hold focused, more ef cient and more effective.
no new nancing before 2012 and have up well when times are tough.
In 2008, we saw a good ow of contract signi cant facilities and covenant headroom.
The diverse nature of our portfolio again wins in all business segments and While we are also seeing the bene ts proved its worth.
Meggitt is not dependent executed several major factory of the rising US dollar and larger than on any one market segment, customer or consolidations successfully.
Other anticipated K&F and strategic sourcing economy.
We offset variation in demand highlights included Bombardier selecting synergies, we continue to identify by spreading risk, balancing exposure to us to y a full set of electric brakes on its additional cost savings to ensure Meggitt civil markets with military and energy commercial demonstratoran industry remains competitive and that any impact business: and sales to original equipment rstand acquiring a hi-tech materials from a civil sales decline is minimised.
manufacturers with sales of aftermarket and components business to improve our products and services.
We have product on high temperature sensing capability.
For 2009, we have identi ed potential virtually every western aircraft and have a cost-savings of a further 20 million, rising With our customers, BAE Systems, Boeing growing presence in combat vehicles.
to 50 million annually by the end of 2010. and Rolls-Royce, we sponsored research We also supply our products to land-based The operating exceptional cost of achieving at Cran eld University into integrated gas and steam power plants.
Our revenues these savings is estimated at 25 million.
vehicle health management to extend our are spread across North America, Europe However, we will maintain investment in market-leading diagnostics and and Asia and our manufacturing capability  capital projects prognostics capabilities.
is global, including low-cost facilities in and R&D.
Our business will emerge from China and Mexico.
And we are no less ambitious for 2009. this recession lean and competitive with products customers want and best value We maintained investment in product The way ahead manufacturing options worldwide.
development to ensure a full pipeline.
Our continued investment was the We expect demand in our military and source of pro table repair, replacement energy markets to remain healthy.
The and upgrade activity during the year and commercial aerospace market is expected contract wins on new platforms that will to be affected by declining air travel and deliver aftermarket revenues for decades dif culties in obtaining finance for new to come.
aircraft, which should lead to a reduction in Meggitt revenues from this segment.
We sustained our commitment to operations excellence, driving cost out In response, Meggitt is reviewing its cost of our businesses with modern base, exercising its low-cost manufacturing manufacturing tools and techniques options and taking appropriate action to and investing in strategic sourcing and reduce costs.
This has included a freeze Group strategy 3 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
