STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION Focused investment SMART ENGINEERING FOR EXTREME ENVIRONMENTS We focus on smart engineering for extreme environments, investing in highly engineered components and sub-systems.
These provide important functionality in aircraft, ships, industrial gas turbines and land vehicles and enable civil, armed services and security FOCUSED INVESTMENT organisations to deploy judgement and skill in extreme situations.
Components and value-added sub-systems Our intellectual property secures strong High technology content positions on current platforms, often as sole supplier.
Many products deliver Aftermarket value long-term revenues worth hundreds of Growth by organic investment and acquisition millions of pounds as a result of lifelong repair, replacement and upgrade opportunities.
We grow organically and by acquisition.
LEVERAGE GROUP CAPABILITIES We invest internally to maintain our product leadership positions and extend Adding value with cross-business solutions our capabilities into larger packages and integrated sub-systems.
We buy Leveraging scale of operations companies to acquire technology, Strengthening central functions fast-track product development and strengthen market positions.
Sharing services and best practice In 2008, we fully consolidated two substantial aircraft braking systems businesses and became the worlds leading supplier of wheels, brakes and ACHIEVE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE brake control systems to regional, Lean manufacturing and continuous improvement business and military aircraft.
We exceeded initial synergy targets.
Strategic sourcing Our thermal systems businesses Low-cost manufacturing realigned themselves around their core environmental control and ice protection capabilities to serve general aviation, business jet and helicopter markets.
Integrating our ground-based livere and virtual training businesses enabled SATISFY OUR CUSTOMERS Meggitt Training Systems to launch an Develop strategic supplier relations innovative low-cost, portable classroom simulator and a state-of-the-art Strengthen our customer and industry partnerships wireless live target presentation system for law enforcement organisations.
Be easier to do business with New military training products included an attack helicopter target: a new engine, avionics and airframe to qualify Banshee aerial targets for the MoDs combined aerial target service: and a fast in-shore attack marine simulator.
MAINTAIN A CULTURE OF STRONG PERFORMANCE Meggitt Sensing Systems acquired Delivering against targets Ferroperm, a producer of piezo-ceramic materials that will enable us to deliver Leadership development the higher temperature sensing needed Financial rigour to help control emissions in aeroengines and industrial turbines.
4 Strategy implementation Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 Meggitt Polymer Solutions developed Achieve operational excellence the potential for systems sales in our a lightweight polymer weighing 20 per energy and aerospace markets.
We continue to optimise Meggitts cent less than the industry standard with competitiveness through lean Product breadth, programme no decline in performance.
The potential manufacturing and continuous management, logistics and supply savings of around 100 kilograms from improvement initiatives, strategic chain integration expertise enabled the half tonne of elastomer used on the sourcing at Group and business level us to become the lead sensing and average commercial aircraft could make and low-cost manufacturing.
ignition integrator on Rolls-Royces a signi cant contribution to reducing BR725 engine for the Gulfstream fuel consumption.
Our ability to include low-cost its UK base and created new factory We achieved an industry first when elements from our facility in China has layouts for its transatlantic operations to Bombardier ew a commercial made us very cost-competitive in this enable lean and continuous improvement demonstrator aircraft fully equipped market segment.
Meggitt with our pioneering compact, high Defence Systems consolidated its In 2008, Meggitt performance reaped performance electric brakes.
training facilities in a new factory customer satisfaction awards from We won numerous high value civil and in Atlanta.
Gulfstream, Embraer, AVIC1 military contracts that will deliver Commercial Aircraft Company, the Group-based strategic sourcing substantial aftermarket revenues.
Defense Supply Center Richmond continues to drive down costs and Meggitt products were on the first ights and others.
optimise the competitiveness of of the Cessna CJ4, Phenom 300, Meggitts contract bids.
We sponsored Cran eld Universitys Aermacchi M346, Gripen demonstrator, integrated vehicle health management Tranche 2 Euro ghter Typhoon and F35 We continued to develop our low-cost research centre with Boeing, BAE STOVL aircraft.
On the ground, we won facility in Mexico to complement wheel Systems and Rolls-Royce, an industry new ammunition autoloader contracts and brake operations in the United partnership that will help develop for the Abrams tank, Stryker and Future States and United Kingdom.
Our Meggitts holistic approach to Combat Systems land vehicles.
Chinese factory expanded substantially machinery diagnostics.
with a third building, adding polymers Leverage Group capabilities and ground fuelling equipment to its Maintain a culture of strong performance sensors and controls production lines.
We continue to integrate our Group.
Our Singapore maintenance facility now We maintain a culture of strong Strong central coordinating and advisory provides local support for multiple performance based on delivery against functions help our businesses work Group products.
This is conditioned by rigorous together, sharing expertise, services and financial discipline and sound ethical best practice.
In turn, we provide competitive Group strategy and marketing formed reward and incentive schemes and We deliver broad-based solutions by a cross-division group to spearhead professional development and training.
developing strategic relationships with a higher level of investment in all customers and suppliers and Our first leadership training programme, Meggitts energy-related products and participating in industry initiatives.
developed with Oxford University, technologies.
The initiative resulted facilitated group collaboration and in the opening of Meggitts first of ce Key customer relationship managers delivered speci c projects of strategic in India.
help businesses meet customers importance to Meggitt.
expectations, respond to current Our IT infrastructure continues to evolve opportunities and align R & D activity In 2008, our second management towards common solutions that enable with customers technology roadmaps.
conference reinforced the strategic shared services.
alignment of top managers and Complementary Meggitt businesses Group programme management is consolidated working relationships.
continue to combine product marketing helping to sustain complex multiand management, making procurement We aligned professional development business programmes and standardise for customers easier and adding value reviews with a new management new product introduction.
with more integrated sub-systems and model that feeds into recruitment Health, safety and environment of cers larger packages.
now have a Group champion to establish Controls five businesses that have Education and development initiatives standards and share expertise.
combined forceshad a major success, continued to gather momentum winning a high value bleed air subGroup export compliance continues throughout the Group.
system on the Embraer Legacy 450 500 its cycle of review and corrective series.
Based on modular control action planning.
technology, it can be customised quickly Group ethics launched a revitalised for almost any application.
sales representative policy and protocol.
This minimises risk and maximises convenience for airframers and unlocks Strategy implementation 5 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
