REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their annual report and the audited financial ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Group financial On 3 January 2008, Meggitt completed the disposal of S-TEC Inc. statements have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed S-TEC to Cobham plc for a net consideration of 17.2 million.
S-TEC International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations designs, certifies and manufactures general aviation autopilots, supplying and the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 applicable to companies reporting original equipment manufacturers and the aftermarket.
The Company financial statements have been prepared in was no longer considered core to Meggitts current operations.
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
On 7 January 2008 Meggitt acquired 100% of the share capital of PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW Ferroperm Piezoceramics A S Ferroperm for up to 9.8 million.
Ferroperm is located in Kvistgaard, Denmark and is a world leader in Meggitt PLC is a public limited company, listed on the London Stock the manufacture of advanced piezo-ceramic materials for a range of Exchange, incorporated in England and Wales with registered number specialist sensor applications, such as vibration, dynamic pressure, 432989 and its registered office at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, underwater acoustics and medical ultrasound.
Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6EW.
Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal activities SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL during the year were the design and manufacture of high technology The authorised share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2008 products and systems for the aerospace, defence and other specialist together with details of shares issued during the financial year is shown markets including energy, medical, industrial, test and automotive.
The information contained in the following sections of the 2008 Report and As at 31 December 2008 there were 665,597,284 ordinary shares in issue.
Accounts is incorporated into this directors report by reference, to the extent A further 6,126 ordinary shares have been issued between 31 December that it meets the requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006: i 2008 and 27 February 2009 as a result of the exercise of a share option.
Business Review and Market Review pages 6 to 29 outlining the Groups The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
activities and future plans in more detail and its key risks and uncertainties: and ii the Corporate Responsibility Report pages 30 to 33, which includes The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are information about environmental matters, the Groups employees and social set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy of the Articles of and community issues, including information about the policies the Group Association is available for inspection at the registered office.
The holders has adopted in these areas.
of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of the Company: GROUP RESULTS to appoint proxies and to exercise full voting rights.
Profit before taxation amounted to 119.3 million 2007: 105.4 million.
There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on the holding of The profit attributable to ordinary shareholders amounted to 99.1 million ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
2007: 89.3 million which after dividends of 55.8 million 2007: 42.2 There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held million resulted in a retained profit for the financial year of 43.3 million by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements 2007: 47.1 million.
on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari DIVIDENDS passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.75p net per ordinary 5p share 2007: 5.75p to be paid on 8 May 2009 to those members on the register at close of business on 13 March 2009.
An interim dividend of 2.70p 2007: 2.45p was paid on 3 October 2008.
If the final dividend as recommended is approved the total ordinary dividend for the year will amount to 8.45p net per share 2007: 8.20p.
Dividends are paid to shareholders net of a non-refundable tax credit of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rate income tax will have additional tax to pay.
Shareholders will be offered a scrip dividend alternative under the share dividend plan in respect of the proposed final dividend.
During 2008 the Company made available the Meggitt PLC share dividend plan in respect of the dividends paid in July 2008 being the final dividend for 2007 and in October 2008 being the interim dividend for 2008.
The amount of cash dividend necessary to give an entitlement to one new ordinary share was fixed at 263.45p and 223.90p respectively.
Financial statements 37 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Continued SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL CONTINUED SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Company has disclosed significant direct or indirect holdings and this As at 27 February 2009 the Company had been notified under the information is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority Companys website.
FSA of the following substantial interests in the issued ordinary shares of the Company requiring disclosure: Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors of the Percentage of Company are contained in the Articles of Association and changes total voting rights attaching to the to the Articles of Association must be submitted to the shareholders issued ordinary for approval.
The powers of directors are as set out in the Memorandum Direct voting Indirect voting share capital of rights rights the Company and Articles of Association of the Company and are governed by applicable legislation in force from time to time.
At each Annual General Meeting Prudential plc 61,579,428 - 9.25 of the Company, the shareholders are requested to renew the directors Bailie Gifford & Co - 34,138,890 5.13 powers to allot securities in the Company up to a specified value and also Legal & General Group plc 25,966,967 - 3.90 to renew the directors powers to allot securities without the application Standard Life Investments Ltd 22,153,694 3,769,560 3.89 of pre-emption rights up to a specified value in accordance with Article 4 of the Articles of Association.
The Company may, as and when required, One voting right per ordinary share.
seek authority from the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to purchase its own shares.
SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN The Group has the following significant facility agreements that include The Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan has been allocated 0.7 million change of control provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership from 2008 profits to acquire ordinary shares in Meggitt PLC for eligible of the Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these employees 2007: 0.8 million.
facilities: a USD 680m revolving credit agreement dated July 2004, a USD 1,420m revolving credit agreement dated March 2007 and a USD 500m DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS revolving credit agreement dated July 2008.
There are a number of other long-term commercial agreements that may alter or terminate upon a The directors who served during the year were: Sir Colin Terry, change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
None is Mr T Twigger, Sir Alan Cox, Mr P E Green, Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins, considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the Mr D M Williams and Mr S G Young.
business of the Group as a whole.
In accordance with Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association, The service contracts for the executive directors state that if at any time Mr P E Green, Mr P J Hill and Mr S G Young retire by rotation at the during their employment there is a change of control in the Company, forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible offer themselves the executive director may elect to terminate their employment within for re-election.
Sir Alan Cox retires at the forthcoming Annual General 6 months of that change of control and will be entitled to receive Meeting in compliance with A.
7.2 of the Combined Code 2006, by reason compensation for loss of office from the Company.
The compensation of his having served as a director for more than 9 years, and being eligible, would be the annual remuneration plus the value of benefits for the offers himself for re-election.
Details of directors contracts and their interests in the ordinary shares The Company does not have any agreements with the non executive of the Company are as shown in the Remuneration Report on page 44. directors or any other employees that would provide compensation None of the directors has or has had at any time during the financial year for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that a beneficial interest in any material contract relating to the business of provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options the Group other than service contracts.
and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest The directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity on a takeover.
provisions for the purposes of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 Following the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association by pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy of the Articles of a special resolution passed at the Companys 2008 AGM, the Company Association is available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
adopted a new procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and management of directors conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY interest in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 with The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental effect from 1 October 2008.
The new procedure was summarised in the and ethical matters and a report giving a full update on activities and explanatory notes to the Notice of the Companys 2008 AGM, is included achievements during 2008 can be found on pages 30 to 33.
The following in the Companys Articles of Association and has been adhered to by the specific matters fall under the broad definition of corporate responsibility: Board since 1 October 2008.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict the directors must have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation, may be reviewed at any time and will be reviewed formally by the Board on an annual basis.
38 Financial statements Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Continued People Ethics and business conduct The Company is aware of the importance of two-way communication with The Group has an Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and a Code of employees.
Its business units communicate and consult at site level using Conduct, which were revised in September 2007.
All employees have the best methods as determined by local needs and industry practice.
received a copy of the Code of Conduct and follow up training, which is In addition employees receive copies of the Meggitt Review, a magazine refreshed on a regular basis.
Ethics and business conduct is reviewed providing details of notable events and achievements in all companies of regularly by a committee of the Board.
Senior Group executives meet together regularly and additionally meet both formally and informally with members of the management Community relations and charitable donations teams of other Group business units.
Charitable donations made during the year ended 31 December 2008 The directors believe that employees should be encouraged to amounted to 0.1 million 2007: 0.1 million.
In addition, Meggitt PLC become shareholders in order to enable their active participation in gave financial assistance to local organisations amounting to 14,000 and commitment to the Groups success.
This policy has been pursued 2007: 20,000.
There are also many examples throughout the Group for all UK employees through the Share Incentive Plan and the of non-financial assistance being provided to local organisations.
Payment policy It is estimated that, when the current years allocation has been made by the Trustee under the Share Incentive Plan, approximately 2,000 UK The Companys policy is to seek to comply with the terms of payment employees will hold shares in the Company.
The number of employees agreed with a supplier and where terms are not negotiated, the Company contributing to the Sharesave Scheme at 31 December 2008 was 1,017. endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
The Companys creditor days at 31 December 2008 were 27 days 2007: 30 days.
Senior executives are also granted awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Equity Participation Plan, both of which operate Political contributions throughout the Group, details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 44.
In accordance with the Groups policy, no contributions were made to EU political parties or EU political organisations 2007: Nil and no Health and safety at work EU political expenditure exceeding 200 was incurred in the year by the Company or any of its subsidiaries 2007: none above 200.
The Company continues to carry out its responsibility for securing the health, safety and welfare at work of employees of the Company and its A contribution to a non-EU organisation with political objectives of subsidiaries and for protecting other persons against risks to health and 15,300 2007: Nil was made by a non-EU business during the year safety arising out of, or in connection with, the activities at work of those 2007: Nil and in accordance with the Groups policy on non-EU employees.
Every reasonable effort is made to provide safe working political contributions, was approved by a Committee of the Board.
conditions and in addition, protective equipment is provided when necessary and safety training is made available.
In January 2008 the Board approved a new Group Health and Safety Policy, and a Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manager was appointed.
Equal opportunities The Group has a policy supporting the principle of equal opportunities in employment and opposing all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Disabled employees It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to applications made by disabled people, to continue wherever possible the employment of staff who become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training, career development and promotion of disabled employees.
Financial statements 39 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Continued RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the development programmes which bring innovative improvements to the Directors Remuneration Report and the Groups and the Companys Group both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Including amounts funded by customers, expenditure on Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for research and development amounted to 78.8 million 2007: 70.0 each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the million.
Excluding amounts funded by customers, expenditure on Groups financial statements in accordance with IFRSs and the Companys research and development amounted to 59.4 million 2007: 52.9 financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in million, of which 23.7 million 2007: 22.4 million was capitalised in accordance with applicable law and with UK GAAP.
The Groups and accordance with the Groups accounting policy see note 2 of the Groups Companys financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair financial statements.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: The Groups policies on financial risk management are set out in note 3 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: of the Groups financial statements.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Groups financial statements comply with IFRSs, and DETAILS OF RESOLUTIONS TO BE PROPOSED AT THE with regard to the Companys financial statements that applicable ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2009, and explanations of the resolutions to be proposed, appear in the separate The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report.
In addition disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of to the ordinary business of the meeting, shareholders consent will the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the Groups be sought to: i approve the Remuneration Report: ii increase the financial statements comply with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and authorised share capital and renew the authority of the directors to issue Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Companys financial statements shares under Article 4 of the Companys Articles of Association in and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act accordance with latest guidance from the Association of British Insurers: 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group iii approve payments to organisations of no more than 60,000 in total, and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the which might inadvertently be interpreted as donations to political prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
organisations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 2000 as amended by the Electoral Administration Act 2006, although it is companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the not the policy of the Company to make donations to political parties and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from the directors have no intention of changing that policy, neither do they legislation in other jurisdictions.
intend to make any such donations: iv approve the convening of general meetings on 14 clear days notice in accordance with the Companys Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board Articles of Association, notwithstanding the anticipated implementation of directors on pages 34 and 35 confirms that, to the best of their in the UK of the EU Shareholders Rights Directive: and v amend the knowledge: Meggitt 2005 Executive Share Option Scheme.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view AUDITORS of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and  LLP have expressed their willingness to the Directors report, Business review on pages 10 to 29, including continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be Risks and uncertainties on pages 15 to 17 include a fair review of the proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS uncertainties that it faces.
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no By order of the Board relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
M L Young Company Secretary 2 March 2009 40 Financial statements Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
