DEFENCE SYSTEMS An international training and combat systems business positioned to meet the challenges of modern con ict.
ABRAMS TANK Meggitts thermal management systems protect the crew and sensitive electronics in armoured vehicles such as the M1A2 SEP Abrams tank from heat overload.
The Abrams also carries Meggitts precisionengineered ammunition autoloaders.
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT MILLIONS MILLIONS GROUP REVENUE 19.1 131.1 MARKETS CAPABILITIES 11.3 Military aircraft and ground vehicles Integrated training systems Armed forces, law enforcement and Precision-mechanical combat systems security organisations DEFENCE SYSTEMS CONTINUED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GROWTH STRATEGY Be the preferred supplier worldwide Be the preferred supplier worldwide for integrated and networked live and for precision-mechanical systems for virtual training packages combat platforms, sustaining leading 14.
6% supporting the l ead systems positions in electronics cooling and RETURN ON SALES integrators implementing armed ammunition-handling and selected forces training doctrine and providing specialist technologies deployable systems direct to users Build sys tems, combining the divisions ful lling the training needs of police core electrical, mechanical, controls forces and security organisations and software capabilities, to pursue r esponding to homeland security larger contracts in our chosen markets 16.
0% requirements ORDER INTAKE UP KEY POINTS Divisional overview Meggitts UK facility now supplies contract logistics support for simulation systems Meggitt Defence Systems represents Total revenues up 15% to for the UK MoD and has received various around 29% of Meggitts overall military 131.1 million 6% organic contracts to increase capability for the revenues and derives most of its revenues Dismounted Close Combat Trainer DCCT, from the OE market 83% and retro t Underlying operating pro t the British Army standard for small arms contracts.
of 19.1 million, up 15% and combined arms training.
Following the weak start to 2008 as 4% organic During the year, Meggitt Training Systems anticipated, the division returned to growth Canada sold its 1,000th avionics unit to Return on sales, 14.6% in the second half, a pattern we expect to EADS defence and security division after 2007: 14.5% repeat in 2009.
Meggitt Defence Systems six years sole supply of ight and ground has also undergone considerable control systems for this customers Order intake up 16% on 2007 consolidation in the last two years, advanced jet drones.
It also secured rationalising seven facilities to three to an order from the Canadian Navy for reduce cost and improve competitiveness.
Hammerhead, a brand-new naval target With Lockheed Martin, Meggitt Training that can form part of a swarm threat Systems won the follow-on contract for simulation of up to 16 vehicles and the Recon gurable Vehicle System RVS replicate asymmetric small-boat attacks which is funded through to 2011.
2009 will see the introduction Army standard for virtual convoy training of more new products including a can simulate up to six military ground helicopter drone.
vehicles and is a leadership development Development of Meggitts low-cost and team-building tool designed to instil supersonic sea skimming target, the a set of procedural responses to events second phase of which was completed in trainees, honing reactions to ambush, in 2008, continues with Meggitt taking IEDs and other convoy situations.
the lead role in this three-phase, multiMeggitt Training Systems in the UK national effort.
delivered over 380 freeying aerial As Meggitt Training Systems is the Banshee targetsa recordand provided premier weapons training systems a customised model for the UK Ministry provider in the United States, the United of Defences Combined Aerial Target Kingdom, Canada, Australia and New Service CATS.
The CATS programme Zealand, it aims to use this position as also received first deliveries of Meggitts a platform for international growth in 2009. high-speed Voodoo aerial target, together with an attack helicopter target from our Meggitt Training Systems combined its Canadian facility and the Microdops livere and simulated weapons training scoring system from our US-based combat facilities onto one newly constructed site support arm in California.
near Atlanta, Georgia, positioning it for the 28 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 INTEGRATION TRANSFORMING LAW ENFORCEMENT PRODUCTS There is nothing better for a sales guy than products everybody wants.
Now Meggitt Training Systems has united its livere and virtual capability under one roof, Ive got ground-breaking products to sell, like our new portable rearms training simulator.
It goes in the trunk of a police cruiser and its low-cost laser insert ts into the barrel of a personal weapon in minutes.
With 42,000 police of cers in New York City alone, you can see why a low-cost, high performance plug-and-play trainer hits the spot.
Our wireless livere target system is another pioneering first.
It delivers exceptional accuracy and timing to the movement and presentation of targets.
Its more reliable than conventional systems and creates a superior training challenge.
The right mix of virtual and livere training develops the highest standards of marksmanship and judgement.
We cover both, backed by one team of subject matter experts and engineers and common operating procedures.
DAVID OMEARA Director of Law Enforcement Sales, Meggitt Training Systems development of integrated live and virtual It received a multi-year contract for the In 2008, Meggitt Defence Systems opened training packages.
thermal management system on the M1A2 an of ce in Abu Dhabi to support existing SEP Abrams tank from General Dynamics, and new business development across In December, it launched two new lines won the thermal management system for the United Arab Emirates and the wider targeting the law enforcement market.
Its the long-range Infrared Search and Track Middle East region.
advanced virtual trainer is a portable system IRST system for the F A-18E F ghter and that ts in the trunk of a police cruiser and was awarded the development contract with supports a wide range of rearms training.
potential follow-on production for the The low-cost, high performance, plug-andintegrated thermal management system play system is seen as a convenient and for the US Armys Multifunction Utility, and cost-effective way to train large municipal Logistics Equipment MULE unmanned police forces in the United States and has ground vehicle.
As our thermal management international applications.
systems for military ground vehicles are the Meggitt Training Systems pioneering only ones proven in combat, Meggitt Defense wireless livere target system for indoor Systems is in a strong position to win ranges delivers exceptional accuracy and contracts on new platforms.
timing to the presentation of targets while Meggitt Defense Systems automatic eliminating pulleys and cabling that are ammunition handling systems continue to prone to bullet damage.
The product is lead the market, winning the development highly reliable and creates a superior contract for the 35 mm feed system for training solution to conventional systems.
Krauss-Maffei Wegmann: successfully Both developments, supported by one team demonstrating the new Future Combat of subject matter experts and engineers System 120 mm autoloader: and test ring with common operating procedures, meet the new Cobra helicopter gun feed system.
the law enforcement and security industrys General Dynamics awarded Meggitt an growing interest in creating the optimal $18 million order for Stryker Mobile mix of virtual and livere training.
Meggitt Defense Systems combat support The surface target vector scorer launched systems facility in California is similarly from the combat support side of Meggitt positioned for success, with a strong Defence Systems in 2008 was tested portfolio of contracts for development successfully at the Naval Surface Warfare programmes that could lead to healthy Centre at Dahlgren, Virginia.
This tracks the production runs and retro t work for the trajectory of projectiles over a large area US Armys fleet modernisation programme.
during weapons test and evaluation.
In particular, the divisions mission-critical electronics cooling and automatic ammunition handling businesses continued to grow.
Business review 29 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
