SENSING SYSTEMS One of the worlds leading providers of high performance sensing and condition-monitoring solutions for high value rotating machinery and other assets.
IRSCHING 4 GAS TURBINE POWER GENERATOR The Irsching 4 is the test power plant for Siemens SGT-8000H, the worlds most powerful gas turbine.
Meggitts conditionmonitoring system is helping to optimise its operations and reduce emissions.
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT MILLIONS MILLIONS GROUP REVENUE 267.8 46.7 MARKETS CAPABILITIES 23.0 Civil aerospace: large, regional High performance sensing in extreme and business jets, general aviation environments and space Aero-engine and industrial gas turbine Military: xed wing and rotary aircraft, ships condition-monitoring systems Energy Medical, automotive, general industrial SENSING SYSTEMS CONTINUED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GROWTH STRATEGY Continue to inv est in high performance Develop our energy segment business sensing technologies and develop our through continued innovation and centres of excellence expanded geographical presence 17.
4% RETURN ON SALES Combine them with advanced Extend our complete integrated processing electronics, delivering product and service offering condition-monitoring systems that Invest in strong programme reduce gas turbine operating costs, management, effective systems optimise maintenance regimes and engineering, smooth new product reduce pollution introduction processes and continuous 16.
2% Appl y our products and expertise to improvement initiatives ORDER INTAKE UP adjacent aerospace applications and next-generation integrated vehicle health management solutions KEY POINTS Divisional overview acquisition units DMAU for Eurocopter, the engine vibration monitor for the Meggitt Sensing Systems generates 27% Total revenues up 14% to Learjet LJ85 and several protection and of its revenues from the aftermarket and 267.8 million 4% organic condition monitoring systems for gas and 73% from original equipment.
steam turbines and compressors in Underlying operating pro t The division performed well in 2008 with Russia, India and China.
of 46.7 million, up 13% continued demand from aerospace and The divisions UK facility became an energy customers for its state-of-the-art 9% organic approved supplier to Pratt & Whitney condition-monitoring systems.
These Canada when it won a ten-year contract Return on sales, 17.4% products enable maintenance to be to develop and supply a new exhaust gas 2007: 17.6% planned effectively and economically for temperature system for the PW200 family critical rotating machinery in aircraft and of helicopter engines.
Order intake up 16.2% on 2007 land-based power generation, optimising performance, helping to control emissions, Facilities in the US and Switzerland saving fuel and minimising the risk of continued to contribute to the safety of breakdown and brown-outs.
troops in Iran and Afghanistan, providing sensors to help prevent catastrophic Year-on-year revenue growth was mechanical failure in helicopters to negatively impacted as expected by the Sikorsky and Army Aviation.
disposal of S-Tec partially offset by the acquisition of Ferroperm in January 2008.
Meggitt Avionics received new orders for Revenue growth in MSS continuing its air data system and crash survivable businesses was 9%.
memory units from Euro ghter Typhoon.
An order for an integrated standby ight The Group boosted its energy interests in display with air data sensing for a Korean the autumn by opening a new Indian of ce Aerospace Industries utility helicopter in Bangalore.
Initially, the of ce will be could extend to 200-plus rotorcraft over used as a platform from which to market the next ten years.
There was strong Meggitts Sensing Systems products to demand for the helicopter air data system Indias coalred power plants and nuclear installed on Boeings Apache attack facilities, with condition-monitoring helicopterthe Block III upgrade will systems topping the bill.
Meggitt India will include Meggitts secondary ight display also be used to market energy-oriented from 2011 onwards, substantially products from across the Group.
increasing its Apache shipset value.
When its advanced airborne vibration Meggitt Avionics also delivered its threat monitor AAVM was selected for all new warning indicators and air data computers Boeing 737 next generation aircraft, the to the first of the United States Joint division maintained its leading position in Cargo Aircraftthe twin-engine, midengine vibration monitoring technology.
It range, medium-lift turboprop cargo plane went on to win the digital monitoring and known as the C-27J Spartan.
24 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 ENERGY MARKETING POWERING UP IN INDIA As a boy, I loved the old engineering of Bombay Babcock and Wilcox boilers and Parsons Marine Steam Company turbines.
Today, India has some of the worlds most modern power plants.
Even so, demand is outstripping supply.
To prevent breakdown and brown-out, operators must manage maintenance economically.
Thats where Meggitts advanced engine health management systems come in.
From our new facility in Bangalore, were selling them direct to customers, giving them exactly what they need and addressing market change first and fast.
As we control our supply chain raw materials, process electronics, control algorithms and support equipment we can control cost and quality in a market where value and speed are fundamental to growth.
Every time I go to India, theres something new roads, buildings and sophisticated shopping malls.
In the next 15 years, she will be a very different country and the opportunity for all Meggitts energy products ignition, heat management and control systems among them will have grown exponentially.
HITESH SHAH Director Business Development Energy, Meggitt Sensing Systems Increasingly tough operational, economic launched its innovative fuel gauging While market conditions are tough, and environmental constraints continued technology based on time domain MSS continues to be active in providing to drive demand for smart engineering re ectometry.
Primarily used in the sensors for the consumer goods and solutions from the energy sector.
Siemens process control industries, this smart fuel other specialist diverse markets.
adopted Meggitt Sensing Systems VM600 probe with integral self-diagnostic tools is During the year, Meggitt Sensing Systems monitoring systems for large-scale steam the first to have been applied successfully committed 1 million, with Boeing, BAE and gas turbine operations.
This included in civil aerospace.
Systems and Rolls-Royce, to Cran eld Irsching 4, the test power plant for the An agreement between the divisions Universitys condition-monitoring research worlds most powerful gas turbine.
The facility in California and Boeing centre for integrated vehicle health division remains a major supplier to Commercial Airplane Group is enabling management.
The centre aims to advance energy markets.
Sales of sensors, which it to market its non-invasive pressure existing concepts of vehicle maintenance, are used to detect the onset of mechanical sensors for composite wing and airframe repair and overhaul, offering a total health failure, were particularly strong in the testing across the aerospace industry.
check for high-tech, high value vehicles wind power generation sector.
They are currently being used for testing such as aircraft, ships, high-speed trains The year proved productive for new products on the composite wings of the Boeing 787 and high-performance cars.
Meggitt Sensing Systems and other Boeing models.
provided the advanced engine vibration Meggitt Sensing Systems latest acquisition, monitor for the Sukhoi commercial Ferroperm, continued its cutting-edge Superjet 100s maiden ight and engine developments in high temperature vibration monitoring and engine interface ceramic sensor material that can function control units were quali ed on the ARJ21, close to aero-engine hot sections and the new Chinese commercial aircraft.
The deliver the data needed to optimise engine monitoring units for the Boeing 787 performance and control emissions.
Its GEnx engine and the engine vibration piezoceramic thick lm, the only product monitoring units for the Boeing 777 GE90 of its kind that can be produced on an engine were certi ed.
The division also industrial scale, is being integrated with developed its new InSight software, which the divisions microelectronic mechanical upgrades the content management system systems MEMS.
This should lead to a new on the VM600 condition monitor and now generation of miniaturised integrated covers applications in oil and gas and sensors and distributed sensor networks.
Meggitt Sensing Systems French operation Meggitt Sensing Systems sensor and worked with Meggitt Avionics to develop ignition package for Rolls-Royces BR725 new generation inertial monitoring units engine for the Gulfstream G650 business based on smaller, cost-effective MEMS jet met the programme requirements with technology, extending the market for all units ready on time for the first engine Meggitts new integrated compact test.
From its facility in New Hampshire, secondary ight displays.
USA, Meggitt Sensing Systems formally Business review 25 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
