Notes to the accounts 1 Corporate information 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The consolidated financial statements of Melrose PLC for the year Basis of accounting ended 31 December 2008 were authorised in accordance with a The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in resolution of the Directors of Melrose PLC on 11 March 2009. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and UK law.
The financial statements have also been prepared in Melrose PLC is a company incorporated in Great Britain under the accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are consistent that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the with the prior year and are set out below.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with the rationale set out in the Directors statement of going concern on page 31 of the Directors report.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations are in issue but not yet effective: Use of estimates Amendments to IFRS 1 IAS 27: Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally jointly controlled entity or associate accepted accounting practice requires management to make estimates Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of financial statement a revised and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities presentation as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance Amendments to IFRS 2: Share based payments, vesting conditions and sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during cancellations the reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimates.
Amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 1: Puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation Basis of consolidation Revised IFRS 3: Business combinations The Group financial statements include the results of the parent Revised IAS 23: Borrowing costs undertaking and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of Revised IAS 27: Consolidated and separate financial statements businesses acquired during the period are included from the effective IFRIC 12: Service concession arrangements date of acquisition and of those sold during the period to the effective IFRIC 13: Customer loyalty programmes date of disposal.
IFRS 8: Operating segments IFRIC 15: Agreements for the construction of real estate Minority interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are IFRIC 16: Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original During the period, the Group adopted IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit business combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity of a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their since the date of the combination.
Losses applicable to the minority in Interaction.
The Group has considered IFRIC 14 when determining the excess of the minoritys interest in the subsidiarys equity are allocated value of pension assets and liabilities.
The Directors do not anticipate against the interests of the Group except to the extent that the minority that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a has a binding obligation and is able to make an additional investment to material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of cover losses.
initial application, with the exception of additional segmental disclosures required by IFRS 8 and the treatment of acquisition of Where Group accounting policies are not adopted in the financial subsidiaries when IFRS 3 comes into effect for business combinations statements of subsidiary undertakings, appropriate adjustments are for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first made in the Group financial statements.
annual period beginning on or after 1 July 2009.
If IFRS 3 revised had been adopted in these accounts, directly attributable costs of All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits 13.6 million would have been expensed during the year.
arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
The comparative information has been restated to show more appropriate allocation of results following the disposal of MVC and classification of this division as discontinued operations.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 46 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS & NOTES the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date 2 Summary of significant accounting policies bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not continued be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, Business combinations and goodwill claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase been agreed with the customer.
The cost of acquisition is measured as the cash paid, the fair value of other assets given, the liabilities incurred or assumed at the Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated date of exchange and equity instruments issued by the Group in reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs exchange for control of the acquiree, plus costs directly attributable to incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Contract costs are the acquisition.
The acquired identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition except for non current assets that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract 5 Non Current Assets Held For Sale and Discontinued Operations, revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
outstanding and the effective interest applicable.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost being the excess of Exceptional costs income the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the Exceptional costs income are those costs income of a significant and net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent non-recurring nature or those associated with significant restructuring liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less programmes.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in Operating profit circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Operating profit is stated after exceptional operating costs and income, intangible amortisation and the share of results of joint ventures but As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of before finance income and finance costs.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which Borrowing costs goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a in the profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
When there is a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are disposal of a cash generating unit, goodwill relating to the operation added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are disposed of is taken into account in determining the gain or loss on substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income disposal of that operation.
The amount of goodwill allocated to a partial earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending disposal is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing disposed of and the operation retained.
Joint ventures All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the A joint venture is an entity which is not a subsidiary undertaking but in period in which they are incurred.
which the interest of the Group is that of a partner in a joint venture over which the Group exercises joint control.
The results, assets and Issue costs of loans liabilities of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of The finance cost recognised in the income statement in respect of accounting.
capital instruments is allocated to periods over the terms of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
Revenue Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of Property, plant and equipment ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer and can be reliably Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration depreciation and any impairment in value.
received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchased price or construction duties and sales taxes.
cost, and any costs directly attributable to bring the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid Where percentage of completion accounting is applied and where the and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue The capitalised value of a finance lease is also included within property, and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the plant and equipment.
contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 47 Notes to the accounts continued The estimated useful lives of intangible assets are: 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Patented technology 5 years or less Property, plant and equipment continued Customer relationships 10 years or less Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis over the estimated Trade names 20 years or less useful life of the asset as follows: Computer software is initially recorded at cost.
Where these assets have Freehold land nil been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair Freehold buildings and over expected economic life value allocated in the acquisition accounting.
Where these have been long leasehold property not exceeding 50 years acquired other than through a business combination, the initial cost is Short leasehold property over the term of the lease the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration Plant and equipment 3-12 years given to acquire the asset.
Computer software assets are amortised over their estimated useful The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are lives up to five years on a straight line basis.
reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are measured on a impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the similar basis to property, plant and equipment.
Useful lives are also carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, made on a prospective basis.
the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of Research and development costs net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the Research costs are expensed as incurred.
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the Costs relating to clearly defined and identifiable development projects time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that in which the technical degree of exploitation, adequacy of resources does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable and potential market or development possibility in the undertaking are amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset recognisable, and where it is the intention to produce, market or belongs and allocated proportionately.
execute the project, are capitalised when a correlation exists between the costs incurred and future benefits and the costs can be measured An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon reliably and expensed on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise Costs not meeting such criteria are expensed as incurred.
from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the Inventories net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost in the income statement in the year the item is derecognised.
includes all direct expenditure and appropriate production overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current state under normal Intangible assets operating conditions.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
has been made for obsolescence or other losses where necessary.
On acquisition of businesses, separately identifiable intangible assets Trade and other receivables are determined in relation to the specific circumstances of the business Trade receivables are recognised and carried at fair value.
An allowance acquired and are valued on an appropriate basis.
is recorded in the income statement for the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated recoverable amount.
Access to the use of patented technology and trade names are valued using a relief from royalty method which determines the net present Cash and cash equivalents value of future additional cash flows arising from the use of the Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash in intangible asset.
hand and current balances with banks and similar institutions and shortterm deposits with an original maturity of three months or less which Customer relationships are valued on the basis of the net present value are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value.
of the future additional cash flows arising from customer relationships with appropriate allowance for attrition of customers.
For the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS & NOTES Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains 2 Summary of significant accounting policies or losses on the revaluation to fair value at the period end is recognised continued immediately in the income statement.
Where derivatives qualify for Interest-bearing loans and borrowings hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss on All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the revaluation depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of less than subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest one year from the balance sheet date are classified as current in the method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue balance sheet.
costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Hedge accounting Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the document from inception the relationship between the item being amortisation process.
hedged and the hedging instrument and to show that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing Leases is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks highly effective.
and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the lease or, if lower, at Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding hedging relationship, the hedge instrument expires or is sold, liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant The Group designates certain hedging instruments, as either fair value rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Fair value hedge Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
income statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured Cash flow hedge at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest they hedge the Groups exposure to the variability in cash flows that are method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised or liability, or a highly probable forecasted cash flow.
cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly The effective portion of any gain or loss from revaluing the derivative discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
The gain or loss of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement as part of other income or other expense.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure Amounts deferred in equity are recycled to the income statement in the to interest rate, foreign exchange rate risks and commodity risks, arising periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
from operating and financing activities.
The Group does not hold or However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Details of recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 24 of the financial and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and statements.
Movements on the hedging reserve in equity are detailed included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Their fair value is recalculated at each reporting date.
The accounting treatment for the resulting gain or loss will depend on whether the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 49 Notes to the accounts continued The service cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benefits 2 Summary of significant accounting policies to employees for the period is charged to the income statement.
The continued cost of making improvements to pension and other post-retirement Derivative financial instruments and hedging continued benefits is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the period during which the increase in benefits vests.
To the extent Hedges of net investments in foreign operations that the improvement in benefits vests immediately, the cost is Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges recognised immediately.
These costs are recognised as an expense.
when they hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from revaluing the A charge representing the unwinding of the discount on the plan derivative at a reporting period end is recognised directly in equity.
Any liabilities during the period is included within other finance costs.
ineffective element is recognised immediately in the income statement.
A credit representing the expected return on the plan assets during the Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised immediately in period is included within other finance costs.
This credit is based on the the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
market value of the plan assets, and expected rates of return, at the beginning of the year.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences between the legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an expected return and the actual return on plan assets: differences outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan liabilities and settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount actual experience during the period: or changes in the actuarial of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, assumptions used in the valuation of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in the statement of flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects the current market assessment of the recognised income and expense.
time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to For defined contribution plans, contributions payable for the year are the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
charged to the income statement as an operating expense.
Environmental liabilities Foreign currency translation Liabilities for environmental costs are recognised when environmental The individual financial statements of each Group company are assessments or clean-ups are probable and the associated costs can be presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in reasonably estimated.
Generally, the timing of these provisions which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action.
The amount consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position recognised is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
Where the of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount recognised functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
Employee benefits In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency and sick leave are accrued in the year in which the associated services foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on are rendered by employees of the Group.
The accounting policy for the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary pensions and other post-retirement benefits is described below.
assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
NonThe Group also operates long term incentive plans LTIPs for certain monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign employees.
The expected settlement costs of these plans are expensed currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair on a straight line basis over the life of the plan.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes and defined Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on contribution schemes, which require contributions to be made to the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement administered funds separate from the Group.
In some jurisdictions, for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of nonfunds are not administered separately from the Group but appropriate monetary items carried at fair value are included in the income statement liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet.
for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of nonmonetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised For the defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans, plan directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 50 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS & NOTES except where the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition 2 Summary of significant accounting policies of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business continued combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the Foreign currency translation continued accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, deferred exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, taxable profit will be available against which the temporary in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Such translation The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that which the operation is disposed of.
sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are and translated at the closing rate.
expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or Taxation substantially enacted at the balance sheet date.
Tax expense represents the sum of the tax paid or currently payable and deferred tax.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not in the income statement.
The tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or sales tax except: deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as balance sheet date.
part of the expense item as applicable: and Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets tax included.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the differences: balance sheet.
except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill that is not tax Share-based payments deductible or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the Payments.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured loss: and at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, except equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes model.
The expected differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, against which the deductible temporary differences, and carry-forward and behavioural considerations.
of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 51
