Directors report The Directors of Melrose PLC present their report and the The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting Audited Financial Statements of the Group for the year ended the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 3 31 December 2008. to the Melrose PLC UK GAAP accounts Company balance sheet.
Principal activities and business review Financial results and dividend The Companys stated strategy is to acquire companies and The Groups loss for the financial year attributable to shareholders of businesses whose operational performance the Directors believe the Company was 47.8 million 2007: profit of 215.0 million can be improved to create shareholder value.
The executive Directors including 0.5 million minority interests 2007: 0.2 million.
The have extensive experience of identifying and evaluating acquisition Directors are pleased to recommend the payment on 15 May 2009 opportunities, quoted and unquoted, both UK and overseas.
to Ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on On 26 May 2005 the Company acquired the Dynacast Group 17 April 2009 of a final dividend of 4.25p pence per Ordinary Share.
and the McKechnie Group for a consideration of 429 million plus It is the intention of the Board to maintain a progressive dividend costs.
Since acquisition, the Company has significantly improved the policy where appropriate going forward.
On 14 May 2007 the Company completed the disposal of its Directors appointment and powers Aerospace OEM and Aerospace Aftermarket divisions for a The Directors of the Company as at the date of this report, together consideration of 428 million.
On 18 May 2007 it completed the with their biographical details, are given on pages 24 to 25.
There sale of part of the McKechnie PSM division for a consideration of were no changes to the Board during the year.
The Company used 173 million of the proceeds of the The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the disposals to repay term loan facilities, and returned 220 million of Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of the proceeds to shareholders.
reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be On 1 July 2008 the Company completed the acquisition of FKI for recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the a total consideration of 970.4 million, comprising debt acquired of Board.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and submit 471.7 million and equity consideration totalling 498.7 million.
The themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following equity consideration comprised a cash element of 40p per share, totalling their appointment and at each Annual General Meeting one third of 236.0 million, and the issue of 0.277 Melrose PLC shares for each FKI the Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and must therefore share with a total value of 248.4 million.
In addition, acquisition costs of submit themselves for re-election.
13.6 million were incurred and with an initial investment of 0.7 million The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the in FKI, gave a total consideration of 498.7 million.
Company and may exercise all the power of the Company subject to the On 26 November 2008 the Company sold 100% of the equity of provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by special resolution McKechnie Vehicle Components for US$1.
In addition US$2.5 million and to the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles, for of cash has been left within MVC to be repaid to the Company with example, contain specific provisions and restrictions concerning the interest within one year of the sale.
Such payment is secured against Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing of the assets of the MVC business with no performance conditions.
shares and powers to purchase the Companys own shares are also Following the acquisition of FKI, Group structures and reporting included in the Articles and such authorities are submitted for approval procedures were reviewed and policies were aligned across the by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each year.
The UK FKI head office was closed within three Pursuant to section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the months of acquisition and all of the Hickory Hardware business was Company has power to purchase its own shares, limited to an closed or the assets sold before the end of the year.
aggregate maximum number of 49,758,677 Ordinary Shares.
Further actions during the year intended to enhance the value of the Group included a review of the cost base across all businesses Directors interests and remuneration impacted by the global economic downturn.
The impact of the Information on Directors beneficial interests, including those of economic conditions on the industries in which businesses operate also connected persons within the meaning of section 252 of the gave opportunities, including targeted acquisitions by Dynacast Canada.
Companies Act 2006, in the shares of the Company is shown in the The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, together with the Remuneration report on pages 36 to 39.
Chief Executives review, Business review and Finance Directors No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in review on pages 6 to 23 describe the principal activities, operations, any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any performance, financial position and likely future prospects of the of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of the Group are set out in detail on pages 42 to 45 and in the accompanying notes.
Directors indemnities The Company is required by the Companies Acts to set out in The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Company in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the year, respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
This indemnity is the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description provided under the Articles of Association and satisfies the indemnity of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The provisions as set out in the Companies Act 2006. information that fulfils these requirements can be found within the The Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect of Chief Executives review, Business review, Finance Directors review those liabilities for which the Directors may not be indemnified.
and in this Directors report.
The Finance Directors review also Neither the indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event discusses the key performance indicators that management use.
that a Director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 26 INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES Directors responsibilities Single C Share Dividend on 23 August 2007 when C Shares were The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the converted into C Deferred Shares.
Final Redemption of the C Shares consolidated financial statements is set out on page 40. took place on 30 June 2008, when 9,053,594 C Shares were redeemed and cancelled together with all C Deferred Shares.
Share capital Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and rights Further rights and obligations attaching to shares attached to the Companys shares are set out on pages 27 and 28 Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into in compliance with the requirements of section 992 of the English law, the following paragraphs provide the required information Companies Act 2006. for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
Changes to the issued share capital of the Company in issue This summary is based on the Companys current Articles, as adopted during the year are detailed below.
at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2008.
Ordinary Shares Voting On the acquisition of FKI on 1 July 2008, holders of FKI shares were Only Ordinary Shares have voting rights attached.
In a general meeting entitled to receive 40p in cash and 0.277 of a Melrose Ordinary Share of the Company, subject to the provisions of the current Articles and to in consideration for each FKI share held, which resulted in the issue of any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of 163,420,463 new Melrose Ordinary Shares of 0.2p each.
shares in the Company of which there are currently none : In connection with the acquisition of FKI, existing Melrose on a show of hands, every member present in person or by proxy shareholders were offered three Open Offer shares for every four shall have one vote: and Melrose Ordinary Shares already held, resulting in 86,540,401 on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall Ordinary Shares being issued under the Open Offer.
In addition, have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
113,960,886 Ordinary Shares were placed with institutional investors.
Following the acquisition, the total number of Ordinary Shares of 0.2p No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class in issue was 497,586,779. meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum The new Ordinary Shares of 0.2p are traded on the London Stock then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently Exchange in the same way as the existing Ordinary Shares of 0.2p and all issued shares are fully paid.
The Employee Benefit Trustee holds are equivalent to them in all material respects, including their 25,279 Ordinary Shares resulting from the crystallisation of the original dividend, voting and other rights.
incentive scheme in August 2007 and the Remuneration Committee may direct how the voting rights of those shares are exercised.
Incentive shares On 14 August 2007, a share incentive scheme was approved the Deadlines for voting rights 2007 Incentive Scheme which expires on 31 May 2012.
During Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of 2007 50,000 2007 Incentive Shares of 1 each were issued to the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be Directors, senior management and Ogier Employment Benefit Trustee held on 14 May 2009 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Limited, as trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust.
The 2007 Incentive Shares do not confer a right to be paid a dividend or the right to vote at a general meeting.
On winding up, the Dividends and distributions holders are entitled to participate in the Companys assets equal to an Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and the amount to which they would have been entitled if their 2007 Companies Act 2006 the Companies Acts, the Company may, by Incentive Shares had converted into Ordinary Shares as at the date of ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the members, but winding up.
Further details of the 2007 Incentive Shares can be found no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
in the Remuneration report on pages 36 to 39.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate At a meeting of the Remuneration Committee on 9 December dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the 2008, it was agreed that a total of 1,250 2007 Incentive Shares opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be would be allocated to three senior managers.
These shares had not apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on been allocated as at 31 December 2008. the shares.
Currently all issued shares are fully paid.
The Board may deduct from a dividend or other amounts payable C Shares and return of capital to a person in respect of their shares amounts due from him to the In August 2007 the Company returned 220 million of capital to Company on account of a call or otherwise in relation to such shares.
Holders of 70,489,480 C Shares opted to take the Share capital Redeemable C Deferred Preference Shares 2007 C Shares arising on Ordinary Incentive single C Share payment of single Shares Shares dividend C Share dividend 1 January 2008 133,665,029 50,000 9,053,594 70,489,480 Issued to FKI shareholders 163,420,463 Open Offer 86,540,401 Placed 113,960,886 Redeemed 9,053,594 70,489,480 31 December 2008 497,586,779 50,000 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 27 Directors report continued Liquidation potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole on 11 Under the current Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, the March 2009. liquidator may, on obtaining any sanction required by law: The Companys debt funding is provided through a 750 million term and revolving credit facility maturing in April 2013.
In the event divide amongst the members in kind the whole or any part of the of a change of control of the Company, following a takeover bid, the assets of the Company: or Company and lenders under this facility are obliged to enter into vest the whole or any part of the assets in trust for the benefit of negotiations to determine whether and, if so, how to continue with members as the liquidator shall determine.
There is no obligation for the lenders to continue to make the facility available for more than 30 days beyond any change of Transfer of shares control.
Failure to reach agreement with parties on revised terms Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his could require an acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
shares in any form which the Board may approve, and the transfer In the event of a takeover of the Company, the 2007 Incentive shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
Subject to the Shares convert into Ordinary Shares, the conversion being based upon Articles and the requirements of any relevant investment exchange, the offer price of the Companys Ordinary Shares as calculated on the the Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any date of the change of control of the Company.
If part or the entire reason, refuse to register a transfer of a share which is not a fully paid offer price is not in cash, the Remuneration Committee will determine share or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also the value of the non-cash element, having been advised by an decline to register a transfer unless the transfer is: i in respect of investment bank of repute that such valuation is fair and reasonable.
only one class of shares: ii in favour of not more than four joint transferees or renouncees: iii duly stamped if required and iv Product and employee liability claims delivered for registration to the registered office, or such other place Ongoing risks in relation to understanding future product liabilities, as the Board may decide, accompanied by the certificate for the asbestos claims and workers compensation claims have been shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may determined using actuarial projections discussed with the Board and reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor.
where appropriate amounts have been provided in the balance sheet.
Substantial shareholdings Environmental liabilities As at 11 March 2009 the Company has been advised of the following The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose potential and interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company: real obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites both currently and previously owned within the Group.
Shareholder Direct holding Indirect holding % Environmental liabilities have to be notified to the Company BlackRock Investment Secretary.
All environmental claims are closely managed by external Management 49,381,108 9.92 environmental specialists in conjunction with the Company and Standard Life Investments 28,888,551 15,172,821 8.85 remediation is undertaken as appropriate.
The Board are updated on Aviva plc & its subsidiaries 25,918,895 16,472,636 8.52 environmental matters at each Board meeting.
Ameriprise Financial 38,609,973 7.76 The Group incurs costs in meeting these obligations and Artemis Investment maintains provisions for known and potential liabilities.
The Group Management 36,392,468 7.31 continually monitors any liabilities and provisions are reviewed on Lloyds Banking Group plc 3,707,058 23,733,186 5.51 a regular basis.
Risks and uncertainties Key customers The Groups diversified portfolio of specialised businesses generate A review of key customers has been conducted across the Group.
sales in a variety of engineering markets.
This reduces the Groups The loss of any one key customer would not affect the Groups results exposure to any single market, customer or other third party.
A number materially but the loss of a key customer could be material to an of factors affect the operating results, financial condition and prospects individual business.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to the use of financial instruments are described in Intellectual property the Finance Directors review on pages 17 to 23.
The procedures in The Company values intellectual property and where appropriate place for risk management and control are explained in the seeks protection and enforcement of rights over intellectual property.
Governance report on pages 32 to 35.
This Directors report describes Intellectual property is managed routinely on a decentralised basis the Companys management of health and safety, environmental and and with the support of the Company each business is responsible for intellectual property risks, additionally, any key commercial and the protection and enforcement of its intellectual property rights.
This is economic risks are covered in the Business review on pages 8 to 16. considered sensible due to the diversified nature of the business.
The Company conducts internal IP audits periodically.
Significant agreements and change of control With the exception of the Groups banking facilities and the 2007 Employment policies Incentive Share Scheme, there are no agreements that take effect, The Group is managed on a decentralised basis and each business is alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following responsible for the adoption of employment policies and practices a takeover bid, that are considered to be significant in terms of their applicable to the size and nature of that business.
This is appropriate Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 28 INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES due to the diversified nature of the Groups businesses and allows the The FKI Pension Scheme the FKI UK Scheme is a UK defined businesses to respond to changes in the environment in which they benefit pension scheme with FKI as its principal employer.
The operate and to retain identity while benefiting from being part of the primary liability for funding the FKI UK Scheme rests with the Group.
Companies within the Group have developed a wide range of participating employers.
voluntary practices and procedures for employee involvement The participating employers currently pay 18.0 million per appropriate to their own circumstances and needs.
The Group annum into the FKI UK Scheme, which was expected to remove the encourages the provision of information and consultation with funding deficit by 31 December 2015 when this was last formally employees and believes that this promotes a better understanding of assessed as at 31 December 2005.
The Company and FKI UK the issues facing the business in which the employee works.
Scheme Trustee will review the funding of the FKI UK Scheme as part The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment of all of the actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2008. its employees in accordance with national legislation applicable to the The FKI US Pension Plan is a defined benefit pension scheme territories within which it operates.
Having regard to their skills and covering several of FKIs US business units.
The primary liability for abilities, the Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for funding the FKI US Pension Plan rests with the participating employment received from disabled persons.
Further, and so far as employers.
particular disabilities permit, the Group will give employees disabled Based on the 1 January 2008 actuarial valuation, the participating during their period of employment continued employment in the same employers are currently not required to pay into the FKI US Pension job or, if this is not practicable, a suitable alternative job.
The Company and the Trustee will review the funding of the FKI opportunities for appropriate training, career development and US Pension Plan as part of the actuarial valuation as at 1 January 2009. promotion are available to all employees regardless of any physical The McKechnie UK Pension Plan the McKechnie UK Plan disability, gender, religion, race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
is a UK defined benefit pension scheme with McKechnie Limited as its principal employer.
The primary liability for funding the McKechnie Employee involvement and consultation UK Plan rests with the participating employers, although the Company The Directors attach great importance to good labour relations and has guaranteed the payment of certain contributions.
The results for the half year The participating employers currently pay 6.1 million per annum and financial year are discussed with senior management and the into the McKechnie UK Plan and have agreed to meet the reasonable opportunity is taken where possible to inform them of Group administration expenses of the McKechnie UK Plan and the Pension developments.
The nature of the Groups activities places the Protection Fund Levy up to 30 April 2010.
The Company has guaranteed responsibility for employee consultation with local management in a the funding of the McKechnie UK Plan on an ongoing basis.
manner appropriate to the particular circumstances of each business.
The Company and Plan Trustee will review the funding A wide range of practices and procedures have developed within of the McKechnie UK Plan as part of the actuarial valuation as at the Group appropriate to local needs.
Several of the businesses operate 31 December 2008. works councils for the purposes of consultation and dissemination of information.
Businesses use their own websites and newsletters as a Health and safety means of communicating with employees.
The Directors seek to minimise risk to the health and safety of the Employee involvement in the Groups profitability is encouraged Groups employees by ensuring effective management of the Groups through appropriate bonus schemes.
The Group uses external consultants where appropriate to carry Pensions out health and safety audits.
Areas for improvement identified by the Companies within the Group operate various pension schemes around external auditor are monitored and audit reports quantify performance the world.
The following defined benefit schemes are material to the in key areas.
These audit reports facilitate the targeting and Group: measurement of future improvements.
In accordance with the decentralised nature of the Group, health As at 31 December 2008 and safety policy is dictated by the Company and adhered to by Assets Liabilities Number of individual businesses through adoption of local policies in accordance Name of scheme Status m m members with health and safety legislation.
All business units have their own FKI UK Closed to new 462.6 520.3 11,148 health and safety policy and many measure performance and set Pension Scheme members in October improvement targets.
Businesses have established health and safety 2001.
Open for committees who meet regularly to review health and safety incidents future accrual on and to plan initiatives to further reduce risks.
In order to maintain control over the diversified businesses, all 1 FKI US Closed to new 182.9 210.9 8,936 divisions are required to report to the Board on health and safety Pension Plan members in April matters on a monthly basis and to notify the Board of any reportable 2003.
Health and safety is covered at every meeting of the Board future accrual and a process of harmonising the recording of health and safety completing in 2009. incidents and initiatives has been implemented throughout the Group 2 McKechnie UK Closed to new 116.2 110.7 3,408 during the year, thus enabling future measurement of key indicators.
Pension Plan members in 2003 and for future accrual in 2005.
2 14.1m of this figure is not recognised in line with IAS19 in order to restrict the deficit to the guaranteed contributions.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 29 Directors report continued The environment Social responsibility The Group recognises the importance of its environmental The Company recognises the importance of social, environmental and responsibilities and is committed to ensuring that its operations have ethical matters and the Directors endeavour to take into account the minimum adverse effect upon the environment and that employees interests of all stakeholders, including investors, employees, are aware of their role in safeguarding the future of the environment.
customers, suppliers and business partners when managing the Many of the business units seek to actively improve their processes businesses within the Group.
and have implemented local policies to reduce any damage that The Group regards employee training and advancement as an might be caused by the Groups activities.
essential element of industrial relations.
Disputes and days lost The Group monitors its impact on the environment and FKIs through strike action are negligible.
Many units have a social and process of reporting and monitoring of environmental issues has ethical policy with a senior manager holding responsibility for continued under the Companys ownership and has been extended to communicating and implementing it.
Such policies apply and extend the enlarged Group.
Environmental performance questionnaires were local law and standards which prohibit discrimination and exploitation.
issued to each of the businesses in 2008 in order to better The majority of the businesses provided community support understand and measure the Groups impact on the environment.
during the year with efforts ranging from charitable donations to Consumption of fuel and water is monitored.
Disposal of liquid and voluntary assistance and fund raising.
Support is given to local schools solid waste materials is measured on turnover-based factors.
by offering traineeships and work experience to students.
The FKI businesses already had well established environmental The Company will continue to invest in its businesses during its policies and initiatives in place at the time of the acquisition.
Initiatives ownership, enhancing their reputation within the markets and are also in place elsewhere in the Group.
Dynacast, for example, has communities in which they operate.
implemented a programme of Key Performance Indicators which includes environmental factors.
This, like other local initiatives, has Charitable and political donations resulted in cost savings and reduced the adverse impact of the business The Group paid 8,750 2007: 3,293 to UK charities during the on the environment, demonstrating that targeted initiatives enhance the year, principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Groups environmental, and ultimately, competitive position.
There were no political donations made during the encourages business units to move towards renewable energy and year 2007: nil.
received substantial income from recycling during the year.
As much waste as possible is recycled and hazardous substances Payments to suppliers replaced by less harmful substitutes.
Some units have been able to Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and make increased use of renewable resources by enhancing natural conditions of their transactions with suppliers.
lighting through installation of transparent roofing material and the use Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and of wind power.
Other specific measures include transport reduction conditions being met by the supplier.
The Company, as a holding and reductions in water usage.
Many operating businesses have company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors at established an energy committee in order to push forward ideas for 31 December 2008. reductions in energy consumption.
Simple practices such as switching off equipment when not in use and printing on both sides of paper Auditors are encouraged in order to minimise waste and energy usage.
Under the Companies Audit, Investigation and Community Businesses communicate energy saving advice to employees through Enterprise Act 2004, auditors have the right to access all information newsletters and best practice guidance notes.
necessary for performance of their duties as auditor and the duties of Many of the businesses across the Group are accredited to the Directors in this regard are clarified.
international environmental standard ISO14001 and are therefore subject So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit to the stringent compliance requirements which this standard requires.
information of which the auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps which they ought to have taken as a Director to Research and development make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to Using both internal expertise and external consultants the Group establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
continually invests in research and development into new products This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in and processes and new products were launched across the Group accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies during the year.
No research and development expenditure has been Act 1985. capitalised in the year.
The Group continues to invest in new Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office technology in order to reduce manufacturing costs and to improve as auditors.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the Annual productivity.
The Group will continue to invest in research and General Meeting of the Company to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as development that has a suitable return.
auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 30 INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION & BUSINESSES Going concern Shares, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect under paragraph A of this resolution.
This amount before any its future development, performance and position are set out in the reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the issued Ordinary Business review on pages 8 to 16.
The financial position of the Group, Share capital of the Company as at 11 March 2009. its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of this the Finance Directors review on pages 17 to 23.
In addition, notes 19 resolution will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2010 the last date by and 24 to the consolidated financial statements include the Groups which the Company must hold an Annual General Meeting in 2010 policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging held in 2010.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise activities and its exposures to liquidity risk.
Credit risk exposure is either of the authorities sought under this resolution.
discussed in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Resolution 12 will seek authority to allot Ordinary Shares or sell The Groups committed borrowing facilities are detailed in the any Ordinary Shares which the Company elects to hold in treasury for Finance Directors review on pages 17 to 23.
The Group prepares cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to regular business forecasts and monitors its projected compliance with their existing shareholdings.
Except as provided in the next paragraph, its banking covenants, which are reviewed by the Board.
Forecasts are this authority would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with then adjusted for sensitivities which address the principal risks to pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if which the Group is exposed, such as fluctuations in exchange rates required by the rights of those shares or as the Board otherwise between Sterling and both the US dollar and the Euro and best considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount estimates of the possible impact of the macroeconomic environment of 49,758 representing 24,879,338 Ordinary Shares.
This aggregate on the Groups underlying trading results.
nominal amount represents approximately 5% of the issued Ordinary Consideration is then given to the potential actions available to Share capital of the Company as at 11 March 2009. management to mitigate the impact of one or more of the Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph B of sensitivities.
The Group should be able to operate within the level of resolution 11 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights issue its current facility and remain covenant compliant for the foreseeable only subject to the right of the Board to impose necessary or future, being a period of at least twelve months from the date of appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional approval of these financial statements.
As at the date of this Report, no After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a Ordinary Shares are held by the Company in treasury.
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2010 the last adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the date by which the Company must hold an Annual General Meeting in foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going 2010 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
Resolution 13 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the Annual General Meeting Company to purchase its own shares pursuant to section 166 of the The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Companies Act 1985.
This authority is limited to an aggregate offices of Investec at 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP at maximum number of 49,758,677 Ordinary Shares, representing 11.00 am on 14 May 2009. approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary Share Resolutions dealing with the following special business will be capital as at 11 March 2009.
This power will expire at the conclusion proposed at the Annual General Meeting: of next years Annual General Meeting.
The maximum price which Resolution 9 will seek shareholder approval to hold all general may be paid for an Ordinary Share will be an amount which is not meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on not less than more than 5 per cent above the average of the mid-market quotations 14 clear days notice.
The EU Shareholders Rights Directive enables of the Ordinary Shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange companies to call such meetings on 14 days notice, but only if Daily Official List.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising shareholders have agreed an enabling resolution and the Company all or any of the powers conferred by this resolution and will only offers the facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means exercise their authority if it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
The passing of this resolution will give the Company greater flexibility.
Recommendations Resolution 10 proposes that the authorised share capital of the The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed Company be increased by 100,000,000 Ordinary Shares, representing at the Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the a percentage increase of approximately 0.09%.
This increase is being Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors sought in order to give the Company sufficient authorised share unanimously recommend that members vote in favour of all of the capital to take full advantage of the ability to allot Ordinary Shares resolutions proposed, as they intend to do in respect of their own under the authorities proposed in resolution 11. beneficial holdings.
Resolution 11 Paragraph A of this resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate Disclosures in the Directors report nominal amount equal to 331,724 representing 165,862,000 The Corporate Governance report and Business review and Finance Ordinary Shares of 0.2 pence each.
This amount represents Directors review form part of the Directors report.
approximately one-third of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 11 March 2009.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: In line with recent guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers the ABI, paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority to allot Ordinary Shares in connection with a rights GARRY BARNES issue in favour of Ordinary Shareholders up to an aggregate nominal Secretary amount equal to 663,449 representing 331,724,500 Ordinary 11 March 2009 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2008 31
