Board OF DiRECTORS Sir Adrian Montague CBE 61 Stephen Box 58 non-executive Chairman independent non-executive director, senior independent director Sir Adrian Montague is Non-Executive Chairman of Friends provident plc and of CellMark AB, the international Stephen Box is a Chartered Accountant who spent more forest products marketing group based in Gothenburg.
than 25 years at Coopers & lybrand, 15 of these as a From 1997 to 2001, he held senior posts concerned with partner.
From August 1997 to November 2002 he was the implementation of the Governments policies for the Finance Director of National Grid.
He is a Non-Executive involvement of the private sector in the delivery of public Director of partyGaming plc pG, Thames Water Utilities services, first as Chief Executive of the Treasury Taskforce ltd TWUl and Wales & West Utilities ltd WWU.
He and then as Deputy Chairman of partnerships UK plc.
was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Michael page He was Deputy Chairman of Network Rail from 2001 to International plc on 27 February 2001.
He is a member of 2004, Non-Executive Chairman of Cross london Rail links the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
limited from 2004 to 2005 and Chairman of British Energy from 2002 to 2009.
He spent his early career as a solicitor Charles-Henri Dumon 50 with linklaters & paines before joining Kleinwort Benson in managing director Continental europe and 1994.
Sir Adrian is also a Non-Executive Director of london the Americas First, a Director of Skanska AB, the Swedish international Charles-Henri Dumon joined Michael page in 1985 and construction group, and a Trustee of The Historic Royal was appointed a Director in 1987.
Since then he has had palaces.
He was awarded a CBE in 2001 and a knighthood in full responsibility for the Groups operations in France and 2006.
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
has managed the Groups entry into Southern Europe and South America.
He was appointed Managing Director for all Steve Ingham 46 Michael pages European and South American businesses in Chief executive January 2001.
His responsibilities were increased to include Steve Ingham joined Michael page in 1987 as a consultant North America in January 2006. with Michael page Marketing and Sales.
He was responsible Ruby McGregor-Smith 46 for setting up the london marketing and sales businesses independent non-executive director and was promoted to operating Director in 1990.
He was appointed Managing Director of Michael page Marketing and Ruby McGregor-Smith qualified as a Chartered Accountant Sales in 1994.
Subsequently he took additional responsibility with BDo Stoy Hayward and was appointed to the Board of for Michael pages Retail, Technology, Human Resources Michael page International plc on 23 May 2007.
She is Chief and Engineering businesses.
He was promoted to the Board Executive of MITIE Group plC, a position she has held since as Executive Director of UK operations in January 2001, March 2007. previously to being appointed Chief Executive, and subsequently to Managing Director of UK operations she held the positions of Group Finance Director and then in May 2005.
He was appointed Chief Executive on 6 April Chief operating officer.
prior to joining MITIE Group plC, 2006.
Steve is also a member of the Great ormond Street she held a range of senior roles within the support services Hospitals Corporate partnership Board.
sector, primarily at Serco Group plc.
She is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
26 michael page international Dr tim Miller 51 ExECUtIvE BOARD independent non-executive director In addition to the Executive Directors, the Executive Dr Tim Miller was appointed to the Board on 15 August 2005 Board comprises Alexis fide Bretteville Regional Managing and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Director - The Americas, Christophe Duchatellier Regional on 16 September 2005.
He is also a member of the Audit Managing Director - Europe excluding France, Gary James and Nomination Committees.
Tim has wide experience Regional Managing Director - Asia pacific and Andrew in human resources and has held a number of senior HR Wayland Chief Information officer.
and business roles in the information technology, retail Alexis fide Bretteville 46 and pharmaceutical sectors.
He is currently a Director of Regional managing director the Americas Standard Chartered Bank Bank, joining in May 2000 as Group Head of Human Resources HR and was appointed Alexis fide Bretteville joined Michael page in 1993 as a a Director of the Bank in December 2004.
In addition to Consultant in paris, France.
In 1997 he was appointed his responsibilities at the Bank, Tim is a member of the Managing Director of Michael page Spain, launching Spain, ifs Board of Governors and Vice president, organisation portugal and later, Brazil.
In 2002 he moved to Germany, and Resourcing at the Chartered Institute of personnel and taking on responsibility for Germany, Belgium and Sweden.
Tim was appointed Non-Executive In 2004 he moved to Belgium when his responsibilities also Chairman of SC First Bank Korea limited in September included Holland and the launch of poland in 2005.
In 2006 2007 with responsibility for governance in Korea.
he became Regional Managing Director for the Americas, based in New York, having responsibility for Michael page in Stephen Puckett 47 USA, Canada, Brazil, Mexico and most recently Argentina.
Group finance director Christophe Duchatellier 46 Stephen puckett qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Regional managing director Continental europe BDo Binder Hamlyn.
He joined Wace Group plc in 1988 as excluding france Director of Corporate Finance, subsequently being promoted to Group Finance Director in 1991.
He was Group Finance Christophe Duchatellier joined Michael page in 1992 as Director of Stat plus Group plc in 2000, and appointed a Consultant in paris.
He progressed to Director having Group Finance Director of Michael page International plc launched the Michael page Secretarial business in France.
He was a Non-Executive Director of SHl In 1997 he moved to Milan, Italy and launched Michael Group plc from 2004 to 2006. page Italy and in 2001 Michael page Switzerland.
In 2002 he assumed responsibility as Regional Managing Director Hubert Reid 68 for Spain and portugal.
In 2006 he moved to Geneva and independent non-executive director assumed additional responsibility for Northern, Central and Eastern Europe, also assisting with the launch of Michael Hubert Reid is Chairman of Enterprise Inns plc and of the page Russia, 2006 and Michael page luxembourg, 2007.
Midas Income and Growth Trust plC and Deputy Chairman of Majedie Investments plC.
He was previously Managing Gary James 47 Director and then Chairman of the Boddington Group Regional managing director Asia pacific plc, and a Non-Executive Director and then Chairman of Gary James joined Michael page Finance in london in Ibstock plc, Bryant Group plc and the Royal london Group.
He was appointed Director of Michael page Sales He was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Michael page & Marketing in 1994, Managing Director of Michael page International plc on 25 February 2003.
He is a member of the Marketing in 1997 and transferred to America in 2002 as Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Managing Director of North America.
He moved to Australia and was appointed Managing Director of the Asia pacific region in August 2006.
Andrew wayland 42 Chief information officer Andrew Wayland was the UK IT Business Management Director of  where he worked for over 10 years in the internal IT functions.
He brings extensive experience in establishing IT strategy and innovation to support the wider business strategy, and integrating technology teams.
He was appointed Chief Information officer of Michael page in December 2005.
ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 27 Directors REPORT Principal activity and review of the business and provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may future developments cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
The Group is one of the worlds leading specialist recruitment consultancies.
The Groups trading results are set out in the Directors and interests financial statements on pages 50 to 81.
Details of the Groups The following were Directors during the year and held office strategy, outlook and review of operations are described in throughout the year other than as shown below.
the Chairmans Statement, operational Review and Financial Review on pages 10 to 25.
Sir Adrian Montague CBE Chairman Steve Ingham Chief Executive Enhanced Business Review Stephen Box The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review Charles-Henri Dumon of the business of the Group during the financial year ended Ruby McGregor-Smith 31 December 2008 and of the position of the Group at the Dr Tim Miller end of that financial year, together with a description of the Stephen puckett principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as Hubert Reid an Enhanced Business Review.
Non-Executive Directors The information that fulfils the requirements of this Review can Senior Independent Director be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, operational review pages 12 to 17 Stephen puckett and Hubert Reid will retire by rotation at the Strategy pages 4 to 9 Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves Key performance indicators page 22 for re-election.
The Senior Non-Executive Director, Stephen Future outlook pages 11 and 17 Box will retire during 2009.
Risks and uncertainties pages 24 and 25 Biographical details for all the current Directors are shown Financial review pages 18 to 25 on pages 26 and 27.
Corporate responsibility pages 29 to 33 The beneficial interests of Directors in office at 31 December Significant agreements 2008 in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2008 and at 5 March 2009 are set out in the Remuneration Report There are certain agreements to which the Company is party on pages 40 to 47. that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
All of the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest in the ordinary shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust and Details of the significant agreements of this kind are as its subsidiaries.
follows: The Company has maintained throughout the year directors A 50m revolving credit facility that terminates on a change and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its of control, with outstanding amounts becoming payable directors.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity with interest.
provision contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
28 michael page international These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity Substantial shareholdings provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act As at 20 February 2009, the Company has been notified of 2006, were in force throughout the year and are currently the interests held in more than 3% of the issued share capital in force.
of the Company as shown in Fig.
Substantial Shareholdings The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 97.3m Number of 2007: 101.7m.
ordinary % of issued Holder shares share capital A final dividend for 2007 of 5.6 pence per ordinary share was Capital International Limited 42,018,829 13.05% paid on 9 June 2008.
An interim dividend of 2.88 pence per Standard Life Investments 27,805,473 8.63% ordinary share was paid on 10 october 2008.
The Directors Lone Pine Capital 17,340,086 5.38% recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008 of 5.12 pence per ordinary share Fidelity 16,322,485 5.07% on 8 June 2009 to shareholders on the register on 8 May JP Morgan 15,993,951 4.97% 2009 which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will Wellington Management 15,047,409 4.67% result in a total dividend for the year of 8.0 pence per ordinary Legal & General 12,731,958 3.95% share 2007: 8.0 pence.
Baillie Gifford 9,743,561 3.03% Nomad Investments 9,713,547 3.02% Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are Corporate responsibility CR shown in Note 18 to the financial statements.
The Board recognises its responsibilities in respect of social, At the Annual General Meeting held on 23 May 2008, environmental and ethical SEE matters, with the Chief the Company renewed its authority to make market purchases Executive having Board responsibility for Group Environmental of its own ordinary shares up to a maximum of 15% of the Management.
The Directors continually monitor all risks to issued share capital.
the Groups businesses, including SEE risks, which may During the year, the Company purchased 6.7m shares which impact the Groups short and long-term value.
A further 0.5m shares were also no significant SEE risks were identified.
The Company is purchased by the employee benefit trust and held to fund also a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series designed share scheme awards.
The total nominal value of all shares to measure the performance of, and facilitate investment in, repurchased was 0.1m and represented 2.2% of the issued those companies meeting globally recognised standards of share capital.
The shares were purchased for a consideration corporate responsibility.
1.3m shares were also issued The Groups policies on CR matters are described in the to satisfy share options exercised during the year.
ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 29 a environmental policy Water In the UK, Michael page has consumed 33,514 m3 of water.
The Group does not operate in a business sector which This is an increase of 13% from last years fi gures due to new causes signifi cant pollution, but the Board recognises that offi ces and an increase in staff.
the business does have an impact on the environment.
The Board is committed to managing and improving the way electricity in which our activities affect the environment by: our UK offi ces consumed approximately 5,288,020 kWh of electricity which converts to 1,691 tonnes of Co. our average optimising the use of energy: electricity consumption is 154 kWh of electricity per m of offi ce ensuring the effi cient use of materials: space.
This sits well within benchmarks, which state for an air encouraging re-use and recycling: and conditioned offi ce medium electricity consumption should fall incorporating the principle of sustainable development.
between 128kWh m and 226kWh m. During the year, the Group has continued to allocate a our energy supplier provides greener energy having less of an signifi cant amount of time and resource to further identify impact on the environment.
Electricity is taken from renewable where its activities have an impact on the environment.
sources which reduces the carbon emissions.
A review is carried out annually in accordance with the Gas guidance as laid down by the Department for Environment, The estimated total carbon emissions generated by the Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA, and the Global Reporting consumption of gas at our UK offi ces is 400 tonnes of carbon Initiative GRI, an independent international institution dioxide.
The tonnage of gas is based on UK offi ces consuming established to create a common framework for sustainability 1,997,201 kWh of gas during the year.
transport The current environmental report, which covers our UK our largest environmental impact is transport related pollution.
businesses only, will shortly be available on the Michael page This is from business travel and getting to and from work which website.
A summary of its fi findings during 2008 is shown generated an estimated 1,075 tonnes of Co. below.
more Green Waste As a company committed to green issues, we are actively 235 tonnes of waste was generated by UK offi ces.
involved in fi nding work practices that can help reduce our carbon footprint.
More Green was launched in the UK in Through recycling, Michael page in the UK has saved 3 2007 to focus employees more actively on green issues and 3,248 trees and saved a total of 955m landfi ll space.
to advertise internally the environmental matters in which A summary is shown in Fig.
energy Michael page are proud consumers of Green Choice energy which is the most environmentally sound electricity option The total Co emissions generated as a result of the use of available in the UK.
Green Choice energy supplies electricity electricity and gas at Michael page, offi ces in 2007 2008 is from environmental sources coming from a mixture of estimated at 2,091 tonnes.
UK Waste Generation Annual weight % of total generated tonnes waste Confi dential waste 80 34% Toners 3 1% Mixed offi ce paper 75 32% Food waste and packaging 61 27% Other 16 6% Total 235 100% 30 michael page international renewable sources.
These sources do not involve the burning city youth with opportunities to join a team, coach a group 2 of fossil fuels, which produce Co emissions.
and inspire youths to recognize their potential and realize their dreams, Sport Dans la Ville Sport dans la Ville creates Together, Michael page and page personnel in the UK sport-activities to help underprivileged children who live in earned a SITA Certificate of Recycling.
In 2009 we will be difficult neighbourhoods and Norwalk Child Safety Group, working hard to make an even greater effort to reduce our which was created by the City of Norwalk police Benevolent environmental impact.
Association to find effective solutions to neighbourhood In respect of managing waste and reducing the amount of concerns.
Here we contributed to their annual recruitment waste that would typically go to landfill, we are phasing out drive and sponsored their annual Community Guidebook.
the use of plastic cups and replacing them with glasses.
We also assisted the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation This saves approximately 380,000 cups from landfill.
In 2009 the JDRF is dedicated to helping children who have diabetes we will be launching a review of our stationery products to live a normal, healthy life where we contributed to their annual ensure that we not only leverage best price, but also ensure fund raiser and Michael page consultants volunteered at a that products we purchase are environmentally friendly and summer event to help raise awareness.
This is a global programme In latin America, we sponsor three big social projects, all that will operate in the majority of countries.
of them involving cultural awareness for children in need.
b Charitable donations These were projeto Vida Jovem, projeto Guri, and Ao Comunitria, which aim to keep children off the streets and The Group made charitable donations of 153,366 during in school, preparing them for a better future.
Included in donations are amounts made to various local charities serving the communities in In Asia pacific, Michael page Australia held numerous which the Group operates.
It is the Groups policy not to charitable events, supporting a range of charities including the make political donations.
Breast Cancer Foundation, Juvenile Diabetes Foundation and Ronald McDonald House Childrens Charity.
The Melbourne In EMEA, Michael page portugal supported the legio da team has also personally contributed to the sponsorship of Boa Vontade and liga portuguesa Contra o Cancro.
legio two children through World Vision for the past three years.
da Boa Vontade, is an educational, cultural and charity In Hong Kong, Michael page supported childrens cancer association, which promotes food distribution, education, charities with a range of events, including rickshaw and sedan culture and employment.
liga portuguesa Contra o Cancro chair style races.
In China, we raised money for operation is a cultural and social private association, which promotes Smile, a charity which supports operations on children cancer prevention, social support for cancer patients and in China with severe cleft palates and facial deformities, training and investigation to cure the disease.
In Spain, we in order to give them a chance of normal life and social collaborate with the Theodora Foundation, with donations acceptance.
enabling the Doctores Sonrisa Clown Doctors to visit sick children in hospital, whilst in Italy, recruitment services are c employee involvement provided free of charge to Save the Children.
The unique culture of the organisation ensures active Since arriving in South Africa, we have supported a charity involvement at all levels throughout the business.
We promote called Children of the Dawn.
This charity focuses on a meritocratic environment where the views and ideas of our supporting aids orphans throughout the country.
The focus employees have a definite impact on the decisions we make.
of their work is to support families around the children to our ranking amongst The Sunday Times 100 Best Companies allow them to stay within their community, rather than seeing to Work for since 2005 is the main focus of our formal them sent to orphanages where they lose contact with employee engagement activities.
Indeed, in 2008, Michael their family.
page International rose 21 places to 39 in the survey which is In the UK, subject to certain restrictions, the Group matches a testament to the efforts we have made in recent years.
charitable donations made by employees.
In 2008, we In 2008, our highest ranking factor was My Team ranking nominated The British Heart Foundation as our charity of the 12th in the entire survey of 837 companies.
We have sponsored a number of different initiatives and encouraging team spirit, feeling part of the company, having have so far raised approximately 70,000 for the charity.
our two highest ranking questions were: In the Americas, the USA worked with different charitable and Working in this Team gives me a buzz & My Team is fun to community groups such as the Harlem RBI who provide innerwork with.
