treasury management and currency risk Principal risks and uncertainties It is the Directors intention to continue to finance the activities The management of the business and the execution of and development of the Group from retained earnings, and the Groups strategy are subject to a number of risks.
to operate the Groups business while maintaining a strong The following section comprises a summary of the main balance sheet position.
In a generally benign economic risks Michael page International plc believes could potentially environment this equates to maintaining the Groups net impact the Groups operating and financial performance.
cash debt position within a relatively narrow band, with cash people generated in excess of these requirements being used to buy back the Groups shares.
In an economic downturn a more The resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit cautious funding position is adopted with the Group being talented people with the right skill-sets could adversely managed in a net cash position.
This is further compounded by the Groups organic growth strategy and its policy of not Cash surpluses are invested in short-term deposits, with externally hiring senior operational positions.
Mitigation of any working capital requirements being provided from this risk is achieved by succession planning, training of staff, Group cash resources, Group facilities, or by local overdraft competitive pay structures and share plans linked to the facilities.
The Group has a multi-currency notional cash pool Groups results and career progression.
between the Euro zone subsidiaries and the UK-based Group Treasury subsidiary.
The structure facilitates interest macro economic environment and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
Recruitment activity is largely driven by economic cycles It is the intention to extend the scope of the participation to and the levels of business confidence.
The Board look to other Group companies.
reduce the Groups cyclical risk by expanding geographically, The main functional currencies of the Group are Sterling, by increasing the number of disciplines, by building partEuro and Australian Dollar.
The Group does not have material qualified and clerical businesses and by continuing to build transactional currency exposures, nor is there a material the temporary business.
exposure to foreign denominated monetary assets and A substantial portion of the Groups gross profit arises from liabilities.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency translation fees which are contingent upon the successful placement of differences in accounting for its overseas operations.
If a client cancels the assignment at our policy is not to hedge this exposure.
any stage in the process the Group receives no remuneration.
In certain cases, where the Group gives or receives shortAs a consequence the Groups visibility of gross profits is term loans to and from other Group companies with different generally quite short and reduces further during periods of reporting currencies, it may use foreign exchange swap economic downturn as currently being experienced.
derivative financial instruments to manage the currency and interest rate exposure that arises on these loans.
It is the Groups policy not to seek to designate these derivatives as hedges.
24 michael page international Competition technology The Group is reliant on a number of technology systems to The degree of competition varies in each of the Groups main regions.
In the UK, Australia and North America, the provide services to clients and candidates.
These systems are recruitment market is well developed, highly competitive dependent on a number of important suppliers that provide and fragmented.
The characteristics of a developed market the technology infrastructure and disaster recovery solutions.
are greater competition for clients and candidates, as well The performance of these suppliers are continually monitored as pricing pressure.
In EMEA, latin America and Asia, the to ensure business critical services are available and maintained recruitment market is generally less developed with a large as far as practically possible.
Due to the rapid advancement proportion of all recruitment being carried out by companies of technology, there is a risk that systems could become internal resources rather than through recruitment specialists.
outdated with the potential to affect efficiency and have an This is changing due to changes in legislation, increasing job impact on revenue and client service.
This risk is mitigated by mobility and the difficulty internal resources face in sourcing regular reviews of the Groups technology strategy to ensure suitably qualified candidates and managing compliance.
that it supports the overall Group strategy.
If the Group does not continue to compete in its markets legal effectively, by hiring new staff, opening and expanding offices The Group operates in a large number of jurisdictions which and continuing the discipline roll-outs, there is a risk that have varying legal and compliance regulations.
The Group competitors may beat us to key strategic opportunities, takes its responsibilities seriously and ensures that its policies, which may result in lost business and a reduction in market systems and procedures are continually updated to reflect share.
This risk is mitigated by meetings of the Main Board, best practice and to comply with the legal requirements in Executive Board and Regional and Country Management all the markets in which it operates.
In order to reduce the Boards where Group strategy is continually reviewed and legal and compliance risks, fee earners and support staff decisions made over the allocation of the Groups resources, receive regular training and updates of changes in legal and principally people.
Stephen Puckett Group Finance Director 5 March 2009 ANNUAl REpoRT 2008 25
