Management and governance Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company Donations present their report and the audited financial statements of the The Companys policy is to make no donations to political parties Company for the year ended 30 April 2008.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of $31,000 to a number of local and national charities 2007: Principal activities $16,000.
This included $6,500 to Street Child Africa, $2,800 to The principal activity of the Group during the year was the NCH and $2,700 to Great Ormond Street Hospital.
The Company provision of enterprise application management solutions.
has a matching gift programme that matches employee donations to charitable organisations.
It also has a policy in place to The Company is limited by shares and is domiciled and encourage employees to volunteer a certain number of hours incorporated in the United Kingdom.
to assist local charitable organisations.
The registered ofce of the Company is: The Lawn, Post balance sheet events 2230 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN.
On 18 June 2008, the Company announced that it had acquired NetManage, Inc. for a total cash consideration of $73.3 million Review of business and future developments paid in full on completion.
On close, NetManage had $27.9 million For details regarding the Groups activity and the future of cash providing for a net cash outow of $45.4 million.
developments of the Group, please refer to the Chief Executive The Company announced on 11 July 2008 that it had acquired Ofcers statement on pages 13 to 14 and the finance review Liant Software Corporation for a total cash consideration of on pages 17 and 21 and is incorporated in this Directors report $5.0 million.
Further information on the acquisitions is to be by reference.
Risk factors are set out on page 22 and key found in the finance review.
performance indicators KPIs are on page 12.
Directors and their interests Dividends The directors of the Company who served during the year are The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy as follows: reecting the long-term earnings and cash ow potential of Micro Focus with a level of dividend cover for the financial Executive year ended 30 April 2008 of approximately 2.5 times on a Stephen Kelly pre-exceptional earnings basis.
In line with the above policy, Nick Bray the directors recommend payment of a final dividend in respect Mike Shinya resigned 7 January 2008 of 2008 of 9.4 cents per share, which, taken together with the Non-executive interim dividend of 3.6 cents per share paid in January 2008, Kevin Loosemore Chairman gives a total dividend in respect of 2008 of 13 cents per share.
Prescott Ashe Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid David Dominik on 29 September 2008 to shareholders on the register on David Maloney 5 September 2008.
Dividends will be paid in Sterling based Tom Skelton on an exchange rate of 1.99 $, equivalent to approximately Paul Pester appointed 27 June 2007 4.72 pence per share, being the rate applicable on 26 June 2008, the date of recommendation of the dividend by the board.
Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company, as disclosed in the register of Research and development directors interests, are given in the remuneration report on pages The Group expensed $29.5 million relating to research and 35 to 41.  2007:$23.1million.
In addition the Group capitalised $5.4 million of qualifying None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of expenditure 2007: $5.3 million.
This expenditure was incurred signicance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was in improving the quality, functionality and extending the range a party during the financial year, except as disclosed in note 29, of the Groups innovative software solutions.
26 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 Management and governance The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and Share option schemes ofcers of Group companies against liabilities which may be The directors remain committed to the principle that selected incurred by them whilst acting as directors and ofcers.
employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress through share-based compensation schemes.
Details of the As at the date of this report indemnities are in force under Groups share-based compensation schemes are given in note 24. which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law and by the Articles of Association Payment of creditors against liabilities they may incur in the execution of their duties Micro Focus International plc, which holds the investments in the as directors of the Company.
Copies of these indemnities are Groupscompanies,  available for review at the registered ofce of the Company.
Employment policy Equal opportunities  The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
to their business and in placing orders gives consideration to Full consideration is given to all job applicants, irrespective quality, delivery, price and terms of payment.
The Group does of gender, age, marital status, disability, sexuality, race, colour, not follow a specic payment code but has a policy to pay its religion, ethnic or national origin or any other conditions not suppliers in accordance with the specic terms agreed with each relevant to the performance of the job, who can demonstrate supplier.
The average number of days purchases outstanding that they have the necessary skills and abilities.
Disabled employees Financial instruments With regard to existing employees and those who may become The exposure of the Group to financial risks, including the use of disabled, the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure provide continuing employment under its existing terms and to price, credit, cash ow and liquidity risk, can be found in note conditions and to provide training and career development, 19 to the financial statements.
All employees accept the commitment within this policy that the Group will not allow Substantial shareholding discrimination or harassment by employees or others acting on In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Groups behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital status, race, the Financial Services Authority, at 25 July 2008, the Company nationality, disability or religious or political beliefs.
had been advised of the following notiable interests in its voting rights: Employee involvement Ordinary shares Percentage of The Group believes it is important that employees are aware Name of holder of 10 pence each issued capital of the Groups business strategy and objectives to assist them to focus on working towards these goals.
Communications at Golden Gate Capital 70,026,157 35.00% Standard Life Investments Limited 17,872,249 8.92% the time of key announcements, including presentations by Majedie Asset Management Limited 16,330,461 8.17% directors to all employees, together with briengs throughout Legal and General Group Plc 7,996,159 3.98% the year, are part of the communication and consultation Fidelity International Limited 6,605,572 3.30% programme.
In addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both to raise issues and to assist with the two-way ow of information.
Additional information for shareholders Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive Further education and training into UK law, the following description provides the required Continuing education, training and development are important information for shareholders where not already provided to ensure the future success of the Group.
The Group supports elsewhere in this report.
This summary is based on the individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education Companys current Articles of Association Current Articles qualications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
but please note that it is proposed that the Company will adopt Training needs of all employees are also analysed during the new articles of association New Articles with effect from annual appraisal process, at which time a training plan is agreed 1 October 2008, brief details of which are set out in the notice as part of each individuals ongoing development.
of AGM accompanying this report.
Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 27 Management and governance Directors report Share capital Transfer of shares The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided Subject to the Current Articles, any member may transfer all or into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
any of his or her certied shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the board Rights and obligations attaching to shares may approve.
The board may, in its absolute discretion and Voting in a general meeting of the Company, subject to the without giving any reasons, decline to register any instrument provisions of the Current Articles and to any special rights or of transfer of a certied share which is not a fully paid share restrictions as to voting attached to any class of shares in the provided that, where any such shares are admitted to the ofcial Company of which there are none : list maintained by the UK Listing Authority, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the On a show of hands, every member present in person shall shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper have one vote: and basis.
The board may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to shares in certicated form unless it is in On a poll, every member who is present in person or by respect of only one class of share and is lodged duly stamped proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or she if required at the Transfer Ofce accompanied by the relevant is the holder.
share certicate s and such other evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by class meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person so or other sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share to do.
In the case of a transfer of shares in certicated form by a recognised clearing house or a nominee of a recognised clearing remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
house or of a recognised investment exchange the lodgement of Deadlines for voting rights share certicates will only be necessary if and to the extent that Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect certicates have been issued in respect of the shares in question.
of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer 25 September 2008 are set out in the Notice of Meeting which of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four accompanies this report.
Subject to the Current Articles and the rules as dened in the CREST Regulations, and apart from any class of Dividends and distributions wholly dematerialised security, the board may permit any class Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and the of shares in the Company to be held in uncerticated form and, Companies Act 2006 the Companies Acts, the Company subject to the Current Articles, title to uncerticated shares to be may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to transferred by means of a relevant system.
members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
The board may pay interim Repurchase of shares The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, whenever the profits of the Company, in the opinion of the board, justifies its held on 26 September 2007 to buy back up to 20,017,543 payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata ordinary shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
the next AGM on 25 September 2008.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 10 pence and the maximum price Liquidation payable is the higher of 5% above the average of the mid-market Under the Current Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, the price of the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business liquidator may, with the authority of an extraordinary resolution of the Company: days immediately before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses.
of the assets of the Company: or Amendment to the Current Articles Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such Any amendments to the Current Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, shall think t. by way of special resolution.
28 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 Management and governance Appointment and replacement of directors On 13 May 2008 the Company entered into a $40 million credit Directors shall be no less than three and no more than 11 in facility with HSBC Bank Plc and Lloyds TSB Bank Plc for general number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary corporate purposes.
On a change of control, the lenders may give resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board  holds ofce only until the next AGM and is then eligible for and require repayment of any outstanding loans and interest.
election by the shareholders and thereafter at least every three years.
The board may from time to time appoint one or more Branch directors to hold employment or executive ofce for such period The Group continues to operate overseas branches in Hong Kong subject to the Companies Acts and on such terms as they may and Sweden.
determine and may revoke or terminate any such employment.
Annual General Meeting AGM The Company may by extraordinary resolution or by ordinary The notice convening the AGM of the Company together with resolution of which special notice has been given remove and the explanatory notes on the proposed resolutions accompanies the board by unanimous decision may remove any director before this report.
The meeting will be held at The Lawn, 22-30 Old the expiration of his term of ofce and the Company may elect Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN on 25 September or the board may appoint another person in place of a director so 2008 at 3pm.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors The ofce of director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns ii So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report an order is made by any court claiming that he or she is or may confirm that there is no relevant audit information that is, be suffering from a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent information needed by the Companys auditors in connection without permission of the board from meetings for six months with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are and the board resolves that his or her ofce is vacated: iv he or unaware and that the directors have taken all the steps that they she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the director: or vi he or she is removed from ofce pursuant Companys auditors are aware of that information.
 LLP have indicated their willingness to Powers of the directors continue in ofce and a resolution that they be reappointed will The business of the Company will be managed by the board be proposed at the AGM.
who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association, the Going concern Current Articles, the Companies Acts and any ordinary resolution The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company of the Company.
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore Shares held in the Employee benefit Trust it is appropriate to maintain the going concern basis in preparing Where the trustee of the Micro Focus Employee benefit Trust the financial statements.
holds shares in the Company and the beneficial interest in those shares has not been transferred to a beneciary of the Trust, By order of the board the Trustee may not vote in relation to those shares at any meeting of shareholders of the Company.
significant agreements The following significant agreement contains provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the Jane Smithard Company Secretary event of a change of control of the Company: 31 July 2008 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 29
