Overview Moving our markets forward Global 2000 accounts During the past year Micro Focus has continued to increase the number of large deals it has secured in the global 2000 sector.
The historical answer to legacy This results from a solid, go-to-market focus on a segment, the complex infrastructures of which hold challenges and modernization has been for CIOs to opportunities for business innovation.
Combined with organic buy into the next technology hype growth, our acquisition strategy, which began extending our cycle and allocate large sums of money portfolio management capabilities last year, is also bringing in the belief that newer is better.
increased relevance to these customers as improved application development and SOA Service Oriented Architecture solutions The days when one-size-fits-all are added to the Micro Focus family.
technology solutions were successful are largely over: IT needs more of a Systems integrators and outsourcers surgical-precision approach, which Micro Focus has historically offered a strong commercial proposition to its systems integrator and outsource partners.
This continues to be the case as companies strive to improve The Application Management Continuum the business value of their existing application assets, rather Offers CIOs A Contemporary Approach than engage in high-risk replacement strategies.
Our portfolio to Modernization, Forrester Research, Inc. management solution, which continues to gather momentum, July 2008 already supports many global providers.
It combines well with the only modernisation toolset positioned to provide support for a diverse range of modernisation strategies, from platform migration to extension, from.
ISVs Independent Software Vendors Micro Focus continues to earn strong revenues from its application provider community across all industry sectors.
Firms on smaller mainframes There is particular growth in deployment revenues, as applications nd increasingly large audiences, not least through in the 1,000 MIPS range and below deployment to internet-based end user models.
The acquisition are seeing huge reductions in of Acucorp at the start of the year has driven even greater third-party software costs by moving innovation and impetus into this community.
COBOL applications to UNIX and Small and mid-sized enterprises Wintel platforms.
Micro Focus has recorded good growth in this area of its The Application Management Continuum customer base by continuing to provide core functionality to Offers CIOs A Contemporary Approach support existing applications.
In much the same way as with to Modernization, Forrester Research, Inc. our global 2000 customers, our solid organic growth in this July 2008 sector continues to be enhanced by relevant acquisitions.
Companies increasing uptake of SOA, combined with the need to mitigate risk in times of heightened economic uncertainty, is driving an increasing number of them to focus on modernising their core systems.
10 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 Overview Strategic partnerships Maximising value Micro Focus enjoys partnerships with many blue chip IT companies, including Accenture, CSC, EDS, HP, according to IBM, Intel, Lawson, Microsoft, Oracle and Sun industry analysts Microsystems.
Micro Focus is also a member of the Web Service Interoperability WS-I Group.
More than 20% of revenue generated from the top 2,000 US and No single company can provide a complete solution for every customer.
European companies now comes from alliances, with more expected soon.
To enable us to meet our customers needs more comprehensively and effectively, we work with a selection of partners around the world, These companies earn higher ROIs on from strategic partnerships, to key System Integrators and Software their alliances than they do from their Vendor relationships, through our consortium of partners, each of core businesses.
which has its own particular skills and area of specialisation.
Leading-edge companies are grouping alliances to create a string of interconnected relationships to enable them to overpower the competition.
These associations enable companies to break into related markets while, at the same time, enabling them to minimise risk and maintain the integrity of their core competencies.
Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 11
