Overview What we do Micro Focus a world leader in modernisation Todays tighter economic environment is driving business leaders to consider their choices carefully when investing in technology.
Across all industry sectors, the appetite for expensive IT packages and technology rewrites is disappearing as Boards increasingly recognise the rationale behind a well-planned modernisation of their organisations core systems.
The clear advantage of lower costs, reduced risks and the preservation of competitive intelligence is resulting in a substantial increase in demand for Micro Focus solutions.
05 Overview What we do At Micro Focus we believe in providing an evolutionary IT journey Micro Focus Application Portfolio Management APM solution enables the CIO to align IT spend with business strategy, by providing factual business intelligence for informed decision making, taking the risk out of change.
Make fact-based IT decisions Save up to 30% of maintenance budgets Grow innovation capacity by over 25% APM enables IT organisations to fully realise the value of existing assets while delivering the innovation the business needs to compete and grow.
06 Overview Micro Focus Application Modernisation Micro Focus Application Development is all about extracting value from existing systems solution provides contemporary and highly in more efficient ways and provides the productive development environments for the opportunity to utilise existing business processes creation, maintenance and extension of with greater flexibility.
Armed with the enterprise applications.
appropriate understanding and information, IT leaders can quickly see what strategies make Minimises cost and time to market through sense on an application by application basis and, enhanced developer productivity in many cases: the most rational approach is to Reduces risk by promoting high quality build on the strengths of existing applications software development and testing while addressing the issues that are truly preventing IT from delivering projects that add Increases ROI by exploiting the potential value to the business.
Utilising Micro Focus of existing enterprise applications modernisation tools, companies are able to modernise existing applications and deliver significantly higher return on investment, improving operational efficiency through IT modernization represents the re-use of proven business logic.
changes that every IT organization must face as the generations of Enables developers to deliver up to technology, skills and expectations 40% faster are inevitably replaced by the next ones.
Every enterprise must begin Reduces costs by moving workload to to prepare for the inevitable impact lower-cost platforms this will have.
Frees up resources to deliver on new Dale Vecchio, Gartner Inc. ITModernization: high-impact projects , 28 May 2008 Modernisation is not throwing out the old and bringing in the new: old IT is not necessarily bad: new IT is not necessarily good.
Successful modernisation evolves the old and Disclaimer: blends it with the best of the new.
The Gartner Report s described herein, the Gartner Report s represent data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service available only It protects existing application, data and skills to clients, by Gartner, Inc. a corporation organised under the laws of the State of Delaware, USA, and its subsidiaries Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
The Gartner Report s investments, while enabling organisations do not constitute a specic guide to action and the reader of this Company report assumes to respond to business requirements faster, sole responsibility for his or her selection of, or reliance on, the Gartner Report s, or any excerpts thereof, in making any decision, including any investment decision.
Each Gartner Report speaks to reduce infrastructure costs and to improve as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Company report and the opinions operational efficiencies.
expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
Gartner is not responsible, nor shall it have any liability, to the Company or to any reader of this Company report for errors, omissions or inadequacies in, or for any interpretations of, or for any calculations based upon data contained in, the Gartner Report s or any excerpts thereof.
Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 07 Overview What we do Micro Focus is the leading vendor of software for the assessment, modernisation, and management of business critical applications.
Software written in the COBOL programming language 80% of the worlds currently active computer code presents us with a substantial market opportunity.
Quantifying the value of IT assets INSEAD research, sponsored by Micro Focus, revealed that a third of respondents did not know how much they invest in their software assets.
In the current economic climate, it is surprising that many of the worlds leading companies are overlooking the value of these assets when other corporate assets, such as cash, brand, property and intellectual property, are measured regularly.
In the resulting report, written by Professor Soumitra Dutta, INSEADs Chair of Business & Technology, software was identified as being critical to business strategy, and conjoint analysis as the best approach for measuring its value.
Micro Focus solutions are at the heart of companies efforts to evaluate, manage and modernise their IT assets and, in a reaction to the report, Micro Focus called for a radical shift in the management and valuation of IT assets at organisations, worldwide.
Conjoint analysis methodology requires companies to make trade-offs across different business outcomes associated with the software asset.
If organisations analyse the conversion of real business outcome attributes generated by core IT systems into measures of business value, then there is a strong opportunity to calculate the real financial value of core software assets to the business.
08 Overview Keeping core IT assets running Micro Focus recognises the challenges of maintaining core IT systems.
They are at the heart of companies day-to-day operations and hold vital information linked to competitive advantage.
Because sourcing the experienced and highly-trained people needed to manage these critical assets is increasingly difficult, in 2007, Micro Focus launched its Academic Connections ACTION Programme.
This gives universities around the globe free access to the latest technology and teaching tools for enterprise application development.
Safeguarding your IT assets future proofing More than 65 academic institutions from around the world have joined the Micro Focus ACTION Programme, with the result that core COBOL skills are being taught in 12 countries across four continents, and more than 5,000 students a year are graduating from ACTION-assisted courses.
In addition, Micro Focus has formed a partnership with the UKs Employer Strategy Forum ESF, to address growing concerns about declining IT skills in business.
Despite the skills issues, many organizations have COBOL portfolios that are perfectly usable and work well.
Should these organizations throw them all away in the near term?
The organizations can leverage not only these COBOL transactions, but also use their current COBOL developers as service developers.
Dale Vecchio Susan Landry, Gartner Inc.  , July 2008 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 09
