Management and governance Board of directors Kevin Loosemore, 49 Nick Bray, 43 Non-executive Chairman Executive director and Chief Financial officer Kevin is Executive Chairman of Morse Plc and director of Farnham Nick was previously Group Finance Director of Fibernet Group plc, Castle.
He was previously the Chief Operating officer of Cable & having joined that company in February 2001.
Before that, he held Wireless plc, President of Motorola Europe, Middle East and Africa the positions of Group Chief Financial officer of Gentia Software plc and, before that, was Chief Executive of IBM UK.
He has a degree and Chief Accounting officer of Comshare Inc.
He started his career in politics and economics from Oxford University.
at Price Waterhouse where he qualied as a chartered accountant.
Nick has a first class honours degree in civil engineering from Stephen Kelly, 46 Aston University.
Executive director and Chief Executive officer Stephen served as Chief Executive officer of Chordiant from January David Dominik, 52 2002 until February 2006.
He served as Chordiants President and Non-executive director Chief Operating officer from October 2000 through January 2002, David has been a Managing Director of Golden Gate Capital since and as senior vice president of International operations from October its inception in 2000.
He previously spent ten years as a Managing 1998 to October 2000.
Prior to this, he spent almost ten years in Director at Bain Capital.
He managed Information Partners, a number of senior management positions with Oracle.
Stephen a specialised fund within Bain Capital, that focused on opportunities received his BSc with honours in business administration from the in the information services and software markets and also served on University of Bath.
the investment committee of Brookside, Bain Capitals public equity hedge fund.
David has a juris doctor degree from Harvard Law Audit committee Remuneration committee School cum laude and an AB in social studies economics and Nomination committee history from Harvard College magna cum laude: Phi Beta Kappa.
From left to right: Kevin Loosemore, Stephen Kelly, Nick Bray, David Dominik, Prescott Ashe, Paul Pester, David Maloney and Tom Skelton 24 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008 Management and governance Prescott Ashe, 41 David Maloney, 52 Non-executive director Non-executive director Prescott has been a Managing Director of Golden Gate Capital since David is Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd and a non-executive its inception in 2000.
He was previously a principal at Bain Capital, director of Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group plc, Carillion plc and which he joined in 1991 and, before that, was a consultant at the Enterprise Inns plc.
He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of global strategy consultancy, Bain & Company.
Prescott has a juris Make-a-Wish Foundation UK.
His most recent executive role was as doctor degree from Stanford Law School and a bachelor of sciences Chief Financial officer of the global hotel group Le Meridien Hotels degree in business administration from the University of California and Resorts.
Prior to that he was Chief Financial officer of Thomson at Berkeley.
Travel Group and Preussag Airlines, and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
David is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Paul Pester, 44 Management Accountants and has a degree in economics from Non-executive director Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
Paul was appointed a non-executive director in June 2007: he is currently an independent consultant working in the banking and Tom Skelton, 46 financial services industry.
His most recent executive role was as Non-executive director Chief Executive officer of Moneyfacts Group plc.
Previously he Tom is a founding member of Conuence Medical Systems, was Managing Director of Consumer Banking at Lloyds TSB Group, a healthcare and technology consulting company.
In his most recent Chairman of the British Bankers Association BBA Retail executive role, he served as Chief Executive officer for Misys Committee, a director at VISA International and Chairman of Healthcare Systems from January 2002 until March 2007 and as the Travellers Cheque Association.
Paul holds a first class honours a director of Misys plc.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive officer, degree in physics from Manchester University and a doctorate Medic Computer Systems, a US-based software company focused in mathematical physics from Oxford University.
on the healthcare information technology market.
He earned his BSBA from Robert Morris University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 25
