DIrectorS report DIrectorS report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended Substantial Shareholdings 31 December 2008.
As at 17 February 2009, the Company had received details of the following notifiable interests in its issued share capital: Activities of The Group The principal activity of the Group is ownership and management of % of hotels around the world.
Number of Issued share shares Capital Business Review The Business Review incorporates sections covering financial, City Developments Limited 161,708,536 53.50 operating, risk factors and Non-GAAP information for the year ended Prudential plc 24,281,040 8.03 31 December 2008 and is set out on pages 17 to 34.
These sections Aberdeen Asset provide information about the Groups strategy, its businesses, Management plc 15,093,433 4.99 their financial performance during the year, the principal risks and Schroders plc 15,184,330 5.02 uncertainties facing the Group and its likely development.
the interests of Prudential plc include the notifiable interest of the Results and Dividends following companies: The profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 102.8m 2007: 157.4m.
An interim dividend of 2.08p per share was paid on M&G Group Limited 24,281,040 8.03% 8 October 2008.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of M&G Limited 24,281,040 8.03% 4.17p per share 2007: final dividend of 10.42p which will, if approved M&G Investment at the annual general meeting, be paid on 20 May 2009 to shareholders Management Limited 24,246,956 8.02% on the register at close of business on 27 March 2009.
Total dividends The Prudential Assurance relating to the year are expected to amount to 18.9m.
The Company Company Limited 24,156,700 7.99% will be offering a scrip dividend alternative in respect of the final dividend.
the interests of Schroders plc include the notifiable interest of the following company: Employees During the year the average number of people employed by the Group Schroder Investment Management was 12,778 2007: 12,957.
Limited 15,093,616 4.99% Directors Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc operates in various countries and values highly the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of its people.
Biographical details of Directors are shown on pages 43 to 45.
Details The Group strives to build on the qualities inherent in its global of the share interests of Directors are shown on page 61. environment by developing and valuing people with different views, styles and approaches.
No changes to these interests occurred between the year end and the date of this report.
The Companys policy is to provide equality of opportunity for all The Company has provided each of its Directors and Alternate Directors employees without discrimination and continues to encourage the employment, training and advancement of disabled persons in with a qualifying third-party indemnity, as defined in section 234 of accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, provided that they can the Companies Act 2006 and these remain in force as at the date of be employed in a safe working environment.
During the year, the Company has maintained cover for would, if possible, be found for any employee who becomes disabled its Directors and Officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by during the course of employment.
Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
Further details on employee involvement is included in the Corporate Ethics and Business Conduct Social Responsibility report on pages 52 and 53.
The Group has adopted and operates business integrity policies in Share Capital its regions, which are consistent with the standards of behaviour and The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with ethics which the Group upholds and requires all employees to act honestly, with integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during care.
the year, are shown in note 27 to the financial statements.
It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree the terms of Details of shares issued pursuant to the Groups share based incentive payment with suppliers at the commencement of the trading or schemes are shown in the notes to the accounts on pages 107 to 110. contractual relationship and to operate within such terms subject to satisfactory completion of the suppliers obligations.
It does not follow any particular guidelines established by third parties.
The effect of the Groups payment policy is that its trade creditors at the financial yearend represent 21 days purchases 2007: 22 days.
At the year end, the Company had no trade creditors 2007: nil.
Details of the charitable and political donations are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 52 and 53.
Corporate Social Responsibility Details of the Groups wider approach to managing its Corporate Social Responsibility can be found on pages 52 and 53.
The Board takes 46 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 47 DIrectorS report DIrectorS report Meeting can be found at the back of this Annual Report.
regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the Company and identifies value arising from those matters as well as opportunities to enhance value that In addition to the routine items of business to be dealt with at the may arise from them.
Significant short and long term risks have been meeting, resolutions will be proposed in respect of the following: identified and assessed and the Board believes it has received adequate information to ensure that the Company has effective systems in place to renew the authority given in regard to pre-emption rights under for managing the Groups key risks.
The Groups significant Risk Factors the terms of a Co-operation Agreement dated 18 April 1996 with are included on pages 32 and 33.
City Developments Limited CDL - The Co-operation Agreement between the Company and CDL dated 18 April 1996 as amended To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies in respect of health, contains a provision that the Company shall use all reasonable safety and the environment, Richard Hartman, in his capacity as Chief endeavours to ensure that any issue of voting securities for cash Executive Officer, has been identified as the Board member responsible other than pursuant to an employee or executive share schemes for both areas.
The Company has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK which takes place, is carried out in a manner that provides CDL with Index of socially responsible companies since the indexs establishment an opportunity to acquire additional ordinary shares at the time of in July 2001. such proposed issue for cash in such amounts as are necessary to enable it to maintain its voting rights in the Company at the same Financial Risk Management level as it held immediately prior to such issue.
The Directors will seek renewed approval of these pre-emption rights as they have An indication of the Groups financial risk management objectives in respect of the use of financial instruments and its exposures to done in prior years: credit risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk is set out in the Business Review on pages 24 and 25, and in note 19 to the financial to renew the authority to fund political donations and or political statements.
expenditure - Renewed authority will be sought to authorise political donations and expenditure in accordance with sections 366 and 367 Going Concern Companies Act 2006 within the limits set out in the resolution in Details of the Groups financial position, cash flows, liquidity and capital the circumstances where the Directors consider the making of such resources are included in the Business Review on pages 17 to 34. donations or the incurring of such expenditure to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole: Note 19 to the financial statements provides information on the financial instruments used by the Group.
The Directors have reviewed to renew the Directors authority to allot shares - The Directors will the financial resources available to the Group and the possible impact seek renewal of authorities previously granted under sections 80 of a range of trading scenarios that could face the Groups business in and 89 Companies Act 1985.
The number of shares over which the the current uncertain economic environment.
authorities are sought are set out in the notice of the meeting and are consistent with ABI guidelines.
There is no current intention to exercise the authorities, which are sought to maintain flexibility For the last several years the Group has had a history of profitable should circumstances warrant their use in the future: operations and ready access to financial resources, and in general, the Directors concluded that the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate without detailed analysis.
However, given the current to authorise the purchase of the Companys shares in the market - uncertain economic conditions which include recessionary pressures Authority will be sought to renew the Directors ability to arrange the market purchase of the Companys shares pursuant to section that have an impact on the Groups revenues, operating costs and profitability, the Directors have estimated a wide range of factors 163 3 Companies Act 1985 and subject to the limits set out in the relating to current and expected profitability, have considered resolution.
There is no current intention to exercise the authority sensitivities around potential trading levels and covenant compliance, and it will only be used where the Directors believe that it would reviewed debt repayment schedules, and potential sources of be accretive to earnings per share and in the best interests of shareholders generally: replacement financing before satisfying themselves that the going concern basis is appropriate.
The Directors reasonably expect that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the to authorise general meetings, other than an annual general meeting foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the to be held on 14 days notice - Following changes introduced by the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association were amended to permit the Directors to convene a general meeting on Auditor 14 days notice.
New legislation which is to be introduced under the In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a EU Shareholders Rights Directive require general meetings to be resolution regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor held on 21 days notice unless shareholders otherwise agree.
This resolution is being proposed to enable the Directors to continue of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
to convene general meetings on 14 days notice and will be put to shareholders routinely on an annual basis.
Statement of The Directors as to Disclosure of Information to The Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board Annual General Meeting Adrian Bushnell The annual general meeting will be held at 10:00 am on Wednesday, COMPANY SECRETARY 6 May 2009 at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair.
The Notice of 17 February 2009 46 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 47 StateMent oF DIrectorS reSponSIBILItIeS In reSpect corporate Governance oF the DIrectorS report anD the FInancIaL StateMentS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual Group and Parent Company financial statements, in accordance with financial report applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in and accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial that they face.
statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial Wong Hong Ren statements, the Directors are required to: DIRECTOR 17 February 2009 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
48 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 Millennium & copthorne hotels plc annual report & accounts 2008 49
