chief executives review innOvAtiOn How is Misys using technology innovation to drive Q business growth?
A The pursuit of excellence and a zest for innovation are firmly at the centre of where we are going with product development in Misys.
Cory Eaves, Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and Chief Information Officer We are enhancing the scale and reach of our proven solutions in Treasury & Capital Markets by adding new functionality to address new asset classes and constant demand for faster response times.
discOver MOre ABOut Misys www.
com We are transforming our approach, developing and launching a range of innovative customerfocused initiatives from a proposed merger to a radical open source development strategy.
we are progressing a proposed merger with Allscripts, creating the possibility of an extraordinary new leader in the healthcare market.
08 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 we are doing even more to meet we are introducing more hosted customers needs, carrying out solutions, so customers can comprehensive research and satisfaction benefit from the faster, more surveys, introducing more customer flexible and more cost-efficient Advisory councils and implementing applications and services a company-wide reorganisation of our delivered by software as a service.
we are embedding other best-in-class applications in our solutions from u p 300% proven partners such as iBM to help our customers optimise their solutions, speed north American voluntary carbon up implementation and reduce the trading market has tripled in value number of vendor relationships they need.
in one year 2006-2007 and is now valued at us$331m source: new carbon finance we are thriving in high-growth markets such as china, india, russia and the Middle east we are creating new addressable markets introducing the new services in carbon trading and connected healthcare and solutions customers need communities, transforming current market to grow rapidly and respond to dynamics through an imaginative approach a fast-moving world.
we are addressing valuable market opportunities with new solutions, like Misys Myway for smaller physician practices and Misys trade Portal for banks and their customers.
