DiRectoRs RepoRt this Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the Directors members of the company, as a body, and no other persons.
the Details of the current Directors of the company are given on company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not pages 34 to 35. accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any the following changes to the Board of Directors the Board took such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
By their place during the year: Jim Malone, chief Financial officer, was nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties appointed a Director on 19 June 2007: Howard evans stepped facing the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since down as Finance Director on 29 June 2007: and Jrgen Zech future events and circumstances can cause results and stood down as a non-executive Director at the close of the 2007 developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
the AGM on 19 september 2007. forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the in accordance with the companys current Articles of Association company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardthe Articles, Al-Noor Ramji will retire from the Board and, upon looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be the recommendation of the Nomination committee, offer himself construed as a profit forecast.
for re-election at the AGM.
the Directors of Misys plc submit their report and the audited Biographical details of all Directors, including those being financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2008. proposed for re-election, are given on pages 34 to 35.
Principal activities Details of executive Directors service agreements, non-executive the Groups principal activities are the development, Directors letters of appointment, emoluments and share management and licensing of a variety of software products and interests can be found in the Directors Remuneration report on solutions to customers in the financial services and healthcare pages 44 to 52. industries.
Misys also partners with world-class companies to sell and distribute Misys products and solutions.
Significant contracts With the exception of the service contracts, indemnities and the A review of the activities of the Group, its financial performance placing and underwriting agreement referred to below, during the and its likely future business developments is provided in the year under review and up to the date of this report, no Director chairmans statement, the chief executives review, and the other than Mr Ubben as mentioned below has had any interest in review of the businesses on pages 02 to 23 and the Financial any material contract with the company.
review on pages 26 to 33 of this Annual Report.
Mr. Ubben is interested in the placing and underwriting Disposals during the period are disclosed in note 4 on pages 66 to 67. agreement the placing Agreement entered into on 17 March 2008 between the company, ValueAct capital Master Fund, L. p. Business review acting through its general partner, VA partners i, LLc ValueAct A review of the development and performance of the business of and JpMorgan cazenove Limited by virtue of him being one of the the Group, including the financial performance during the year, is principal investors in ValueAct.
Further details of the placing set out in the following sections of this Annual Report on pages 02 Agreement can be found in the announcement issued on 18 March to 06, 14 to 23, and 26 to 33, all of which are incorporated into this 2008, available on the companys website www.
report by reference: chairmans statement, chief executives review, operational review, and Financial review, the last of which Indemnities and insurance contains a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the company has granted indemnities to its Directors in their facing the Group.
capacity as Directors of the company and in their capacity as Directors of the subsidiaries of the company.
the company has Events after the balance sheet date also granted indemnities to some of the Directors of its there were no significant events subsequent to 31 May 2008. subsidiaries.
such indemnities remain in force and are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of s. 309B Financial instruments companies Act 1985.
For some years the company has purchased information on financial instruments is disclosed in note 25 on insurance to cover its Directors and officers against their costs in pages 79 to 80, and notes 36 to 40 on pages 86 to 90. defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from Dividends the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
Neither the the Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.95p per ordinary insurance nor the indemnity provide cover where the Director has share.
this, together with the interim dividend of 2.96p per share acted fraudulently or deceitfully.
paid on 7 April 2008, makes a total dividend of 7.91p per share for the year 2007: 7.53p.
Appointment and replacement of Directors the rules regarding the appointment, retirement and removal of the proposed final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Directors are contained in the companys Articles.
Meeting on 30 september 2008 the AGM, will be paid on 6 october 2008 to shareholders appearing on the register at the the Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by ordinary close of business on 1 August 2008. resolution of the shareholders or by resolution of the Board.
At each AGM, any Director who has been appointed by the Board Following completion of the proposed merger of the companys since the previous AGM, or who has held office for more than 30 subsidiary, Misys Healthcare systems, LLc Misys Healthcare months since he was appointed or last re-appointed by the with a wholly-owned subsidiary of Allscripts Healthcare solutions, company in general meeting, shall retire and offer himself for inc. Allscripts, the Board intends to alter its dividend policy in re-election.
order to invest cash flow in its operations.
the company therefore does not intend to pay a dividend going forward but will keep this dividend policy under regular review.
36 | Misys plc Annual Report 2008 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager Powers of Directors the authorised and issued share capital of the company, together the Board is responsible for the management of the business of with details of the movements in the companys issued share the company and may exercise all the powers of the company capital during the year, are shown in note 33 on page 85.
At close subject to the provisions of relevant law, the companys of business on 23 July 2008 the company had 551,727,036 ordinary Memorandum of Association, the Articles and any special shares in issue, of which 48,208,881 were held in treasury.
Purchase of own shares For example, the Articles contain specific provisions and At the 2007 AGM shareholders authorised the Directors to make restrictions regarding the companys power to borrow money.
market purchases of the companys ordinary shares up to a powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also maximum nominal value of 50,306,600, which represented included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by approximately 10% of issued share capital, and to either cancel shareholders each year at the AGM.
the shares or hold the shares as treasury shares which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of the Research and development companys employees share schemes, depending on the best in the markets in which the Group operates, effective R&D is vital interests of the companys shareholders at the time.
to maintaining competitive advantage and securing future income streams.
the extent of the Groups commitment to R&D is pursuant to this authority in the financial year ended 31 May 2008 detailed throughout the operational review on pages 14 to 23. the company has purchased 1,300,000 ordinary shares of 1p each, at an aggregate consideration of 2,503,767 before expenses, all People and corporate responsibility of which were put into treasury.
During the year 1,979,186 shares information on employee engagement, equal opportunities were transferred out of treasury to meet the companys including policies relating to disabled persons, training and obligations under its employee share plans and no shares were ethical and environmental matters can be found in the section cancelled out of treasury.
on people and corporate responsibility on pages 24 to 25.
Under the 2007 AGM authority, which expires at the conclusion of Charitable donations the 2008 AGM, the company may purchase a further 49,006,600 of the Groups commitment to community involvement and charitable its own shares.
it is proposed that the authority be renewed at the donations is described in the people and corporate responsibility forthcoming AGM.
section on pages 24 to 25. in line with its policy, the Group made no political donations in the year under review 2007: nil.
Authority to allot shares Also included in the special business of the 2008 AGM are Creditor payment policy proposals to renew the Directors authority to allot shares for it is the companys policy to agree terms and conditions for its cash, and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights, up to business transactions with its suppliers.
the company seeks to prescribed limits.
Further details are given in the circular abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is containing the Notice of AGM.
satisfied that the supplier has abided by its contractual obligations.
the trade creditors of the Group at 31 May 2008 Substantial shareholdings represent 37 days 2007: 31 days and of the company represent As at 23 July 2008, the voting interests shown below in the 37 days 2007: 46 days as a proportion of the total amount ordinary share capital of the company, disclosable under the invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Financial services Authoritys Disclosure and transparency Rules, had been notified to the company.
Share capital the share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 1p each.
the ordinary shares are listed on the London stock exchange and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
of ordinary Nature of share capital shares holding Legal & General Group plc and its subsidiaries 4.00% 20,191,164 Direct FMR LLc and its Group 5.14% 25,890,800 indirect schroders plc on behalf of schroder investment Management Ltd, schroder investment Management North America Ltd and schroder & co Ltd 5.33% 26,708,863 indirect ValueAct capital Master Fund, L. p. 16.60% 83,542,576 Direct ValueAct capital Management, LLc, ValueAct capital Management, L. p. ValueAct Holdings Gp, LLc and ValueAct Holdings, L. p. 19.10% 96,287,074 indirect this notification has been reported on an aggregated basis and includes the 16.6% holding of ValueAct capital Master Fund, L. p. shown above.
Misys plc Annual Report 2008 | 37 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager DiRectoRs RepoRt Shareholders rights Annual General Meeting the rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary the 2008 AGM will take place at 12 noon on tuesday 30 shares, in addition to those conferred by law, are set out in september 2008 at the Lincoln centre, 18 Lincolns inn Fields, the Articles.
the holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the A separate circular accompanying this Report contains the Notice companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general of AGM and explains the business to be considered at the meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to exercise meeting.
A copy of the Notice is also published on the companys voting rights.
Further details regarding voting at the AGM and website.
procedures for the appointment of a proxy can be found in the notes to the Notice of AGM and on the AGM proxy form itself.
Going concern After making due enquiries, embracing the normal forecasting there are no shares carrying special control rights with regard to process, the Directors consider that the Group and the company control of the company.
shares to be acquired through the has adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities to companys employee share plans rank equally with the ordinary continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
shares in issue and have no special rights.
there are no known consequently, they have continued to adopt the going concern arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person basis in preparing the financial statements.
other than the holder of the ordinary shares.
Auditors Details of certain restrictions on transfer or voting rights each of the companys Directors in office as at the date of this attaching to the companys ordinary shares are also included in report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant the Articles.
the company is not aware of any agreements audit information, that is, information needed by the companys between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the auditors in connection with preparing their report, of which the transfer of ordinary shares or voting rights.
companys auditors are unaware, and that he has taken all steps which he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make Significant agreements and change of control himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish there are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or that the auditors are aware of that information.
terminate upon a change of control of the company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan  LLp have expressed their willingness to agreements, property lease arrangements, Directors service continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them agreements and employees share plans.
None of these are and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
business of the Group as a whole.
in addition, there exist agreements between the company and its Directors and certain By order of the Board senior employees which provide for compensation for loss of office or employment due to a takeover bid.
Dan Fitz EVP General Counsel and Company Secretary As announced on 18 March 2008, the company entered into an 24 July 2008 agreement and plan of merger on 17 March 2008 the Merger Agreement pursuant to which Misys Healthcare would be merged with Allscripts and the company would purchase shares of Allscripts common stock resulting in the company owning a controlling stake of Allscripts.
pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, it is possible for either the company or Allscripts to terminate the Merger Agreement prior to completion under certain circumstances which could include those in connection with a change of control of the other.
Articles of Association the companys Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders passed at a general meeting of the company.
At the forthcoming AGM, a resolution will be put to the shareholders proposing the adoption of new Articles.
A summary of the principal proposed changes can be found in the circular containing the Notice of AGM.
A copy of the current Articles is available to view on the companys website and a copy of the proposed new Articles will be available to view at the companys registered office and at the AGM.
38 | Misys plc Annual Report 2008 salterbaxter 7925 Misys Annual Report Acc 07 August 2008 account manager vw designer sc setting lm PROOF 4 final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
