OPerAtiOnAl review GLOBAL BUSINESS SUMMARy SERVICES Total revenue 83m up 19% included within business divisions Total order intake up 16% Launched new revenue generating services, including Learning Suite Improved quality of customer support and upgrade path Implemented successful partnership strategy EILEEN MCPARTLAND executive vice President, Global sales & services Our business providers and users of Misys solutions.
we provide services that help customers to we are seeing strong demand for training increase their return on investment in our and training-related services and achieved solutions.
we are growing rapidly and training revenues of over 1m this year.
profitably while generating growth opportunities for the entire Misys business.
We are creating more effective and cost we create value from the companys deep efficient customer support We are growing rapidly and domain expertise, substantial development we are enhancing the quality of the support profitably while generating and support resources and large installed we provide by developing centres in growth opportunities for the base in Banking, treasury & capital high-quality low-cost locations.
Our goal Markets and healthcare.
is to locate 80% of our customer support entire Misys business.
expertise in these locations by 2009. this Eileen McPartland, Executive Vice President, Our customers year we have expanded our Global support Global Sales & Services customers use our services to get better centre in Manila to provide support for results from their Misys solutions.
we have also provide the expertise and resources they recruited additional experts to our service need direct or with best practice partners.
centre in Bangalore and expect to grow we also help teams within Misys to grow this facility further in 2009. their customer base and increase the value Did you know they deliver to customers.
We are making upgrades easier and more We have over 700 Professional valuable for customers Services experts worldwide Priorities and actions we have launched an upgrade service as a Most Misys banking customers use capability of our Global solutions centre just 30% of a products functionality: We are increasing the scale of our training Gsc our scalable, off shore and near training and optimisation support can through Misys Academy shore delivery team.
this will help increase that to nearer 100% Misys Academy is a revenue-generating customers migrate to the latest versions of After a typical engagement with education service that helps customers the Misys software.
customers now have a Misys Optimisation Services, a maximise the benefits of our solutions.
streamlined upgrade path that is faster, client increases their use of system this year we launched a learning suite more predictable, more cost efficient and functionality by an average of 30% that enables customer employees to learn, better able to help them deliver tangible train and communicate with us through a business results.
the Gsc has teams in web-based portal.
Bangalore, Beijing and Bucharest and is made up of both employee and partner through Misys Academy we continued to resources.
the Gsc is currently staffed with develop the multi-level certification 40 employees and 11 resources via our programme we introduced last year for partnership with hcl technologies.
16 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 Delivery update What we promised What weve achieved Get fit Achieved during March 2007-May 2008 Launch new service offerings achieved Build capabilities: hire, retool and acquire achieved Build common customer-facing processes, channels and partners good progress Win more 1-2 years Grow 15-18% good progress Continue innovation along the value chain good progress Lead 2-4 years Continue revenue growth good progress Continue innovation along the value chain good progress this team will add additional staff as Services launched to date Premium Support Misys Academy We help customers mitigate IT operational needed to support our customers needs We help customers derive maximum risk, respond to demands from their for scalable near shore and off shore benefit and return on investment from business more effectively and improve the delivery needs.
all Misys products and solutions through availability of their Misys applications.
comprehensive, structured, end-to-end Upgrade Solution Centre We have established a successful training programmes.
We help customers accelerate time to approach to developing partnerships Integration market by up to 15-20%: minimise project successful partnerships enable us to We help customers integrate and risk through a repeatable, predictable achieve higher revenue and profit, consolidate systems reducing cost, risk upgrade model: and reduce the impact of increased productivity, greater customer and downtime, and improving performance upgrades on existing IT teams.
satisfaction and greater partner and flexibility.
Our strategy is to Optimisation select and reward partners who will invest We help customers achieve high efficiency in our software solutions and provide and optimal performance from their excellent customer value.
this year we technology by providing everything from worked with the Misys businesses to benchmarking and capacity planning to solution architecture and performance identify and launch a range of valuable tuning.
strategic partnerships see the Banking, treasury & capital Markets and healthcare business reviews for more details.
We are transforming the way Misys operates we have continued to find significant potential cost savings within the company by implementing common systems and processes.
As well as taking costs out, we are also making many profound long-term improvements.
for example, we have transformed our sales management processes this year and we expect to see substantial benefits from this over the next 12 months.
Our latest customer satisfaction survey results indicate our actions are already making a tangible difference for customers.
