OPerAtiOnAl review BANkING BUSINESS SUMMARy Total revenue 160m up 5% Total order intake 83m up 8% Operating profit 19m up 2% Expanded in high-growth markets Launched Misys BankFusion Universal Banking GUy WARREN executive vice President and General Manager, Banking Our business Priorities and actions we are one of the worlds leading providers Our product and services strategy is of solutions and services to retail, corporate progressing to plan and has been well and wholesale banks and financial received by our customers.
we have the largest installed customer base of any banking software We launched Misys BankFusion provider and have a strong presence in in last years Annual report we said one The successful start to the all major established and developing critical challenge was to increase the value implementation of Misys geographies.
we have been active in europe, we deliver to customers by introducing BankFusion is a major milestone north America and the Middle east for more Misys Bankfusion a platform able to host than 25 years and in russia for 15 years.
an array of new and existing applications in our transformation into a and services.
provider of high-value integrated Our customers platforms, solutions and we support everyone from tier 1 global we started implementation of our first services.
banks and institutions to small regional Misys Bankfusion universal Banking Guy Warren, Executive Vice President and banks.
customers use our solutions to drive solution in spring 2008 and it will be live General Manager, Banking improvements in revenue, performance and before the year-end in the first site.
Built efficiency in retail, corporate, wholesale and using service-oriented architecture, universal banking.
Bankfusions agility enables customers to respond faster, capitalising on emerging whilst the credit crunch and liquidity issues opportunities while at the same time have affected a significant number of reducing costs.
this is achieved because banks, many of the banks and institutions the application is driven from models by Did you know requirements have been largely unaffected.
changing the process flow in the model, We serve all of the worlds top 50 banks in the high-growth markets of the Middle you can change the application, with no east, Africa, russia and the commonwealth programming required.
the successful start We serve 1,200 banks and financial institutions in 120 countries of independent states cis, our customers to the implementation of Misys Bankfusion priorities have been to build capacity and is a major milestone in our transformation Banking IT services market in 2007 bring new products to market quickly to into a provider of high-value integrated 78.9 billion source: Gartner meet the needs of their customers.
Meanwhile, in the established markets of Banking software market in 2007 north America and western europe, many We are partnering to increase distribution, 14.1 billion source: Gartner customers are seeking solutions to help quality and customer value address cost through implementing global we launched a number of key partnerships Global core banking systems market processing hubs and to expand into this year, each with a specific set of intended in 2007 US$24.3 billion source: Datamonitor high-growth regions around the world.
benefits for customers and for Misys see opposite page.
we are now working with through our new partnerships with hcl sAP to develop, launch and market an and digital china, we have increased our integrated universal banking solution based penetration of the huge markets of india and on the Misys Bankfusion and sAP china.
working with these partners, we are platforms.
we believe this will enable more enhancing our software to suit the needs of customers to streamline their applications these rapidly expanding banking markets.
and services, reducing the complexity and increasing the efficiency of their systems.
A number of new contracts were signed we are already extending this approach by with regional banks, and we implemented integrating Misys trade Portal, Misys ti Plus financial performance measures reported on a approximately 155 solutions referred to 2.0 and Misys Opics Plus into the sAP for like-for-like basis in the operational review.
see page 27 for a reconciliation to statutory measures.
18 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 Delivery update What we promised What weve achieved Get fit Achieved during March 2007-May 2008 Deliver next generation platform, Misys BankFusion achieved Expand in growth geographies: India, China, Eastern Europe achieved Win more 1-2 years Develop and acquire components good progress Open platform API to partners good progress Lead 2-4 years Grow Misys BankFusion developer community good progress Maintain add-on module pipeline for cross-sell good progress We launched cutting-edge serviceSOYUZ Bank oriented portals One of the fastest growing universal banks in Russia, this year SOYUZ Bank chose our we have had great success this year with core banking system, Misys Equation, and the latest version of our award-winning trade our award-winning Misys trade Portal, a finance system, Misys Trade Innovation, to enable it to meet very strong demand.
Vladimir hosted service that enables banks and their Smirnov, Deputy Chairperson of SOYUZ Bank, commented: Misys Equation gives us a customers to process, review and manage solid core platform for the overall IT upgrade we need, coupled with one of the best trade trades through one secure web-based finance solutions available.
Customer wins like this are built on our rare combination of portal.
Our online corporate banking cutting-edge technology and long history in Russia and the CIS, with Misys now the offering has been further strengthened by longest-serving international banking solutions provider in the region.
the launch of Misys cash Portal, which allows banks to accelerate the speed to Geographic mix by % market for new online cash management services, improve on customer service and grow their transactional banking business.
we are already seeing strong demand for this solution.
Western Europe 39% Middle East and Africa 20% We are listening to our customers needs Eastern Europe 17% and responding quickly we have now created five customer Advisory Asia 16% Boards independent groups of customers Americas 8% who meet with us to share their experiences, their views of using our solutions and their increasing knowledge of the markets they operate in.
this dialogue has proved enormously helpful, and demand from our Awards New partnerships customers shows that they are finding the Best Islamic core banking solutions provider Digital China bringing to market a fully advisory boards extremely useful as well.
World Finance magazine Chinese banking system we are integrating customers suggestions 1 October 2007 SAP enhancing our BankFusion platform into our solutions development and building and trade solutions clear customer satisfaction metrics into our HCL co-launching an Upgrade Solution internal performance and compensation Centre to expedite upgrades programmes.
Symphony strengthening our product development capabilities in response to feedback from customers, we have opened a new upgrade solution IBM helping customers speed up centre in Bangalore, india.
this will implementation and reduce complexity provide customers with a streamlined upgrade and maintenance path and faster response times.
