OPerAtiOnAl review OPEN SOURCE SOLUTIONS BOB BARTHELMES executive vice President and General Manager, Open source solutions The progress of Open Source Solutions eMr and greater connectivity between one year later all venues of care.
however, many of these organisations are reluctant to invest in a Our business proprietary eMr system until it can operate Misys Open source solutions was seamlessly with other systems.
established in July 2007 to drive innovation in the market place and move toward open we believe taking an open source approach Making open source such a big standards using open source.
to interoperability will drive down the cost part of what we do and how we and reduce complexity of integration, which do it is also helping to attract we are using and developing open source has been a barrier to eMr adoption.
technologies to increase the value we great talent to Misys, with deliver for customers and to enhance the We shared our code and initiated open exceptional, talented developers efficiency and effectiveness of our own source partnerships keen to work in an open-minded operations.
within the organisation we are we contributed components of Misys way.
Open source will open integrating third party technologies into our connect source code to the open source up new markets that would platforms and incorporating open source community.
in addition, we helped to form a development into our development new community of developers, vendors and not have been available to a processes.
At the same time we are policy makers to tackle the problem of purely proprietary vendor.
This growing the addressable market for Misys interoperability.
will translate into incremental solutions and services by working closely revenue streams for Misys.
with potential customers, partners and the Misys bold leadership in using open open source community.
source is a significant step in helping to Bob Barthelmes, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Open Source Solutions make interoperability a reality, said former Our customers speaker of the united states house of this year, we focused on two key market representatives, newt Gingrich, founder of Did you know areas connecting healthcare communities the center for health transformation.
from sharing clinical Barriers to EMR adoption include: healthcare information to making and Transforming Carbon Trading difficulties with technology, physicians settling carbon trades, we believe there is A clear market opportunity attitudes, high initial financial costs, growing demand for open, agile and the carbon markets, consisting of the slow and uncertain payoffs, high initial reliable solutions that operate seamlessly purchase and sale of allowances and credits physician time costs with others.
in the future, along with of greenhouse gases denominated as cO2, source: Health Affairs revenues from enhanced Misys solutions, are considered by many to be the most Estimated cost savings in the US we expect to see strong demand for our effective tool for reducing greenhouse gas healthcare system created by the services from integration and emissions but are currently highly introduction of a nationwide health information network NHIN connectivity, to expertise, maintenance and fragmented.
there is no consistent set of is US$77.8 billion support.
we are targeting customers from standards for Over-the-counter Otc source: Marketwatch Health Tracking.
community hospitals and regional health trades, many of which are still made by Carbon trading: information Organisations for our phone and fax.
we believe this market can Carbon trading has doubled in the healthcare initiative and small to fortune benefit from the evolution to electronic past year to US$60 billion.
The US 1000 corporations and government entities trading built on consistent open standards.
Congressional Budget Office has for carbon trading.
Our initial focus is to develop ways to suggested it could reach US$300 support corporate purchasers in the north billion in the US in the future.
Transforming Healthcare American voluntary market, which currently source: Carbon Forum America We are using an open source approach to represents 68% of all global voluntary With the advent of a US-based cap and encourage adoption of EMR trading.
in 2007, the value of this market trade scheme, the US market alone healthcare organisations recognise the tripled from the previous year to us$331 could reach US$1 trillion by 2020. benefits of electronic medical records million.
source: Datamonitor 22 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 we are taking a leading role in growing this Healthcare demonstrates the benefits addressable market and working toward At this years Healthcare Information Management Systems & Society HIMSS conference our first revenue generating solution in Orlando, Florida, we demonstrated how an open source integration solution, built during 2008. with all open source components including Misys Connect components could work.
User cases demonstrated how physician referrals, medical summaries, and even in May 2008, we took a major step forward patient inquires were handled electronically and seamlessly between disparate clinical, with the beta-launch of Opencarbonworld.
ambulatory care, and even patient home settings.
Built by Misys and its partners, we were com, an information portal that will provide able to show that the complex problems of healthcare interoperability may be addressed a single source for clear information on the using lower-cost alternatives which leverage open source solutions.
carbon market, as well as a venue for collaboration to resolve any issues inhibiting Open Carbon World Transparency for Our healthcare partners include: its growth.
the carbon market Center for Health Transformation The purpose of this initiative is to provide: Regenstrief Institute Inc. through this effort, we are working with a Clear, vetted market information to counter WebReach Inc. number of highly regarded experts in the the misinformation flooding the web eHealth Initiative carbon market, including the international Forums for discussing and resolving issues carbon investors & services and Morgan inhibiting the growth of the carbon market stanley, with Misys providing technical Space for collaboration between key resources and management leadership.
industry partners Greater momentum for the corporate due for launch in third-quarter 2008, voluntary trading market Opencarbonworld.
com, will enable corporate customers to calculate their carbon footprint and purchase carbon services and offsets.
this will enable Misys to collect on transaction revenues.
the subsequent release of our code to the open community will enable us to engage in service offerings to integrate carbon planning with our clients internal systems.
Development priorities and actions We are incorporating the best open source technologies responsibly in our own systems we source best-in-class technologies from other developers to enhance our own systems.
this year, we moved some of our development tools, internal systems, intranet and website areas into open source.
some benefits are obvious its cheaper, quicker and more flexible to work this way.
