OPerAtiOnAl review HEALTHCARE BUSINESS SUMMARy Total revenue 191m up 2% Total order intake 103m up 2% Operating profit 39m up 85% Stabilised business and transformed for growth Focused on the ambulatory market and connected healthcare communities Launched Misys MyWay VERN DAVENPORT executive vice President Announced proposed merger with Allscripts and General Manager, healthcare Our business Priorities and actions we are one of the leading providers of healthcare it solutions and services in We stabilised, reorganised and north America, with a particular focus on repositioned the business for growth the high-growth ambulatory sector of the we successfully sold our acute caremarket.
with almost three decades of oriented businesses diagnostic experience serving physicians and information lab and clinical Patient Our proposed merger with practices of all sizes, we possess the record cPr, refocused the organisation Allscripts is intended to rapidly expertise necessary to help our clients in and started the work required to become a transform our Healthcare delivering better healthcare.
Our solutions, leader in the ambulatory market.
we felt it coupled with our large customer base of was vital to find buyers for our businesses business from a re-emerging physicians, uniquely position us to build who would take good care of the customers player to a market leader.
connected healthcare communities and employees we handed on, and we were Vern Davenport, Executive Vice President helping our clients reduce costs and delighted to conclude successful and General Manager, Healthcare improve patient care across the multiple agreements with the purchase of these venues of care within a community.
businesses by vista and Quadramed.
with a more focused approach, we have been able Our customers to concentrate investment on solutions for us healthcare is complicated by the the ambulatory market.
decentralised nature of delivery of services.
Did you know Patients access care in multiple venues We filled a major portfolio gap with the We serve more than 110,000 throughout a community instead of returning launch of Misys MyWay physicians in 18,000 practice locations to a central care location such as a hospital Misys Myway is an integrated solution, in the United States or clinic.
in-patient acute care providers including practice management, eMr and Our physician practice solutions present different needs that are non-strategic claims management components.
the process around 480 million for Misys.
At Misys, our focus is meeting solution offers the tools smaller physician transactions a year customer needs in the ambulatory market practices need to operate efficiently.
2007 total healthcare spending is healthcare traditionally delivered outside launched in October 2007, Misys Myway is about US$2.3 trillion 16.3% of US the hospital.
we are particularly focused on unique in its ability to provide an integrated total gross domestic product solutions and services that help to connect simple, complete and affordable solution for the many points of care within a community, this substantial market segment.
Offered making it easier to improve the quality of care either on demand paid for by subscription and reduce costs at the same time.
we serve or on premises, the solution has proved very a range of practices, from single-physician attractive and at year-end we had sold offices to large multi-speciality clinics and nearly 800 initial licences.
regional delivery systems with hundreds of physicians.
customers require innovative and We are addressing slow market uptake robust solutions that enable them to enhance of EMR clinical capability, efficiency and profitability.
Practice management applications are deeply penetrated in American healthcare.
issues with the cost and quality of More than 90% of American physician healthcare continue to rank as a primary practices use some type of practice concern among the American public.
we management application and Misys enjoys anticipate this will add significant a strong share position in the category.
momentum to customer demand for better however, while customers recognise the healthcare it solutions and services, enormous potential benefits of eMr, total financial performance measures reported on a like-for-like basis in the operational review.
see including enhanced electronic medical adoption rates across the us healthcare page 27 for a reconciliation to statutory measures.
One major barrier to 20 | Misys plc Annual report 2008 Delivery update What we promised What weve achieved Get fit Achieved during March 2007-May 2008 Focus on ambulatory and connected community achieved Revitalise product line deliver new EMR and ASP offering for physicians achieved Win more 1-2 years Expand product footprint around the core ambulatory products good progress Lead 2-4 years Create connectivity solutions across the healthcare environment good progress Focus on clinical outcomes and quality good progress adoption is the proprietary nature of Kentwood Family Physicians current solutions, which severely limits Misys software helped Kentwood Family Physicians achieve a revenue increase of 3% and opportunities to connect the eMr systems free up vital physicians time with the implementation of Electronic Health Records.
user consolidation around a few major solutions is unlikely Kim Edwards, practice manager for Kentwood Family Physicians, knew her practice was given that this is a fragmented market with ready to move from paper records and rethink how it was working.
We were spending around 350 vendors.
cost and complexity of a substantial amount of money on transcriptions, and we werent being very efficient many available solutions further complicate in many areas of our practice.
The simple fact is that we would never, ever, go back to the purchase process.
Misys is offering paper charts, and I would recommend Misys in a minute.
Financially, personally and creative solutions to address these issues, professionally, the effort and time invested in Misys EMR has been well worth it.
such as Misys connect, an open source application which allows records stored in The Center for Community Health Leadership competing eMr systems to be viewed Sponsored by Misys, the Center is establishing across platforms.
Misys Myway also the first fully connected health communities addresses these barriers, offering a simple, in the US through grants of Misys solutions affordable solution.
plus hardware and support from industry partners.
This year we announced the second successful recipient of a US$3m grant of We announced our intention to merge technology Tampa, Florida.
The Center with Allscripts selected Tampa because of the areas Our proposed merger with Allscripts is reputation for healthcare excellence and its intended to rapidly transform our commitment to making the idea of community healthcare business from a re-emerging data sharing a reality.
The first grant winner, player to a market leader able to maximise Greater New Haven, Connecticut, has been the benefits of growth in eMr adoption.
successfully inter-connecting physicians But we are also looking beyond the initial practices via The Hospital of Saint Raphael, a large teaching hospital.
A third winner will growth curve in eMr to the new market be announced in 2008. opportunities greater connectivity will introduce, such as demand for more sophisticated, high-value clinical and financial healthcare solutions.
We kept driving growth with proven solutions and services this year we: Converted around 250 customers each month to Misys PayerPath, our web-based transactions solution.
Grew order intake in our Homecare business by 12%, adding 65 new accounts and enhancing our services offerings for customers.
