Jim Malone BOARD OF chairman 68 chief executive 55 chief financial Officer 59 DIRECTORS Sir Dominic Cadbury joined the Mike joined the Board in Appointed to the Board on 19 Board as senior independent November 2006.
Prior to joining Director in May 2000 and previously a general partner Misys, Jim was CFO of The held that role until November with ValueAct Capital.
Prior to Trizetto Group, Inc, a NASDAQ 2005 when he was appointed that, he was Chief Executive listed company providing Chairman.
He is acting Officer of Siebel Systems Inc. information technology for Chairman of the Nomination the international software and the health insurance payer Committee.
Sir Dominics solutions company, from 2004 community, which he joined career was spent at Cadbury -2005.
Prior to this he was Schweppes, which he joined in IBM where he rose to become CFO and CAO at IMS Health, 1964, being appointed to the Senior Vice President and Group the NYSE listed healthcare and Board in 1975, serving as Group Executive with responsibility pharmaceutical information Chief Executive from 1983 to for sales and distribution of provider.
From 1995-1997, he 1993, then as Chairman until all IBM products and services was Senior VP and Controller at May 2000.
He started his career of The Economist Group from he was the General Manager at Price Waterhouse in New 1993 to 2003.
He retired as for all operations in Europe, York.
His subsequent career Chairman of the Wellcome the Middle East and Africa.
He has included roles at Dun and Trust in April 2006.
Sir Dominic previously served on the US Bradstreet, Reuben Donnelley, is Chancellor of Birmingham Advisory Board of NTT DoCoMo and Siemens AG.
and as a Director of SSA Global, Inc, Symbol Technology, Inc. and Good Technology, Inc. Mike is the lead independent nonexecutive Director of Juniper Networks, Inc. 1.
John Ormerod non-executive director 69 non-executive director 54 non-executive director 47 senior independent director Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive 59 Director in November 2005.
Jeff Appointed a non-executive John is Chairman of the Al-Noor Ramji is Chief Ubben is a co-founder, Chief Director in October 2005 and Remuneration Committee.
He Executive Officer of BT Design, Executive Officer and the Chief senior independent Director has over 30 years experience BT plc.
Prior to joining BT in Investment Officer of ValueAct in November 2005.
John of the US healthcare industry, 2004, he was Executive Vice Capital, a San Francisco-based Ormerod is Chairman of the most recently as President and President, CIO and Chief investment partnership.
He is a CEO of Legacy Health System e-Commerce Officer at Qwest to that, he was a Managing chartered accountant with until 1999.
From 1996 Partner at BLUM Capital over 30 years experience in John was President and CEO to 2001 Al-Noor was Global Partners, a private investment practice.
He is a non-executive of Evangelical Health Systems CIO at Dresdner Kleinwort partnership, and previously Director of Gemalto NV, and of now Advocate Health Systems.
Benson, prior to which he held spent eight years at Fidelity Computacenter plc.
In January He is a member of the American a number of senior business Management and Research, 2008 he joined the board of ITV Hospital Association and a positions in CSFB and UBS.
where he managed the Fidelity plc as a non-executive Director Fellow in the American College Value Fund.
Jeff is a Director where he serves on the Audit of Healthcare Executives.
of Acxiom Corp. and Gartner Committee.
John is also a John serves on the boards Group, Inc. and previously director and trustee of of the Center for Healthcare served on the boards of PerThe Design Museum.
Governance, Pacific University Se Technologies, Inc. and of and AHA Services, Inc. Catalina Marketing Corp.
He is a former Chairman and Director of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc. and has served on a number of other public and private companies.
NOTES 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Nomination Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee 4 Member of the General Purposes Committee 5 Member of the Treasury Committee 6 Member of the Executive Committee Membership of Committees and ages are as at 24 July 2008 6.
John Ormerod Misys plc Annual report 2008 | 35
