415 Over 415 Overview view 1641 Opera 1641 Operating and financial review ting and financial review 4264 Reports 4264 Reports 65110 F 65110 Financial statements inancial statements 111112 Shareholder information 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary 113 Glossary Operating and financial review Key performance indicators Browns, Old Jewry, London Alignment of remuneration incentives used within the Performance Restricted Share For the purposes of remuneration schemes, with key performance indicators KPIs Plan PRSP scheme.
TSR is calculated over the life of the scheme It is a key principle of the Company to align rather than as an annual measure.
Over the interests of the Directors and other Total shareholder return TSR is also the last three years, the Companys TSR has employees with those of its shareholders.
an important measure of performance declined by 16%, reflecting in large part the Executive remuneration therefore includes for Mitchells & Butlers shareholders as recent economic and market pressures and schemes linked to the KPIs below.
Same outlet it combines the increase in the value of the 45% decline in the leisure sector in the like-for-like growth, EPS and incremental the Companys shares with any dividend last financial year.
return on expansionary capital are used as returns made to shareholders.
Mitchells & performance measures within the Short-Term Butlers TSR performance compared with Mitchells & Butlers implements and monitors Deferred Incentive Plan and the amount by its selected comparator group forms the its performance against its strategy principally which cash return on cash capital employed other performance condition used within through four KPIs.
The performance in the CROCCE exceeds weighted average cost the PRSP scheme.
year is as follows: of capital WACC is one of the measures KPI KPI definitions Progress in 2008 1.
Same outlet like-for-like sales growth The sales this year compared to the sales in the previous Mitchells & Butlers operational and marketing plans have year of all managed pubs that were trading throughout delivered resilient like-for-like sales growth compared the two years being compared, expressed as a percentage.
The slowing in the growth is as a result of the impact of the smoking ban in England and Wales and a more challenging economic environment.
The earnings per share before exceptional items and Operating profit in FY 2008 was flat on last year however, 2.
EPS growth IAS 39 movements for the year compared to last year as a result of higher debt levels and interest costs following as reported in the financial statements expressed the closure of certain financial instruments in January 2008, as a percentage.
earnings per share before exceptional items and IAS 39 movements has decreased by 11.3% to 31.5p per share increase of 21.2% in FY 2007.
The post-tax cash return on cash capital employed Mitchells & Butlers aims to maximise the difference 3.
CROCCE in excess of WACC compared to the weighted average cost of capital post tax, between the post-tax CROCCE and its WACC, a key where the cash return is earnings before interest, tax, measure of value creation.
A CROCCE of 10.6% after depreciation and amortisation less cash tax that would be tax was achieved in the 52 weeks to 27 September 2008, charged on operating profit without any tax shield from four to five percentage points ahead of the estimated interest.
Cash capital employed is average net operating WACC for the year, reflecting good operating performance assets, plus average accumulated depreciation, plus supported by an efficient use of the balance sheet.
goodwill written off, less the historical revaluation reserve.
CROCCE was 10.8% after tax in the 52 weeks to The WACC is the post-tax weighted average cost of capital, 29 September 2007, around four to five percentage calculated using the post-tax cost of debt during the year and points ahead of our estimated WACC for that year.
the cost of equity, weighted according to the proportion of the Company financed through debt and equity.
Incremental return on expansionary capital Incremental return is the growth in annual pub operating Our performance in this area has been strong and remains profit expressed as a percentage of the associated capital well above our cost of capital and our internal investment investment for sites having received expansionary appraisal hurdle rates.
Pre-tax returns of 16% are being investment over the last two financial years.
Sites are achieved on the expansionary capital projects carried out included once they have been trading for three months.
over the last two years compared with the 20% reported For sites which have not been trading for a full 12 months, a year ago.
This measure excludes the Original Acquired incremental return is estimated based on an annualisation Sites due to the relatively short period of ownership and of actual post-investment trading.
Expansionary capital is post conversion trading for all these sites, making it more capital invested to increase the trading area of a pub or to difficult to estimate seasonal patterns and annualised materially change the customer offer.
Expansionary capital returns post conversion.
represents investment over and above the maintenance investment cycle for a pub.
Mitchells Mitchells Mitchells & & & Butlers Butlers Butlers 25 25 25 Annual report and accounts 2008 Annual report and accounts 2008 Annual report and accounts 2008
