415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Reports Directors report The Directors present their report for the year ended 27 September 2008.
This Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement, the Overview and the Operating and financial review the OFR on pages 2 to 41, including the Chief Executives review and the Financial review and Corporate governance report which are incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
Details of the Groups policy on addressing risks are given in the OFR and details about financial instruments are shown in Note 21 to the financial statements.
Together these sections include information about the Groups business, its financial performance during the year, likely developments and any principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Groups business.
Bronagh Kennedy Principal activities Company Secretary Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator of managed pubs and Pub Restaurants, with an estate of 1,993 sites as at 27 September 2008 located in the UK, and with 42 Pub Restaurants in Germany.
Share capital On 29 September 2007, the Company had 403,779,693 ordinary 13 shares of 8 24p in issue.
As at 27 September 2008, 404,210,379 13 ordinary shares of 8 24p were in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations or special rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of these shares.
At the year end, 58,191 shares were held in Treasury and the Companys employee share trusts held 1,107,370 shares.
Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2008 AGM to permit the Directors to undertake market purchases of up to 40,306,400 of the Companys shares.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the 2009 AGM or 31 March 2009.
No shares were purchased by the Company following the AGM.
Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2008 AGM to permit the Directors to allot shares up to a nominal value of 11,476,100.
Since the AGM, shares with a nominal value of 36,780 were allotted.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
Interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the issued share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration report on page 62.
Final dividend No final dividend will be paid for the year ended 27 September 2008 2007 10.00p per share.
An interim dividend of 4.55p per share was paid on 27 June 2008 2007 4.25p per share.
Substantial shareholders As at 25 November 2008, the Company had been notified of the following beneficial interests 3% or more in its shares: Piedmont Inc 21.77% Elpida Group Ltd 13.14% The Boards responsibilities Deutsche Bank 6.98% include: BNP Paribas Arbitrage Snc 4.38% Identifying the long-term objectives of the Company Legal & General 4.03% Determining the overall business and Violet Capital Group Ltd 3.34% commercial strategy MF Global UK Limited 3.24% Reviewing the annual operating budget and financial plans This interest is held through contracts for difference Determining the basis of allocation of capital Considering all matters relating to a major change of policy For our latest financial information, go to: www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers 43 Annual report and accounts 2008 Reports Directors report continued Directors There are no provisions in the Directors service agreements nor in any employees contracts providing for compensation for loss of office or Details of the current Directors and their biographies are shown on pages employment occurring because of a takeover.
During the year, the following changes took place: Employees The Group employed an average of 40,774 people in 2008 2007 Director Resigned Appointed 42,741.
Details of the Groups employment policies are shown on Tony Hughes 31 12 07 pages 22 to 24 of the OFR.
Karim Naffah 29 01 08 Roger Carr 20 06 08 Employee engagement Adam Fowle 01 10 07 Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage employee participation in the Jeremy Townsend 31 01 08 Groups success through share ownership and operates the following Aaron Brown 20 06 08 share plans: Tim Smalley 20 06 08 Sharesave Plan Following the year end, on 8 October 2008, Aaron Brown and Tim Smalley resigned In June 2008, options were granted to 1,518 employees over from the Company 2,012,994 shares at 259p per share, a 20% discount on the market price.
On 1 October 2007, the Companys 2004 Sharesave offering Directors are appointed in accordance with the Articles of Association matured and 644 employees were able to exercise options over shares which stipulate that any Director appointed during the year must stand priced at 209p per share.
for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
A Director appointed during the year will not be counted in determining who Share Incentive Plan should stand for reappointment by rotation.
Directors must submit During the year 469,004 shares were allocated by the Share Incentive themselves for re-election at least every three years.
There were Plan Trustee as free shares to 8,681 eligible employees subject to the no payments made during the year as compensation for loss of office.
Employees can instruct the Trustee to exercise votes attaching to these shares at a General Meeting.
Directors indemnity As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the Executive Share Option Plan benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity This plan was discontinued in 2006 and no awards have been made provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. under this plan since then.
The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial year and is currently in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained Performance Restricted Share Plan throughout the financial year Directors and Officers liability insurance During the year, 61 employees were granted nominal cost options which in respect of itself and its Directors.
will vest subject to the achievement of performance conditions as set out on page 55.
935,922 shares under option vested during the year.
Conflicts of interest The Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 AGM with Short-Term Deferred Incentive Plan effect from 1 October 2008 to permit the Board to consider and, if it Under the terms of this plan and at the discretion of the Remuneration sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that Committee, Directors may receive 50% or more of their annual conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company bonus as shares the vesting of which is deferred for three years.
The Board has a formal system in place A matching award of shares may be made by the Company, again for Directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered for at the Remuneration Committees discretion, which is also deferred authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter for a three-year period and is released subject to the satisfaction being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational of a three-year performance condition.
Conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success of the 172,930 shares were released under this plan during the year.
The Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving Executive Directors maximum accrued matching share entitlements authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
for future release are set out on page 59.
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Board authorised, subject to Full details of all of these plans are included within the Remuneration certain conditions, the Situational Conflicts of Aaron Brown and Tim report on pages 54 to 56.
Smalley who, as representatives of R20 Ltd, were associated with Violet Capital Group Ltd, then the Companys largest shareholder.
During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom limits for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the rules of the Related party transactions above plans.
The Company uses an employee benefit trust to acquire Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party shares in the market when appropriate to satisfy share awards in order transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are to manage headroom under the plan rules.
carried out on an arms length basis and are properly recorded.
At 27 September 2008, the position under the 5% in 10 years limit for Change of control provisions discretionary plans was that shares equivalent to 2.7% of the ordinary The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling share capital had been allocated and under the 10% in 10 years limit the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event for all share plans was that shares equivalent to 4.1% of the ordinary of a change of control of the Company: share capital had been allocated.
a 600m unsecured term and revolving facilities agreement as described more fully on page 30: and Health and safety three retained swap agreements with an initial notional amount of It is important to the Group to provide and maintain a safe 225m as described more fully on page 29. environment for all employees, customers and other visitors to its premises.
The Group complies with relevant health and Under the terms of each of these agreements a change of control safety legislation.
Details are included on page 37 of the OFR.
occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
Mitchells & Butlers 44 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Reports Environmental and social responsibility Directors responsibility statement Mitchells & Butlers recognises that it is part of a wider community The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, and recognises that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the Remuneration report and the financial statements Group and the environment and the social wellbeing of others.
A summary of Company in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
UK the Companys approach to these issues is set out on pages 33 to 39 company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements of the OFR.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Policy on payment of suppliers Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Mitchells & Butlers plc is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
Union EU and applicable law.
Further, they have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in accordance with The policy of its principal operating subsidiaries is to agree UK accounting standards and applicable law UK GAAP.
The particular terms with major suppliers and to abide by those terms, financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Amounts owed of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group and the to other suppliers are settled in the month following that in which Company and of the Groups income statement for that period.
the subsidiaries receive a valid invoice.
The average number of days the Group takes to pay an invoice is 39 days.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Charitable donations and charitable activity make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Company continues to support community initiatives and for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been charitable causes, full details of which are given on page 38 of the OFR.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable Political donations UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any The Company made no political donations during the year and intends material departures disclosed and explained in the financial to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, however, as statements.
a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder authority at its 2009 AGM to make limited donations or The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above incur limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of using requirements in preparing the financial statements.
confirm that the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position Going concern of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks The financial statements which appear on pages 65 to 98 have been and uncertainties that it faces.
prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial foreseeable future.
position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply Annual General Meeting with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and, with regard to the The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are 11am on Thursday, 29 January 2009 is contained in a circular sent also responsible for the system of internal control for safeguarding to shareholders with this report.
This meeting will be held at the the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking International Convention Centre in Birmingham.
At the meeting, reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
resolutions will be proposed to renew the authority to issue shares without applying statutory pre-emption rights and to authorise the A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted on the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Resolutions to Companys website www.
The Directors are responsible make certain amendments to the Articles of Association are proposed for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial to change the Companys borrowing limits and to bring the Companys information included on the website.
Information published on the Articles of Association in line with the Companies Act 2006.
Full details Companys website is accessible in many countries with different of these resolutions are provided in the shareholder circular.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Auditors in other jurisdictions.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will Disclosure of information to auditors be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section By order of the Board 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors Bronagh Kennedy are unaware and each Director has taken all steps that ought to Company Secretary have been taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 25 November 2008 information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Bronagh Kennedy Company Secretary 25 November 2008 Mitchells & Butlers 45 Annual report and accounts 2008
