Operating and financial review Board of Directors and Executive Committee Board of Directors 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 Executive Committee 910 12 13 11 Photographed at The Trout Inn, Oxford Mitchells & Butlers 40 Annual report and accounts 2008 415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review Ages as at 25 November 2008 7.
Sir Tim Lankester, aged 66 Board of Directors Non-Executive Director Key Appointed a Non-Executive Director in May 2003, he is 1.
Drummond Hall, aged 59 president of Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
From 1973 to A Non-Executive Director Chairman A member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 1995 he was a member of the Civil Service rising to be deputy Appointed Chairman on 20 June 2008.
He was Deputy secretary of HM Treasury, permanent secretary, Overseas A member of the Nomination Committee Chairman from February 2008 and Senior Independent A member of the Executive Committee Development Administration, Foreign and Commonwealth Director from February 2007, having stepped down from his Office and permanent secretary, Department for Education.
A member of the Property Committee full-time position as chief executive of Dairy Crest plc in He served as private secretary at 10 Downing Street and December 2006.
Prior to that, he had held marketing positions represented the UK on the boards of the World Bank and in Procter & Gamble, Mars and Pepsi Cola, before moving the IMF.
He has held non-executive directorships of CU CGU, to HP Bulmer plc where he became managing director of the the London Metal Exchange and Smith & Nephew and cider and beer division and a member of the group executive.
currently is a non-executive director of ACTIS Capital.
He is He is a non-executive director of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and chairman of the board of management of the London School was appointed an operating partner of Duke Street Capital of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and chairman of the board on 1 May 2008, a director of Burtons Holdings Limited on of trustees of the Contemporary Dance Trust Limited.
19 June 2008 and a non-executive director of WH Smith plc on 1 September 2008.
Sara Weller, aged 47 Non-Executive Director 2.
Tim Clarke, aged 51 Appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2003, she chairs Chief Executive the Remuneration Committee.
Sara is managing director Became Chief Executive of the Company on its separation of Argos Limited having previously been deputy managing from Six Continents PLC in 2003, having previously been director of J Sainsbury plc.
Earlier appointments were with Chief Executive of Six Continents PLC.
Between 1995 and Abbey National and Mars Confectionery.
2000 he was Chief Executive of Bass Leisure Retail, which now constitutes the business of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
He chairs the Executive Committee.
He is a director of the Drinkaware Trust, a non-executive director of the Birmingham Executive Committee Royal Ballet and was appointed senior independent director of Associated British Foods plc on 7 December 2007 having The Executive Committee consists of nine members, four been a non-executive director since November 2004. of whom are Board Directors and five further members who are detailed below.
Jeremy Townsend, aged 44 Finance Director 9.
Chris Edger, aged 44 Jeremy Townsend joined the Company in June 2005 as Deputy HR Director Finance Director and was appointed to the position of Finance Appointed HR Director in July 2008.
Prior to joining the Director in January 2008.
He was previously employed by Company Chris taught and researched at Warwick Business J Sainsbury plc where he held various finance roles including School.
He was previously managing director of off-trade group financial controller, corporate finance director and sales for Coors Brewers and before that Commercial strategy director.
Prior to Sainsburys he was employed and HR Director for Bass Brewers.
Chris has a PhD and by Ernst & Young working in audit and corporate finance.
is a visiting professor at Birmingham City Business School.
Jeremy is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Adam Martin, aged 45 Marketing Director 4.
Mike Bramley, aged 57 Adam joined the Bass Group in 1996 becoming Marketing Managing Director, Pubs and Bars Director of the retail business in 1999.
Adam was previously Became a Director of the Company on its demerger from employed at Gemini Consulting and Cadbury Limited.
He has been Managing Director, Pubs & Bars since September 2002.
Bronagh Kennedy, aged 45 Bass Six Continents, he worked in a variety of roles in the Company Secretary and General Counsel pubs and brewing businesses.
In 1995 he became Commercial Company Secretary to the Board of Directors, Bronagh is a Director of Bass Taverns and in 1998 was appointed HR and qualified solicitor and joined the Bass Leisure Retail business in Commercial Director of Bass Leisure Retail.
She was appointed Director of Legal Affairs in 2000 as a non-executive director of Cask Marque Limited on and HR Director and General Counsel in 2002.
Chris Edger 9 September 2008. was appointed as HR Director in July 2008 and Bronagh will be handing over her responsibilities in this regard to him until 5.
Adam Fowle, aged 49 he assumes full responsibility for HR from 1 January 2009 Managing Director, Restaurants onwards.
She was previously employed with Allen & Overy.
Became Managing Director, Restaurants on 1 October 2007.
Adam rejoined Mitchells & Butlers in March 2005 as Business 12.
Richard Pratt, aged 53 Development Director, having spent two years with J Sainsbury Commercial Director plc as retail director.
Prior to his time at Sainsburys Adam Became Commercial Director in 2002 having joined the Bass had worked within the Company for 17 years in a number of Leisure Retail business in 1994 as Catering Retail Director.
operational and strategic roles, latterly as Managing Director He previously worked for Diageo plc.
He was appointed for the Pubs & Bars Division.
as a director of GS1 UK Limited on 12 December 2007.
Alison Wheaton, aged 44 Non-Executive Director Strategy and Business Development Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2003, he chairs Joined the Bass Leisure Retail business in 1997 as Director of the Audit Committee.
He is group finance director of Alliance Strategic Planning, moving to run Hollywood Bowl before Boots, having previously held the same role with Alliance becoming Operations Director of London & Venues.
In 2002 UniChem up until its merger with Boots Group.
Earlier she was appointed as Property and IT Director and in August appointments were with Elementis and Dawson International, 2008 was appointed Strategy and Business Development both as group finance director, and before that with Dixons Director, retaining her responsibilities for the Property and IT Group and Procter & Gamble.
Alison was previously employed by Pepsi Cola, Lever Brothers and Morgan Stanley.
For our latest financial information, go to: www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers 41 Annual report and accounts 2008 Reports 42 Reports 50 Audit Committee report 43 Directors report 52 Remuneration report 46 Corporate governance report 64 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc This section contains the Companys statutory reports.
These comprise: Directors report, containing details of the Audit Committee report, which outlines Companys principal activities, changes to the responsibilities of the Audit Committee, share capital during the year and dividend the composition of the Committee and the details.
It also lists the substantial shareholders process undertaken to ensure the Committee in the Company and the Directors who discharges its responsibilities properly.
held office during the year.
Information on Directors indemnities, the management Remuneration Committee report, which of conflicts of interest and contracts with includes the composition of the Committee as change of control provisions is also given, well as details of its advisers, the remuneration along with other information required by law.
policy for Executive Directors and the alignment of this policy with the Companys Corporate governance report, which KPIs.
It also details the share plans operated details the Companys compliance with the by the Company.
Combined Code during the year.
It provides information on the Board and committee Report of the independent auditors, structure and the steps taken to ensure which is the formal report to shareholders good internal control.
It also details how from the auditors giving their opinion on the Company engages with shareholders.
It concludes with a summary of the recent Board evaluation.
Mitchells & Butlers 42 Annual report and accounts 2008
