Directors report The directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the MITIE Group of companies the Group for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Principal activities MITIE Group PLC the Company is the holding company of the Group.
The principal activity of the Company is to provide management services to the Group.
The Groups activities are focused on the provision of services in support of the buildings and infrastructure of clients.
Business review The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of the Group during the reporting period including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the reporting period and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Details of this review are contained in the following sections of this Annual Report and Accounts: the Chairmans statement: the Chief Executives review: the operating review: the financial review: the corporate governance statement and the statement of principal risks and uncertainties.
Pro t and dividends The pro t for the financial year, before taxation, is 67.9m 2007: 56.6m.
The directors have declared recommended dividends as follows: Paid on 8 February 2008 an interim dividend of 2.8p per Ordinary share 8.9m Recommended a final dividend of 3.2p per Ordinary share 10.1m Total Ordinary dividend 6.0p per share 2007: 5.1p 19.0m The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 4 August 2008 to Ordinary shareholders on the register on 4 July 2008.
The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP.
Further details on the operation of the DRIP are contained within the notice of the AGM booklet.
Share capital Details of changes to the Companys share capital during the year and the number of Ordinary shares in issue at the year end are detailed in Note 27 to the financial statements.
Substantial interests in share capital As at 16 May 2008 the Company has been noti ed of the following signi cant holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of Ordinary shares of 2.5p each % of share capital Fidelity International Limited 10,065,118 3.18% Legal & General Group PLC 12,753,391 4.03% Mirabaud Investment Management Limited 15,673,517 4.95% In June 2004 the Company commenced a share buyback programme which has continued pursuant to the renewed authority given by shareholders at the AGM in 2007.
During the year to 31 March 2008 there have been no further purchases by the Company of MITIE shares.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases will be determined by the Company and will be dependent on market conditions and other factors.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel any shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury, but this policy will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
Further details on the proposed renewal of powers for share buyback and the allotment of shares in the Company are provided in the notice of the AGM booklet.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Under the Companys Articles of Association holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in any dividends pro rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association contain various provisions relating to voting rights attaching to Ordinary shares and restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares which are in line with standard administrative practice.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regards to control of the Company and the Company is not aware of any agreement between its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Board of directors The membership of the Board as at 31 March 2008 and biographical details of the directors including details of committee chairmanships and other positions held are given on page 48.
The notice of the AGM booklet contains details of those directors who are retiring by rotation and proposed for re-election.
The Board considers that the performance of those directors proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that they demonstrate a strong commitment to their role.
On 19 May 2008 David Ord announced his intention to retire from his role as Chairman and as a director of the Company and Cullum McAlpine announced his intention to retire from his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, senior independent non-executive director SID and as a director of the Company.
These retirements will be effective on the conclusion of the AGM on 31 July 2008 and Roger Matthews will thereupon assume the role of Chairman.
With effect from the conclusion of the AGM: David Jenkins will become Chairman of the Audit Committee: Roger Matthews will become Chairman of the Nomination Committee: and David Jenkins will become senior independent non-executive director.
Further details on the selection process in respect of these appointments are provided in the corporate governance statement.
During the year Colin Acheson and Colin Hale stepped down as executive directors of the Company.
Directors interests Details of the bene cial and non-bene cial interests including share options of each director and connected persons in the Ordinary share capital of the Company are provided in the remuneration report.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Directors report continued Directors indemnities The Company maintains directors and of cers liability insurance providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors and or of cers.
The 2007 AGM approved various amendments to the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company to extend the protection provided to directors in respect of any litigation against directors relating to their position as a director of the Company.
These changes were made possible by recent amendments to company law.
The amended Memorandum and Articles of Association speci cally provide that the Company may indemnify directors against any liability incurred in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company and that the Company may fund defence costs.
Individual directors would still be liable to pay damages awarded to the Company in any action against them by the Company and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company if their defence was unsuccessful.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement that, as at the date of approving the financial statements, there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare the financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with IFRS where applicable.
The directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c IFRS requirements is insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the pro t or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and, state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for: keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company: safeguarding the assets: taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities: and, the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Financial statements published by the Company on this website are prepared in accordance with UK legislation which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of each directors knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS and contained within this Annual Report and Accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and, the management report, which is incorporated into the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Auditors and disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the directors in of ce as of the date of approval of this Annual Report con rms that: So far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information being information required by the auditors in the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and They have each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in of ce as auditors and the resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Events after the balance sheet date There have not been any signi cant events since the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise bank loans, finance leases, overdrafts and performance guarantees.
The principal purpose of these is to raise funds for general corporate purposes.
In addition, various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise from its trade.
The use of interest rate swaps and currency swaps will be used to manage interest and currency risk when necessary or material.
Payment of creditors The Groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed with suppliers.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Group endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
At 31 March 2008, the Group had 47 days purchases outstanding 2007: 48 days.
50 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Employee involvement, disability and opportunities The Board remains committed to developing further a culture that encourages the inclusion and diversity of all of the Groups employees through respecting and appreciating their differences, and to promoting the continuous development of employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age, disability or any other aspect of diversity.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as reasonably possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Communication with employees continues to have a high priority.
The Company maintains a group-wide intranet site and delivers bi-annual publications to all employees.
Through the use of their own communication processes each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to ensure that employees are kept informed on Group and individual business developments.
Employees remain actively involved in the Groups activities via an employee forum.
This year the forum held two meetings chaired by Ruby McGregor-Smith.
We look forward to an increase in involvement and activity of our company representatives.
Equity incentivisation of employees The Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of equity involvement whereby employees should be encouraged to build a stake in the Company through the Companys various equity-based incentive schemes.
The Board believes that it is this culture of equity involvement that has driven the Groups growth performance and that it assists in attracting and retaining skilled and committed employees.
During the year, and as approved at the 2007 AGM, the Group has: implemented the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP to incentivise and reward senior members of the MITIE management team: and has made adjustments to the discretionary those not open to all employees executive Share Option Scheme ESOS to simplify the incentive effect for employees below Board level.
The Board is seeking shareholder approval at the AGM for a change to the Groups Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE to reduce the savings contract period from five years to three years.
The Board believes that this is in line with general market practice and will make the scheme more attractive to, and should increase uptake of the scheme by, MITIEs employees.
The Group has historically grown by giving entrepreneurial managers the opportunity to create wealth for themselves by taking the risk of starting a new business, taking equity stakes at fair value in those new businesses in conjunction with MITIE and then, dependent on a pre-agreed pricing structure, offering to sell that stake to MITIE in exchange for MITIE shares.
This incentivisation scheme typically provides for such managers to elect to offer their stake in their business to MITIE between the fifth and tenth years from the date of establishment of the business.
Recipients of shares under this incentivisation scheme are generally restricted from selling the MITIE shares for a minimum of two years.
The Board believes that this is a unique business model that has driven MITIEs past performance and continues to ensure a close alignment in interest between MITIE shareholders and the management and employees of the Group.
During the reporting period the Group further expanded its use of this incentivisation scheme through the restructuring and recapitalisation of the Groups Security business and through the start-up of the Client Services business.
It is the Boards current intent to continue to utilise this incentivisation scheme.
Donations Charitable donations were made during the year amounting to 106,850 2007: 116,650 to charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
As a matter of policy, no political contributions were made during the year 2007: nil.
The total value of community investment as disclosed in more detail in our CR Report 2008 was 592,132 2007: 611,836.
Electronic communications The directors remain committed to improving and extending the methods in which the Company communicates with its shareholders and wish to move towards an increase in electronic communication.
At the 2007 AGM, shareholders approved certain amendments which aligned the Companys Articles of Association with the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to electronic shareholder communications.
The Board has been disappointed with the level of uptake by shareholders to date and would wish to encourage all shareholders to opt in to electronic communications thus realising the environmental and cost bene ts of reduced printing and carriage of hard copy reports and other communications.
AGM The notice of the AGM to be held on 31 July 2008 is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this Annual Report.
Basis of report This directors report together with the other sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference has been prepared, and is published, in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in relation to this report are subject to the limitations provided by such law.
By order of the Board Richard Allan Company secretary 19 May 2008 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51
