Our strategy We have a simple strategy to ensure our future success: To deliver stakeholder value through a focus on sustainable, pro table growth.
This strategy can be broken down into four areas that are all linked to our key performance indicators KPIs and other management tools, which we use to measure our success and our progress.
We have been able to grow much faster than the markets in which we operate.
4 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our strategy is to deliver value to know that the best way to make all our stakeholders including our sure that we have the right people Stakeholders shareholders, customers, employees is to recruit, motivate and retain and the wider community.
the best talent in our industry.
To do this we provide a comprehensive We have an uncompromising set of bene ts, rewards, incentives commitment to deliver value to our and training.
We measure our customers by providing them with performance in this area through quality services.
Our ability to do our management retention KPI.
By this directly impacts on our ability providing our clients with quality to retain our clients.
We measure services delivered by quality this part of our strategy using our people, we will also deliver value contract retention KPI.
Many of to our shareholders, through the the principles in delivering quality sustainable, pro table growth of the services start with the attitude of the Group.
Our financial KPI set re ects people carrying out those services.
our performance in this area.
This is why MITIE is all about having the right people for the job and the right attitude to getting it done.
We Sustainability has many Our corporate responsibility CR interpretations.
For us, its about programme is a differentiator for Sustainability building and protecting a long-term clients seeking to do business with business, managing our growth like-minded organisations and we rates and planning our resource believe that it contributes to our requirements.
Our forward order ability to sustain our growth in the book is a KPI and helps us to monitor future.
CR is an important part of the visibility and demands of our our strategy and we measure our future workloads and earnings.
impact on the environment as a KPI in the form of our CO emissions 2 We act responsibly as a business per employee.
We also produce and aim to build a reputation that a separate CR Report each year enhances our brand and makes which uses key measurements us attractive to shareholders, to benchmark our progress in customers and future employees developing our CR programme.
We are focused on growing than top line growth is a key factor in our business pro tably and on creating value for our shareholders.
Pro tability maintaining our margins within our We use our EBITA margin as one target ranges.
The remuneration of our financial KPIs to monitor of our senior management is our performance.
in uenced by pro t-related performance and we recognise that focusing on pro tability rather We have a track record that has Part of our strategy is to supplement seen double digit organic growth our organic growth through Growth every year since our formation in acquisitions of companies that 1987.
We are con dent of continued can enhance our service offering.
During the year, we grew We look for companies that revenue at a rate of 14.5%, with have a similar culture to us an organic growth of 10.4%, whilst entrepreneurial culture supported we saw our markets grow at an by strong management, where average of 6.0%.
achievement is rewarded and the satisfaction of customers is the We are well placed to take primary focus.
MITIEs own success advantage of the trends towards can be attributed to the strength both integrated and larger scale and motivation of its people, and it national contracts that can only be is a vital ingredient for any company delivered by a small number that we consider acquiring.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
