10 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Milton Keynes Council Services provided: responsive repairs, void reinstatement and supply chain management.
Overview We are helping Milton Keynes Council to improve their housing service by reinstating empty properties more quickly and providing a more effective method of carrying out housing repairs on its stock of 12,000 homes.
Key successes We were contracted to deliver a vastly improved and more cost-effective maintenance programme through a locally based service that encompasses all of the main building trades, building works and improvement programmes within properties.
A new process that places great emphasis on empowering tradesmen to complete all calls on a zero defects, zero complaints basis has been implemented.
As a direct result, the level of responsive repairs completed on time has risen by 13% to 95%.
Average working days for non-urgent repairs have fallen from 70 days to just 12 days.
These improvements have increased first-time xes and have enabled a larger percentage of every pound of the councils repairs budget to be spent on maintenance rather than on administering the service.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Communities and Local Government and the Government Of ce for London Services provided: facilities management, maintenance and engineering, cleaning, catering, business services reception, porterage and mail, security and waste management.
Overview In 2004, the then Of ce of the Deputy Prime Minister was delivering facilities services through a managing agent, with a range of subcontractors.
With a need to streamline the management of their estates and increasing sustainability targets, the government department, now known as Communities and Local Government embarked on a process to select a single supplier to deliver a fully integrated facilities management service.
Since then MITIE has been working with the central government department to deliver an integrated FM service.
Key successes MITIE has been successful in delivering savings of over 500,000 across the contract, which have been achieved as a result of a continuous drive for improvements, supporting the central government department in rationalising the ef ciency of their estate whilst adding considerable value across the contract.
The contract is based around a focus on delivering innovation and expertise to improve service delivery, involving all members of the MITIE team and members of the client team to deliver these improvements.
They have included the centralisation of the on-site mailrooms, providing considerable financial and space saving bene ts to the government department, through to providing environmental management expertise to support Communities and Local Government to achieve the recent targets introduced across the government estate, to reduce CO emissions by 2 20% by 2012.
MITIE have introduced a range of initiatives across the sites to reduce waste and energy usage and support the achievement of sustainability targets.
This has included a project to re-programme the time-settings on the passive infrared motion-sensors across the various sites and the introduction of a food composting programme which saw MITIE working in partnership with a locally based social enterprise to support the increase in recycling across the sites.
Combined with a range of other recycling initiatives, this has resulted in a dramatic increase in recycling across all sites over the last two years, with MITIE continuing to work with Communities and Local Government to achieve their targets in this area.
12 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 Her Majestys Courts Service HMCS Services provided: front of house, access control, CCTV monitoring, jury supervision and car park management.
Overview In 2007, HMCS and the Tribunal Service decided they wanted a more consistent security presence, with an exclusive manned guarding provider across all their sites.
The key requirement for the courts was to have a dedicated, motivated and specially trained team, with the ability to deal with a broad range of responsibilities and cope in any eventuality.
Key successes MITIE has succeeded in providing an excellent service with a team of more than 1,400 of cers at all 425 county, magistrates and tribunal courts across England and Wales.
Our approach has resulted in one of the lowest turnover rates of security of cers in our industry.
We pay close attention to looking after our people, supplying consistent uniforms across the board and providing high quality training delivered at our own bespoke academy.
Its important to both the courts and to MITIE to maintain this level of excellence and keep our people motivated.
The results have been a cost-effective and ef cient guarding service for staff, juries and visitors delivered by a motivated security team from a provider with 15 years experience in dealing with the demanding court environment.
14 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
