Our services Our services span the entire building lifecycle, from planning and installing, to managing and maintaining.
We provide a comprehensive range of integrated services to some of the UKs largest public and private sector businesses, working with our customers to ensure their buildings and workspaces are smarter, greener, safer and better run.
Operating divisions Contract types We are organised into three When working with MITIE, clients operating divisions supported by are able to choose the way that a central team.
Our three divisions they procure their services.
are structured to mirror the way our Some clients will buy just one service customers buy their services.
from us, some multiple services and others may outsource their entire facilities management departments to us.
Revenue split m Contract types split within MITIE % 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 Facilities Property Engineering Single MultiFacilities Services Services Services service service management 8 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 732.1 820.4 215.1 285.7 281.6 301.1 78 72 14 18 8 10 Facilities Property Engineering Services Services Services We provide integrated facilities We provide a full suite of property We deliver leading-edge, services and are responsible services, from refurbishment to sustainable engineering services for managing and maintaining repairs, working with clients as for buildings.
properties and workspaces for some varied as housing associations, Our services cover every aspect of of the UKs largest businesses and industrial companies and property design, consultancy and installation, organisations.
We have the expertise developers.
We have specialist from mainstream mechanical and in place to support our customers skills in every aspect of property electrical engineering to technology in achieving their strategic goals care, including interior t-out, infrastructure, heating, ventilation improving services, reducing costs minor repairs and redecoration, and air-conditioning.
We have and creating great workplaces for passive re protection, plumbing also gained impressive expertise in their people.
and heating, refurbishment, repair renewable energy technologies and and maintenance and roo ng.
Our comprehensive range of are helping clients make substantial Our energy and commitment services means that we can provide reductions in the carbon footprint to improving and transforming all of our facilities services directly and lifecycle costs of their buildings.
buildings, both inside and out, without having to subcontract to has made us one of the strongest third parties, saving our customers providers in our sector.
time, money and increasing cooperation and ef ciency between service teams.
We also provide the specialist knowledge to support our customers in addressing change, from energy and environmental management and specialist facilities management technology, to lifecycle management and consultancy services.
Single service Multi-service Facilities The first experience of outsourcing In a multi-service contract, a client management for most organisations is usually will outsource more than one service to outsource some of their single to MITIE.
We know that by providing Organisations that are comfortable services.
It is usually possible to quality services to our clients, it is with outsourcing may wish to provide signi cant cost savings more likely that they will outsource engage with us in a facilities on first-time outsourced contracts other services to us rather than management FM contract.
This as specialist suppliers may bring in going to a different supplier.
Multitype of contract is an end-toprocess improvements and new service contracts are a common end facilities solution where MITIE technology, or may reduce the progression for organisations that is brought in to manage the FM headcount of the service team.
have already outsourced some department for a client.
We can As organisations outsource more of their non-core support services.
help an organisation identify what specialist non-core services, the For second and third generation should be outsourced, then deliver number of suppliers and contracts outsourced contracts, it becomes the services with one integrated that they have to manage increases.
harder to save money by process team.
With MITIEs range of services, improvement alone.
In a multiwe are able to provide directly the service contract, our clients can vast majority of services that most reduce the number of suppliers that other FM companies would have to they have to monitor by contracting subcontract.
This can help to drive with us to provide multiple services.
down costs and encourage a one The bene ts include possible team approach.
We see the area synergies in the management and of FM as a large potential growth delivery of the services, one invoice area for MITIE.
every month, one health and safety quality management system to audit and fewer suppliers to manage.
We are a valuable partner for clients who wish to rationalise their supply chain without losing any of the expertise that comes with outsourcing to specialist suppliers.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9
