Statement of principal risks and uncertainties The Group has an established risk management framework which is designed to identify, evaluate and manage the risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
This framework is described further in the corporate governance statement.
Within this framework, MITIE classi es risks into four distinct categories according to their potential impact on the Group: Strategic risks impacting long-term strategic objectives: Operational risks arising during day-to-day activities which if not managed could impact upon the running of the business: Financial risks directly impacting upon the nances of the business: and Compliance risks relating to legal and regulatory sanctions and damage to goodwill arising from failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Principal strategic risks New business The Group is increasingly tendering for and winning more complex and larger multi-service business.
There is an associated increase in the risks relating to appropriate scoping and pricing of contracts to ensure a fair balance of risk and reward, securing balanced commercial terms and ensuring compliant delivery of services.
Robust systems to gain visibility of these risks and manage them effectively will bene t the Groups service delivery capabilities and financial performance, whilst any realisation of the negative effect of these risks would have a detrimental impact on the Groups pro tability and reputation.
To ensure visibility and good management of these risks MITIEs system of internal controls incorporates strict bid and contract review and approval mechanisms.
Depending upon the scope and risk of a speci c tender a dedicated commercial bid team and other specialists are utilised.
Effective contract management and monitoring procedures are used to ensure that ongoing risks are properly managed through the life of each relevant contract.
Loss of major contracts MITIE has a number of major contracts which although not individually material by value to the Group are important in supporting our future growth.
We adopt a key account management strategy for these contracts which includes, where appropriate, director-level client relationships, and we monitor closely key client relations, helping to reduce the risk of losing any of these contracts.
Acquisitions MITIE continues to seek to acquire businesses that t with, or complement our existing range of service offerings and culture.
The strategic risks associated with acquisitions include: a failure to gain visibility of, and manage, risks that are assumed through acquisition: valuation risk relating to the acquisition: a failure to achieve a cultural t: and, the synergistic and operational transition of the acquired business into the Group.
If these risks were crystallised they could lead to material business disruption, and loss of pro ts and associated investor con dence.
These risks are managed and mitigated by the use of an experienced acquisitions team, supported by internal specialists and external professionals, and by the directors who closely monitor the acquisition process.
All material acquisitions require full Board approval.
Following any acquisition an executive director is appointed as an integration project sponsor with responsibility for ensuring that the acquired business is integrated successfully and the performance of the integration process closely monitored.
Infrastructure and systems MITIE is increasingly dependent upon the successful implementation and ongoing operation of information technology infrastructure and related systems.
Failure to improve and invest in our infrastructure and systems on a continuing basis and to ensure their ongoing operational integrity could impact MITIEs ability to meet our operational commitments and may result in liabilities being incurred under customer contracts.
MITIEs infrastructure is continually reviewed by the Board to ensure it is appropriate to the operations performed and that it enables employees to deliver services to its clients successfully.
The ongoing investment in a new SAP based finance and HR system will improve and strengthen further MITIEs IT infrastructure.
Reputational risk MITIE operates in business sectors that are vulnerable to reputational damage through operational failings.
Incidents that result in damage to MITIEs reputation may impact existing customer relations, MITIEs ability to attract future business, and damage to shareholder value.
MITIE addresses this risk through the use of robust and well established operational procedures to ensure compliance with regulatory and legal requirements and with contractual obligations.
Clearly fide ned escalation procedures are in place to ensure that senior management have timely visibility of high risk matters.
Principal operational risks Health, safety and environment The breadth and nature of activities that MITIE undertakes gives rise to a range of potential health, safety and environmental risks.
These risks could impact upon MITIE, its customers, employees, members of the public and the environment generally through injury or loss of life, environmental damage, disruption to business activities, loss of reputation and the incurring of financial penalties.
Speci c examples of potential risks encountered by employees include working at height, installing and maintaining electrical systems, using machinery and controlled chemicals, and operating in hazardous sites and public areas.
MITIE manages these risks through the maintenance of a culture that encourages every employee to take responsibility for their health and safety and where all operational activities have a strong safety focus.
The Chief Executive is responsible for health and safety and is supported by the executive board, the head of health and safety and a network of dedicated health and safety experts within the business.
All parties are committed to the continual development and improvement of processes and procedures to reduce the likelihood and impact of incidents.
Training and education of all employees is a fundamental part of the improvement process and promotes a culture of both collective and individual responsibility for health and well being of our employees, our clients employees and the general public.
Employee skill shortages MITIE recognises that there may be skill shortages in some sectors in which the Group operates.
This would impact upon our ability to mobilise and service new and existing contracts and potentially upon MITIEs ability to grow its business generally.
In order to recruit and retain the people that MITIE needs, we regularly review, at the appropriate level, our remuneration, incentivisation and reward structures.
The Group continues its emphasis on equity-based incentivisation for employees and other employee incentive and reward schemes.
We place great emphasis on succession planning and on the need to train and develop all our employees.
As part of this MITIE continues to provide work-based learning and training opportunities and currently employs 321 construction, engineering and other apprentices.
MITIE also supports vocational education in the wider community by providing Skills Centres in secondary schools.
In the last year we have opened our eighth Skills Centre.
46 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Principal financial risks Liquidity Maintaining suf cient levels of liquidity and financial capacity is essential to enabling MITIE to function at an operational level and to fund its growth strategy.
Failure to manage liquidity properly could impact operational activities and the Groups ability to grow further.
Speci c liquidity risks include the ability to manage working capital and suf ciency of banking arrangements.
The Group Treasury function is responsible for the management of liquidity risk and operates within a framework of policies and procedures that are approved by the Board.
Forecasting, monitoring and reporting of cash ows to senior management and the Board ensures the appropriate level of visibility over the processes to control this risk.
Furthermore, within the reporting period, pre-existing, committed five-year banking facilities were extended by 80m on existing terms to 230m to provide ongoing funding to support the Groups growth strategy.
Further details regarding financial risk are shown in Note 23.
Principal compliance risks Pensions Risks associated with the operation and management of the Groups pension funds concern the ability of the pension fund assets to meet future pension liabilities.
Within the Group this applies to MITIEs own pension schemes and to pension liabilities assumed by MITIE where a workforce transfers to the Group under new business contracts and relevant legislation.
Trustees manage the MITIE Group pension funds and the required contribution rates are set on the basis of independent actuarial advice.
Actuarial valuations are sensitive to changes in assumptions made regarding future events including mortality rates and the long-term return on scheme assets.
The funding positions of these funds are regularly reviewed.
In respect of pensions schemes associated with transferring employees, for example the Local Government Pension Scheme, the principal risk concerns the potential for scheme liabilities to exceed scheme assets requiring increases in post-transfer contribution levels.
MITIE manages this risk through ensuring that appropriate advice is obtained in the bidding and transfer process, that the risk is fairly and properly priced and that binding contractual commitments are secured as to how future liabilities are met and on the funding position on transfer.
Further information regarding pensions is shown in Note 34.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47
