Board of directors David Ord Non-executive Chairman David was appointed as a non-executive director of MITIE Group PLC in October 2002 and was later appointed as non-executive Chairman in September 2003.
David is Managing director of The Bristol Port Company which owns and operates the Avonmouth and Portbury docks.
Ian Stewart Non-executive Deputy Chairman Ian was appointed as Chief Executive of MITIE Group PLC in 2001 and was appointed as non-executive Deputy Chairman on 30 March 2007.
Ian was a founding member of MITIE.
He is non-executive director of Generation UK Limited, suppliers of scaffolding, access and safety systems.
Ruby McGregor-Smith Chief Executive Ruby was appointed as Group Finance Director of MITIE Group PLC in December 2002, later appointed as Chief Operating Of cer in September 2005 and subsequently as Chief Executive in March 2007.
Prior to joining the Group, Ruby held a range of senior roles within the support services sector, primarily at Serco Group plc.
In addition, she is a non-executive director of Michael Page International plc.
Suzanne Baxter Group Finance Director Suzanne was appointed as Group Finance Director of MITIE Group PLC in April 2006.
Prior to joining MITIE, she specialised in mergers and acquisitions related transaction support and also held a number of commercial and operational roles with Serco Group plc.
Suzanne holds a seat on the Opportunity Now Advisory Board, a part of the Business in the Community BiTC organisation with a focus on workplace diversity, and is also a member of the Finance and Risk committee of BiTC.
Roger Goodman Group Corporate Development Director Roger joined MITIE Group PLC in 1993 and was appointed as an executive director in August 2001.
Roger is a non-executive director of The Business Services Association and Asset Skills Council, which advocates the growth of the support services industry pro le and the development of skills in the sector.
In addition, he is Chairman of Networkers International plc.
Bill Robson Director responsible for Property Services Bill joined MITIE Group PLC in January 1992 following the acquisition of Trident Maintenance Services Limited and was appointed as an executive director in August 2001.
David Jenkins Non-executive director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee David was appointed as non-executive director in March 2006.
David was previously a senior Partner with Deloitte & Touche LLP in London having spent over 20 years in Assurance and Advisory Services.
David is Chairman of Development Securities PLC and non-executive director of Renewable Energy Systems Limited.
He is a Governor of Downe House School.
Ishbel Macpherson Non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ishbel was appointed as non-executive director in July 2005.
Ishbel was previously an investment banker for over 20 years specialising in UK mid market corporate finance and previously held positions at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and Hoare Govett.
Ishbel is non-executive director of Hydrogen Group plc and GAME Group plc and the senior independent non-executive director at Speedy Hire Plc.
Roger Matthews Non-executive director Roger was appointed as non-executive director in December 2006.
Roger previously held the roles of Group Finance director of J Sainsbury plc and Group Managing director and Group Finance director of Compass Group PLC.
Roger is non-executive Chairman of both Land of Leather Holdings PLC and LSL Property Services PLC.
Cullum McAlpine Non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Cullum was appointed as non-executive director in April 2003.
He is also director of Sir Robert McAlpine Limited and Chairman of Renewable Energy Systems Limited.
Graeme Potts Non-executive director Graeme was appointed as non-executive director in July 2006.
Graeme previously held appointments with Inchcape PLC, RAC Motoring Services and Reg Vardy plc.
He is non-executive director of BEN, the Motor & Allied Trades Benevolent Fund and is non-executive Chairman of Bikers Legal Defence Limited.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
48 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
