Board of directors Executive directors 4 5 4 4 David Hathorn Andrew King Peter Oswald Board of directors Chief executive officer Chief financial officer CEO Europe & International committee membership Division 1 DLC audit committee David Hathorn graduated in Andrew King graduated in 2 commerce from the University of commerce from the University Peter Oswald graduated in law DLC nominations committee Natal and qualified as a chartered of Cape Town and qualified as a and business administration from 3 DLC remuneration committee accountant at Deloitte & Touche.
chartered accountant at Deloitte the University of Vienna, beginning 4 DLC executive committee He joined Anglo American plc in & Touche in 1994.
He joined his career with Deutsche Bank 5 DLC sustainable 1989 as a divisional finance Minorco, the international arm and automotive company KTM.
development committee manager, moved to Mondi in 1991 of Anglo American, as a financial He joined the Frantschach Group and went on to serve as finance analyst in 1995 and subsequently in 1992, initially as head of internal director and then general manager assumed responsibility for the audit, later as corporate controller.
of Mondi Europe until 2000, when groups investment management After serving as chief executive he was appointed chief executive activities.
He transferred to of the bag and flexibles business officer of the Mondi Group.
Minorcos corporate finance from 1995 to 2001, overseeing its department in 1998, working on At Anglo American plc, David recovery and expansion.
Peter a number of group M&A activities was a member of the executive was appointed chief executive before being appointed a vice committee from 2003 and an of Mondi Packaging Europe in president of Anglo American executive director from 2005 and 2002, leading its subsequent Corporate Finance in 1999. served on the boards of a number integration with Frantschach and His key assignments included of companies, including fide Beers, recently-acquired Bauernfeind the restructuring of the relationship Anglo Platinum and Anglo Coal.
into the newly formed Mondi with fide Beers, the reorganisation He oversaw the demerger of Packaging division.
of the Mondi Europe Group and Mondi and its dual listing in Mondis acquisition of Syktyvkar At the beginning of 2008 Peter London and Johannesburg in Paper Enterprises.
joined the Boards of Mondi Limited 2007.
David is a member of the and Mondi plc as chief executive DLC sustainable development Andrew was appointed Mondis officer of the Groups Europe & committee and chairs the DLC vice president of business International Division, comprising executive committee.
development in 2002 and all the former Mondi Packaging corporate development director in and Mondi Business Paper 2004.
He served as chief financial operations outside South Africa.
officer of Mondi from June 2005 to May 2006, before being Peter serves as a non-executive appointed as Group strategy and director of Telekom Austria AG business development director.
and as president of respACTHe was heavily involved in the austrian business council for listing process and establishment sustainable development.
of the Groups dual listed corporate structures.
Andrew was appointed as chief financial officer in October 2008.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 31 Directors report
