Group overview Our integrated value chain Mondi aims to be the lowest-cost producer in its chosen markets, by selectively investing in production capacity in low-cost regions and taking full advantage of its integrated production process, adding value at every stage of the product chain.
Wood Base materials Converted products Recycling Wood is the essential raw material for all Packaging paper Packaging Recovered paper Mondis virgin paper-based products.
In 2008, Mondi produced around Mondi adds value to its packaging Mondi uses substantial quantities From wood fibre Mondi produces pulp, 3.4 million tonnes of packaging paper, paper output by converting it into of recovered paper as a raw material the basic ingredient of all paper and comprising: kraft paper, virgin and a range of specialist products: in its paper mills, with 26% of its paper-based packaging.
The Group recycled containerboard from paper products manufactured virgin and recycled containerboard utilises pulp in its own production and softwood and recovered paper predominantly from recycled materials.
are used to make corrugated boxes also wholesales it to third parties.
and packaging board for liquids This includes newsprint, which is mostly and cases: from hardwood.
The Group produces produced using a high proportion Forestry high-strength kraft paper is converted more packaging paper than it of fide-inked, recovered paper.
into industrial bags: and Mondi owns or leases 385,000 consumes, selling the balance films and printed laminates hectares of land in South Africa, Replanting to external customers.
are converted into flexible of which 230,000 is planted with Each year, Mondi replenishes its packaging products.
hardwoods e. g. eucalyptus and Uncoated fine paper forestry assets with extensive replanting softwoods e. g. pine and spruce.
Mondi is a leading producer of Office and programmes.
In South Africa we The Group also holds logging rights to uncoated fine paper UFP, produced established replanted 23,000 hectares printing paper 2.1 million hectares of mainly softwood mainly from hardwood pulp with around or 10% of plantations in 2008, while forests in Russia.
Together, this Our UFP is converted into office and 1.9 million tonnes produced in 2008. in Russia forests are regenerated via provides an annual allowable cut of 9.2 professional printing papers, sold 3 UFP is typically used for photocopier natural re-growth.
million m, making the Group potentially as cut-size, in folio form or in large paper and printing applications.
self-sufficient in wood for 50% of its reels.
Mondi products are among Refer to the page p7 pulp-production needs.
opposite for more the market-leaders for premium Specialities information on paper applications.
Pulp In addition to being a leading producer of release liner, Mondi produces a In 2008, Mondi produced around wide range of high quality flexible 3.5 million tonnes of pulp from nine products, supplied to leading brands integrated pulp and paper mills in in various industries.
Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Slovakia, South Africa and Sweden.
Mondi was 93% self-sufficient in pulp for paper production and wholesaled around 470,000 tonnes to external customers in 2008.
Our paper value chain Customers Packaging products Mondis packaging products are sold to four main markets: Converted paper FMCG companies corrugated boxes, Forestry flexible packaging solutions and Pulp barrier materials : Uncoated ne paper building and construction companies Including newsprint industrial bags and barrier materials : chemicals, pharmaceuticals and electronics corrugated boxes, flexible packaging solutions and industrial Converted packaging bags : and packaging converters kraft paper, virgin and recycled containerboard Packaging paper and barrier materials.
Office and printing paper Mondi supplies UFP to business and home users through three principal channels: Recovered paper merchants: original equipment manufacturers OEMs : and office suppliers and retailers.
6 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group
