Board of directors Joint chairmen 2 2 5 Sir John Parker Sir John serves as deputy Cyril Ramaphosa He is a past chairman of the Joint chairman chairman of Dubai-based DP Joint chairman Black Economic Empowerment World Limited, as senior nonCommission in South Africa and Sir John Parker is a graduate of Cyril Ramaphosa graduated in law executive director of the Court of was the first deputy chairman of Queens University, Belfast, having from the University of South Africa the Bank of England and as a nonthe Commonwealth Business studied naval architecture and and joined the Council of Unions executive director of European Council.
He is currently vice mechanical engineering whilst of South Africa CUSA as a legal Aeronautic Defence and Space chairman of the Global Business a student apprentice at Harland adviser in 1981.
He went on to Company EADS N. V. EADS.
and Wolff, progressing to chief found the National Union of In July 2008 he was appointed Mineworkers, South Africas Cyril holds honorary doctorates executive in the early 1990s and chairman of BVT, a joint venture chairman in 1994.
He went on to largest trade union, serving as from a number of institutions, between BAE Systems and VT general secretary until 1991. including the University of South become chairman and chief Group.
He has been a nonexecutive of Babcock International Africa and the University of executive director of Carnival plc Cyril is currently executive Massachusetts.
He is a member of Group plc.
and of Carnival Corporation since chairman of Shanduka Group the DLC nominations committee.
Sir John is a former chairman of Carnivals acquisition of P&O Proprietary Limited, which owns Lattice Group plc, overseeing its Princess Cruises, where he Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Cyril is the former chairman of the demerger from BG plc in 2000 served as deputy chairman Limited and Shanduka Packaging Constitutional Assembly, which and subsequent merger in 2002 following its demerger from Proprietary Limited, and negotiated South Africas first with National Grid plc, where he P&O in 2000. non-executive chairman of democratic dispensation.
continues to serve as chairman.
telecommunications group MTN Sir John Parker is vice chancellor He is a former chairman of Group Limited.
He is also a of the University of Southampton, Firth-Rixson plc, P&O Group plc non-executive director of a member of the Prime Ministers and of RMC Group plc, leading its insurance group SASRIA Limited, Business Council for Britain and transformation and agreed sale to brewing group SABMiller plc, a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Cemex in 2005. steelmaker MacSteel Global, Engineering.
He was knighted in financial services group Alexander He has held non-executive 2001 for services to the defence Forbes Limited and Standard and shipbuilding industries.
directorships at British Coal Bank Group Limited.
Corporation, BG plc, GKN plc Sir John chairs the DLC and Brambles Industries plc.
nominations committee and is a member of the DLC sustainable development committee.
30 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader:
