Group overview Our products Mondi supplies a broad range of packaging products and materials, uncoated fine paper products, as well as specialities for a wide variety of uses.
This page shows our key products, together with the main industry sectors to which they are sold.
Agriculture Automotive Building & Chemicals Food Industrial Office & Pet Food Photographic Toiletries Paper & Printing Construction & Graphic & Hygiene Packaging Paper Uncoated fine paper UFP Pulp Mondi produces both hardwood and softwood Mondi is one of Europes leading producers of uncoated fine paper, pulp for its own use, as well as selling 470,000 tonnes per year to the market.
This includes producing a wide range of office and professional printing paper, under the wholesale of its Monopol unbleached and Bohemia bleached market pulp to third well-known brand names including COLOR COPY, MAESTRO, IQ, parties for a wide range of end uses.
Snegurochka and ROTATRIM, used for www.
com marketpulp everything from laser printing and colour copying to pre-print and offset papers and a variety of office stationery products.
com products paper Containerboard Corrugated boxes Mondi is one of Europes leading suppliers Mondi sells a portfolio of corrugated of all forms of corrugated packaging.
These case materials virgin and recycled include conventional boxes and trays of all containerboard for every box application, shapes and sizes, point-of-sale displays, from rugged boxes to protect fruit in transit, Shelf-Ready Packaging SRP and specialist to those in direct contact with fast food: from carrying containers with built-in handles safe shipping of heavy-duty electronic goods for bottles or for portable selling materials.
to luxury products where high-quality printing Our products are available with the Radio is essential.
Applications include standard Frequency Identification RFID technology.
boxes, die-cut boxes and trays as well as point-of-sale displays and corrugated sheets.
com products containerboard Kraft paper Industrial bags Mondis Advantage range of kraft papers Mondi offers a broad portfolio of industrial bags, are used in everything from specialist including ultra-strong bags that are quickly fillable packaging and heavy-duty industrial and air-permeable bags with sophisticated closure applications including building and techniques such as hermetic sealing and vacuum chemicals to consumer packaging sealing, as well as barrier liners.
They are used to including food and pet food.
We offer package everything from cement, chemicals, a wide range of grades, each catering seeds, animal feed, flour and milk powder to to the specific requirements of different automotive parts and organic and biowaste.
com products kraftpaper Newsprint Specialities Mondi produces high-quality films Mondi is a leading producer of newsprint and telephone directory and flexible products such as pouches and microwaveable packaging.
Our paper, mainly manufactured in South Africa and the UK primarily from expertise in extrusion coating, laminating, siliconising and printing enables us to recycled newspapers and magazines.
In Russia, we produce 192,000 tonnes offer customised products for the food, pet food, building, medical and hygiene per year of newsprint from virgin fibre.
Our most recent innovation www.
com structure is Sustainex, a biodegradeable packaging solution.
com products specialities Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 7 Directors report
