Board of directors Non-executive directors 1 2 3 5 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 Colin Matthews Imogen Mkhize Anne Quinn CBE David Williams Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Senior independent non-executive director Colin Matthews graduated in Imogen Mkhize graduated in Anne Quinn CBE graduated with engineering from Cambridge information systems from Rhodes a bachelor of commerce from David Williams is Mondis senior University.
After taking an MBA University in 1984 and gained Auckland University and a masters independent non-executive at INSEAD, followed by a period an MBA from Harvard Business in management science from director.
He retired as finance in management consultancy with School in 1995.
She spent her the Massachusetts Institute of director of Bunzl plc in January Bain, he joined the General early career with Anglo American, Technology.
She spent her early 2006, having served on the board Electric Company US.
In 1997 Andersen Consulting and Nedcor, career with NZ Forest Products for 14 years.
He is the senior he joined British Airways plc as before becoming managing Limited and the US management independent non-executive managing director BA Engineering director of telecommunications consulting company Resource director of Taylor Wimpey plc and later became director of group Lucent Technologies South Planning Associates.
She then and a non-executive director of technical operations, responsible Africa.
Imogen held the position joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which Dubai-based DP World Limited, for engineering, IT and procurement.
of chief executive officer of the was subsequently acquired by BP Tullow Oil plc and Meggitt plc, 18th World Petroleum Congress, plc.
Anne went on to work for BP chairing the audit committees of Colin was group managing an international oil and gas event, in the US, Belgium, Colombia all three.
David is also a former director of Transco from 2001 between 2003 and July 2006. and the UK and held a number non-executive director of the to 2002 and then chief executive of executive positions including Peninsular & Oriental Steam officer of Hays plc from 2002 to Imogen is currently the chairman managing director of Alliance Gas Navigation Company, Dewhirst 2004, where he commissioned of Richards Bay Coal Terminal, Limited a BP joint venture and BP Group plc and Medeva plc.
the strategic review which one of the largest export coal Gas Marketing Limited and later David is a chartered accountant.
ultimately led to Hays terminals in the world.
group vice president of Gas, LNG He is chairman of the DLC audit transformation into a pure She is also a director of energy and Natural Gas Liquids.
Anne committee and a member of specialist recruitment and HR group Sasol Limited, engineering was awarded a CBE for services the DLC nominations and services business.
From 2005 group Murray & Roberts Holdings to the natural gas industry.
to October 2007 he was group Limited, investment management chief executive of Severn Trent Anne has also been a managing firm Allan Gray Limited and Mobile plc, where he oversaw the director of Riverstone Holdings Telephone Networks Proprietary restructuring of the business into a Europe, a private equity investLimited.
She is a member of the focused water services company.
ment firm specialising in the South African Financial Markets Colin joined BAA, the airport renewable and conventional Advisory Board, the Harvard operator, as chief executive on energy and power industries.
Business School Global Alumni 1 April 2008.
Anne currently is a consultant Board and Rhodes University to Riverstone.
He is chairman of the DLC Board of Governors.
sustainable development Anne was a non-executive In 2001 Imogen was recognised by committee and a member of the director of The BOC Group plc the World Economic Forum as a DLC nominations, remuneration from 2004 to 2006.
She currently Global Leader for Tomorrow.
serves on the MIT Presidents is a member of the DLC nominations Advisory Committee to the Sloan and remuneration committees.
School, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Anne chairs the DLC remuneration committee and is a member of the DLC nominations and audit committees.
32 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader:
