Board of directors DLC executive committee The DLC executive committee is chaired by chief executive officer David Hathorn and includes chief financial officer Andrew King and Peter Oswald, chief executive officer of the Europe & International Division.
The other members of the DLC executive committee are: Peter Machacek Ladimir Pellizzaro Ron Traill Carol Hunt CEO Uncoated fine & kraft paper Group technical director CEO South Africa Division Company secretary Mondi plc Europe & International Division Ladimir Pellizzaro graduated Ron Traill graduated in mechanical Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute Peter Machacek graduated in in mechanical engineering from engineering and management of Chartered Secretaries & business administration from the the Federal University of Paran from Dundee College in Scotland.
Administrators, spent 15 years University of Vienna in 1976 and in Brazil, going on to specialise with The BOC Group plc, holding He began his career as an began his career with Kienzle in pulp and paper technology.
various roles in the company industrial engineer with DRG Datasysteme and Tetra Pak in He acquired extensive experience secretariat, the last six years as Packaging Group, working in its Austria.
In 1981 he moved to the in the pulp and paper industry deputy company secretary.
He went on to Frantschach Group as sales and with a number of Brazilian joined Mondi in November 2006 hold a succession of posts within marketing manager of the groups companies, including Klabin, and was formally appointed the company, leading ultimately converting business.
Aracruz and Suzano, in roles company secretary of Mondi plc to his appointment as general ranging from engineering, in May 2007.
In 1988 Peter became sales manager.
Following DRGs operations management and director of Patria Papier & Zellstoff, acquisition by Sappi in 1990, he project management.
the sales company for the worked for 10 years in a number Frantschach paper mill, and was Ladimir joined Mondi in 1990, of general management roles.
shortly afterwards appointed to shortly thereafter becoming Ron has also held senior the management board of the mill.
general manager of the then kraft operational positions with Fletcher division of Mondi South Africa.
In In 2000 he became executive vice Challenge and with the UKs 1994 he was appointed technical president of Mondi Packaging largest independent paper mill.
director of Mondi South Africa and Paper, responsible for the was a key player in the team that Ron joined Mondi in 2003 as Frantschach, tt, Dyns and drove the expansion of Mondi into managing director of the tt wiecie paper mills, and Europe.
In 2000, he moved to pulp and paper mill in the Czech subsequently became chief Philip Laubscher London taking up the role of Republic, also assuming executive officer of Mondis Company secretary Mondi Limited technical director of Mondi responsibility for the Mondi packaging paper division, International with worldwide packaging paper business in Philip Laubscher, who holds responsible for the Groups five responsibility for projects, Ruomberok, Slovakia.
Ron took B Proc and LLB degrees and is newly-acquired recycled operational optimisation and up the position of chief executive an attorney of the High Court of containerboard mills in Austria, technical evaluation of major officer of Mondis South Africa South Africa, was in-house Germany, Italy, Switzerland and acquisitions.
He took a break from Division in January 2008 and was counsel with national power utility the UK.
Peter assumed his current Mondi in 2005, following which he appointed to the DLC executive Eskom for 15 years before joining role and joined the management was retained by the Group as an committee in June 2008.
Mondi in 1999 as head of legal board of the Europe & International adviser prior to rejoining Mondi services.
He was appointed Division following the reorganisation as Group technical director in company secretary of Mondi of the Groups operations at the January 2009.
Limited in January 2001. beginning of 2008.
Philip and Carol work together Peter is vice president of the Austrian on the co-ordination of Mondis Federation of Paper Makers.
Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 33 Directors report
