Sir John Parker and Cyril Ramaphosa Chairmens statement We would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to our executive team for their diligent leadership of the Group, especially during the extremely challenging final months of the year.
Perhaps more importantly, we would like to thank all Mondis people, the 33,400 or so of them in 42 countries around the world, who have worked so hard to deliver a robust performance against a toughening market.
Governance We are pleased to say that the Groups Boards, constituted in accordance with Mondis dual listed company DLC structure, have settled well and provided clear and decisive direction in the year under review.
Board evaluations have been thorough and we have put in place clear action plans for further improvements in 2009.
Our board committees are very ably led and our experienced non-executive directors have provided invaluable support to our energetic DLC Dear Shareholder executive committee, chaired by David Hathorn, which is responsible for day-to-day management of Mondis operations.
It is a testament to the strength of Mondis strategy and the success of its operational model that, in a We are satisfied that we have established the highest standards of governance practice, which are now firmly embedded in the boardroom year which ended amid some of the most difficult as well as in the organisation as a whole.
trading conditions in the Groups history, we delivered a creditable performance.
Sustainability The sharp falls in volumes in many of our markets in the fourth quarter The sustainable development committee of the Boards, under the resulted in only marginally higher revenues at 6.3 billion a 1% increase chairmanship of Colin Matthews, continues to improve sustainable and a 12% decline in our underlying operating profit to 441 million, forestry management practices such as overseeing the completion in line with the 10-15% reduction which we forecast in our Interim of the implementation of our wood tracing system.
All our divisions nonetheless The FSC certified an additional 861,000 hectares of forests that we remained profitable and exhibited an encouraging resilience.
It is lease in the Komi Republic in Russia.
particularly pleasing to note a substantial cash inflow from operations of 795 million, as measures taken to optimise cash flow generation in We have paid special attention to water and energy conservation and these difficult times began to be reflected in the results.
to the reduction of emissions, particularly further substantial cuts in carbon dioxide CO emissions.
We have set stringent targets to be 2 Our ability to withstand the test of an economic downturn rests on our achieved between 2004 and 2014.
For example, we are very confident low-cost production strategy, an ingrained cost-consciousness and the that we will meet our solid waste to landfill target and complete the ability of our experienced management teams to respond quickly to eradication of hazardous waste by 2010 and targeted reduction of changing market conditions.
These were all in evidence during the year specific energy in our production process and fossil fuels CO by 2014.
We continued to focus resolutely on markets with the In 2008, we reduced our total chemical oxygen demand COD lowest costs of production, implemented a wide-ranging 128 million emissions to water by a further 6%, our chlorinated organics AOX cost-reduction programme and took early action to realign our capacity emissions to water by a further 2%, our total reduced sulphate TRS with market demand.
emissions to air by a further 9% and our waste to landfill by a further The reorganisation of our business into two divisions, Europe & 3%, all from 2007 levels.
International and South Africa, has proved a success, producing a wide We are 85% energy self sufficient across our operations and of this range of operational and cost-reduction benefits.
self-produced energy, 53% comprises biomass renewable energy.
Your chief executive, David Hathorn, reports in more detail in the Every Mondi site is now audited against the exacting performance following pages on our performance and on the actions taken to protect requirements of our integrated Sustainable Development Management value on behalf of our shareholders.
System SDMS and the results for the year under review were very encouraging.
We remain committed to achieving full compliance with our policies and standards throughout the Group by 2010.
You can read more about Mondis sustainability practices and achievements, including a detailed update on our progress in 2008, on our web site at www.
You will also find a summary on pages 25 to 29 of this report.
8 Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group Job No: 0912 Proof No: 14 Operator: BO JF IM JF SJL JF SJL JF Job Title: Mondi Annual Report Date:03 03 09 Spellchecked: Y N Signature s : Client: SAS Software: CS3 Proof Reader: We are confident that our focused strategy and rigorous attention to operational efficiency will enable us to emerge from the current economic downturn in good shape and well positioned to deliver attractive returns for our shareholders in the longer term.
Safety and health Dividend We were saddened by the deaths of two contractors in our operations Mondi continues to maintain a strong balance sheet, with resilient during the year.
We believe that any fatality is completely unacceptable operating cash flows, and it is pleasing to be able to reflect this in our and avoidable.
We have embarked on a number of further long-term dividend policy.
The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc comprehensive safety reviews to identify causes and contributing have accordingly recommended a final dividend of 5.0 euro cents per factors before taking suitable action to ensure that similar incidents share, payable on 20 May 2009 to shareholders on the register on do not recur.
An equivalent final dividend will be paid in South African The Boards have taken a close personal interest in the working rand on the same terms.
Taken together with the interim dividend of conditions of Mondis employees and contractors and your directors 7.7 euro cents per share paid on 16 September 2008, this represents made it a priority during 2008 to visit as many of Mondis operations as a total dividend for the year of 12.7 euro cents.
possible, to view for ourselves the conditions in which our people work and to assess them against international best practice.
Board changes We continue to provide routine voluntary testing for HIV AIDS as a We would like to welcome to the Boards Andrew King, who was standard part of our employees periodic medical examinations, offering appointed chief financial officer in October 2008.
Andrew was previously voluntary counselling to any who are affected and encouraging them to Group strategy and business development director, prior to which he embark on and continue their treatment.
served as chief financial officer of Mondi from 2005 to 2006, when he Investment in the community was heavily involved in the listing process and establishment of the The extensive utilisation throughout the Group in recent years of the Groups dual listed corporate structure.
Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT has enabled us clearly On behalf of the Boards we would like to thank Andrews predecessor, to evaluate the social and economic impact of our operations on the Paul Hollingworth, who saw us through our demerger from Anglo communities in which they operate.
This has enabled us to identify the American plc and our subsequent listing, putting in place excellent ways in which we can most positively engage with these communities, management controls.
As stated in our prospectus in 2007, a requirement addressing their concerns and contributing to their wellbeing.
of the South African Ministry of Finance is that the chief financial officer We have invested 5.3 million in projects as varied as a technical is based at the head office in South Africa from the beginning of 2009. secondary school and specialist healthcare service in Slovakia, a Paul Hollingworth decided not to relocate and has now left the Group diagnostic mental and social care institution in the Czech Republic and to continue his career elsewhere.
We are particularly grateful to Paul support for orphaned children in our South African forests.
We make for agreeing to remain in his post until the organisational requirements these investments whilst continuing to fulfil all our key sustainable arising from our South African listing commitments were complete.
Strategy and outlook Land claims Your Boards are pleased with the progress made on land restitution There is little doubt that 2009 will be challenging, but we are confident in South Africa.
Towards the end of 2008 Mondi, the Regional Land that our focused strategy and rigorous attention to operational efficiency Claims Commission RLCC and the Kranskop communities of will enable us to emerge from the current economic downturn in good AmaHlongwa and AmaBomvu signed a groundbreaking land restitution shape and well positioned to deliver attractive returns for our settlement the first of its kind in South Africa which provided for the shareholders in the longer term.
transfer of just under 4,000 hectares of Mondi land, effective in 2009, Despite the current market downturn, we remain undeterred in our to the two communities, whilst enabling us to continue harvesting ambition to be the best performing paper and packaging group in the timber supplies from this important region.
We firmly believe that our leading market positions, low-cost, an excellent model for future settlements and we expect to make high quality asset base, and commitment to continuous operational further constructive progress during 2009. improvement will ensure that we realise that ambition.
Our approach to the equitable settlement of land claims is consistent We have been consistently struck by the commitment and enthusiasm with our overall commitment to Broad-Based Black Economic of our people throughout the Group, especially during the difficult and Empowerment BBBEE, which we believe is essential if South Africa demanding last few months.
On behalf of the Boards, we would like to is to continue developing a balanced and sustainable economy.
thank everyone in Mondi for their dedication and willingness to adapt to change in 2008 and beyond.
Sir John Parker Cyril Ramaphosa Annual report and accounts 2008 Mondi Group 9 Directors report
