Business Overview Our Model For Customers The Group attracts customers to its website in a number of ways including television and radio advertising, editorial comment in the press and on television programmes, and from search engines, such as Google, where the Group purchases sponsored listings for relevant keywords and focuses on enhancing the ranking of the Groups website in the natural results listings.
The Group provides customers with a free online service enabling them to compare a wide range of products in the insurance, money, travel and home services markets and to find the product most suited to their needs.
The Groups website enables customers to compare products by price, product features and service.
In addition to these comparison services, the Group helps and supports customers to research the product they wish to purchase.
This includes news articles, guides, video blogs, web chats, and the ability to ask the views either directly of our employees or other customers in our forums.
The Group also sends weekly Rate Alert and Fare Alert emails to customers, enabling them to keep up to date with the latest deals, offers and best buys on a wide range of products.
The Group invests significantly in innovation and product development to ensure that the customer experience is continually enhanced.
Customers benefit from enhanced website functionality, improvements in existing products and the addition of new products and features.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 For Product Providers The Group provides product providers access to significant volumes of informed customers who, having compared the market, are ready to make a purchase.
This improves the focus and efficiency of their marketing spend and means the Group provides product providers with a cost effective distribution channel.
The significant investment by the Group in innovation and product development benefits product providers by delivering to them customers who are more likely to purchase their products.
Our price comparison The Group is remunerated by product providers either services offer a on a cost per click model, when a customer clicks compelling proposition through from the Groups website to a product providers website, or on a cost per action model, when a customer to both customers completes an application for a product or purchases a product from the product provider, or a combination of and product providers the two models.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
