Business Overview Travel The Travel vertical offers customers the opportunity to search for, and compare, travel products in 9 channels including: Flights Package holidays Car hire Hotels During 2008, the Group continued to focus on innovation, resulting in a number of enhancements over the course of the year, each aimed at improving the customer experience.
These included: Website redesign the Group commenced a major project to refresh the look and feel of travelsupermarket.
com to make it more inspirational and to really excite customers about the prospect of travelling and holidaying.
This was initially released to customers as an alternative or beta version and will be fully live during 2009.
Trip Advisor the Group worked closely with Expedia to integrate their customer reviews and Customer case study ratings into the hotels channel, enabling customers Al Prior, 47, is a consultant for an to check the suitability of their hotel choice before engineering software company.
travels to Europe on business regularly Virtual Earth the Group worked closely with and uses travelsupermarket.
com to Microsoft to bring maps and geo coding to the hotels find flight and hotel deals.
This allows customers to view their hotel choice on an interactive map in conjunction with other Al said: I use travelsupermarket.
com useful information such as the location of museums, a lot for business travel as I fly to attractions and public transport.
Europe once every month or so.
Brochure details the Group integrated brochure Because I have to be there at specific information into the holidays channel allowing times for meetings, its not only price customers the opportunity to see a range of details that Im comparing.
I also need to about the holiday they are considering including know that I can get there at the right photos, amenities and tour operator reviews.
com is great because I can see everything flight times and cost in one go, rather than having to go to all the websites of airlines individually.
As well as flight searches, I also use the hotels channel regularly.
I tend to stay in the same type of hotel, so if Im going to a new place, I look for certain chains to see if they have a hotel that is conveniently located.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Revenue 19.1m 2007: 15.0m Visitors 48.9m 2007: 37.0m 11 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
