Business Overview Money The Money vertical offers customers the opportunity to search for, and compare, financial products in 14 channels including: Mortgages Loans Credit cards Savings Current accounts Throughout 2008, the Group implemented a number of product developments to enhance the customer experience within the Money vertical.
These included: Customer reviews the Group introduced customer reviews allowing customers to view feedback from other customers on different products as part of the redevelopment of the credit cards, loans and Customer case study savings channels.
Jim and Dorothy Ogden rely on New features the Group focused on improving the their savings to supplement their usability of the key Money channels.
This included the retirement income.
It is therefore introduction of features that allow customers to tailor important that they earn as high a their searches to suit their individual needs.
return as possible on their money, Decision support the Group identified different so they use moneysupermarket.
com customer needs through customer research.
This to keep an eye on savings rates.
resulted in the development of a new support area Jim, a 79-year old retired civil within certain key Money channels which provides engineer, said: Ive got a final salary money saving advice, help and support and the pension but it hasnt kept up with rises option to receive a weekly rate alert email.
in the cost of living so we have to rely Customer journey the Group improved the on our savings as well.
The interest customer journey within the Money channels in we earn on our savings used to be 2008 including reductions in the number of steps enough to supplement our pension, customers are required to take in order to compare but its gone down so much recently products, thereby enabling the customer to save that its getting harder and harder more time.
to get by without having to dip into our capital.
We therefore need to keep an eye on savings rates to make sure were getting the best rate possible.
com makes this easy as we can view all the leading rates and see how they compare with our existing accounts.
If any of our accounts have lost their competitive edge we move our money to a better deal.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Revenue 68.3m 2007: 76.0m Visitors 35.1m 2007: 27.7m 09 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
