Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the Group and Company Financial Statements of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal activities The Company is a public limited company incorporated in England, registered number 6160943, with its registered office at Moneysupermarket House, St Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, CH5 3UZ.
The principal activity of the Group is the introduction of business to financial, insurance, travel and home services product providers through its websites, moneysupermarket.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
A fuller description of business activities is contained within the Financial and Business Review on pages 22 to 31. Business review The Chairmans Statement on pages 14 and 15, the Chief Executives Reports on pages 16 to 21, the Financial and Business Review on pages 22 to 31 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 32 and 33 provide a detailed review of the Groups activities, likely future developments and principal risks and uncertainties.
The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements of the Business Review as required by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and forms part of this report.
Information relating to corporate and social responsibility, and employees, is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 36, and forms part of this report.
As at 24 February 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Group which have occurred since 31 December 2008.
Corporate governance The Corporate Governance Report, the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 52 form part of this report.
Results and dividends The Groups and Companys audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2008 are set out on pages 54 to 79.
An interim dividend of 1.3p per ordinary share was paid on 17 October 2008.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.2p per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this will be paid on 1 May 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 March 2009.
Share capital Details of the share capital of the Company, and changes to the share capital during the financial year ended 31 December 2008, are set out in note 16 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 69 and 70 which forms part of this report.
Major shareholders As at 24 February 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report, the Company had been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of ordinary Percentage of shares voting ordinary share Shareholder rights notified capital notified Simon Nixon 270,050,932 53.49 BlackRock Inc 25,083,425 4.96 Capital Research & Management Company 24,480,000 4.93 State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 4.14 Legal & General PLC 20,078,304 3.99 Coatue Management LLC 18,167,261 3.66 37 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Takeovers Directive information The following provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into English law.
As at 31 December 2008, the issued share capital of the Company comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
As at 31 December 2008, the authorised share capital of the Company was 250,000 comprising 1,154,705,882 ordinary shares of 0.02p each and 95,294,118 deferred shares of 0.02p each, and the issued share capital was 100,971 comprising 504,856,062 ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
On 21 May 2008, the Company purchased the entire issued deferred share capital of 0.02p each from Simon Nixon for an aggregate amount of 1 and subsequently cancelled them.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 22 April 2008, shareholders authorised the Directors to allot up to 165,435,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to allot up to 336,230,000 ordinary shares.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Except in very limited circumstances, the holders of deferred shares are not entitled to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of the Company.
Pursuant to an underwriting agreement entered into on 11 July 2007 Underwriting Agreement in connection with the listing of the Company on 31 July 2007 Listing, each of Simon Nixon and Paul Doughty have agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, they will not, without the prior written consent of Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, directly or indirectly, sell or otherwise dispose of, any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in excess of the numbers specified below: In the period between 11 July 2007 and 31 July 2008, nil ordinary shares.
In the period between 1 August 2008 and 31 July 2009, up to one third of the number of ordinary shares owned by them as at Listing assuming for these purposes that any options held by them over ordinary shares had been exercised at Listing.
In the period between 1 August 2009 and 31 July 2010, up to two thirds of the number of ordinary shares owned by them as at Listing, less any ordinary shares previously disposed of in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement as set out above assuming for these purposes that any options held by them over ordinary shares had been exercised at Listing.
Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, each of the Non-Executive Directors and certain of the shareholders who sold shares in the Listing, and pursuant to a lock-up deed, a shareholder, had agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the period between 11 July 2007 and 31 July 2008, they would not, without the prior written consent of Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, directly or indirectly, sell or otherwise dispose of, any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company held by them immediately following Listing.
Pursuant to lock-up deeds in favour of the Company, certain of the senior managers of the Group have agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, they will not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, sell or otherwise dispose of, any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in excess of the numbers specified below: In the period between 11 July 2007 and 31 July 2008, nil ordinary shares.
In the period between 1 August 2009 and 31 July 2010, up to two thirds of the number of ordinary shares owned by them as at Listing less any ordinary shares previously disposed of in accordance with the lock-up deeds as set out above assuming for these purposes that any options held by them over ordinary shares had been exercised at Listing.
Under the rules of the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Share Incentive Plan Plan, eligible employees were provided with the opportunity to receive free shares on Listing with a value as at the date of Listing of 3,000, and all employees are entitled to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded or forfeit shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 24 February 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report, the Trustees held 0.23% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship between them Relationship Agreement.
The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including himself one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares of the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
As at 31 December 2008, Simon Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
Save in respect of Peter Plumbs service agreement details of which are set out on page 50 and provisions of the Companys share schemes which may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover, there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Save in respect of the Companys share schemes, there are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 22 April 2008, shareholders authorised the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 49,680,606 of its own ordinary shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
As at 24 February 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report, the Company had not purchased any of its own ordinary shares in the market.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 50,485,606 of its own ordinary shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
The Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the interests of shareholders generally.
Research and development Innovation is important to the future success of the Group and to the delivery of long term value to shareholders.
The Groups research and development expenditure is predominantly associated with computer and internet software systems.
Successfully developed software is used to develop new products and to improve and extend the functionality and scope of the Groups internet operations.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Directors The following persons were Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 31 December 2008: Gerald Corbett, Simon Nixon, Paul Doughty, Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley.
Their biographical details are set out on pages 34 and 35.
Peter Plumb was appointed an Executive Director of the Company on 1 January 2009.
Each of Graham Donoghue and David Osborne were appointed Executive Directors of the Company on 23 February 2009.
The Companys Articles of Association give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment to the Board of the Company must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles of Association also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and to stand for re-election at least every three years.
In accordance with Article 105 of the Companys Articles of Association, each of Peter Plumb, Graham Donoghue and David Osborne will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at that meeting.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors needed to run the Group successfully.
Details of the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 52.
Directors interests Details of the Directors and their connected persons interests in the share capital and share options of the Company as at 31 December 2008, together with the changes in those interests between 31 December 2008 and 24 February 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 52.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Transactions with Directors and related party transactions The details of transactions with Directors of the Company and related party transactions in the financial year ended 31 December 2008 are set out in note 21 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 73 and 74 and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 45.
Directors and officers insurance During the financial year ended 31 December 2008, the Group maintained liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
No qualifying third party indemnity provision or qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision was in force during the financial year ended 31 December 2008 or was in force at 24 February 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this report.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group Financial Statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such Financial Statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to Financial Statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
For the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
For the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company Financial Statements.
Prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
Statement of Directors responsibilities pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Financial Statements, which are prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accountancy standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
The business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The names and functions of the Directors of the Company are set out on pages 34 and 35 of the Annual Report.
Internal control The Corporate Governance Report and Audit Committee Report on pages 42 to 46 includes the Boards assessment of the Groups system of internal controls and consideration of the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Employees The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and consults with them on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This ensures employees views can be taken into account in making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
Consultation is achieved through the Groups intranet which was launched in 2008, regular team meetings and circulation to employees of results announcements and other corporate announcements.
This also helps to 40 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 achieve a common awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This year, the Group launched formal bi-annual business performance updates for all employees and an employee forum through which nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
An employee opinion survey process was also launched this year to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
All employees are able to participate in the Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Share Incentive Plan which gives employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary on a monthly basis.
This helps to encourage employee interest in the performance of the Group.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable employment policies which seek to promote entry into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour and competency.
Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
Further details of policies and initiatives are given in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 36.
In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Borrowings The Group did not have any borrowings during the financial year ended 31 December 2008.
Financial risk management It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Groups profitability and cash flow.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are detailed in note 17 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 70 and 71.
Political and charitable donations During the financial year ended 31 December 2008, the Group did not make any political donations and made charitable donations of 24,482 2007: 4,726.
Creditor payment policy It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
The average number of trade creditor days outstanding for the Group at 31 December 2008 was 49.5 days.
The Company is a holding company and had no trade creditors at 31 December 2008.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each such Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment as auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing their re-appointment is contained in the notice of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
Annual General Meeting The forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at fide Vere Carden Park Hotel, near Chester, Cheshire, CH3 9DQ on Thursday 16 April 2009 at 11.00am.
The notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company, with details of the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting and explanatory notes, has been sent to all shareholders.
By order of the Board Darren Drabble Company Secretary 24 February 2009 41 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
