Business Overview Home Services The Home Services vertical offers customers the opportunity to search for, and compare, home services products in the following 4 channels: Utilities Mobile phones Shopping Broadband During the course of the year, the Group implemented a number of product developments to the Home Services vertical aimed at enabling customers to find the product most suited to their needs.
These included: Customer case study Shopping channel the Group launched its own Hayley Mendis is a waitress in a busy shopping channel in September 2008 replacing Trafford Centre restaurant.
The 26 year a previous third party provided solution.
This new old lives in a nearby Manchester suburb channel provides further opportunities for customers with her partner and baby daughter, to compare prices on a wide range of products Tamsin, and likes to return to a warm including games consoles, TVs and computers, house after her shift.
and to find the product most suited to their needs.
Hayley said: Three months after I Broadband speed test the Group launched a moved into my house, I got a big free speed test service to customers in the broadband electricity bill in the mail and an even channel, allowing customers to measure the download bigger gas bill.
I was so shocked at the and upload speeds they receive from their current size of them that I took my bills to the broadband provider.
This enables customers to library and searched on check they are receiving the service they expect moneysupermarket.
com for the best from their broadband provider.
Mobile recycling the Group launched a new I signed up with npower which was the service in the mobile phone channel, enabling customers to recycle their old mobile, to earn money best value of all for my circumstances.
Instead of paying 120 per quarter for electricity plus 140 per quarter for gas, Im now paying a total of 60 per month on direct debit which will save me 320 this year.
And if prices start falling, Ill go to the library again and apply on moneysupermarket.
com for a new cheaper deal.
320 saving on utility bills 12 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Revenue 7.4m 2007: 4.5m Visitors 11.2m 2007: 5.7m 13 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
