Business Overview Insurance The Insurance vertical offers customers the opportunity to search for, and compare, insurance products in 15 channels including: Car insurance Buildings and contents insurance Travel insurance Life insurance The Group continued to focus during the year on product development to ensure the customer experience was enhanced.
This included: Policy Wizard the Group launched a tool in the motor insurance channel, enabling customers to make changes to their policy details, for example, the level of policy excess, and compare the impact of this on the premium of multiple providers in real time.
This significantly improves the usability of the motor insurance channel for customers.
New question set the Group revised the Customer case study questions it asks customers during the year in its Pam Cowen-Wright lives near motor insurance and home insurance channels.
Mold in North Wales and runs This enables quote results to be more tailored to her own recruitment business.
She recently saved 105 on the Home insurance instant email the Group insurance for her Land Rover launched a new facility in the home insurance channel Discovery by using to email customers a results table which is valid for moneysupermarket.
This enables customers to return to the Pam, 36, said: I use results table in a single click rather than having to moneysupermarket.
com for complete a new quote, improving the usability of everything as its so easy this channel for customers.
to use but most recently I used it for my car insurance.
We always Comparison facility the Group launched a new shop around when our insurance comparison facility in the motor insurance and home policies are up for renewal and this insurance channels.
This enables customers to time I managed to save 105 by compare the policy details of up to five products using moneysupermarket.
side by side, helping customers to compare You can save so much money with different product features and to find the product comparison sites and in todays most suited to their needs.
climate I think its more important than ever to be prudent and see where you can save money.
105 saved on car insurance 06 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Revenue 77.7m 2007: 56.4m Visitors 24.8m 2007: 20.7m 07 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
