Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report, together Significant events since the balance sheet date with the audited financial statements for the year requiring disclosure are set out in Note 40 to the ended 31 December 2008. financial statements.
All the above matters are incorporated into this report Principal Group Activities by reference.
The principal activities of the Group are copper mining including exploration and development, the transportation Value of Land of freight by rail and road and the distribution of water.
Land included within property, plant and equipment These activities are mainly based in Chile.
in the financial statements is mainly held at cost.
It The Companys principal activity is to act as a holding is not practicable to estimate the value of such land company.
Group operations are carried out through and mineral rights, since these principally depend on subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The principal product prices over the long-term and will vary with subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that make up market conditions.
the Group are set out in Notes 16 to 18 to the financial Land included in investment properties relates to statements.
One subsidiary, the Antofagasta Railway forestry properties which the Group maintains but does Company plc, has a branch in Chile known as the not use in any of its existing operations.
The land is held FCAB which provides rail freight services.
for long-term real estate development and recreational potential and is held in the financial statements at cost.
Business Review The fair value of such land is disclosed in Note 15 to The Company is required by section 417 of the the financial statements.
Companies Act 2006 to provide a business review in this Report.
The requirements of the business review Results and Dividends are fulfilled in the disclosures contained within the The consolidated profit before tax has decreased from Chairmans Statement on page 5 to 9, the Business US$2,750.2 million in 2007 to US$2,609.5 million Review including information on expected future in 2008. developments on pages 10 to 35, the Financial The Board has recommended a final dividend of Review on pages 36 to 43, the Corporate Sustainability US 53.6 cents 2007 US 43.4 cents per ordinary report on pages 44 to 51 and the Corporate share, comprising an ordinary dividend of US 5.6 cents Governance report on pages 58 to 64.
A summary 2007 US 5.4 cents and a special dividend of of the key performance indicators considered most US 48.0 cents 2007 US 38.0 cents.
An interim relevant to the Group is included within the Business dividend of US 6.4 cents was paid on 9 October 2008, Review on pages 16 and 17.
A description of the which comprised an ordinary dividend of US 3.4 cents principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is 2007 US 3.2 cents and a special dividend of included within the Business Review on pages 33 US 3.0 cents 2007 US 3.0 cents.
Information on environmental, employee and dividends per share proposed in relation to 2008 of social and community matters is included within the US 60.0 cents 2007 US 49.6 cents, including the Corporate Sustainability report on pages 44 to 51. special dividend.
The total cost of dividends to ordinary Information on significant contractual and other shareholders including special dividends proposed in arrangements which are essential to the business relation to 2008 will be US$591.5 million, compared of the Group is included within this Directors Report with US$489.0 million in 2007. on pages 54 and 55.
Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative A description of the financial risk management dividend of 5 per cent per annum.
The preference objectives and policies of the Group, together with shares are classified within borrowings, and preference the principal risks to which the Group is exposed, is dividends are included within finance costs.
The total contained in the Financial Review on pages 40 and 41 and in Note 25 c to the financial statements.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 52 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT cost of dividends paid on preference shares and foundations in Chile.
Mr. Menndez is aged 60. recognised as an expense in the income statement Biographical details of the other Directors are given was US$0.2 million 2007 US$0.2 million.
below: Further information relating to dividends is set out in Mr. J-P Luksic is Executive Chairman.
He was the Business Review on pages 15 and 16, and in appointed a Director in 1990 and Deputy Chairman Note 12 to the financial statements.
degree in management and science from the London School of Economics.
Directors He was also Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta The Directors who served during the year are set out on Minerals S. A. until his appointment as Chairman of page 149.
No Director has a service contract with the the Group in 2004.
He is a non-executive director of Company which cannot be terminated within 12 months.
He is vice-chairman Biographical details of those Directors seeking of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing re-election are set out below.
The reasons why the the largest international mining companies operating Board considers that these Directors should be in Chile.
Mr. J-P Luksic will be aged 45 at the date of re-elected are set out in the Corporate Governance the Annual General Meeting.
statement on pages 58 to 62 and in particular in the Mr. G A Luksic was appointed a Non-Executive sections headed Performance Evaluation and Director in 2005.
Mr. Luksic is a director of Banco Re-election.
fide Chile and chairman of Quienco S. A. Compaa Mr. C H Bailey was appointed a Non-Executive Director Cerveceras Unidas S. A. Telfonica del Sur S. A. in 1987 and is the Senior Independent Non-Executive and Madeco S. A. Mr. G A Luksic is aged 53.
Mr. Bailey is a Chartered Accountant, and a Mr. J G Claro was appointed as a Non-Executive Director director of General Oriental Investment Limited and in 2005.
He is currently chairman of Embotelladora RIT Capital Partners plc.
Mr. Bailey will be aged 75 Andina S. A.
He is a Director of several other companies at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
in Chile, including Entel S. A. Empresas CMPC S. A. Mr. R F Jara was appointed a Non-Executive Director Red Televisiva Chilevison S. A. and Empresas Lafarge in 2003.
He is a lawyer and a director of Empresa Chile S. A.
He is also a member of the governing boards Nacional del Petrleo.
He is vice-president of the of Universidad Adolfo Ibez and Centro fide Estudios Sociedad Nacional fide Minera Sonami, an organisation Pblicos, a non-profit academic foundation in Chile.
He which represents a number of mining companies in is a former Chairman of the Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Chile.
He is chairman of the Fundacin Minera Los Chilean Society of Industrialists, the Confederacin fide Pelambres and a director of Fundacin Andrnico la Produccin y del Comercio Confederation of Chilean Luksic A. and Fundacin Pascual Baburizza, all of Business and the Consejo Binacional fide Negocios which are charitable foundations in Chile.
Mr. Jara will Chile-China Council for Bilateral Business Chile-China.
be aged 56 at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr. G S Menndez was appointed a Non-Executive Mr. J W Ambrus was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1985.
He holds a degree in business Director in 2005.
Mr. Ambrus is an internationally administration and is a public accountant from the renowned geologist with over 38 years experience Universidad fide Chile.
He is a director of Quienco S. A. in exploration and development of mineral resources, Banco fide Chile, Telfonica del Sur S. A. and is chairman evaluation of mining projects, strategic planning and of the board of directors of Banco Latinoamericano fide mining business assessment.
He obtained a PhD in Exportaciones BLADEX.
He is also the vice-chairman geological sciences from the University of Salamanca of Fundacin Andrnico Luksic A. and Fundacin in Spain.
He is a director of Apoquindo Minerals Inc. Pascual Baburizza, both of which are charitable Mr. Ambrus is aged 65.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 53 Directors Report continued Mr. D E Yarur was appointed a Non-Executive Director possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Mr. Yarur is a director of several Chilean The Company has undertaken a process to identify, and, companies including Banco fide Crdito e Inversiones where appropriate, authorise and manage potential or S. A. Sociedad Qumica y Minera fide Chile S. A. and actual conflicts.
The Directors of the Company have Invertec Pesquera Mar fide Chilo.
identified all interests which may constitute conflicts, degree in Finance from the London School of Economics including for example, directorships in other companies.
and completed the Advanced Management Program at The Board has considered the potential or actual conflict Harvard Business School.
He is a qualified accountant, situations of each of the Directors and decided in relation and a former Chairman of the Chilean Securities and to each situation whether to authorise it and the steps, if Exchange Commission.
Mr. D E Yarur is aged 53. any, that need to be taken to manage it.
The authorisation process is not regarded as a substitute for managing an Mr. W M Hayes was appointed a Non-Executive actual conflict of interest if one arises.
He is a director of Royal Gold Inc. and, if appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential He was previously a senior executive with Placer conflicts of interest is an on-going process.
Directors Dome Inc. from 1988 to 2006.
Mr. Hayes is a are required to notify the Company of any material former president of the Consejo Minero, the industry changes in those positions or situations that have body representing the largest international mining already been considered, as well as to notify the companies operating in Chile.
He holds a M. A. degree Company of any other new positions or situations in International Management from the American that may arise.
In addition to considering any new Graduate School of International Management.
situations as they arise, the Board will consider the Mr. Hayes is aged 64. conflict position of all Directors formally each year.
Directors Interests Significant Relationships The interests of the persons including the interests The Group has a number of significant contractual of their families who were Directors at the end of the or other arrangements which are essential to its year, in the preference and ordinary share capital of the operations and projects: Company are shown on page 66. the Group holds a number of mining and exploration Directors Indemnities and Insurance rights in Chile and other countries in which it has In accordance with the Companys Articles of exploration or development activities, normally Association and to the extent permitted by the laws of granted by the relevant national government: England and Wales, Directors are granted an indemnity a significant proportion of the Groups copper and from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as molybdenum concentrate sales are made under a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for long-term framework agreements with a number of which the Directors may or may not be indemnified, customers.
These framework contracts will typically the Company maintained a Directors and Officers set out the minimum annual volumes to be supplied, liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
with the tolling charges determined annually and the This policy has been renewed for the next financial pricing of contained material to be in accordance year.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the with market prices.
A significant proportion of the insurance provides cover in the event that the Director Groups copper cathode sales are made under is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
annual contracts with a number of customers.
These contracts will typically specify the volumes Conflicts of Interest to be supplied, with the pricing to be in accordance The Companies Act 2006 has introduced a statutory with market prices.
Further details of such requirement, effective from 1 October 2008, that a arrangements are given in Note 25 d to the Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can financial statements: have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 54 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT there are collective labour agreements with each of Capital Structure the labour unions at the Groups operations.
These Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share agreements are typically of between three and four capital, including details of any movements in the issued years duration: share capital during the year, are shown in Note 29 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class the Group has contracts with a number of suppliers of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
to sub-contract certain services at each of its mine Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general sites, including vehicle and equipment maintenance meeting of the Company.
Details of the preference and other logistical services.
In addition, the Group share capital are shown in Note 23 to the financial has a number of medium and long-term contracts for statements.
The preference shares are non-redeemable the supply of key inputs such as electricity, sulphuric and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% acid, oil and explosives with a number of suppliers: per annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes the Group has a number of engineering, construction on a poll at any general meeting of the Company.
The and supply contracts in respect of the development nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital is of the Esperanza project, including an Engineering, 96.1% of the total sterling nominal value of all issued Procurement and Construction Management EPCM share capital, and the nominal value of the issued contract with Aker Solutions: preference share capital is 3.9% of the total sterling nominal value of all issued share capital.
the contract for the feasibility study at the Reko Diq project has been assigned to SNC Lavanin: There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of foreign investment agreements with the Chilean shares or on their voting rights beyond those standard government known as DL 600 agreements are in provisions set out in the Companys Articles of place in respect of Los Pelambres and Esperanza.
Association and other provisions of applicable law and These agreements provide a stable legal, and in some regulation including, in particular, following a failure to cases tax, framework for a specified period of time, provide the Company with information about interests ensuring non-discriminatory and non-discretionary in shares as required by the Companies Act 2006. treatment for foreign investors: The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in in 2003 the Group was awarded a 30-year restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting concession to operate the water rights and facilities rights.
Details of significant holdings in the Companys in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, supplying shares are set out in the Substantial Shareholdings domestic and industrial users.
The domestic tariffs section below.
are controlled by the Chilean Water Regulator.
The Company has the authority to purchase up to Further details are given in Note 36 to the 98,585,669 of its own ordinary shares, representing financial statements: 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital.
the transport division has long-term contracts with a With regard to the appointment and replacement of number of customers, which typically govern volumes Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of and pricing structures: and Association, the Combined Code 2006, the Companies the Group has shareholder agreements in place Act 1985, the Companies Act 2006 and related governing its relationship with its partners at its legislation.
The Articles of Association may be operations and development and exploration amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Group also has a number of earn-in There are no significant agreements in place which agreements in respect of exploration projects.
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements in place between the Company and its Directors or employees Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 55 Directors Report continued which provide for compensation for loss of office Environment resulting from a change of control of the Company.
The Group seeks to ensure that its operations and products cause minimal harm to the environment.
Care Donations is taken to limit discharges of environmentally harmful The Group made charitable donations of US$11.3 substances and to dispose of waste material in a safe million during the year ended 31 December 2008 manner.
Contingency arrangements and plans exist to 2007 US$4.0 million.
This includes US$108,655 reduce the risk and limit the effect of any accidental 2007 US$127,655 of charitable donations in the spillage.
The Groups policy is that all its operations United Kingdom, principally related to educational should comply fully with or exceed applicable Chilean studies with a focus on Chile.
Further information regarding the Groups environmental performance and activities is given in The Group made political donations of US$1,037,385 the Corporate Sustainability report on pages 44 to 51. during the year ended 31 December 2008 2007 nil, in relation to Chilean municipal elections.
These Auditors donations were made in accordance with the Chilean In the case of each of the persons who is a Director legislation which governs the financing of political at the date of approval of this Annual Report: parties and candidates in order to facilitate the democratic process of the country.
The donations so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit were made via the Chilean Electoral Management information of which the Companys auditors are Body, which transfers funds to political parties and unaware: and candidates.
he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any Supplier Payment Policy and relevant audit information and to establish that the Creditor Days Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Company acts as a holding company and does not trade in the United Kingdom or elsewhere.
Creditor For these purposes, relevant audit information days for the Group have been calculated at 39 days means information needed by the Companys auditors 2007 33 days.
Each operating company is in connection with preparing their report.
responsible for agreeing terms of payment with each This statement is made and should be interpreted in of their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of suppliers are made in accordance with terms agreed.
Substantial Shareholdings As at the date of this report, the following holdings of voting rights exceeding the 3% notification threshold had been disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Ordinary Preference Total share capital share capital share capital %%% Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 Kupferberg Establishment 9.93 8.26 Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 AXA S. A.
6.01 5.00 Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are interested.
As explained on page 129, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate parent company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the ultimate parent company.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of the Company.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 56 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held from 10.30 a. m. on 10 June 2009 at Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
The Notice of the Meeting, together with an explanation of the business to be dealt with at the Meeting, is included in a separate document sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
By Order of the Board For and on behalf of Petershill Secretaries Limited Company Secretary 9 March 2009 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 57
