The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 46 Business review Governance Financial statements Directors and Executive Committee Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Mark Robertshaw Kevin Dangereld Tim Stevenson OBE Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Chairman Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Kevin was appointed as Chief Financial Tim was appointed as Chairman of Morgan officer in August 2006.
Previous to this he officer in August 2006, having joined Crucible in December 2006.
He is also was Chief Operating officer from February Morgan Crucible in July 2000 as Deputy Chairman of Travis Perkins plc, a position 2006 and Chief Financial officer from Group Financial Controller before being that he has held since November 2001.
Before joining Morgan promoted to Group Financial Controller.
was a non-executive Director of Tribal Group Crucible he was Chief Financial officer of Before joining Morgan Crucible Kevin plc from 2004 to 2008 and was latterly the Gartmore Investment Management Plc from worked for London International Group plc Senior Independent Director.
Mark is a non-executive and Virgin Retail Europe Limited.
He to 2000, Tim held a variety of senior Director of Rathbones Brothers plc.
He qualied as a chartered accountant with management positions at Burmah Castrol previously worked for the NatWest Group .
plc, including Chief Executive from 1998 and also spent nine years as a management to 2000.
Martin Flower Senior Independent Director Martin was appointed as a non-executive Director in December 2004 and Senior Independent Director in April 2008.
He is From left to right also Chairman of Croda International Plc Tim Stevenson and of Alpha Group Plc and is a nonSimon Heale executive Director of Low & Bonar PLC and Andrew Given Autogrill Group Inc. Martin held a variety of Martin Flower Kevin Dangereld senior management positions with Coats plc Mark Robertshaw from 1968 to 2004 and was Group Chief Paul Boulton Executive of that Group and Chairman of Amanda Wooding the Board from 2001 to 2004.
Tim Hayter Andrew Hosty Don Klas The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 47 Business review Governance Financial statements Executive Committee Simon Heale Andrew Given Mark Robertshaw Simon was appointed as a non-executive Andrew was appointed as a non-executive Chief Executive officer Director in February 2005 and is the Director in December 2007 and is the Kevin Dangereld Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is Chief Financial officer He is a non-executive Director of Kazakhmys currently the senior non-executive Director plc, Panmure Gordon and Co plc, and Chair of the Audit Committee at VT Don Klas PZ Cussons plc and Marex Group Limited.
Group plc and was previously the Senior CEO Carbon He was Chief Executive of China Now from Independent Director and Chair of the 2007 to 2008 and was Chief Executive Audit Committee of Spectris plc.
He was Andrew Hosty of the London Metal Exchange from 2001 also formerly a non-executive Director and CEO Technical Ceramics to 2006.
Simon qualied as an accountant Chair of the Audit Committee of Spirent Tim Hayter with Price Waterhouse and has had Communications plc.
He has extensive CEO Thermal Ceramics extensive experience in the Far East having experience within the manufacturing and held senior positions with the Swire Group technology sectors having been Deputy Paul Boulton in Japan and Hong Kong and with Jardine Chief Executive of Logica CMG plc and Company Secretary Fleming in Hong Kong.
in the 1980s held senior management positions in Plessey and Nortel Networks.
Amanda Wooding Director of Human Resources Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee
