QXD 9 3 09 11:53 Page 34 2008 project focus Market leadership A major Scottish infrastructure project, the Kincardine Crossing on the upper Forth, was completed in autumn 2008.
The construction of the 1.2km bridge and associated approach roads presented numerous technical challenges, so a business with Morgan Ests record for delivering high value, complex civil Morgan Est completes engineering solutions was an obvious choice for the contract.
Kincardine Crossing Natural light and ventilation have been Environmental considerations played a energy saving construction major part in this project, carried out in incorporated with solar shade glazing by Morgan Ashurst in and the use of recycled water to aid pool joint venture with Vinci.
Salt marshes and Durham mudflats on the south bank provide an heating.
The energy efficient design and construction is predicted to achieve annual important habitat for wildlife.
To minimise Muse in 200m joint venture disruption, the bridge was constructed in emissions of 620,000kg CO2, a 38% with United Utilities plc.
reduction compared to an identical 45m spans and launched entirely from the north shore.
Using incremental launch centre built three years ago.
technology, Morgan Est has delivered the In the same month, Muse completed the largest push-launched span bridge in the new Northwest region fire control centre.
The new crossing will transform Part of the 200m Lingley Mere joint transport links to the region, encouraging venture with United Utilities plc, one of growth in the Scottish economy, as well as eight centres that form the countrys Critical relieving congestion in Kincardine village National Infrastructure developed to ensure and the surrounding area.
that essential services are protected against terrorist attacks or other national security Freemans Quay leisure centre, a 13m flagship scheme for Durham Villages threats.
The joint venture was publicly praised for its professionalism, being cited Regeneration Company, was completed in July 2008.
Chosen by the client for its as the most compliant and technically competent of all regions in the UK.
outstanding performance on a previous project, Morgan Ashurst delivered an eight The project will provide further office space, commercial and leisure facilities totalling lane swimming pool, fitness and sports education facility, built to exacting 875,000 sq ft within the 100 acre parkland site near Warrington.
QXD 9 3 09 11:53 Page 35 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 32 Construction and Built Environment Diploma Morgan Sindall Development Programme
