QXD 9 3 09 11:53 Page 36 2008 project focus Talented people Morgan Sindall recognises that talented people are key to the Groups success.
Integral to its approach to developing its people is the recruitment of motivated individuals, ongoing training to existing staff and qualifications targeted at young people.
Each student is trained in safety, health The Construction and Built Environment Lovell commits to the Diploma was introduced in 2008 and has and environment, pre-contract and Construction and Built planning issues, before being given been designed to help recruit young people Environment Diploma with appropriate skills into the construction practical experience in the construction and commercial aspects of the business.
Lovell has been closely involved in the development of the Diploma, which Throughout the training, support is graduate training scheme provided by Morgan Ashursts specialist requires active participation by employers.
Morgan Sindall As part of its well established Working with graduate and trainee development advisors.
Development Programme The scheme is a great success and will Schools programme, Lovell is offering support to 14 to 19 year olds who are be extended to four further universities builds on best practice.
in 2009. studying for the Diploma.
Illustrated talks on modern construction techniques and Transferring knowledge and expertise environmental issues are complemented from one division to another is a great with site visits and work experience.
Lovell strength of the Group.
The Morgan Sindall staff work closely with schools around the Development Programme provides managers UK, helping pupils and staff to understand from all divisions with the opportunity to more about the construction industry.
learn together and share best practice.
A series of two day, residential courses Graduate recruitment at Morgan Ashurst begins early in a students university life.
are held throughout the year covering topics including individual effectiveness, Undergraduates offered 12 month placements within the Groups Construction team leadership and improving business performance.
By encouraging continuous division quickly become part of the team.
learning and development, the Group is able to capitalise on the skills and experience of individuals from across the Group.
QXD 9 3 09 11:53 Page 37 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 1 John Morgan 2 Paul Smith 3 David Mulligan 4 Paul Whitmore 5 Gill Barr 6 Jon Walden 7 Geraldine Gallacher 8 Adrian Martin 1 5 6 John Morgan Executive chairman Co-founded Morgan Lovell in 1977 which then reversed into William Sindall plc in 1994 to form Morgan Sindall plc.
Chief executive from 1994 to 2000 and executive chairman from 2000 to date.
He is also interim chairman of Newfound N. V. Jon Walden Gill Barr Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Appointed a director in May 2001 Appointed a director in September and assumed the role of senior 2004.
Gill is currently marketing director independent director in October 2008. of John Lewis plc.
Her previous Jon is currently managing director of positions include chief executive of Lex and also a non-executive director Deliverance Limited and business of Randgold Resources Limited.
development director at Woolworth plc.
Previously, he held various roles within She has also held various positions RAC plc, including main board director, with Kingfisher plc, KPMG plc and and also at Rank Xerox, having Freemans plc.
qualified as a chartered accountant at Touche Ross now Deloitte LLP.
QXD 9 3 09 11:54 Page 38 Board of directors 2 3 4 7 8 Paul Smith David Mulligan Paul Whitmore Chief executive Finance director Commercial director Appointed chief executive in March Appointed a director in April 2000.
Appointed finance director in April 2003.
His previous positions include 2004 having been group financial He had previously undertaken managing director of Accord plc, various roles over a 27 year period controller since 1998.
Prior to this he managing director of Cleanaway worked at Smiths Group plc and Ernst at Laing Construction plc, latterly Limited and manager at McKinsey & as chief executive.
Paul is a & Young where he qualified as a Co. Inc.
He is also a non-executive chartered accountant.
director of Young Samuel Chambers YSC Limited.
Adrian Martin Independent non-executive Geraldine Gallacher Appointed a director in December 2008.
Independent non-executive Adrian holds a number of non-executive Appointed a director in August 2007. directorships, including M&C Saatchi plc Geraldine is currently managing director and Safestore Holdings plc.
He is also of The Executive Coaching Consultancy.
a consultant to Reynolds Porter Previously, she was head of group Chamberlain LLP, where he was management development for The previously chief executive.
Prior to Burton Group plc now Arcadia plc and that he worked at BDO Stoy Hayward, with the Ford Motor Company.
She was the last 8 years as managing partner.
an independent non-executive director of He was a non-executive director of The the Company between 1995 and 2004.
Carphone Warehouse plc until July 2008.
QXD 9 3 09 12:22 Page 36 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Share capital The Companies Act 1985 requires the Company to set out in During the year 202,007 ordinary shares of 5p each shares this report a fair review of the business of the Group during were allotted and issued on the exercise of options under the financial year ended 31 December 2008 and the position employee share option schemes.
No other shares were of the Group at the end of the year a business review.
Details of the Companys share capital and capital structure, including the rights attaching A detailed review of the business of the Group and a to the shares, are set out in note 22 of the consolidated description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it, financial statements on pages 88 to 89.
Note 22 also including an analysis of the development and performance of gives details of shares held by the Morgan Sindall Employee the Group during the year and the position of the Group at Benefit Trust, voting rights of which are exercisable at the the year end, including analysis using key performance discretion of the trustees.
indicators and any other information required to fulfil the requirements of the business review can be found either There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor in this report or in the chairman and chief executives on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the statement on pages 2 to 3 and the business review general provisions of the Articles of Association of the on pages 4 to 21.
Company the Articles and prevailing legislation.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share All the information contained in the pages referred to above capital and the directors are not aware of any agreements which is required for the business review or otherwise for this between holders of shares which may result in restrictions in report is incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
to form part of this report.
The liabilities of the directors in connection with this report shall be limited as provided by Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary applicable English law.
resolution or by the Board.
The Company may by special resolution remove any director before the expiration of his Principal activities period of office.
The Articles provide that the business of the Morgan Sindall is a construction and regeneration group with Company will be managed by the Board, which may exercise five divisions: Fit Out, Construction, Infrastructure Services, all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the Affordable Housing and Urban Regeneration.
The principal management of the business of the Company or not, subject subsidiary companies operating within this divisional to the Companies Acts, the Companys memorandum of structure are listed in note 14 of the Company financial association, the Articles, and any directions given by the statements on page 119.
The Articles may be amended by shareholders by special resolution.
Results and dividends At the annual general meeting on 22 April 2008, a resolution The Groups profit before tax for the year amounted to was passed giving the directors authority to make market 62.3m 2007: 57.6m.
An interim dividend of 12.0p purchases of its shares up to 4,280,184 shares at a maximum 2007: 10.0p per share amounting to 5.1m 2007: 4.2m price based on the market price of a share at the relevant was paid on 12 September 2008.
The directors are time, as set out in the resolution.
No purchases of shares recommending a final dividend for the year of 30.0p 2007: were made during the year pursuant to this authority.
The 28.0p per share amounting to 12.7m 2007: 12.0m authority expires on 22 April 2009 and a resolution to renew payable on 8 May 2009 to shareholders on the register the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general at close of business on 17 April 2009. meeting, as explained further in the explanatory notes to the notice of annual general meeting on pages 124 to 125.
