Heading Board of Directors Richard Kilsby Aviad Kobrine Shay Ben-Yitzhak Non-executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Richard Kilsby has been Chairman since Aviad Kobrine has been Chief Financial Shay Ben-Yitzhak is one of 888s founders, March 2006, having previously been Deputy Officer of the Group since June 2005, and was the Chief Technical Officer of the Chairman of the Group from August 2005. was appointed to the Board in August 2005.
Group and responsible for research and He is currently a Non-executive Director of From October 2004 he was a consultant to development from the establishment of its Collins Stewart plc and Tullett Prebon plc.
Previously, he was a banker with the research and development centre in Tel Since 2001, he has held several Board and Media Telecoms Investment Banking Group Aviv until June 2006.
Previously he was a management positions in various private and of Lehman Brothers and prior to that, he software engineer for Tower Semiconductor venture capital funded companies.
In 2004, was a senior associate with Slaughter and Limited and CIBAM Technologies Limited.
he acted as independent monitor for the May.
He holds a Masters in Finance from He holds a BSc in computer science SEC and USA Department of Justice.
From the London Business School Distinction, a from Technion the Israel Institute of 1999 to 2002, he was Chief Executive of BA in Economics and an LLB from Tel Aviv Technology.
Tradepoint and subsequently Executive ViceUniversity.
From 1995 to 1998, Michael Constantine he was an Executive Director of the London Brian Mattingley Independent Non-executive Director Stock Exchange, prior to which he was a Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Managing Director for Bankers Trust from Non-executive Director Michael Constantine was appointed in 1992 to 1995.
He was also Vice-Chairman August 2005.
From 1996 to 1998, he of Charterhouse Bank from 1988 to 1992, Brian Mattingley has been Deputy Chairman was Deputy Superintendent of the Turks and spent the early part of his career with since March 2006, and was appointed and Caicos Islands Financial Services Price Waterhouse now PwC where he was to the Board in August 2005.
He was Commission, and in 1995 was head of the a partner from 1984 to 1988.
Age 57. previously Chief Executive of Gala Regional Financial Supervision Unit of the Mauritius Developments Limited until 2005.
From Offshore Business Activities Authority.
Gigi Levy 1997 to 2003 he was Group Finance and From 1991 to 1995 he was Inspector of Chief Executive Officer Strategy Director of Gala Group Plc, prior Licensees at the Gibraltar Financial Services to which he was Chief Executive of Ritz Commission, latterly Acting Commissioner.
Gigi Levy has been Chief Executive Officer Bingo Limited.
He has held senior executive He is a Chartered Accountant and for many of the Group since January 2007, following positions within Kingfisher Plc and Dee years a partner in the firm of Spain Brothers six months as Chief Operating Officer.
He served in the Royal Naval Prior to his appointment, Gigi worked for Reserve, reaching the rank of Commander.
Amdocs, one of the worlds largest software John Anderson Age 70. providers and systems integrators in the Non-executive Director telecoms market NYSE: DOX, most Amos Pickel recently as Division President managing John Anderson was the Chief Executive Independent Non-executive Director Amdocs activity in Europe except Eastern Officer of the Group from September 2000 Europe, Central and Latin America.
He is currently NonAmos Pickel was appointed in March 2006. joining Amdocs, Gigi held several interim executive Chairman of Burford Holdings plc Formerly the Chief Executive Officer of management and consulting roles with and was Chief Executive Officer of Burford Atlas Management Company Limited and various companies in Israel and the UK.
Gigi Holdings plc from 1996 to 2000.
He is Chief Executive Officer and member of also headed Giltek, a telecommunication Chairman of the Interactive Gaming Council: the Board of Directors of Red Sea Hotels systems integrator, and Girit a Board member of eCOGRA and Chairman Ltd.
Previously a Non-executive Director Telecommunications, an Israeli Information of 10 Tech Holdings Limited.
Previously, he of Gresham Hotel Group Plc, he is a and Communications Technology systems was a Board member of Ladbrokes plc from solicitor holding a Masters in Law from New integrator.
He holds an MBA from the 1990 to 1996.
B. from Tel Aviv Kellogg School of Management at University.
