Directors Report The Directors submit to the members their Annual Report Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December interests in the shares of the Company or in any material 2008.
The report on Corporate Governance and the contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its Remuneration Report on pages 38 and 44 respectively form subsidiaries.
part of this Directors Report.
Brian Mattingley, Michael Constantine and Amos Pickel will Principal Activities retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being During 2008 the Groups principal activities were the eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
provision of online gaming entertainment to end customers as well as business partners.
A review of the business is Share Capital given in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 to 7, the Chief Changes in the Companys share capital during the financial Executives Review on pages 8 to 11 and the Enhanced year are given in note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Business Review on pages 12 to 30.
As at 31 December 2008, the Companys issued share capital comprised 342,848,261 The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 70. ordinary shares of 0.005p each.
Results Rights Attaching to Ordinary Shares The Groups Profit before tax for the financial year excluding The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares are share benefit charges of US$8.4 million of US$49 million is set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Holders of reported in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 50. ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general It is the intention of the Directorrs to declare a final dividend in meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies respect of the financial year in an amount of 2.5 cents per share.
and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on liquidation may share in the assets Directors and their Interests of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to Biographical details of the current Board of Directors are receive the Companys Annual Report.
Subject to meeting shown on page 34.
The Directors who served during the certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition year are shown below: a general meeting of the Company or the proposal of resolutions at general meetings.
Richard Kilsby appointed 30 August 2005 and reappointed 21 May 2008 Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights Gigi Levy appointed 18 June 2006 and Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting reappointed 30 May 2007 instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars Aviad Kobrine appointed 30 August 2005 and not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
reappointed 21 May 2008 John Anderson appointed 30 August 2005 and Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and Limitations on reappointed 30 May 2007 Holdings Shay Ben-Yitzhak appointed 30 August 2005 and There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the reappointed 21 May 2008 holding of ordinary shares other than under restrictions Michael Constantine appointed 30 August 2005 and imposed by law or regulation for example, insider trading reappointed 30 May 2007 laws or pursuant to the Companys share dealing code.
Brian Mattingley appointed 30 August 2005 and reappointed 30 May 2007 Substantial Shareholdings Amos Pickel appointed 14 March 2006 and As at 31 December 2008 the Company had been notified of reappointed 30 May 2007 the following interests in 3% or more of its share capital: The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors in shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 44.
Number of % Issued Principal Shareholder Trust Shares Share Capital E Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,534 25.2 O Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,534 25.2 Ben-Yitzhak Family Shares Trust 37,122,358 10.8 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 45 16254888COM FRONT.
indd 45 08 04 2009 17:47 08 04 2009 17:47 16254 08 04 2009 Proof 8 Heading Directors Report continued Shareholder Agreements and Consent Charitable Contributions Requirements Contributions for charitable purposes were made during the There are no known arrangements under which financial rights year amounting to US$107,821 2007: $232,000.
are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Directors Responsibility Statement A Relationship Agreement governing the relationship The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting between the above Principal Shareholder Trusts and records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any the Company was entered into in connection with the time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding Companys flotation.
The Relationship Agreement provides the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention that all transactions between the Group and the Principal and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the Shareholder Trusts will be on a normal business basis, that preparation of a Directors report which complies with the the Group will be allowed to carry on business independently Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar of them and that the Principal Shareholder Trusts will not Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999 and the cause the Group to contravene the Combined Code unless Gibraltar Companies Act.
required by law or as contemplated in the Relationship Agreement.
It further provides that each of the Principal Financial statements are published on the Groups website Shareholder Trusts will not solicit Group employees without in accordance with legislation in the UK governing the consent, that only independent Directors can vote on preparation and dissemination of financial statements, proposals to amend the Relationship Agreement, that the which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Principal Shareholder Trusts will consult the Group prior maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the to disposing of a significant number of shares in order to responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility maintain an orderly market and shall not disclose confidential also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial information unless required to do so or having first received statements contained therein.
The Relationship Agreement also includes restrictions on the Principal Shareholder Trusts The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report power to appoint Directors and includes obligations on the and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to trusts to ensure that the majority of the Board, excluding the prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance Chairman, is independent.
The Principal Shareholder Trusts with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and can nominate a Non-executive Director for appointment to have also chosen to prepare financial statements for the the Board and the Directors will refer the appointment of the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
nominated person to the Remuneration Committee.
In the event that this right is exercised and it results in fewer than half the Board excluding the Chairman of the Board being independent Directors, such appointment shall only become effective upon the appointment to the Board of an additional independent Director.
Such restrictions and obligations apply whilst the E Shaked Shares Trust and O Shaked Shares Trust collectively or the Ben-Yitzhak Family Shares Trust individually hold not less than 7.5%.
Change of Control Other than the Groups gaming licences where change of control is subject to prior consent, there are no contracts to which the Group is a party which would allow the counterparty to terminate or alter those contractual arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Group.
indd 46 08 04 2009 17:47 08 04 2009 17:47 16254 08 04 2009 Proof 8 Group and Parent Company Financial Auditors Statements A resolution for the reappointment of BDO Stoy Hayward Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial LLP and BDO Orion Limited as auditors of the Company will statements in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act.
During the year ended 31 December 2008 BDO Stoy Hayward LLP were appointed auditors for the purposes of International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial the Company preparing financial statements as required statements present fairly for each financial year the Group and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
BDO Companys financial position, financial performance and cash Orion Limited have been appointed to act as auditors for the flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of purposes of issuing an audit report pursuant to Section 10 of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 to be filed with definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income the Gibraltar Companies Registry.
and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation On behalf of the Board of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: l consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: Gigi Levy l present information, including accounting policies, in a Chief Executive Of cer manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 30 March 2009 understandable information: and l provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable members to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
We confirm, to the best of our knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the Enhanced Business Review, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
