Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Board of Directors 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 40 Mouchel Group plc n n 1.
Ian Knight Chairman 51 Non-Executive Director 57 Richard was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Mouchel in 1998, Ian joined the Mouchel Board as a Non-Executive Director in 2001. and was made Chairman in 2001.
He remained Chairman following He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc in September 2003.
lan is also Non-Executive Chairman of QDS He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Richard is also Chairman Environmental Limited and Delta Simons Environmental Consultants of the Board of Trustees of the Foundation for Social Entrepreneurs Limited, and Non-Executive Director of Morson Group plc, Elco Motors and a Director of FSE World Limited.
He was previously Non-Executive Limited and Physiocall Limited.
He was previously Group Treasurer Chairman of Public Recruitment Group plc and a founder director of the Yorkshire Water Group from privatisation in 1989 until 1998, of Capita Group in 1987, where as sales director until 1998 he was when he became Finance and Strategic Development Director for its responsible for much of Capitas early rapid growth and diversification.
non-water subsidiaries, helping to grow these infrastructure businesses both organically and by acquisition.
Sir Michael Lyons Richard joined Parkman Group as Chief Executive in April 2002 and Non-Executive Director 59 continued in this role following the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman Sir Michael joined the Board of Parkman Group in June 2001.
Prior to joining Parkman Group plc in He was appointed a Non-Executive Director following the merger 2002 he was a senior director and a member of the Group Executive of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc in September 2003. at WS Atkins plc.
Richard is a Chartered Civil Engineer with extensive He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member experience in the management of consultancy and outsourcing of the Nomination Committee.
Sir Michael is Chairman of the BBC businesses in the UK and overseas.
and his other appointments include Chairman of the English Cities Fund.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Wragge & Co and SQW 3.
He has undertaken a series of independent reviews Finance Director 49 for government, including the Lyons Review 2004 to 2007 into the Kevin joined Mouchel as Finance Director in 1998 and continued in future role and funding of local government.
Previous appointments this role following the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc include: Acting Chairman of the Audit Commission former Deputy in September 2003.
Prior to joining Mouchel plc, he was Group Chairman, Non-Executive Director of Central Independent Television Ltd, Financial Controller and Finance Director of the Consumer Logistics Chief Executive of Birmingham City Council, Chief Executive of Division of Transport Development Group.
Kevin is a Chartered Nottinghamshire County Council, Chief Executive of Wolverhampton Accountant who qualified and trained with Price Waterhouse.
Rodney Westhead Non-Executive Director 60 Senior Independent Director 64 Lynton was formerly a director of Hedra Limited formerly Hedra plc Rodney joined the Board of Parkman Group in June 2001. from 2003 to 2008, and latterly Hedras Chairman before it was He was appointed a Non-Executive Director following the merger acquired by Mouchel on 5 March 2008.
Prior to joining Hedra, Lynton of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc in September 2003.
He is was Head of UK Consultancy for  and a a member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and member of their UK Main Board and of their European Consultancy Nomination Committee and is the Senior Independent Director.
He was a Member of the Public Services Productivity Panel from Rodney is a Non-Executive Director of AEA Technology plc and 2002 to 2007 and Chairman of the Scientific Services Agencies Board Transense Technologies plc.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of from 2004 to 2007.
Clean Air Power Ltd. Rodney was formerly Chairman of Carter and Carter plc, Group Chief Executive of Ricardo plc for nine years and n 5.
Debbie Hewitt a partner at Grant Thornton.
Rodney is a fellow of the Institute of Non-Executive Director 45 Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Debbie joined Mouchel as an Advisor to the Board in April 2007 and was appointed a Director in September 2007.
Amanda Massie of the RAC Automotive Group where she has worked since 1987.
Prior Group Company Secretary 38 to joining the RAC she held various commercial and HR management Amanda joined the Group in October 2004.
She was previously Group positions at Marks & Spencer.
She is also a Non-Executive Director Company Secretary of WS Atkins plc and a member of their Group of Luminar plc, Domestic and General plc, NCC plc, the Office of Management Board.
Prior to WS Atkins, she worked in the City as Government Commerce, a Director of the Recovery Industry Support Company Secretary for a group of insurance companies.
Amanda is Charity and a Non-Executive Member of the Board of Communities & a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Debbie has previously been a Non-Executive Director of fide Vere plc and Alumasc plc.
She has an MBA with Member of the Audit Committee n distinction, is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Member of the Nomination Committee Development and a Parish Councillor.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Board of Directors 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 41 Mouchel Group plc Contents 43 Directors Report 60 Company Statement 46 Corporate Governance Report of Recognised Income 51 Remuneration Report and Expense 56 Consolidated Income 61 Independent Auditors Report Statement 62 Notes to the Financial 57 Group and Company Statements Balance Sheets 103 Five-year Financial Summary 58 Consolidated Cash 104 Shareholder Information Flow Statement 59 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
