Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Financial Share capital and change of control Statements of Mouchel Group plc the Company and the The authorised share capital of the Company as at 31 July 2008 Mouchel Group for the year ended 31 July 2008. together with details of shares issued during the financial year is shown in note 28 of the Notes to the Financial Statements on page 88.
During Principal activities the year, the Companys ordinary share capital increased by 2,350,547 The Company is a consulting and business services group supporting as a result of the issue of shares to satisfy exercises under employee clients in developing and managing their infrastructure assets.
Services share plans and as part-consideration in respect of the acquisition of are delivered through three main businesses: Highways, Government Hedra.
The ordinary share capital as at 31 July 2008 consisted of Services and Regulated Industries.
Business review The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares The progress of the business during the year and anticipated future are contained in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which developments are discussed in the Chairmans Statement and Business can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
The Articles Review on pages 4 to 39 and provide information about the Groups of Association can only be changed by a special resolution passed in strategy, its business, its financial performance, key performance general meeting of the shareholders.
There are no special control rights indicators, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group or restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and likely developments.
and no requirements for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to Acquisitions control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements On 6 August 2007, the Group acquired the entire share capital between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the of HBS Business Services Group Limited subsequently renamed transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Mouchel Business Services Limited MBS, a business process outsourcing company with whom the Group was already working in Each ordinary share other than treasury shares, which have no voting partnership for Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council.
On 5 March rights carries the right to vote at a general meeting of the Company.
2008 the Group acquired Hedra plc Hedra, a solutions and services At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall business which provides advice and support to clients within the UK be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
show of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every Further details relating to the acquisitions can be found in note 35 member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
every share of which they are a holder.
Results and dividends The Trustees of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts The Group profit for the financial year after taxation and exceptional ESOPs have waived their rights to dividends in respect of 1,925,304 items amounted to 19.6 million 2007: 34.0 million.
An interim shares and do not exercise their right to vote in respect of such shares.
dividend of 1.85p per share was paid on 30 May 2008.
The Companys employee share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
Under these provisions, a change The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.25p per ordinary of control of the Company would normally be a vesting event, subject share 2007: 3.45p to be paid on 19 December 2008 to ordinary to any relevant performance conditions being satisfied.
The Company is shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 October not a party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or 2008.
Total dividends relating to the year will amount to 6.10p per terminate upon a change of control nor is it party to any agreement with share.
the directors or employees providing for compensation or loss of office or employment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies can be Purchase of own shares found in note v of the Accounting policies on page 66 and note 24 of The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up to 10% the Notes to the Financial Statements on page 84. of its own ordinary shares in the market.
This authority was not used during the year nor in the period to 21 October 2008.
The Board Directors intends to seek shareholder approval to renew the authority at this Biographical details of the Directors who served on the Board during years Annual General Meeting AGM.
the year and their share interests can be found on pages 41 and 55 respectively.
On 3 September 2007, Debbie Hewitt was appointed In accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares as a Non-Executive Director, and on 1 April 2008 Lynton Barker was Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, companies are permitted to appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
Rules about the appointment hold purchased shares rather than cancelling them.
The Board has of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
no current intention to purchase shares as treasury shares, other than as required for employee share schemes.
Details of the remuneration of all Directors who served during the financial year and their service contracts are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 51 and 55.
No Director was materially interested in any contract of significance to the Companys business or the Group.
During the year, the Group has maintained cover for its Directors and officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a directors and officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Report 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 43 Mouchel Group plc Directors Report continued Substantial shareholders The Group also has a policy of ensuring it offers family-friendly working As at 7 October 2008, the Company had been notified of the following arrangements.
We consider requests for individuals to work flexibly voting interests in its ordinary share capital, disclosable under the to meet their needs and the needs of the business.
Some people also Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: have more formal arrangements in place such as part-time working and job-sharing.
Our flexible benefits scheme offers childcare vouchers No.
of % of issued and the opportunity to extend a number of healthcare benefits Name of holder ordinary shares share capital to employees families.
BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 11,116,432 9.9% Schroder Investment Management Ltd 7,664,861 6.8% Learning and development is critical to the success of Mouchel and Aegon Asset Management 5,872,001 5.2% we have a performance management system that provides a bi-annual Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 5,498,210 4.9% opportunity for employees to discuss their progress and identify training Old Mutual Asset Managers 4,626,932 4.1% needs.
We provide our employees with a wide range of resources to Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 3,874,600 3.5% assist with their personal development, which includes a mix of formal Invesco Perpetual 3,816,373 3.4% training and online self-learning.
Corporate governance Charitable and political donations A report on corporate governance can be found on pages 46 to 50.
During the financial year 2007 08, the Group made charitable donations of 62,431 to a range of charities, matching an equal amount raised Corporate Responsibility by staff.
A further 17,986 was donated to other charities, making total A summary of the Groups Corporate Responsibility activities can be charitable donations for the year of 80,417 2007: 41,689. found in the Business Review on pages 36 and 37.
In addition, the Group has produced a separate Corporate Responsibility Report, which We have developed a new community involvement policy, encouraging provides more detailed information with respect to the environment, our employees to form long-term relationships with local charities, by health and safety and employees.
A copy of the Report is available focusing on volunteer work and fundraising which benefits the local on the Companys website.
We believe that these efforts will now have a significant impact and will build on the benefits we are already providing through Employees the Groups contracts with local authorities.
The Group will match both As at 31 July 2008, there were 11,341 employees working for time volunteered and funds raised and we aspire to devote time and the Group.
The acquisition of MBS in August 2007 and Hedra in resources to the community equivalent to 1% of pre-tax profits.
March 2008 increased the employee numbers by 2,700 and 600 respectively.
The Groups policy is to provide an environment for It is the Groups policy not to make political donations in the UK all employees to fully develop their individual potential and thereby or overseas and the Group has no intention of making any political encourage their contribution to the success of Mouchel.
The Group donations or incurring such expenditure in the future.
However, the places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and Political Parties, Elections and Referendum Act the PPER Act and has Investors in People accreditation for all its UK offices and sites.
part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act define political parties, other political organisations or independent election candidates Internal communication is a high priority within the Group and very widely.
The Board will therefore seek authority at the forthcoming employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as employees AGM for the Company and any company that is or becomes a and on the Groups financial performance.
This is achieved through subsidiary during the period ending on the date of the AGM 2009 to informal and formal meetings and various communications.
Following the incur such political expenditure up to 100,000 in aggregate in order announcement of the Groups final and interim results, staff presentations to prevent an inadvertent breach of the PPER Act and the 2006 Act.
are made in various locations across the Group by the senior management team.
The Group uses its intranet to communicate job vacancies, Group Freehold land and buildings policies and other Company news.
The market value of freehold land and buildings is estimated at 9.5 million and its carrying value is 4.0 million.
Staff opinions are sought annually via a confidential staff survey.
The results of the survey are communicated to staff and action Research and development plans are implemented to make improvements.
During the year, the Group incurred research costs of 352,000 relating to a Group-wide business transformation system project.
The system Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and will be introduced in phases over the course of the next two years, with this is actively promoted via the Sharesave scheme.
phase 1 scheduled for implementation in 2008.
The Group has a diversity and equal opportunities policy and is Supplier payment policy committed to providing equal opportunities to all employees and Mouchel Group plc is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
job applicants irrespective of gender, race, age, religion, disability Group companies aim to adhere to the payment terms agreed with or sexual orientation.
Payments are contingent on the supplier providing goods or services to the required standard, and purchasing is sometimes The Groups policy and practice in respect of disabled persons co-ordinated between Group undertakings.
is to encourage the recruitment and subsequent training, career development and promotion of disabled persons and the retention As at 31 July 2008, the Group had an average of 42 days purchases and retraining of employees who become disabled, on the basis owed to trade creditors 2007: 54 days.
This represents the ratio, of their aptitude and abilities.
expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Group by its suppliers in the year to the trade creditors at year-end.
Directors Report 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 44 Mouchel Group plc Statement of Directors responsibilities Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Having made enquiries of fellow Directors, each of the Directors who the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements was a member of the Board at the time of approving the Directors in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Report confirms that to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information i. e. information needed by Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements the Company and Groups Auditors in connection with preparing their for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Report of which the Company and Groups Auditors are unaware and Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with that each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the a Director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish European Union.
The Financial Statements are required by law to give that the Company and Groups Auditors are aware of that information.
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that period.
Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine In preparing those Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: their remuneration will be put to the members at the AGM.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Annual General Meeting make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The AGM of the Company will be held at the offices of RBS, state that the Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as adopted 3rd Floor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA by the European Union: on 11 December 2008 at 10.30 a. m. The business to be put to prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis, the shareholders is detailed in the separate Notice of Meeting unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue accompanying this Report.
in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records 28 October 2008 that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Directors Report 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 45 Mouchel Group plc
