Overview Pages 01 p 03 Strategy Operating and Financial Review Pages 04 p 35 Governance Pages 36 p 56 Financial statements Pages 58 p 130 Shareholder information Pages 131 p 132 A stronger balance sheet and Strategy review appropriate capital structure Managing our financial platform The increased focus on cash management 2008 saw unprecedented turmoil and across the Group should help deliver strong disruption in global financial markets.
free cash flow generation and reduce net Availability of debt funding to businesses debt.
June 2009 will see the Groups banking for new investment and refinancing became covenants returning to their normal level with severely curtailed and most companies a debt gearing ratio of 3.5 times EBITDA are now looking to their own self help following a relaxation for the first three half opportunities to deliver cash.
year period end tests after the Continental Auto acquisition in November 2007.
Given this challenging economic and funding The Group is confident that it will achieve A single brand across the UK environment for 2009, we have placed these covenants.
increased emphasis on ensuring a stable financial platform for the Group.
We have Twelve months ago, the Board set a policy an above average debt level in our sector, to increase dividends by 10% per annum following successful completion of our for three years.
Since then, global economic recent acquisition and extensive investment and financial conditions have changed programme.
We now have evolved a substantially.
Despite continued strong financial plan to deliver: earnings cover, the current level of dividend places a significant cash drain on the Group Strong cash management, to reduce the at a time when it is more appropriate to Groups debt: conserve cash resources.
The Board is therefore proposing to reduce the full year A stronger balance sheet and appropriate dividend for 2008 by 40% from the 2007 capital structure.
As a result, a rebased final dividend of 10.00p per share will be paid in July 2009, following the half year dividend of Delivering strong cash 12.72p per share paid in September 2008. management Liverpool Street the London hub of Given the cash generative nature and strong National Express businesses have strong National Express East Anglia earnings potential of the Group, it is expected cash generative qualities.
These are reflected to resume a progressive dividend policy in the significant degree of cash-based once the economic outlook is clearer and revenue for example, in European bus, the Group has refinanced its core banking Coach and Rail and .
Meanwhile, the Group will continue backed contracts for example, in Spanish to keep its funding strategy under review.
coach and North American school bus.
The Groups debt funding policy is to remain In addition, following a sustained period of investment grade equivalent, since this investment and acquisition, a much more maximises access to a wide variety of debt limited investment programme is required markets.
This is supported by good cash over the next 12 to 18 months.
A review generation, operations in defensive business of working capital has identified a series sectors and stable banking relationships.
of initiatives which are targeted to deliver The Groups primary committed debt significant improvements during 2009. facilities are in place until September 2010 With banks around the world severely and June 2011. curtailing debt availability, the Group has also taken action to ensure that it has access to sufficient liquidity.
Our treasury management process has significantly improved cash management, utilising a Group-wide weekly control process.
In addition, the Group has realigned its currency debt structure to reflect falling interest rates and currency weakness, moving debt out of a US dollar Euro drawing structure into a Sterling Euro structure that matches the Groups facility currencies and reduces volatility.
As a result of these actions, the Group maintained 144 million of unused committed facilities at the end of 2008.
National Express Group PLC 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating and Financial Review Strategy continued Our UK coach network serves more than 1,700 destinations Strategy update In 2007 National Express put in place a three part strategy for growth.
We set out to: Reorientate the Group around a more customer-driven, branded proposition: Invest in the future to develop innovative products and services in markets in which we operate, to enable us to grow organically: and Acquire or develop businesses in new markets where we can create value.
For much of 2008, favourable conditions prevailed as we put our ideas into practice.
The real test of any strategy is its relevance when trading conditions are less than favourable.
By late 2008, when the global slowdown began to have an impact on the transport sector, our strategy remained effective.
Whilst we have naturally reassessed priorities in preparing for the year ahead, our challenging, we are better able than ever such as Wembley Stadium where we are strategy can remain essentially unchanged.
to understand our customers needs and the Official Travel Provider and media We have set out our customer promise to offer them products they really want to buy.
partnerships give us access to new and Make Travel Simpler.
In doing so, we are different audiences.
For example, by offering Just as we are getting to know our making public transport a more appealing tickets from 1 to Daily Mirror readers, we customers better, they are becoming alternative, which helps to achieve a generated over 91,000 e-mail signups more familiar with us as a leading provider wider social objective: the reduction of the 80% from new customers who had never of public transport.
Thanks in part to emissions that are accelerating climate used National Express coaches before.
coordinated advertising campaigns, the change.
Some commentators might argue During the promotion period alone we had positive awareness of the National Express that in times of financial insecurity, people 14,000 bookings.
Now we are building on brand grew significantly in 2008. care less about issues such as global the customer relationships we gained and warming and more about personal In 2008, we made progress in forging looking to embark on new partnerships expenditure.
In our business, we can a single company in the UK.
More than consistent with our business ethos.
ever, we are moving out of traditional silos and working as a multi-modal operator.
National Express product public transport 2009 will see concerted efforts to share is a cleaner option than the private car.
skills and experience and deliver synergies For example, a typical coach is over four Investing in our future throughout our businesses.
Smart cards times more efficient than the average car provide a good example.
Our trains are over As a company confident in the future of three times more efficient.
Environmental public transport and our leading role In January 2008, we became the first rail advantage, combined with the special offers we continued a programme of organic operating company to introduce the pre-pay that make coach, bus and rail travel easier growth in 2008.
While reaping the benefit Oyster card, where it has been a success on the purse, as well as the conscience, of past investments, we also began new on our c2c commuter business serving makes our business model even more programmes to improve our levels of service London.
Using that experience, we are compelling in these difficult times.
working closely in partnership with Centro in the West Midlands to create a region-wide On the East Coast rail franchise, for smart card.
Ultimately, as a diversified public instance, we made a huge commitment transport provider, we want our customers in time, effort and resources to improve A stronger, customer-driven brand to have access to the newest, most flexible operational performance and enhance and cost effective technology.
e-tickets customer communications on those To serve our customers better, we have to and m-tickets, where the ticket can be occasions when things do go wrong.
That way we can build sent simply as a text message to a mobile Such events are becoming increasingly rare.
the sort of relationship that defines a strong phone, are becoming more commonplace.
East Coast is operating at its highest level and more profitable brand.
That is why, National Express has been a pioneer and will of reliability since privatisation.
in 2008, we made customer relationship continue to be at the forefront of rolling out Equally important were significant management CRM a vital part of our this kind of innovative technology: it is a improvements in station quality and ticketing overall marketing strategy.
technology that will have benefits in the UK, convenience and efficiency.
An awardSpain and North America, indeed anywhere Our CRM database now holds over winning new website launched in 2008 we operate in the future.
five million existing and potential customers.
now generates almost 20% of all sales, and, In 2008, we generated over 11 million in Presenting a united UK brand makes in 2008, Durham station won the coveted genuinely incremental revenue that we National Express a more attractive and Station of the Year award, following the would not have had before.
Links with major venues completion of our refurbishment project.
economic conditions become more 06 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Pages 01 p 03 Operating and Financial Review Pages 04 p 35 Governance Pages 36 p 56 Financial statements Pages 58 p 130 Shareholder information Pages 131 p 132 National Express also pursued organic offer and National Express, as a leading Real-time travel information by text growth in coach and bus operations in member of the Confederation of Passenger 2008.
During the year we continued to Transport, will be working hard to explain the grow our events business including music benefits of this highly flexible, cost effective festivals, one-off concerts and sports and environmentally friendly form of transport.
In 2008 National Express took As we continue to build our business, 40,000 customers to and from events at in February 2009, we submitted our Wembley Stadium.
There are many more proposal to operate the UK rail South examples where our unrivalled skills in Central franchise.
major event transport logistics have made us the number one choice for a wide range of clients.
Our Spanish operation, ALSA, was a Adding value through acquisitions centre of innovative ideas for growth in 2008.
Coming from a rich heritage of outstanding In 2007, we acquired Spains second operational delivery, ALSA has redefined largest bus and coach operator, Continental the customer experience in Spain on public Auto.
In 2008, we achieved our objective transport with new ticketing products and of integrating Continental into ALSA, a new Supra Class luxury service aimed at confirming our role as Spains premier business travellers.
This market continues We want our operator in the sector.
Our Spanish leadership team rose to the customers to We have also seen considerable growth in challenge of combining the best of the two North America, where we have expanded companies cultures.
Now, we are benefiting have access school bus operations into two new US from increased scale, better purchasing states, bringing our total to 29 plus two power, reduced costs, greater flexibility and to the newest, provinces in Canada.
Securing nine new enhanced efficiencies.
In a market that is set contracts, worth a total of $38 million to be transformed by future liberalisation, most flexible a year, gives some indication of the all of this gives us greater credibility with potential of the North American market, government and stronger appeal to those which is expanding due to pressure on and cost effective towns and cities considering the outsourcing local school districts to outsource their of their transport activities.
further strengthened our position in Spanish of the nine new contracts involved new local transport with the acquisition of outsourcing business.
Transportes Colectivos SA TCSA, which provides high quality services in the Bilbao As our North American business gets bigger, metropolitan area.
it is also becoming more efficient.
In 2008, we went live with an integrated Enterprise We also expanded our US school bus Resource Planning system ERP, which is operations with the purchase of two private streamlining business processes, and we school bus operations, including A&E opened a central operations control centre, Transport Services in upstate New York.
the Every Time Center, in Illinois.
Some of This was a bolt-on acquisition, adjacent to the technology involved, in particular the existing business, and so providing immediate digital communications links between the We are the leading private coach operator synergies.
Our enlarged capabilities put us in in Spain control centre and drivers, could have wider a better position to pick up new outsourcing potential within the Group.
For now, it is opportunities as they arise in the near future.
making our North American operations even In the UK, our 2007 acquisition, the Kentmore customer-friendly and competitive.
based Kings Ferry commuter service, had Not everything in 2008 was as successful an excellent year.
The commuter coach as we had hoped.
Our Dot2Dot airport business saw strong year end season ticket transfer service in the UK was an exciting renewals, reinforcing our belief that in times innovation and a potentially significant new of economic challenge, consumers will look business line for the Group.
However, with to better value alternatives, something we the economic downturn having a serious are well positioned to offer.
impact on air travel, the business has remained loss-making and in January 2009 we sold Dot2Dot as a going concern.
Developments in coach have seen successes, such as our CheltenhamLondon premier coach link.
This high quality service introduced a new range of customers to the comfort and convenience of coach travel a concept consistent with UK government objectives to widen the appeal of this more sustainable transport mode.
Government is considering afresh the opportunities that coach services could National Express Group PLC 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
