Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Introduction Overview of 2008 In 2008 we delivered strong revenue and profit growth, despite an increasingly challenging economic environment as the year progressed.
Total Group revenue grew 5.9% to almost 2.8 billion.
We increased normalised profit before tax by 11.3% to 202.4 million before discontinued operations.
In its first full year as part of the Group, National Express East Coast met all its franchise commitments, saw revenue Outlook for 2009 growth of 9% and passenger growth from 18.1 million to 18.7 million.
In East Anglia, While the future holds many challenges, we we achieved passenger revenue growth are taking the appropriate steps to ensure of 6%, while profit is now underpinned that National Express comes through the by revenue support.
We have made cash management and the strengthening We integrated our UK Bus and Coach of our balance sheet our priority, benefiting businesses at the start of the year, yielding from our significant recent investment.
benefits from merging back office functions Richard Bowker and sharing operational expertise.
New bus Our strength is our portfolio of transport Group Chief Executive partnerships are delivering a sustainable, businesses robust revenues in less defensible business in the recessionary economically sensitive bus markets in North environment.
America and the UK, flexibility to manage costs and services in coach across the In North America, our Business Despite the UK and Spain, and government revenue Transformation project maintained support in rail in our East Anglia franchise.
momentum with the opening of our central challenges of 2008, operations centre and delivery of new The East Coast rail franchise is undoubtedly technology in pilot stage across the first exposed to recessionary impact, with a high we delivered a two US states.
This will deliver sustainable fixed cost base and no revenue underpin competitive advantage in the industry.
We are committed to sustainable strong operating delivery of the franchise, enhancing service The integration of Continental Auto in and building on a highly successful first performance.
Spain continued through 2008, with the year.
We have engaged with Government to acquisition growing total revenue year on explore ways to offset the impact of lower year, in local currency, by 40%.
As the growth, whilst delivering value through the countrys leading bus and coach operator, franchise premia, given that this, like many we have scale, long term concession other franchises, was constructed in very contracts and new outsource opportunities different economic conditions.
Alongside to help offset the economic environment.
this, we have also developed our own The global economy continues to face self help cost reduction plans, which will considerable uncertainty and we are not be implemented to reflect the difficult immune to the impacts of recession.
We expect financial Recognising these challenges, in the fourth performance in Rail to weaken in 2009 but quarter we announced plans to reduce to remain profitable, after taking account headcount in the UK by 750, reducing our of our cost reduction plans, with a resilient cost base by at least 15 million annually.
performance from our other, less In Spain, we have flexibility to reduce costs economically sensitive businesses.
and services to reflect demand weakness Despite the challenges of 2008, we delivered on some routes.
We are With the onset of the credit crunch, we are focused on delivering a resilient performance focused on maximising cash generation in 2009, through robust cost management from our naturally strong businesses.
and revenue optimisation, built on a stronger With the first Group debt facilities not financial platform.
As people become more maturing until September 2010, lower selective in how they spend their money, investment requirements and working capital they will turn to those suppliers they know reduction initiatives are planned to reduce and trust to provide the best value for net debt in 2009.
In addition, despite strong money.
Thanks to our outstanding track earnings cover, it is also appropriate to record in delivery, constantly improving rebase the dividend to conserve cash service levels and a well-deserved reputation resources: the full year 2008 dividend is for competitive pricing, we will ensure that proposed to reduce to 22.72p per share, National Express is well placed to benefit saving over 30 million in 2009.
These from this continuing trend.
initiatives should generate over 100 million of incremental cash in 2009.
04 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
