Governance Governance Board of Directors and Management 12 1 Richard Bowker CBE 34 Group Chief Executive 2 Jez Maiden Group Finance Director 3 Ray OToole Chief Executive UK Division 4 Jorge Cosmen Deputy Chairman 5 Sir Andrew Foster Non Executive Director 6 Roger Devlin Non Executive Director 56 7 Tim Score Interim Chairman 8 Miranda Curtis Non Executive Director 9 Tony McDonald Company Secretary 7 8 9 36 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Pages 01 p 03 Operating and Financial Review Pages 04 p 35 Governance Pages 36 p 56 Financial statements Pages 58 p 130 Shareholder Information Pages 131 p 132 1 Richard Bowker CBE Council, Nestor Health Care and PruHealth.
Sir Divisional heads Group Chief Executive Andrew has also completed reviews of Further Richard Bowker was appointed to the Board Education and Athletics for the Government.
Ray OToole as Chief Executive in September 2006.
Chief Executive UK Division was formerly Chief Executive of Partnerships Ray OTooles details are shown opposite.
6 Roger Devlin for Schools PfS, a government body Interim Senior Independent Director # Javier Carbajo responsible for delivering the Building Schools Roger Devlin was appointed to the Board on Chief Executive, ALSA Group for the Future Investment Programme.
Roger spent 13 years as a Javier Carbajo joined the Group in December December 2001 and September 2004 he was Director of Hill Samuel where he was head of 2005 when National Express acquired ALSA.
Chairman and Chief Executive of the Strategic Mergers and Acquisitions and Chief Executive A graduate in economics and with an MBA, Rail Authority.
Prior to that, he was Group of their US investment banking operations.
he has been with ALSA for 30 years during Commercial Director of Virgin Group and He then moved to Ladbrokes, later Hilton PLC, which time he has held management positions Co-chairman of Virgin Rail.
Richard is a as Group Corporate Development Director.
in most areas of the business.
In 1999, he was Fellow of the Chartered Institute of He now chairs three private equity businesses appointed Chief Executive of Enatcar following Management Accountants and the Chartered on behalf of Permira and Isis, all active in the its acquisition by ALSA.
In 2003, he was Institute of Logistics and Transport.
He is the leisure and hospitality fields.
He is also Senior appointed CEO of ALSA Group.
Deputy Chairman Non Executive of British Independent Director of RPS Group plc, Waterways.
Brian Stock Europes leading environmental consultancy.
Chief Executive, North America 2 Jez Maiden Aged 51.
Brian joined the Group in 2002 through the Group Finance Director 7 Tim Score acquisition of Stock Transportation.
He has Jez Maiden joined the Board in November Interim Chairman # overseen the North American student bus 2008.
He was formerly Chief Finance Officer Tim Score was appointed to the Board in operations since March 2004 and was at Northern Foods plc.
Prior to that, he was February 2005 and appointed as Interim appointed as Chief Executive of the Groups Group Finance Director of British Vita plc, Chairman in December 2008.
He is Chief North American operations in October 2004.
Director of Finance of Britannia Building Society Financial Officer at ARM Holdings plc.
Before Brian has had over 25 years in the bus industry.
and Group Finance Director of Hickson joining ARM he worked as Finance Director of Prior to joining the Group, Brian was President International plc.
He is currently a Non Rebus Group Limited which he joined in 1999. of Stock Transportation.
Executive Director of Yule Catto & Co plc Between 1997 and 1999, he was Group and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Finance Director of William Baird plc, which of Management Accountants.
Aged 47. he joined from LucasVarity plc.
He is a 3 Ray OToole chartered accountant.
Chief Executive UK Division 8 Miranda Curtis Ray OToole joined the Board in November Non Executive Director # 1999 as Chief Operating Officer.
From January Miranda Curtis was appointed to the Board 2008, Ray became Chief Executive of all our in June 2008.
She is an Executive Officer of UK operations.
He has 30 years operational Liberty Global Inc Denver, Colorado, President experience in transport.
He spent the early of Liberty Global Japan and a director of Jupiter part of his career in various engineering Telecommunications Limited J:COM in Tokyo.
management positions at Greater Manchester She has also served on the boards of Liberty Passenger Transport Executive.
Ray joined subsidiaries in Singapore, Ireland, France and National Express from FirstGroup plc, where he Spain.
She is a Trustee and member of the was responsible for its operations in Yorkshire Board of Governors of the Institute for and the North West as both Divisional Director Government.
Between 1998 and 2002 she and Group Engineering Director.
He is a was a Non Executive Director of Telewest Member of the British Transport Police Communications plc and between 1998 and Authority.
2000 a Non Executive Director of Flextech plc.
Deputy Chairman 9 Tony McDonald Jorge Cosmen was appointed to the Board Company Secretary in December 2005 at the time of the ALSA Tony McDonald was appointed Company transaction.
He was appointed Deputy Secretary in May 2000.
Prior to joining the Chairman in October 2008.
He was Corporate Group, he held senior legal positions with Manager for the ALSA Group from 1995, the in-house legal teams at Guardian Royal becoming Chairman in 1999.
Between 1986 Exchange and BP and in private practice with and 1995, he worked in sales, distribution and Slaughter and May.
He is a Business Administration Aged 48. graduate and has an International MBA from the Instituto fide Empresa in Madrid.
5 Sir Andrew Foster Member of the Audit Committee Non Executive Director Member of the Sir Andrew was appointed to the Board in Nomination Committee August 2004.
He has had an extensive career # Member of the in the public sector having served as Chief Remuneration Committee Executive of the Audit Commission for England Member of the Safety and and Wales between 1992 and 2003.
Before Environment Committee this, he was Deputy Chief Executive of the NHS and Regional CEO for Yorkshire.
He is currently Deputy Chairman of the Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited, Chairman of the More available online at Commonwealth Games Council for England $ www.
com and a Non Executive Director of the Sports National Express Group PLC 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
