About regulatory accounting statements About regulatory accounting statements Relationship of regulatory accounting statements with statutory National Grid Gas plc is the holder of two gas transporter licences: one in respect of its gas accounts transmission NTS business and one in respect of its gas distribution network DN The financial information contained in these regulatory accounting statements does not businesses.
Under Standard Special Condition A30 of each of these licences, National Grid constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985.
Gas is required to prepare and publish annual regulatory accounting statements setting out the Statutory accounts for National Grid Gas plc for the year ended 31 March 2008, to which the financial position and performance of each of the regulatory businesses covered by that licence.
financial information relates, have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies.
These DN regulatory accounting statements are for National Grid Gass gas distribution and The Auditors have made a report under Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 on those metering businesses.
National Grid Gas also prepares and publishes regulatory accounting statutory accounts which was unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section 237 2 statements for its NTS and LNG storage businesses.
Together, these two sets of regulatory or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors opinion on the National Grid Gas plc statutory accounting statements must comprise all the businesses and activities of National Grid Gas.
accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the members of National Grid Gas plc and not for any other person or purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on those Reconciliations between certain financial information included in these DN regulatory statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a accounting statements and the equivalent financial information for National Grid Gas as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In whole, are provided in note 1 to these DN regulatory accounting statements.
giving their opinion, they do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Scope of the DN regulatory accounting statements other person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is shown or into whose hands These DN regulatory accounting statements are in respect of the following regulatory it may come save where expressly agreed by their prior consent in writing.
businesses of National Grid Gas: The statutory accounts of National Grid Gas plc can be obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
the four Distribution Networks DNs : the metering business: Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements the meter reading business: and These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary apportionments of certain revenues, fide-minimis and other activities associated with these businesses costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity which are not specifically attributable to the These regulatory businesses are collectively the gas distribution and metering businesses.
businesses and activities reported in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, nevertheless, are required by the gas transporter licence under which these regulatory Further information about these businesses can be found on page 2 of the Operating and accounting statements are prepared, to be reported against those businesses and activities.
Further details of these items are provided in the Basis of preparation on page 36.
The regulatory businesses reported on in regulatory accounting statements are defined in The bases used to allocate the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity of accordance with the gas transporter licence under which the regulatory accounting statements National Grid Gas, to the businesses reported on in these regulatory accounting statements, are prepared and differ in some respects from the business definitions used in National Grid have been determined in accordance with the requirements of the gas transporter licence under Gass annual report and accounts.
which these regulatory accounting statements have been prepared.
These bases may differ from those used to determine the segmental analysis provided in the annual report and accounts of National Grid Gas plc.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08 1
