Directors Report The information in this Directors Report does not comprise a Directors Report within the Research and development meaning of the Companies Acts.
Such a report for National Grid Gas plc is included within that Expenditure on research and development was 2.1 million during the year 2007: 1.5 million.
companys annual report and accounts.
Financial instruments As the gas distribution and metering businesses reported on within these regulatory accounting Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk management are included on statements do not comprise a legal entity, the following information is provided for National Grid pages 21 to 23 in the Operating and Financial Review.
Disability Further details of matters required to be included in a Directors Report are incorporated by Through National Grids inclusion and diversity programme, National Grid Gas remains reference into this report, as detailed below.
committed to fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to job applications, training, promotion and career development.
Every effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for Directors of National Grid Gas plc those who are unable to continue in their existing job due to disability.
The Directors serving as at the date of this report were: Employee involvement Malcolm Cooper Appointed June 2007 National Grid Gas, as a part of National Grid, has well established and effective arrangements Mark Fairbairn Appointed June 2003 through electronic mail, intranet and in-house publications and briefing meetings, at each Stuart Humphreys Appointed July 2007 business location and company wide, for communication and consultation with both employees Paul Whittaker Appointed June 2007 and trade union representatives, and for communication of performance, strategy and operating Nick Winser Appointed July 2003 model, together with significant business issues.
Adam Wiltshire Appointed July 2006 National Grid Gas recognises the importance of aligning employee and shareholder interests, The following also served as Directors during the period: Steve Holliday, Steve Lucas and Chris and is committed to employee share ownership through the National Grid plc Share Incentive Murray, who resigned on 27 June 2007, and Andy Chapman who resigned on 7 July 2008.
Plan and Sharesave scheme, which are open to all employees.
Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is arranged and qualifying third party Policy and practice on payment of creditors indemnities are in place for each Director.
It is National Grid Gass policy to include in contracts or other agreements, terms of payment Principal activities and business review with suppliers.
Once agreed, the National Grid Gas aims to abide by these terms of payment.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during the year were the The average creditor payment period at 31 March 2008 was 22 days 23 days at 31 March transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services.
A full 2007. description of the gas distribution and metering businesses, and their principal risks and uncertainties, is contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 27 and are Audit information incorporated by reference into this report.
The Directors Report for National Grid Gas plc, included in its annual report and accounts 2007 08, includes a statement in respect of that annual report and accounts, that having made Material interests in shares the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors of National Grid Gas plc in office at the date of National Grid Gas plc is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of National Grid Gas Holdings the signing of that Directors Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which plc.
The ultimate parent company of National Grid Gas plc is National Grid plc.
the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves Dividends aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that During the year, two interim dividends totalling 500 million were paid 2007: 350 million information.
interim dividend and 1,500 million final dividend in respect of 2005 06.
The Directors have not On behalf of the Board of National Grid Gas plc proposed a final dividend.
Donations During 2007 08, some 3.0 million was invested in support of community initiatives and A Wiltshire Director, 25 July 2008 relationships in the UK, including direct charitable donations of 0.4 million 2007: 0.7 million.
National Grid Gas plc, 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH No donations were made in the UK and EU for the purposes of the Political Parties, Elections Registered in England and Wales No.
32 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2007 08
