Directors and Officers CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Jonathan Dawson, Senior Independent Non-executive John Barton Director Aged 63 Aged 56 Became a member of the Board in 2002 and was appointed Deputy Became a member of the Board in 2004.
He is also a non-executive Chairman in 2004 and Chairman in 2006.
He is also Deputy director of Galliford Try plc and National Australia Group Europe Ltd Chairman of Brit Insurance Holdings plc and a non-executive director and a partner in Penfida Partners LLP.
Previous experience includes of WH Smith plc.
Formerly Chief Executive of JIB Group plc and eight years in the Ministry of Defence and twenty years in investment Chairman of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Wellington banking with Lazard.
Steve Barber EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Aged 56 Simon Wolfson, Chief Executive Became a member of the Board in June 2007.
He is also Chief Aged 40 Financial Officer of Whitehead Mann and formerly finance director of Joined the Group in 1991.
Appointed Retail Sales Director in 1993, Mirror Group.
Previous experience includes almost thirty years in the became responsible for Next Directory in 1995 and was appointed to accountancy profession, principally with Price Waterhouse where he the Board in 1997 with additional responsibilities for systems.
Appointed Managing Director of the Next Brand in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001.
Nick Brookes Christos Angelides, Group Product Director Aged 57 Aged 44 Became a member of the Board in 2003.
He has held a number of Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed General Manager of directorships within the British American Tobacco Plc group, was Nexts sourcing office in Hong Kong in 1989, Menswear Product Company Secretary and most recently Regional Director, America Director in 1994 and Womenswear Product Director in 1998.
Previous experience includes a career in the legal profession Appointed to the Board in 2000. and operational roles in Africa and the USA.
David Keens, Group Finance Director Christine Cross Aged 54 Aged 56 Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in 1991.
Became a member of the Board in 2005.
She is also a non-executive Previous experience includes seven years in the accountancy director of Premier Foods plc and Empire Co. Ltd Canada, a retail profession and nine years in the UK and overseas operations of multiadvisor to Apax Partners and a member of the Advisory Panel of national manufacturers of consumer goods.
Previous experience includes fourteen years at Tesco plc and fifteen years lecturing and consulting at Andrew Varley, Group Property Director Edinburgh and Bath Universities.
Aged 57 Joined the Group in 1985 and was appointed to the Board in 1990.
Previous experience includes twelve years in retail and commercial Derek Netherton property.
Aged 63 Became a member of the Board in 1996.
He is also Chairman of BOARD COMMITTEES Greggs Plc and a non-executive director of St. Jamess Place Capital Audit Committee Plc.
Formerly a director of J. Henry Schroder Co. Limited and a nonD N D Netherton Committee Chairman executive director of Hiscox Plc.
Mr Netherton will be retiring from S D Barber the Board at the 2008 AGM.
N G Brookes C Cross Company Secretary J D S Dawson A J R McKinlay This committee reviews the Groups internal control, risk management and financial reporting.
Registered Office Remuneration Committee Desford Road, Enderby, J D S Dawson Committee Chairman Leicester, LE19 4AT S D Barber Registered in England, no.
4412362 R J O Barton N G Brookes Registrars C Cross Equiniti, D N D Netherton Aspect House, Spencer Road, This committee sets the remuneration of the Groups executive Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA directors.
Auditors Nomination Committee Ernst & Young LLP R J O Barton Committee Chairman S D Barber Merchant Bankers N G Brookes Goldman Sachs International C Cross J D S Dawson Stockbrokers D N D Netherton UBS Limited This committee considers the appointment of the Groups directors.
