Directors report The directors of Northern Foods plc Northern Foods present The acquisition of Ethnic Cuisine Limited, which is a supplier their Annual report and the audited financial statements of the of chilled ready meals to J Sainsbury plc and Brake Bros Ltd, Company for the 52 weeks ended 29 March 2008. will allow Northern Foods to consolidate its position in the ready meals market and widen its existing ready meals customer base.
Principal activity It also supports Northern Foods future growth plans by acquiring The principal activity of Northern Foods remains unchanged as additional ready meals manufacturing capacity from existing one of the UKs leading food producers, manufacturing a mix of market providers.
own label and branded products for retailers.
Reporting under three divisions: Chilled, Frozen and Bakery, the business operates On 10 January 2008, Northern Foods acquired the chilled soup in five businesses primarily producing chilled Ready Meals, manufacturing plant and fixed assets in Grimsby of Baxters Food chilled Sandwiches & Salads, Biscuits, Puddings and Pizza.
The acquisition will create a bespoke production site for Northern Foods growing soup business.
Performance review During the year under review, the Group continued to expand Further details are provided in the Performance review.
and develop its core activities.
A detailed review of the business of the Group and its activities, including a list of the principal Share capital risks and uncertainties facing the Group, is set out in the Details of the issued, ordinary share capital of the Company Performance review on pages 8 to 25.
The Performance review during the year are set out in note 30 to the Consolidated and Chief executives report include details of expected future financial statements.
During both the current and prior period, developments in the business of the Group.
the Company did not issue any shares.
Profit and dividends During the year under review the Company announced a share Pre-tax profit before restructuring items for continuing operations buy-back programme under the authority granted at the 2007 was 50.1m 2006 07: 40.0m and for discontinued operations Annual general meeting.
Profit for the period was 34.5m purchased between 19 December 2007 and 29 March 2008 2006 07: loss 22.5m.
for an average price of 87.4 pence per share and representing 1.25% of the Companys issued share capital.
The shares will be An interim dividend of 1.55 pence per share was paid to held in treasury.
At the forthcoming Annual general meeting, the shareholders on 31 January 2008 and the directors recommend Company will be seeking authority again to purchase its ordinary a final dividend of 2.95 pence per share, subject to shareholders shares.
The existing authority is for the purchase of up to 10% approval, which will be paid on 28 August 2008 to shareholders of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
on the register on 8 August 2008.
The total dividend in respect of the year amounts to 4.50 pence per share, an increase of During the year, the ESOT acquired 3,770,000 of the Companys 5.9% from last year.
In accordance with IFRS the final dividend ordinary shares for a total consideration of 4,092,269 in order to meet has not been accrued in the results to 29 March 2008. future obligations under the Companys Performance share plan and other outstanding awards under the Companys share plans.
The Northern Foods Employee share ownership trust the ESOT holds ordinary shares in the Company acquired in the market Information required by section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 in order to meet obligations under the Northern Foods plc The following provides the additional information required for Performance share plan or to provide similar employee benefits.
shareholders as a result of the implementation of the EU The trustees have waived their right to receive dividends in respect Takeovers Directive into UK Law.
of the ordinary shares held by the trust.
The Companys authorised share capital comprises ordinary Acquisitions shares of 25p each nominal value.
All of the Companys issued On 19 October 2007, Northern Foods acquired the production ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
assets, trade marks and licences for the Upper Crust, Tiffany and The rights attached to them, in addition to those conferred McDougalls frozen pastry brands.
The successful integration of this on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles business into our Portumna site will benefit the new financial year.
of Association the Articles a copy of which can be obtained on request from the company secretary.
On 21 November 2007, Northern Foods acquired the entire issued share capital of Ethnic Cuisine Limited.
At 31 March 2007, Ethnic Cuisine had gross assets of 13.9m and annual revenue of 24.0m.
Northern Foods plc | Directors report 33 Directors report continued There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or The executive directors service contracts are referred to in on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 42 to 53. the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights The executive directors service contracts are terminable by or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder the Company giving one years notice.
or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Other than service contracts, no director has a material Companies Act 2006 or ii where their holder is precluded from beneficial interest in any contract to which the Company, exercising voting rights by the Financial Services Authoritys or any of its subsidiaries, was a party during the year.
Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Details of the remuneration of individual directors, and their Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors interests in the share capital of the Company, are shown are set out in the Articles, and on page 37 of the Corporate in the Directors remuneration report on pages 42 to 53. governance report.
Any director appointed to the Board must Indemnity of directors and officers be elected by ordinary resolution at the next general meeting The Companys Articles include provisions for the indemnity following their appointment.
Changes to the Articles must be of directors, the company secretary and other officers of approved by shareholders passing a special resolution at a the Company to the extent permitted by law.
This permits the general meeting.
The directors powers are conferred on them Company to provide indemnities to cover defence costs in civil by UK legislation and by the Articles.
The director, employee or officer would still be liable to pay damages and to repay defence costs to the The directors authority to effect purchases of the Companys Company if his her defence was unsuccessful.
The Company shares on its behalf is conferred by resolution of shareholders has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director and renewed annually at the Companys Annual general meeting.
of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company or associated The Company is party to significant agreements, including companies.
These provisions are qualifying third party indemnity commercial contracts, financial and property agreements, provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and which contain certain termination and other rights for the remain in force at the date of approval of this report.
Copies counterparties upon a change of control of the Company.
of the deeds of indemnity are available to shareholders at the Should the counterparties choose to exercise their rights under Companys registered office.
the arrangements on a change of control, such arrangements would need to be renegotiated.
There are no agreements between Employees and employee involvement any Group company and any of its employees or any director of Northern Foods takes its responsibilities to its employees the Company which provide for compensation to be paid to the seriously and places great emphasis on optimising the contribution employee or director for termination of employment or for loss made by employees at all levels.
The Company recognises the of office as a consequence of a takeover of the Company, other value of its employees and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic than provisions that would apply on any termination of employment.
and responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable importance on communications with employees, which occur The trustees of the ESOT may vote or abstain from voting shares throughout the organisation on both a formal and informal basis.
held in the trust in any way they see fit.
The ESOT currently holds The Groups policy is to provide opportunities for active participation 1.37% of the issued share capital of the Company in trust for the and personal development, with the goals of motivating individuals benefit of employees of the Group.
and helping them to enhance their skills and maximise their potential.
Directors The Group is committed to: The following were directors of the Company during the year: providing equality of opportunity for all existing and potential S Barden employees.
It aims to treat all of its employees fairly in every R J S Bell aspect of employment: A J Hobson ensuring that employees have access to information A K Illsley that enables them to contribute and participate fully J K Maiden in the Groups achievement of its objectives: O G Ni-Chionna providing employees with clear and fair terms of employment D T Nish and competitive remuneration packages.
non-executive directors Directors biographical details are set out on page 32.
Under the Companys Articles, and the provisions of the Combined Code, directors are required to stand for re-election at the third anniversary of their appointment.
Under these provisions A J Hobson, O G Ni-Chionna and D T Nish are required to stand for re-election at this years Annual general meeting.
34 Directors report | Northern Foods plc The Company encourages involvement in the Companys Supplier payment policy performance in a variety of ways, including senior management It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made briefings and via the Companys intranet.
The philosophy in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between of encouraging employees to contribute to the performance the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms of the Group is reinforced by a number of incentive schemes.
and conditions have been met.
Suppliers were paid on average A new savings-related share option scheme was approved by 49 days from receipt of invoice, in line with the Companys standard shareholders at the Annual general meeting in 2007.
The first payment terms 2006 07: 44 days.
invitation, aimed at maximising employees involvement and interest in the success of the Company as a whole through Research and development share ownership, was successfully launched in November 2007.
Throughout the year the Company invested across the business in product development and research, further details are set out Further information about our employment practices and our in the Performance review.
These costs comprise all directly commitment to learning and development can be found in attributable costs necessary to create and produce new products the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 31. which are both brand new in design and those being modified.
Disabled persons Financial instruments Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant and policies, and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, in respect of financial instruments is set out under the heading every effort is made to ensure their employment with the Group Financing and treasury management, on page 24 of the continues and appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy Performance review.
of the Group that training, career development and promotion Auditors of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to In the case of each of the persons who are directors of that of other employees.
the Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant Substantial shareholdings audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 At the date of this report the Company had been notified of of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the following interests in 3% or more of the total voting rights each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she in the issued share capital of the Company: ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself % of total voting rights aware of any relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 and to establish that the Companys Standard Life Investments Limited 12.97% auditors are aware of that information.
GAM International Investment Management Limited 7.53% Odey Asset Management 7.45% This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance FIL Limited 5.95% with the provisions of section 234A of the Companies Act 1985.
Barclays plc and group companies 5.47% Witmer Asset Management, LLC 5.09% Deloitte & Touche LLP acted as auditors for the 52 weeks ended Legal & General Investments Limited 4.41% 29 March 2008 and have expressed their willingness to continue Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co LLC 4.01% in office as auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing Allianz SE 4.00% their re-appointment will be submitted at the Companys Annual general meeting.
Corporate social responsibility Northern Foods is committed to improving the operational Annual general meeting and environmental performance of the business.
Details of The notice convening the Companys Annual general meeting the commitments it makes in the community, environment, to be held at 12.00 noon on Monday 28 July 2008 at the marketplace and workplace are set out in the Corporate social Thorpe Park Hotel, 1150 Century Way, Leeds LS15 8ZB, is contained responsibility report on pages 26 to 31. in the circular sent to shareholders who requested a hard copy, together with this report and is also available on the Companys Charitable donations website at www.
During the year the Group donated 60,000 2006 07: 59,600 for charitable purposes.
It is Group policy not to make political By order of the Board donations and none were made during the financial year.
Carol Williams Company Secretary 27 May 2008 Northern Foods plc | Directors report 35
