Board of directors and company secretary 1 23 4 56 7 8 1 Anthony Hobson Chairman 5 David Nish Non-executive director Joined the Board in 2002 and became Chairman in 2005.
He is Joined the Board in 2005 as a non-executive director.
He is Group Chairman of The Sage Group plc, and a non-executive director Finance Director of Standard Life plc and was formerly Executive of HBOS plc and Glas Cymru.
He was formerly Group Finance Director, Infrastructure of Scottish Power plc, and prior to that he Director of Legal & General Group plc from 1987 to 2001.
He was Group Finance Director of Scottish Power plc, a position that chairs the nomination committee.
He was formerly a partner of Pricewaterhouse.
He chairs the audit committee.
2 Stefan Barden Chief Executive Joined the Board in 2006 and was appointed Chief Executive on 6 Ronnie Bell Non-executive director 5 February 2007.
He was formerly Managing Director of Heinz UK Joined the Board in 2005 as a non-executive director.
He was and Ireland from 2003 to 2005.
He has extensive experience of formerly President of Kraft Foods Europe until 2004.
He is Chairman the food industry having held roles with Iceland, McKinsey & of Milk Link and is a non-executive director of Ansell Limited and Company and Unilever.
He sits on the policy issues committee The Edrington Group Limited.
of the IGD and is a director of Improve, the UKs food and drink sector skills council.
7 Tony Illsley Non-executive director Joined the Board in 2006 as a non-executive director.
He was 3 Jez Maiden Chief Finance Officer formerly Chief Executive of Telewest plc until 2000, and has held Joined the Board in 2005.
He was formerly Group Finance roles with PepsiCo and Colgate Palmolive.
He is Chairman of Director of British Vita plc, a position he held from 2002.
Prior CacheLogic Ltd, holds a non-executive position with GCap Media to that, he was Director of Finance of Britannia Building Society plc, and is a trustee of the charity Whizz-Kidz.
and Group Finance Director of Hickson International plc.
He is a non-executive director of Yule Catto & Co plc and a Fellow of 8 Carol Williams Company Secretary the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
She is Head of Legal and was appointed Company Secretary in March 2005.
She is a director 4 Orna Ni-Chionna Senior independent non-executive director of C&I Group Services Limited.
Joined the Board in 2002 as a non-executive director.
She is the senior independent non-executive director of BUPA and is Non-executive director a member of Apax Partners UK Retail and Consumer Advisory Remuneration committee member Board and of Eden McCallums Advisory Board.
She is Chair of Audit committee member the Soil Association and was formerly a partner of McKinsey & Nomination committee member Company.
She is the senior independent director and chairs the remuneration committee.
32 Board of directors and company secretary | Northern Foods plc
