Northgate AR&A 2008 Back AW:x69614 Rhouse back p2 cg 23 7 08 16:28 Page 55 SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL TERMS OF THE EXECUTIVE TERMS OF THE EXECUTIVE PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Operation For the purposes of determining the improvement in ROCE, ROCE will be averaged over the three-year period and compared The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company the Committee will supervise the operation of to the ROCE in the financial year of the Company prior to the grant of the awards.
So, if the base year ROCE were to be the Executive Performance Share Plan Executive PSP.
10%, the average ROCE over the 3 year performance period would need to be 10.8% for full vesting of Part B to take place e. g. 10.4%, 10.8% and 11.2%.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive Director of the Company and its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the EPS and ROCE will be calculated on such normalised and consistent basis as the Committee selects.
Executive PSP at the discretion of the Committee.
It is currently anticipated that only the Companys most senior executives The Committee can set different performance conditions from those described above for future awards provided that, in the will be considered for participation in the Executive PSP.
reasonable opinion of the Committee, the new targets are not materially less challenging in the circumstances than those Grant of awards described above.
The Committee may grant awards to acquire Ordinary shares in the Company Shares within six weeks following the The Committee may also vary the performance conditions applying to existing awards without prior shareholder approval if an Companys announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may also grant awards within six weeks of shareholder event has occurred which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, approval of the Executive PSP or at any other time when the Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances which provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the justify the granting of awards.
It is intended that the first awards will be made shortly following the adoption of the Executive PSP.
original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
The Committee may grant awards as conditional shares, a nil or nominal cost option with a short exercise period or as Vesting of awards forfeitable shares.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards Awards will normally vest three years after grant to the extent that the applicable performance conditions see above have or to satisfy share-based awards in cash.
been satisfied and provided the participant is still employed in the Companys group.
An award may not be granted more than 10 years after shareholder approval of the Executive PSP.
Leaving employment No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not transferable, except on death.
As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment or be a Director within the Companys group.
However, if a participant ceases to be an employee or a Director because of his death, ill health, injury, disability, Individual limit retirement, redundancy, his employing company or the business for which he works being sold out of the Companys group An employee may not receive awards in any financial year over Shares having a market value in excess of 150% of his annual or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee good leaver reasons, then his award will normally vest when base salary in that financial year.
In exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment or retention, this limit is increased to 250% he leaves.
The extent to which an award will vest in these situations will depend upon two factors: i the extent to which the of an employees annual base salary.
performance conditions have been satisfied by reference to the date of cessation: and ii the pro-rating of the award to reflect The current intention is that the initial grant of awards to executive Directors, to be made shortly following the Annual General the reduced period of time between its grant and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award for Meeting, will be over Shares having a market value of 100% of salary.
time if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Performance conditions If a participant ceases to be an employee or Director in the Companys group for one of the good leaver reasons specified The vesting of awards will be subject to performance conditions, which will be set by the Committee.
above, the Committee can decide that his award will vest on the date when it would have vested if he had not ceased such employment or office, subject to: i the performance conditions measured at that time: and ii any pro-rating by reference to The performance conditions applying to the initial grants made to executive Directors under the Executive PSP will measure the time of cessation as described above.
the Companys earnings per share EPS and return on capital employed ROCE performance over a fixed three-year performance period being three consecutive financial years of the Company, commencing with the Companys 2008 09 Corporate events financial year.
In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation all awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time: and ii the pro-rating of the The vesting of two thirds of the shares under such initial awards Part A will be dependent on the EPS element of the awards to reflect the reduced period of time between their grant and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to performance conditions, with the following vesting schedule proposed: pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
EPS growth over the performance period Vesting % of Part A In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new RPI 3% p. a.
0% holding company unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on the basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
25% Participants rights RPI 8% p. a. or more 100% Awards of conditional shares and options will not confer any shareholder rights until the awards have vested or the options have been exercised and the participants have received their Shares.
Holders of awards of forfeitable Shares will have Between RPI 3% and RPI 8% p. a.
Pro-rata between 25% and 100% shareholder rights from when the awards are made except they may be required to waive their rights to receive dividends.
The vesting of the remaining third of the shares under such initial awards Part B will be dependent on the ROCE element The Committee may decide that participants will receive a payment in cash and or Shares on or shortly following the vesting of the performance conditions, with the following vesting schedule proposed: of their awards, of an amount equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on those Shares between the time when Improvement in average ROCE over the performance period Vesting % of Part B the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
Alternatively, participants may have their awards increased as if dividends were paid on the Shares subject to their award and then reinvested in further Shares.
5% 0% Rights attaching to Shares 5% 25% Any Shares allotted when an award vests or is exercised will rank equally with Shares then in issue except for rights arising 8% or more 100% by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Between 5% and 8% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the Shares, the Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of Shares subject to an award and or the exercise price payable if any.
Overall Plan limits The Executive PSP may operate over new issue Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
82 83 NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT& ACCOUNTS 2008
