Our mission To be the national leader in the provision of sustainable water and waste water services.
NWG at a glance Northumbrian Water Group plc Northumbrian Water Group plc NWG owns a number of companies which, together with NWG, form the Group.
The largest of these companies, Northumbrian Water Limited NWL, is one of the ten regulated water and sewerage businesses in England and Wales.
The emphasis given to NWL, throughout this report, reflects its importance to the overall performance of the Group.
Northumbrian Water Limited NWL operates in the north east of England, where it trades as Northumbrian Water, and in the south east of England, where it trades as Essex & Suffolk Water.
Northumbrian Water currently provides water and sewerage services to 2.6 million people and Essex & Suffolk Water provides water services to 1.8 million people.
Water and waste water contracts NWG controls a number of special purpose companies which have water and waste water contracts in Scotland, Ireland and Gibraltar.
Other SA Agrer NV Agrer carries out project work in developing countries through a number of overseas aid funded agencies.
Contents This annual report has been printed using vegetable 02 Chairmans statement 40 Corporate governance report 62 Consolidated cash flow statement based inks on Symbol Freelife Satin and Evolution 04 Directors report and business review 46 Directors remuneration report 63 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Bright paper stock.
Symbol Freelife Satin is an 06 Business strategy 56 Statement of directors responsibilities in 97 Statement of directors responsibilities  ECF elemental chlorine free 08 Operating environment relation to the Group financial statements in relation to the parent Company woodfree paper and board with a high content of 14 Financial performance 57 Report of the Auditors on the Group financial statements selected pre-consumer recycled material.
This product 20 Operational performance financial statements 98 Report of the Auditors on the Company is completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
Evolution 32 Risks and resources 59 Consolidated income statement financial statements Bright is manufactured with 50% pulp and 50% virgin 36 Appendix to the directors report and 60 Consolidated statement of recognised 100 Company balance sheet pulp, with FSC and ISO14001 certification.
business review income and expense 101 Notes to the Company financial statements 38 Board directors biographies 61 Consolidated balance sheet 105 Shareholder information
