Section 4 Our impact on society 35 Our impact on society Progress and plans Target 2008 Progress Plan 2009 Sustainable business practice Expand our individual company Ongoing.
Over 30 Green Teams now in Continue to expand our network environmental committees into our place in Pearson facilities in the UK, the of environmental teams across US and other businesses, directly US, Canada, Australia and India.
involving many more of our people.
Visits carried out in Australia, Hold training refresher seminars with and labour standards auditing China, India, Japan, Mexico and in key Pearson production departments programme, revisiting our printers several European countries, including on labour standards and in Asia, North America and parts Germany, Italy, Spain and Slovakia.
Continue the process of becoming Ongoing.
Highlights include: Continue the process of becoming a a climate neutral company with a climate neutral company with a view Reduced energy usage from a global view to completing that process to completing that process globally investment programme in lighting globally by the end of 2009. by the end of 2009, including: upgrades and server virtualisation: Partnered The Nature Conservancy on Extend Planet Pearson, a new website its Plant a Billion Trees programme.
designed by Pearson staff in the US, 1.5 million planted to date: to be available internationally: Established funds in the UK and the US Continue programme to ensure our key to stimulate innovative carbon saving buildings are energy efficient: programmes: Implemented a new policy in the UK to FT newspaper to assess feasibility of place a carbon cap on vehicle types setting up its own offset programme: and in the US introduced first hybrid Purchase green energy where vehicles into our car fleet.
Audit the social and environmental Achieved.
Harcourt and other Continue to work with industry policies and impact of companies businesses now integrated into partners to establish a methodology to acquired in 2007 and set out plans Pearson framework for reporting assess the carbon footprint of a book.
to integrate them into Pearsons on labour standards and framework for corporate environmental matters.
Maintain our position in the key Achieved.
Pearson retained its Maintain our position in the key indices of social responsibility.
position as Global Leader for the indices of social responsibility.
Media Sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and maintained its Platinum rating in the Business in the Community Responsibility Index.
For a more in-depth look at our CR and sustainability activity in 2008, please go to Live and Learn: Our Impact on Society 2008 report at www.
com community csr report2008 36 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Our impact on society continued Target 2008 Progress Plan 2009 Valuing our people Accelerate our commitment to Achieved.
We helped 67 people Focus our international moves to build a truly international business through NewDirections in 2007 and develop our rising stars and create by helping more of our people increased that to 102 in 2008. assignments that even more closely experience a new country on a match our corporate priorities.
short-term assignment, with our developing markets as a priority.
Show evidence of progress in Achieved.
In the UK, the percentage of Show evidence of progress in retention retention of people with diverse staff from minority backgrounds rose to of people with diverse backgrounds for backgrounds for both entry level over 14% in 2008, against 9% in 2003. both entry level and management and management positions.
11% of Pearson UK management is from positions by tracking the success of a minority group, of which 4% are in women, people from minority ethnic senior management.
Since 2005, the backgrounds and those with a minority representation in the US disability within Pearson.
workforce has risen from 15.7% to Develop more great programmes 19.9% in 2008.
Minority ethnic and relationships to attract talented managers make up 12% of the Pearson people from the above groups into US management team, up 2% from our business.
2005, with senior management representation rising by 1% to 5% in the same time frame.
The turnover of staff from minority ethnic backgrounds in the global talent pool declined dramatically from 6.1% in 2005 to 5.4% in 2006, down to 1.2% in 2007.
Increase our capacity to combine training opportunities for our staff with opportunities to partner with schools, colleges and not-for-profits.
Commitment to fairness and quality Launch the Pearson International Achieved.
The inaugural Summit, Continue and expand the Summit to Education Summit, bringing developed in conjunction with the US include a focus on teacher quality and together global education leaders Council of Chief State School Officers, training, one of the key learnings of the to identify and share exemplary was held in Singapore.
It convened Singapore convening educational practices.
delegates from 13 countries and six continents to explore first hand the educational and cultural drivers that consistently help Singapore students to score at the top of international surveys.
Use the Pearson Foundation Achieved.
Launched the Pearson Extend these programmes to involve Development Fund to work with our Professional Development Program for education leaders in a cross-country businesses in Africa, India and Asia African educators in Kenya, Nigeria, dialogue addressing key education to provide training and support for South Africa, Tanzania and Zambia.
local teachers in developing Provided intensive training and support communities.
for local educators, focusing specifically on early childhood development, literacy, numeracy and on teacher and student acquisition of key 21st century skills.
com community csr report2008 Section 4 Our impact on society 37 Target 2008 Progress Plan 2009 Supporting active citizenship Build on the success of our ongoing Achieved.
Booktime: 750,000 book Increase the number of children Booktime and Read for the Record packs donated to children in around reached through these campaigns, campaigns to showcase the 20,000 schools across the UK, up from expanding Booktime once again and importance of early reading for 700,000 book packs in around 17,000 rolling out Jumpstarts Read for the young people everywhere.
Read for the Record: Pearson people around the world again helped set a new world record for the largest shared reading experience for Jumpstarts 2008 campaign.
Shared more than 200,000 books and raised nearly $2m for Jumpstarts year-round operations, helping to draw national attention to the US early education crisis.
Increase the number of interventions we make to facilitate constructive debate on key contemporary issues.
