22 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Penguin CER Underlying Strong publishing in all markets: top awards in the US, millions 2008 2007 growth growth Australia, Canada and India Sales 903 846 0% 3% Highlights in 2008 include: Adjusted In the US, Penguin had a number one New York Times operating profit 93 74 4% 4% bestseller for 49 weeks of the year, including Patricia Cornwells Scarpetta, Eckhart Tolles A New Earth and Overview Greg Mortensons Three Cups of Tea.
Penguin is one of the most famous brands in book Penguin authors won the major industry awards.
Junot publishing, known around the world for the quality of Daz won The Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the National its publishing and its consistent record of innovation.
Book Critics Circle Award for Fiction for The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, and Barton Gellman Over the past five years, Penguins sales have increased won the Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting.
at an average rate of 4% and profits at 14% the result of a plan to generate significant and consistent margin In the UK, Penguin had 67 top ten bestsellers versus 52 improvement.
That plan had four major parts: in 2007, according to BookScan.
The #1 bestseller Devil May Care, the new James Bond novel by Sebastian 1.
Investing consistently and in a disciplined way in Faulks, was the fastest-selling hardback fiction title in author and product development: Penguin UKs history and the third-bestselling in the UK 2.
Developing a globally co-ordinated publishing in 2008.
Other bestsellers included This Charming Man organisation, benefiting from worldwide scale and rapid by Marian Keyes, The Beach House by Jane Green and rates of growth in literacy, education and demand for Jamies Ministry of Food by Jamie Oliver.
Penguin UK also books in emerging markets: published many more paperback originals, including Judith OReillys A Wife in the North.
Innovating with digital technologies to provide new reading experiences, new ways to market and sell books, In Australia, Penguin was named Publisher of the Year at and more efficient means of production, storage and the Australian Book Industry Awards and won four of the distribution of content: seven awards for individual books, and grew sales ahead of its markets with bestsellers including titles 4.
Becoming a more efficient organisation, focusing on from Australian authors Bryce Courtenay and Tim Winton margin progression, working capital discipline and cash alongside international authors Marian Keyes and generation.
In 2008, those initiatives helped Penguin reach its target In Canada, Penguin was named Publisher of the Year by of double digit margins, even in tough conditions for the Canadian Booksellers Association and won the 2008 book publishers and booksellers and after additional Scotiabank Giller Award for Through Black Spruce by bad debt provisions.
Headline growth includes the Joseph Boyden.
Bestsellers included titles by John impact of increased transactional foreign exchange Ralston Saul, Niall Ferguson, Patricia Cornwell and gains.
Looking ahead, Penguins strategy involves further Clive Cussler.
investment in publishing in both established and In India, Penguin is the largest English Language trade emerging markets, and in continued digital innovation, publisher and continued its strong publishing record as it seeks to build on its strong competitive position and with authors such as Shobhaa fide, Amitav Ghosh and accelerate sales growth.
It also won the major English language prizes in Indias national book awards.
Section 3 Our performance 23 To capitalise on Penguins global presence and growth Penguin also launched www.
co. uk tasters, opportunities in international markets, Penguin which allows readers to download and sample the first launched the Hamish Hamilton literary fiction imprint in chapters of all Penguins latest novels for free.
Australia and the Allen Lane non-fiction imprint in India.
co. uk tasters In 2009, Penguin will publish major new books including titles by David Plouffe, Barack Obamas campaign Penguin key performance measures manager: Nick Hornby: Sue Grafton: Clive Cussler: Greg Mortenson: LeBron James: Jamie Oliver, Eoin Colfer with his new addition to Douglas Adamss Hitchhikers series : and David Benedictus with the first authorised Winnie the Pooh sequel.
Leading in digital innovation Highlights in 2008 include: Penguins eBook publishing and sales expanded significantly in 2008, with nearly five-fold growth in eBook sales in the US.
Penguin worldwide now has about 8,500 eBook titles available, more than double the number available in 2007.
Penguin US launched an Enriched eBook Classics series with Jane Austens Pride and Prejudice, which debuted in the top 10 on the Amazon Kindle bestseller list.
The series is now sold via online stores on both Amazon.
Traffic for all Penguins websites increased 37% to 17 million unique users.
Penguin US was the first publisher to create an iPhone application for optimal viewing of the Penguin website on mobile devices.
Penguin in partnership with match.
com launched a UK dating website which received more than 120,000 visits and 1,300 registrations in the first five weeks alone.
co. uk Penguin had great success at the New Media Age Effectiveness Awards for www.
com, an online forum where readers blog about many of the best books ever written.
