Section 4 Our impact on society 33 Weve also identified at least one ready-now and one MyLabs our flagship online assessment and homework ready-soon successor for each of the top roles across tool allows students to practice their skills and move Pearson: although we may sometimes choose to look forward at their own pace.
MyLabs started out in externally to get fresh eyes on an old problem or import mathematics but are now available in a range of subjects specific skills, we know we always have people to step and in over 65 countries worldwide.
In 2008, MyLabs into the key Pearson roles if required.
were used by more than 4.3 million students globally, with student registrations 48% higher than in 2007.
Commitment to fairness and quality The FT Group: The Financial Times newspaper and Our products themselves have a fundamental and FT. com continue to provide high quality news and significant impact on society.
Our role as a publisher analysis of global business finance and economics with the ability to reach large audiences and partner in which are in strong demand in these exceptional the education process is a privileged one that brings financial times.
Weve seen record numbers of people special responsibilities.
We want to ensure that the registering on FT. com, looking for our experts people who buy our books, newspapers and services explanations and opinions in this turbulent climate.
We have multiple ways to access the best education and relaunched FT. com in 2008, giving our users greater information we can provide, and we work hard to make access than ever to our journalists through interactive that happen.
Pearson Education has helped forums, video interviews and regular experts video slots.
revolutionise teaching and learning for millions of Weve also launched an exclusive, internationally students and educators: many of Penguins awardavailable Facebook application to enable graduates and winning authors and imprints are actively involved in undergraduates to receive free subscriptions to FT. com raising awareness of social, commercial and green and we are the first newspaper to offer a free issues: and the FTs publications have spent decades subscription in this way.
At the Newspaper Awards 2008, building their reputation for responsible and accurate The Financial Times won Newspaper of the Year 2008, journalism.
We insist on transparency in how we conduct while How To Spend It won the award for National our business and we have our own code of business Colour Supplement of the Year, for the seventh conduct, whistle blowing and standards policies.
adhere to external codes like those upheld by the Press The Penguin Group: We adhere to the highest possible Complaints Commission, and our editors and journalists standards of publishing around the world, taking care to have editorial independence within these frameworks.
protect the efforts of our authors and our copyright and We partner with independent research agencies to trademarks.
Many of our authors, fiction and non-fiction, measure the impact of our learning products and choose to raise awareness of regional and global crises we ask our customers from seven year olds to and events, with a bevy of 2008 titles addressing the septuagenarians for their input to make our contemporary issues of climate change, such as threeoutput better.
time Pulitzer prize-winning author Thomas L. Friedmans Hot, Flat and Crowded, and the lead up to the economic Highlights include: events that have rocked us all, such as Panic!
The Story Pearson Education: We do our research to find out how of Modern Financial Insanity, from the international students learn best, which systems are most practical bestselling author and ex-trader Michael Lewis.
Our for educators and parents, and what formats will be the inroads into the world of digital print continue to move most user-friendly to our broad range of customers.
forward, with our eBook line of titles supplying the ideal In the UK, ResultsPlus enables teachers to compare their mobile format for travelling readers.
Penguin Group USA school or college results on Edexcel tests against the launched Penguin 2.0 in December 2008, a collection of national average, compare results by type of centre, sort innovative services allowing readers to customise and results by teaching group or gender and make detailed access Penguin content in new ways online.
Students can get a detailed breakdown of their performance online, with question by question analysis and a Gradeometor showing graphically how close they are to the grade boundary.
