06 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Our strategy Marjorie Scardino, chief executive Education in the broadest sense of the word Genius, the inventor of the electric light bulb once said, is one per cent inspiration and If youve followed this company for the past decade, you know that weve set out to become the worlds ninety-nine per cent perspiration.
By that, we mean that our objective is to help people make progress in their Were keeping that in mind as we try to steer lives through more knowledge to help them to live Pearson through the dark of this complicated and learn.
We think our strategy is The part of Pearson that is our formal education strong inspiration though genius is certainly business serving teachers and students through not a word wed use to describe it.
But we schools and colleges in more than 60 countries now know that its really the implementation of it makes up a significant majority of our sales, earnings, capital and people.
But our goals as an education that matters.
company are much broader than that.
Our strategy wouldnt light up anything without We aim to be an education company that serves the the dedication and perspiration of the 34,000 citizens of a brain-based economy whatever their talented people who work here.
The strategys circumstances old or young, at home or at school or at work, in any pursuit, anywhere.
Weve reached more success is up to them and they are not widely with our education strategy for several reasons: disappointing us.
Education institutions themselves are more complex than they used to be.
Their success depends on many Our strategy has four parts: more things.
Some of those things are not so new trained teachers, engaging materials, efficient Long-term organic investment in content administration, interested parents.
Some are very new 1 technology that powers it all: assessments and data and analysis to teach each child in his own way: bridges to Digital and services businesses the next stage of learning and on to the world of work.
2 Our strategy is not only to supply many of those parts, International expansion but also to make them all work together and work for 3 everyone involved.
The one-dimensional approach to education textbooks only or a test only is neither a Firepower to invest through efficiency 4 good way to educate nor a good business for us now.
People dont just learn in school any more.
They never really did, but education was structured as if they did.
That learning is sometimes lost because its not connected to academic achievement or work.
But they still learn about their surroundings and the wider world: how to do a better job: how to be a better citizen: how to help others.
They demand education that helps them get a leg up in life, and then education that helps them climb further.
And often that education comes partly outside their degree or their certification or their job.
Section 2 Our strategy 07 Thats why our strategy extends to the kind of education We have to add something that makes it more valuable that the FT has provided to its readers on the global than those alternatives.
financial crisis: or the kind of education that the Penguin To make our content more useful and enticing, we often Classics have given to generations of readers.
We now make about a third of our kind of learning the educator John Dewey might have had annual sales from technology-based products and in mind when he said: Education is not preparation for services, and these are many of our fastest-growing life: education is life itself.
Digital services of one kind or another are fundamental to every part of Pearson today.
At the FT A full-throated commitment Group, digital services now make up two-thirds of our Were as sure as we can be that this broad education sales up from a little over one quarter just eight market weve chosen to work in will be a good, long-term years ago.
This has been also especially important growth industry.
We believe that because the desire for learning, for selfBut as the educational rules have kept on changing, improvement, for the knowledge and skills to achieve ways of doing the job and judging success are changing our dreams and goals in life, is a fairly universal human too.
Were good at creating, selling and delivering demand.
education tools a textbook, a test, a software application, a long-term contract.
And we can do a We believe it also because most governments lot with the automation technology can offer.
understand that the education of their people is what makes their country competitive, and most people But our customers increasingly demand something more understand that education breeds economic and services of a wider kind.
Selling things to help political self-determination.
education is no longer the best approach.
We have to do whats required to make each school and each student Americas new President often said during his campaign successful.
They want us to solve their problems.
that his country needed a full-throated commitment to public education.
Britains Prime Minister returned from International markets.
Though we make about 60% of a trip to China and India last year and said: A generation our sales in the US, our brands, content and technology ago a British prime minister had to worry about the travel well.
All parts of Pearson operate in most global arms race.
Today a British prime minister has developed markets and are also investing in selected to worry about the global skills race.
emerging markets, where the demand for information and education is growing particularly fast.
Our Changing Pearson international meaning outside North America education business, for example, has almost doubled Being in good markets is crucial to our business strategy.
its sales over the past five years.
Five years ago, it made But its not enough.
To meet our goals, we have to build 8% of Pearsons profits: today its approaching 20%.
something unique into each one of our businesses.
We have to have a distinctive way of doing things or do Efficiency.
The businesses of Pearson have a lot in distinctive things that set us apart.
common, in costs, assets, and activities.
Pooling those makes the company stronger and more efficient.
It also Each of our businesses takes a slightly different allows our businesses to learn from each other and to approach to distinguishing themselves, but there are collaborate to save money.
strong common elements across Pearson: On that basis, weve invested for efficiency through Content.
An uncomfortable word, and not nearly poetic savings in our individual businesses and through a enough to describe the way we teach and inform and tell strong centralised operations structure.
Were integrated stories: but it is descriptive.
All around the company we in areas where our businesses share the same needs invest steadily in unique publishing of stories, lessons, purchasing, warehousing, distribution, facilities and real information and we keep replenishing it.
estate, project management, people resources, finance Technology and services.
We often think that all our and accounting, transactions.
content stands alone and is beautiful and perfectly Over the past five years weve increased our operating formed.
But we realized some time ago that content profit margins from 10.6% to 15.8% and reduced our itself isnt enough in a world where you can pluck it average working capital as a percentage of sales from off the web for free or join with your friends to make 29.4% to 26.1%, freeing up cash for further investment.
08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Our strategy continued Marjorie Scardino, chief executive Measuring up One of the most important measures of our strategy is, of course, our financial performance.
Here, our goal is to produce hardy, consistent growth in three key financial measures adjusted earnings per share, cash flow and return on invested capital.
We believe those are, in concert, good indicators that were building the longterm value of Pearson.
So those measures or others that contribute to them, such as operating margins and working capital efficiency form the basis of our annual budgets and plans, and the basis for bonuses and longterm incentives.
Our performance on these measures was strong again in 2008, as youll read elsewhere in this report, and were very proud of that.
But since our strategy is about longterm performance, not just last year, you need to look back a little further to see the trends.
Over the last five years: weve more than doubled our adjusted earnings per share, from 27.5p in 2004 to 57.7p in 2008, an annual growth rate of 20.4%: weve almost doubled our operating cash flow from 418m to 796m: weve increased our return on invested capital from 6.3% to 9.2%, a return above our cost of capital.
Theres one other measure thats especially important to us, too.
Thats the cash we return to shareholders each year through our dividend.
The dividend has grown by an average of 6% each year over the last 10 years, and our 2008 rise of 7 % will mean that Pearson has increased its dividend above the rate of inflation for every one of the past 12 years.
Section 2 Our strategy 09 The future Bookstores were caught up in the same consumer spending gloom that hovered over Main Streets around That financial record indicates that our strategy is the world.
But a strategy is really good only if its flexible enough to adapt to changes in the battle.
This year, were We have to expect those kinds of pressures and possibly going to face a tough test: while our objectives and our others to continue in 2009.
Thats why were being plans havent changed, the world were travelling in is cautious.
Weve planned for tough economic times now fundamentally different.
Weve watched the global and were making tough choices to stay fit for them.
financial system lurch from crisis to near-catastrophe, and some reasons to be confident and the aftershocks are beginning to make large cracks But and this is a very big but we do have real in the real economy, that place where most of us live grounds for confidence, too.
com bust and the advertising As we wade out into 2009, were sloshing through events and technology recession that accompanied it are still that were unimaginable a year ago and are hard to fresh in our minds.
Many of us still remember the pain predict even now.
Governments and regulators have some of our businesses went through in 20012003. become the centre of our attention, taking bold steps to We all learned some things from that period about stabilize banks, shore up whole industries, stimulate our vulnerabilities and about acting sooner spending and investment and restore confidence and more radically.
So over the past few years, weve worked hard to make In that context, heres how I see Pearsons prospects Pearson more reliable.
We arent immune to ructions in now, and how well approach things through this year.
the economy, but were very different today than we were Its not simple.
The truth is, in all my time at Pearson Ive eight years ago.
Today were more dependent on never been so torn between feeling confident and feeling repeating subscription or contract revenues and less cautious.
And Ive never found our outlook for the dependent on cyclical advertising sales: stronger in coming year as hard to predict as I do today.
faster-growing digital and services markets: much Some reasons to be cautious more geographically diverse.
These changes give To state the blindingly obvious, a severe and worldwide us confidence.
You can see the effects of the contraction pretty much everywhere you And we have other reasons to be confident, too: look: in the depressed prices of assets such as property, Were in a strong financial position having commodities and shares: in the sorry state of industries unfashionably resisted the idea that we should take as diverse as financial services, automobiles and retail: on a lot of cheap debt during the credit bubble.
in the wobbly financial state of corporations and governments: in the conservative spending decisions Were benefiting from the weakness of the UK pound against of companies, public bodies and individuals: in the the US dollar, primarily because we make most of our sales confusion over what to do about all this by just and profits in dollars but report our results in pounds.
Were now a global rather than a largely US or UK In spite of those events, 2008 was another good year for company, so our geographic diversity gives us wider Pearson.
We distinguished ourselves through the quality markets and less exposure to two challenged economies.
of our publishing, the expansion of our service Were in a very strong position relative to our competitors, businesses, and our commitment to being the innovator in our industries.
We also grew and made good profits.
in industries that face both cyclical challenges and structural change.
But we knew as last year went on that the depressive forces in the economy would inevitably affect us too in We make real products and essential services that meet some ways at some point.
two genuine consumer needs: the need to understand whats happening in this fast-moving and interMost US states, seeing their own incomes from corporate connected world and the need to be educated and and personal taxes dwindle, had to tighten their girths re-educated to make the most of its opportunities.
and rein back their spending on education.
Financial institutions, normally important advertisers in the Financial Times, didnt have much to shout about or much spare cash to shout with.
10 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Our strategy continued Marjorie Scardino, chief executive But this year, more than ever, we cant afford to be Though that effort is about 34,000 individuals, we have complacent or think that things will continue to go our one in particular to thank for it.
His name is David Bell, way.
Weve planned that the tough market conditions we our director for people, and he is stepping down from our saw in the closing months of 2008 will last for all of Board at our annual meeting and retiring from Pearson at 2009.
And were continuing to prepare for the possibility the end of this year.
that our customers and our markets may very well feel David has dedicated his entire, 39-year working life to us worse before they begin to feel better.
first as a journalist at the Oxford Mail, which Pearson owned, and then at the Financial Times: then as the FTs Here are the few principles that are guiding our advertising director, marketing director, chief executive decisions this year: and finally since 1996 chairman.
Weve tried to act pre-emptively to get ourselves in a eleven years, hes been our director for people.
strong position to weather the economic storm.
That has David has played an enormous role in defining the included the last few years work, and a raft of recent company that Pearson aspires to be today: commercially measures to tighten our costs across the board.
successful, intellectually courageous, socially We have, just as one example, taken a decision to award responsible.
Hes passionate about the craft of a 2009 pay increase to only those people who are publishing and the social function of business.
Over the currently earning less than $50,000 or 30,000 next few months, Im sure hordes of people inside and a year.
That decision about salaries, as well as other outside Pearson will want to thank David for the role hes efficiencies, will help keep as many Pearson people played in their careers, because he has helped many of as possible working, earning and contributing to us along the way.
We will continue to develop and take good care of both 2.
Well continue to invest in our businesses, no matter the talent in our company and the idea that Pearson is a special place to work.
Each one of them has been remarkably successful in the past few years This is a complicated and challenging time, and caution largely as a result of sustained and targeted investment and confidence are finely balanced.
The economic and in high quality content, digital innovation and business environment is worse than many of us have international expansion.
But people will still go to school, Well continue to challenge our investment plans, and still need information about markets, still want to escape well continue to expect strong returns from them.
But from their present through other peoples stories.
Those our general attitude is that we are in our businesses for are the things we do to help people make the most of the long term and we wont let any short-term disruption their lives.
Our company is strong and prosperous, and our task is to make absolutely sure it stays that way.
Were tackling this uncertain world as one company.
This downturn will likely have a sharp impact on some confident as I can be that the inspiration of a sound strategy, together with the talent and perspiration of parts of Pearson, while others will be more impervious, even contrary, to the pressure.
So well use our strength 34,000 people, will enable us and our shareholders to emerge even stronger from this very difficult time.
in some places to shore up momentary weakness in others.
The important point is that all the people in Pearson are trying to pull in the same direction.
