02 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 The business Pearson is an international media and education company with businesses in education, business information and consumer publishing.
We are 34,000 people in more than 60 countries, helping children and adults to learn, business people to make informed decisions and readers of all ages to wind down or wise up with a good book.
Our businesses fuel the growing demand for high quality information in the global knowledge economy, and share a common purpose: to help our customers live and learn.
Pearson consists of three major worldwide businesses: Education FT Group Penguin Pearson is the worlds leading education The FT Group provides business and Penguin publishes over 4,000 fiction and company, providing educational materials, financial news, data, comment and non-fiction books each year for readers of technologies, assessments and related analysis, in print and online, to the all ages.
services to teachers and students of international business community.
Our extensive range of backlist and all ages.
FT Publishing includes: the globallyfrontlist titles includes top literary prize Though we generate approximately 60% focused Financial Times newspaper and winners, classics, reference volumes and of our sales in North America, we operate FT. com website: a range of specialist childrens titles.
We publish financial magazines and online services: We rank in the top three consumer across the curriculum under a range of and Mergermarket, which provides publishers, based on sales in all major respected imprints including Scott proprietary forward-looking insights English speaking and related markets, Foresman, Prentice Hall, Addison-Wesley, and intelligence to businesses and including the US, the UK, Australia, Allyn and Bacon, Benjamin Cummings financial institutions.
Canada, South Africa and India.
Interactive Data is Pearsons 62%-owned Penguin is well known for its iconic We are also a leading provider of provider of specialist financial data to Penguin brand but we also publish under electronic learning programmes and of financial institutions and retail investors, many other imprints including Hamish test development, processing and scoring which is listed on the New York Stock Hamilton, Putnam, Berkley, Dorling services to educational institutions, Exchange NYSE:IDC.
corporations and professional bodies The FT Group also has a 50% ownership around the world.
stake in both The Economist Group and FTSE International.
