Section 5 Governance 39 Board governance Directors Senior independent director Terry Burns was appointed as our senior independent The present members of the board, together with their director in 2004.
His role includes being available to biographical details, are shown on page 38.
Details of shareholders if they should have concerns that have not directors remuneration, interests and dealings in been addressed through the normal channels, and ordinary shares and options of the company are attending meetings with shareholders in order to gain a contained in the report on directors remuneration balanced understanding of any concerns that they might on pages 50 to 72. have.
The senior independent director also meets with This year, and in future years, in accordance with good the non-executive directors at least once a year in order corporate governance, the board has resolved that all to appraise the performance of the chairman, and would directors should offer themselves for re-election on an be expected to chair the nomination committee in the annual basis at the companys annual general meeting event that it was considering succession to the role of AGM.
Accordingly, all of the directors will offer chairman of the board.
themselves for re-election, or reappointment in the case Independence of directors of directors who were appointed since the last meeting, The assessment of Terry Burns independence was given at the forthcoming AGM on 1 May 2009. particular consideration by the board as he has now Details of directors service contracts can be found on served on the board for more than nine years.
The board believes that due to his strength of character, No director was materially interested in any contract experience and knowledge, Terry continues to be highly of significance to the companys business.
He provides objective and rigorous challenges to, and engages in Corporate governance constructive debate with, the board and the committees on which he sits.
Terry also brings a wealth of useful and Introduction relevant experience both in his position as a nonA detailed account of how we comply with the provisions executive director and as the senior independent of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the director.
Code can be found on our website at www.
htm Accordingly, the chairman has asked Terry to remain on the board.
The board believes that it is in the The board believes that we are in full compliance with shareholders best interests for Terry Burns to be rethe Code since our personnel committee returned to its elected as an independent non-executive director.
full complement of independent non-executive directors with Ken Hydons appointment on 3 October 2008.
The board is aware that Patrick Cescau was appointed as a non-executive director of Tesco plc on 1 February 2009 Composition of the board and that Ken Hydon was at the same time, and remains, The board consists of the chairman, Glen Moreno, a non-executive director of Tesco plc.
The board believes six executive directors including the chief executive, that these directorships should not affect either Patrick Marjorie Scardino, and six independent non-executive Cescau or Ken Hydons status as independent nondirectors.
David Bell, our director for people, will be executive directors of Pearson.
stepping down at the forthcoming AGM.
The board will then consist of a majority of independent non-executive Conflicts of interest directors.
No director has any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the board in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
40 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Board governance continued Board meetings The board meets six times a year and at other times as appropriate.
The following table sets out the attendance of our directors at the board and committee meetings during 2008: Audit Personnel Nomination Board committee committee committee meetings meetings meetings meetings maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 4 maximum 3 Chairman Glen Moreno 6 6 4 4 3 3 Executive directors Marjorie Scardino 6 6 3 3 David Bell 6 6 Will Ethridge 4 4 Rona Fairhead 6 6 Robin Freestone 6 6 John Makinson 6 6 Non-executive directors David Arculus 6 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 Terry Burns 6 6 4 4 3 3 Patrick Cescau 6 6 4 4 3 3 Susan Fuhrman 6 6 4 4 3 3 Ken Hydon 6 6 4 4 1 1 3 3 CK Prahalad 3 4 1 1 Appointed to the board on 1 May 2008.
Appointed to the personnel committee on 3 October 2008.
Appointed to the nomination committee on 3 October 2008.
The role and business of the board The board receives timely, regular and necessary The formal matters reserved for the boards decision and financial, management and other information to fulfil its approval include: duties.
Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense in the performance of the companys strategy and review of performance their duties as directors.
All directors have access to the against it: advice and services of the company secretary.
major changes to the companys corporate structure: In addition to these formal roles, we endeavour to give approval of all shareholder documents: the non-executive directors access to the senior acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects managers of the business via involvement at both formal above certain thresholds: and informal meetings.
In this way we hope that the all guarantees over 10m: experience and expertise of the non-executive directors can be utilised for the benefit of the company.
At the treasury policies: same time, this practice enables the non-executive the interim and final dividends and the financial directors to develop an understanding of the abilities statements: of senior management which will help them judge the borrowing powers: companys prospects and plans for succession.
ensuring adequate succession planning for the board Board evaluation and senior management: As signposted last year, in early 2008 the chairman appointments to the board: and asked each of the directors to complete an evaluation the appointment and removal of the company secretary.
questionnaire on the board and each of its committees.
Following the responses to this questionnaire, the chairman reported his findings to the board at the April board meeting.
Section 5 Governance 41 In early 2009 the chairman will again ask the directors to Dialogue with institutional shareholders complete an evaluation questionnaire which this time There is an extensive programme for the chairman, CEO, will be targeted specifically around issues of strategy executive directors and senior managers to meet with and risk management.
Responses to this questionnaire institutional shareholders.
The non-executive directors and from face-to-face meetings with the chairman will be meet informally with shareholders both before and after gathered and communicated to the board at a the AGM, and respond to shareholder queries and forthcoming meeting.
The chairman and senior independent director make themselves available to meet any significant Each of the board committees were also asked to shareholder as required.
Makinson Cowell and the complete evaluation questionnaires.
companys investor relations department report to the During the course of the year the executive directors were board on the results of an extensive survey on major evaluated by the chief executive on their performance shareholders views.
against personal objectives under the companys Furthermore, reports on changes in shareholder standard appraisal mechanism.
The chairman leads the positions and views are given to the directors at every assessment of the chief executive and the senior board meeting.
independent director conducts a review of the chairmans performance.
Board committees Directors training The board has established three committees: the audit Directors receive a significant bespoke induction committee, the personnel committee and the programme and a range of information about the nomination committee.
Chairmen and members of these company when they join the board.
committees are appointed by the board on the recommendation where appropriate of the nomination This includes background information on Pearson and committee and in consultation with each requisite details of board procedures, directors responsibilities committee chairman.
and various governance-related issues, including procedures for dealing in Pearson shares and their legal i Audit committee obligations as directors.
The induction also includes a Ken Hydon Audit committee chairman series of meetings with members of the board, presentations regarding the business from senior Members executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor relations Ken Hydon, David Arculus, Patrick Cescau and programme.
We supplement the existing directors Susan Fuhrman training programme through continuing presentations about the companys operations at board meetings and All of the audit committee members are independent by encouraging the directors to visit operating non-executive directors and have financial and or companies and local management.
Externally run related business experience due to the senior positions courses are also made available should directors wish to they hold or held in other listed or publicly traded make use of them.
companies and or similar public organisations.
Ken Hydon, chairman of the committee, is our Directors indemnities designated financial expert.
The company grants an indemnity to all of its directors in accordance with section 232 of the Companies Act 2006 The committee has written terms of reference which in relation to costs incurred by them in defending any clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are civil or criminal proceedings and in connection with an reviewed annually and can be found on the company application for relief under section 144 3 or 4 or website at www.
htm section 727 of the Companies Act 1985, so long as it is The committee has been established by the board repaid not later than when the outcome becomes final if: primarily for the purpose of overseeing the accounting, i they are convicted in the proceedings: ii judgement financial reporting, internal control and risk management is given against them: or iii the court refuses to grant processes of the company and audits of the financial the relief sought.
The company has purchased and maintains directors and officers insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any act or omission by such directors and officers in the execution of their duties.
42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Board governance continued The committee is responsible for assisting the boards Assessment of the independence of the external oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys auditor: and external financial reporting and statements and the Compliance with the Combined Code.
companys accounting policies and practices.
The 24 April 2008 Groups internal and external auditors have direct access The Form 20-F and related disclosures including the to the committee to raise any matter of concern and to annual Sarbanes-Oxley Act 404 attestation of financial report on the results of work directed by the committee.
reporting internal controls: The committee reports to the full board on a regular basis Receipt of the external auditor report on the Form 20-F: but no less frequently than at every board meeting A review of its own effectiveness and both the internal immediately following a committee meeting.
It also and external auditors: reviews the independence of the external auditors, including services supplied, and ensures that there is an Compliance with SEC and NYSE requirements, including appropriate audit relationship.
Based on managements Sarbanes-Oxley: and recommendations, the committee reviews the proposal to The AGM trading statement.
reappoint the external auditors at its February meeting.
23 July 2008 The committee met four times during the year with the Approval of interim statements, announcements and chief financial officer, head of internal audit and other trading updates: members of the senior management team, together with Approval of the external audit engagement, scope the external auditors, in attendance.
The committee also and fees: met regularly in private with the external auditors and the Approval of external audit policy: and head of internal audit.
Some members of the committee Review of the committees terms of reference.
attended site visits to a number of overseas locations in 11 December 2008 order to better understand how Group policies are embedded in operations.
Review of company risk returns including Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE risks: The committee receives regular technical updates The annual internal audit plan including resourcing of the as well as specific or personal training as required.
internal audit function: and At every meeting, the committee considered reports on Review of treasury policy.
the activities of the internal audit function, including the results of internal audits, risk reviews, project assurance ii Personnel committee reviews, and fraud and whistleblowing reports.
The David Arculus Personnel committee chairman committee also monitored the companys financial reporting, internal controls and risk management Members procedures and considered any significant legal claims David Arculus, Terry Burns, Ken Hydon and Glen Moreno and regulatory issues in the context of their impact on financial reporting.
The committee has responsibility for determining the remuneration and benefits packages of the executive In addition, the committee considered the following directors, the chief executives of the principal operating matters during the course of the year: companies and other members of the management 28 February 2008 committee, as well as recommending the chairmans remuneration to the board for its decision.
The annual report and accounts, preliminary announcement and trading update: The committee takes independent advice from The Group accounting policies: consultants when required.
No director takes part The annual accounts being prepared on a going in any discussion or decision concerning their own concern basis: remuneration.
The committee reports to the full board and its report on directors remuneration, which has Assessment of the effectiveness of the companys risk been considered and adopted by the board, is set out management and internal control systems, including appropriate disclosure requirements: on pages 50 to 72.
Reappointment of the external auditors: Receipt of the external auditor report on the year end audit: Section 5 Governance 43 The committee met four times during the year, and has accords with the revised Turnbull guidance and has been written terms of reference which clearly set out its in place throughout 2008 and up to the date of approval authority and duties.
These can be found on the of this annual report.
company website at The Groups internal control framework covers financial, www.
htm operational and compliance risks.
Its main features are iii Nomination committee described below: Glen Moreno Nomination committee chairman i Board The board of directors exercises its control through an Members organisational structure with clearly defined levels of Glen Moreno, Marjorie Scardino, David Arculus, Terry responsibility and authority and appropriate reporting Burns, Patrick Cescau, Susan Fuhrman, Ken Hydon and procedures.
To maintain effective control over strategic, CK Prahalad financial, operational and compliance matters the board meets regularly, and has a formal schedule of matters The nomination committee meets as and when required.
that is brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, The committee primarily monitors the composition and for attention.
Responsibility for monitoring financial balance of the board and its committees, and identifies management and reporting, internal control and risk and recommends to the board the appointment of new management has been delegated to the audit committee directors.
At each meeting, the audit committee When considering the appointment of a new director the considers reports from management, internal audit and committee reviews the current balance of skills and the external auditors, with the aim of reviewing the experience of the board.
effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment of the Group.
During 2008 the committee met to consider the appointment of two new directors to the board: ii Operating company controls Will Ethridge as an executive director and CK Prahalad The identification and mitigation of major business risks as an independent non-executive director.
Both directors is the responsibility of operating company management.
The committee also Each operating company, including the corporate centre, met to consider the appointment of a new member to maintains internal controls and procedures appropriate the personnel committee, resulting in the appointment to its structure and business environment, whilst of Ken Hydon on 3 October 2008. complying with Group policies, standards and guidelines.
These controls include those over external Whilst the chairman of the board chairs this committee financial reporting which are documented and tested in he is not permitted to chair meetings when the accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the appointment of his successor is being considered Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which is relevant to our US listing.
or during a discussion regarding his performance.
iii Financial reporting The committee has written terms of reference which There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting clearly set out its authority and duties.
These can be and forecasting system with an annual operating plan found on the company website at approved by the board of directors.
htm information, including trading results, balance sheets, cash flow statements and indebtedness, is reported Internal control against the corresponding figures for the plan and prior The board of directors has overall responsibility for years, with corrective action outlined by operating Pearsons system of internal control, which is designed company executives as appropriate.
Group senior to manage the risks facing the Group, safeguard assets management meet, on a quarterly basis, with operating and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance company management to review their business and against material financial misstatement or loss.
financial performance against plan and forecast.
Major business risks relevant to each operating company as In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the directors confirm that they have reviewed the well as performance against the stated strategic objectives are reviewed in these meetings.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control system.
In addition, the chief executive prepares a monthly report They also confirm that there is an ongoing process 11 times a year for the board on key developments, allowing for the identification, evaluation and performance and issues in the business.
management of significant business risks.
This process 44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Board governance continued iv Risk management Going concern Operating companies undertake formal, semi-annual Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and risk reviews to identify new or potentially underborrowing facilities, and the Groups 2009 and 2010 managed risks.
The results of these reviews are cash flow forecasts, the directors believe that the Group submitted to group internal audit for evaluation and has adequate resources to continue as a going concern.
onward reporting to the board, in summary, and in more For this reason, the financial statements have, as usual, detail via the audit committee.
Throughout the year, risk been prepared on that basis.
sessions facilitated by the head of group internal audit are held with operating company management and with Shareholder communication the Pearson Management Committee to discuss and Pearson has an extensive programme of communication review the significant risks facing the business.
with all of its shareholders large and small, v Internal audit institutional and private.
We also make a particular effort The Group internal audit function is responsible for to communicate regularly with our employees, a large providing independent assurance to management on the majority of whom are shareholders in the company.
We effectiveness of internal controls.
The annual internal post all company announcements on our website, audit plan, derived from a risk model, is approved by the www.
com, as soon as they are released, and audit committee.
Recommendations to improve internal major shareholder presentations are made accessible controls and or to mitigate risks are agreed with via webcast or conference call.
Our website contains a operating company management after each audit.
dedicated investor relations section with an extensive Formal follow-up procedures allow Group internal audit archive of past announcements and presentations, to monitor operating companies progress in historical financial performance, share price data and a implementing its recommendations and to resolve any calendar of events.
It also includes information about all control deficiencies.
The Group internal audit function of our businesses, links to their websites, and details of also has a remit to monitor significant Group projects, in our corporate responsibility policies and activities.
conjunction with the central project management office, We have an established programme of educational to provide assurance that appropriate project seminars for our institutional shareholders focusing on governance and risk management strategies are in place.
Regular reports on the work of internal audit are provided to executive management and, via the audit committee, The seminars are available to all shareholders via to the board.
com The head of group internal audit is jointly responsible Our AGM which will be held on 1 May this year is an with the group legal counsel for monitoring compliance opportunity to meet the companys managers, hear with our Code of Business Conduct, and investigating presentations about Pearsons businesses and the any reported incidents including fraud allegations.
previous years results as well as to conduct general AGM business.
vi Treasury management The treasury department operates within policies Share capital approved by the board and its procedures are reviewed regularly by the audit committee.
Major transactions are Details of share issues are given in note 27 to the authorised outside the department at the requisite level, accounts on page 134.
The company has a single class of and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each.
Frequent reports are made to the chief financial officer The ordinary shares are in registered form.
The and regular reports are prepared for the audit committee companys current authorised share capital is and the board.
299,500,000 comprising 1,198,000,000 ordinary shares of which 809,276,583 were issued as at 31 vii Insurance December 2008.
At the AGM held on 25 April 2008, the Insurance is provided through Pearsons insurance company was authorised, subject to certain conditions, subsidiary or externally, depending on the scale of the to acquire up to 80 million of its ordinary shares by risk and the availability of cover in the external market, market purchase.
Shareholders will be asked to renew with the objective of achieving the most cost-effective this authority at the AGM on 1 May 2009. balance between insured and uninsured risks.
Section 5 Governance 45 At 27 February 2009, the company had been notified of Services provided by PwC above these limits and all the following substantial shareholdings in the capital of other allowable non-audit services, irrespective of value, the company.
must be approved by the audit committee.
Where appropriate, services will be tendered prior to awarding Number of shares Percentage work to the auditor.
Legal & General Group plc 33,336,528 4.12% In 2007, Interactive Data appointed Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young as its independent auditor.
To maintain Annual general meeting Ernst & Youngs independence we have restricted the The notice convening the AGM to be held at 12 noon on services that Ernst & Young can provide to Pearson and Friday, 1 May 2009 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference its subsidiaries, similar to those restrictions which we Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P place on PwC.
3EE, is contained in a circular to shareholders to be The audit committee receives regular reports dated 26 March 2009. summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditor.
Registered auditors A full statement of the fees for audit and services is provided in note 4 to the accounts on page 93.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 a resolution proposing the reappointment of  LLP PwC as auditors to the Statement of directors responsibilities company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level of Company law requires the directors to prepare financial remuneration to be agreed by the directors.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and parent company Auditor independence financial statements in accordance with International In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC is Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the governed by our external auditor policy, which is European Union.
In preparing these financial statements, reviewed and approved annually by the audit committee.
the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, The policy establishes procedures to ensure the issued by the International Accounting Standards Board auditors independence is not compromised as well as IASB.
The financial statements are required by law to defining those non-audit services that PwC may or may give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the not provide to Pearson.
These allowable services are in company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the accordance with relevant UK and US legislation.
The audit committee approves all audit and non-audit In preparing those financial statements, the directors are services provided by PwC.
Certain categories of required to: allowable non-audit services have been pre-approved by Select suitable accounting policies and then apply the audit committee subject to the authorities below: them consistently: Pre-approved non-audit services can be authorised by Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable the chief financial officer up to 100,000 per project, and prudent: subject to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum: State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs Acquisition due diligence services up to 100,000 per as adopted by the European Union: and transaction: Prepare the financial statements on the going concern Tax compliance and related activities up to the greater of basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 1,000,000 per annum or 50% of the external audit fee: Group will continue in business, in which case there and should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as For forward-looking tax planning services we use the necessary.
most appropriate advisor, usually after a tender process.
Where we decide to use our independent auditor authority, up to 100,000 per project, subject to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum has been delegated by the audit committee to management.
46 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Board governance continued The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the report on directors remuneration comply with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 38, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The business review contained on pages 6 to 37 of the directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The directors also confirm that, for all directors in office at the date of this report: a so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Approved by the board on 6 March 2009 and signed on its behalf by Philip Hoffman Secretary Section 5 Governance 47 Additional information for shareholders Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the company, unless the directors decide Amendment to Articles of Association otherwise.
Any amendments to the Articles of Association of If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the company may be made in accordance with the the sanction of a special resolution passed by the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any a special resolution.
part of the assets of the company and he she can value assets and determine how the division shall be carried Rights attaching to shares out as between the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the in the companys Articles.
A shareholder whose name benefit of the members.
appears on the companys register of members can choose whether his her shares are evidenced by share Voting at general meetings certificates i. e. in certificated form or held in electronic i. e. uncertificated form in CREST the electronic Any form of proxy sent by the company to shareholders settlement system in the UK.
in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the company, whether in written form or in electronic Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed attend any general meeting of the company and, on for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which a show of hands, every shareholder or his her the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of No shareholder is, unless the board decides otherwise, which they are the registered shareholder.
A resolution entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at put to the vote at a general meeting is decided on a show a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred of hands unless before, or on the declaration of the by being a shareholder if he she or any person with an result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded interest in shares has been sent a notice under section by the chairman of the meeting, or by at least three 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon shareholders or their representatives present in person public companies the power to require information with and having the right to vote, or by any shareholders or respect to interests in their voting shares and he she or their representatives present in person having at least any interested person failed to supply the company with 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders, or by the information requested within 14 days after delivery any shareholders or their representatives present in of that notice.
The board may also decide, where the person holding ordinary shares on which an aggregate relevant shareholding comprises at least 0.25% of the sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the total sum nominal value of the issued shares of that class, that paid up on all ordinary shares.
no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall At this years AGM voting will be conducted on a poll.
Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing The company operates two employee benefit trusts to an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividend hold shares, pending employees becoming entitled to cannot exceed the amount recommended by the board.
them under the companys employee share plans.
The board can pay interim dividends on any class of There were 10,448,458 shares so held as at 31 December shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the 2008.
Each trust has an independent trustee which has periods they decide, provided the distributable profits full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
of the company justify such payment.
The board may, if A dividend waiver operates on the shares held in authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, these trusts.
offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Board governance continued The company also operates a nominee shareholding Appointment and replacement of directors arrangement known as Sharestore which holds shares Directors shall number no less than two.
Directors may on behalf of employees.
There were 2,414,269 shares so be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or held as at 31 December 2008.
The trustees holding these by the board.
A director appointed by the board shall shares seek voting instructions from the employee as hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be beneficial owner, and voting rights are not exercised if eligible for reappointment, but shall not be taken into no instructions are given.
account in determining the directors or the number of directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Transfer of shares The board may from time to time appoint one or more The board may refuse to register a transfer of a directors to hold executive office with the company for certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that such period subject to the provisions of the Companies the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Acts and upon such terms as the board may decide and company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
may revoke or terminate any appointment so made.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer of a At every AGM of the company, one third of the directors certificated share unless i the instrument of transfer is shall retire by rotation or, if their number is not a lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered multiple of three, the number nearest to one third.
office of the company or any other place decided by the The first directors to retire by rotation shall be those board, and is accompanied by the certificate for the who wish to retire and not offer themselves for share to which it relates and such other evidence as the reappointment.
Any further directors so to retire shall board may reasonably require to show the right of the be those of the other directors subject to retirement by transferor to make the transfer: ii it is in respect of only rotation who have been longest in office since their last one class of shares: and iii it is in favour of not more appointment but, as between persons who became or than four transferees.
were last appointed on the same day, those to retire Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves using CREST and the board can refuse to register a be determined by lot.
In addition, any director who would transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with not otherwise be required to retire shall retire by rotation the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
at the third AGM after his her last appointment.
However, although not required by the Articles, the board Variation of rights has resolved that for this year, and in future years, all If at any time the capital of the company is divided into directors offer themselves for re-election annually, in different classes of shares, the special rights attaching accordance with good corporate governance.
to any class may be varied or revoked either: The company may by ordinary resolution remove any i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% director before the expiration of his her term of office.
in nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or In addition, the board may terminate an agreement or arrangement with any director for the provision of his ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a her services to the company.
separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
Powers of the directors Without guidance to any special rights previously Subject to the companys Memorandum of Association conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class and the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions of shares, any share may be issued with such preferred, given by special resolution, the business of the company deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions, will be managed by the board who may exercise all the whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital powers of the company, including powers relating to the or otherwise as the company may from time to time by issue and or buying back of shares by the company, ordinary resolution determine.
subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions imposed by shareholders in general meeting.
Section 5 Governance 49 Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the company: Under the $1,750,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated July 2004 as amended of which $92,000,000 matures in May 2011 and the balance of $1,658,000,000 matures in May 2012 between, amongst others, the company, HSBC Bank plc as facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders together, the Credit Facilities, the facility agent must, upon a change of control, cancel the total commitments of the lenders under such Credit Facilities and declare all outstanding advances, together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable in respect of such Credit Facilities, to be immediately due and payable.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if the company becomes a subsidiary of any other company or one or more persons acting either individually or in concert, obtains control as defined in Section 840 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 of the company.
Shares acquired through the companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the company.
