34 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Our impact on society continued Supporting active citizenship Pearson people power: Our staff are passionate about volunteering, with many taking part in the organised Pearsons people are likely to be some of the most active reading schemes and other community programmes we citizens you will meet.
We match their fundraising offer at company level, in partnership with local wherever we can and run a number of volunteer schemes organisations.
Many others choose to make personal for staff to give some of their working day to community arrangements for their charitable endeavours, with programmes.
The Pearson Foundation, our charitable examples ranging from a staff fundraiser for the Burma arm, promotes literacy and education programmes on a Relief Fund from Pearson Hong Kong, to an individual global scale, working with innovative partner from Pearson Brazil volunteering as an ELT teacher for organisations around the world to help level the playing teenagers in So Paulos favelas, to four members of the field for those without ready access to education.
In FTs Ad Sales team in London growing moustaches for 2008, Pearsons cash charitable giving totalled 7.7m the Prostate Cancer Charity.
We also provide in-kind support such as those volunteers through our annual Pearson books, advertising space and publishing expertise, as Community Awards, making a donation of $2,000 to well as opportunities for staff to support their personal their chosen charity and giving certificates of Long choice of charity through payroll giving schemes.
Service Commendation to two other volunteers.
Highlights include: Corporate engagement: Each operating company has a number of different initiatives theyre involved in, each The Pearson Foundation: Our Foundation allows us to promoting literacy in one way or another.
We support promote literacy, learning and great teaching on an local schools and colleges, promote or sponsor international level, partnering with other leading conferences, and form partnerships with other businesses and not-for-profit organisations to extend organisations with similar aims.
In 2008, we supported educational opportunity as widely as we can.
We bring Book Aid Internationals Childrens Reading Tents together experts to share good practice, to foster Project: touring reading tents held events in Kenya, innovation and try to find workable solutions to the Uganda and Tanzania, reaching over 9,000 children, educational disadvantage facing millions of young with almost 20,000 books donated by Longman, people and adults across the globe.
In 2008, we Ladybird and DK imprints.
The FTs annual seasonal continued our sponsorship of the annual Citi-FT Financial appeal was for WaterAid in December 2008, featuring a Education Summit, held in Beijing this year, and we series of FT articles online, in the newspaper and organised the inaugural Pearson International Education weekend magazine for almost two months to highlight Summit in Singapore, in conjunction with the US Council the charitys work in helping communities in Africa, Asia of Chief State School Officers.
Our US and UK literacy 5 and the Pacific region to find sustainable water sources campaigns, Jumpstarts Read for the Record and 6 and sanitation, and provide hygiene education.
In 2008, Booktime, continued to expand, reaching thousands of Americas Corporation for National and Community people across both nations.
We have helped Jumpstart Service honoured Pearson with its annual Corporate grow by more than 20% annually since our partnership Spirit of Service award for outstanding support of began, and took part in setting a new world record for the national service and volunteering.
The award recognised largest shared reading experience during the Read for Pearsons exemplary support through our people, the Record 2008 campaign.
Booktime gave 750,000 businesses and the Pearson Foundation of Jumpstart children free copies of two books, reaching children in and the Read for the Record Campaign.
about 20,000 schools across the UK.
5 Jumpstart for Young Children is a US non-profit based in Boston, Massachusetts.
It was founded at Yale University in 1993 to help prepare preschool children to succeed in their primary education.
6 Booktime was launched in 2006 by Pearson in association with UK independent charity Booktrust, to promote the pleasure of reading and encourage parents and carers to read aloud with their children.
