12 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Outlook for 2009 Pearson achieved a strong performance in 2008 against Interest and tax.
In 2009, we expect our interest charge the backdrop of a sharp deterioration in the global to adjusted earnings to be higher than 2008 reflecting economy.
Though the company performed well, market the impact of the recent strength of the dollar on our conditions became more difficult for some of our largely US dollar-denominated debt and the pensionsbusinesses as the year went on.
related credit to interest becoming a debit in 2009.
Our profit and loss tax charge is likely to be in the 26% to In the fourth quarter, trading momentum remained 28% range and we now expect our cash tax to stay close strong for our education business.
The Financial Times to 2008 levels.
Group continued to achieve good growth in particular at Interactive Data and Mergermarket but FT Publishing Exchange rates.
Pearson generates approximately 60% saw a decline in advertising revenues which now of its sales in the US, and each 5 cent change in the account for 4% of Pearsons sales.
Consumer publishing average :$ exchange rate for the full year which in markets in the US and UK were challenging, but Penguin 2008 was 1:$1.85 would have an impact of performed well in the key holiday selling season.
approximately 1p on adjusted earnings per share.
We are planning on the basis that the tough market conditions that we saw for some of our businesses towards the end of 2008 are likely to persist throughout 2009.
We expect to benefit from a range of early actions to revise products and supply lines, reduce costs and sustain investment.
Based on current exchange rates and market conditions we would expect to achieve fullyear adjusted earnings at or above the 2008 level of 57.7p per share.
In Education, we are planning for weak conditions in the US School publishing market but expect continued growth in our testing, Higher Education and International Education businesses.
We expect the new US administrations emphasis on education, reflected in both the economic stimulus package and the focus on reform, to provide a significant boost to education institutions.
The extent and timing of the impact on our business is unclear at this stage, so we have not included these factors in our guidance.
At the FT Group, we anticipate continued strong demand for high-quality analysis of global business, finance, politics and economics: a tough year for advertising: strong renewal rates in our subscription businesses: and continued growth at Interactive Data.
At Penguin, we expect another competitive performance in challenging trading conditions for book publishers and booksellers.
