Section 3 Our performance 13 Pearson Education School Curriculum North American Education CER Underlying Highlights in 2008 included: millions 2008 2007 growth growth US School publishing market declined 4.4% in 2008, Sales 2,002 1,667 11% 3% according to the Association of American Publishers.
Adjusted operating State budget issues caused particular industry-wide profit 303 273 5% 2 % weakness in the supplementary publishing segment and the open territories.
Overview Pearson took an estimated 28% share of the total new Pearson is the market leader in education publishing adoption market, and 31% of the adoptions competed and services in North America.
This is Pearsons largest for.
Pearson participated in approximately 92% of the business, with 2008 sales of 2bn and operating profit total new adoption market, down from approximately of 303m.
Over the past five years, it has increased sales 95% in 2007. at a compound annual growth rate of 10% and profits at Pearson launched enVisionMATH, an integrated printa rate of 9%.
and-digital elementary mathematics programme and Raising student achievement has long been a key priority the next generation of the innovative and highly across the political spectrum in the US.
Though the successful California social studies programme.
current economic climate has placed considerable enVisionMATH helped Pearson to a market-leading 38% pressure on state and local tax receipts and therefore share of all maths adoptions, including 50% in Texas, education funding spending on educational materials and sold strongly across the open territories.
has historically proved relatively resilient.
In addition, the new administrations economic stimulus package Learn more at www.
com contains a range of measures to support state funding and education reform.
Miller-Levine Biology and enVisionMATH programmes The education publishing industry is going through a were also successfully launched for the 2009 adoption period of significant change driven by the demand for campaign.
high educational standards and accountability, the shift from print to digital products and a rapidly changing The Association of Educational Publishers honoured competitive environment.
two Pearson products, enVisionMATH and Longman Our business serves educators and students from early English Interactive Online Level 2, as the years education through elementary, middle and high schools most outstanding materials in the field of teaching and into higher education with a wide range of products and learning.
and services: curriculum textbooks and other learning materials: student assessments and testing services: Learn more at and educational technologies.
com position in each of these areas and a distinctive strategy of connecting those parts to support institutions and personalise learning.
In 2008 we began to integrate Three Pearson products were named Americas best our North American School and Higher Education educational software products in the Software & companies, which we believe will bring significant Information Industry Associations 23rd Annual CODiE opportunities to develop growth businesses, to share Awards.
KnowledgeBox was named Best MultiMedia investments and technologies and to gain further Solution, Waterford Early Learning won the Best efficiencies.
Course Classroom Management award, and Waterford Early Learning Math and Science was named Best Science Instructional Solution.
14 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Pearson Education continued North American Education: key performance measures The US Department of Defense awarded Pearson a five-year contract to provide elementary-school reading programmes, including Pearsons Reading Street, for its schools around the world.
Pearson created a new Educator Development Group, which brings together the companys leading teachercentred businesses in North America, to support teachers at every level from preparation at the college level through to professional development and advanced degrees.
Assessment and Information Highlights in 2008 included: The integration of Harcourt Assessment progressed well with strong performances in state testing, catalogue tests and clinical assessments.
Our market-leading state assessments division continued to gain share, winning more than half of contracts competed for by value.
Pearson now provides major state-wide testing services to 30 states.
We continue to be a leader in online testing with over 3.8 million secure tests delivered across 13 states during the year, up from 2.5 million in 2007.
Our National Assessments division benefited from new long-term contracts including The American Diploma Project a three-year contract to deliver Algebra II exams to a consortium of 15 states : the College Boards Accuplacer programme a seven-year contract to deliver computer-adaptive reading, writing and maths tests to assess college readiness : and The National Board for Professional Teaching Standards a five-year contract to develop, administer and score its National Board Certification programme for accomplished teachers, covering 25 certificate areas.
We extended our leading position in teacher certification boosted by contract renewals in California for three years, Oklahoma six years, and New Mexico four years.
We also won a two-year contract to manage Californias certification testing for teachers of English as a foreign language.
Section 3 Our performance 15 Clinical Assessments, which provides a wide range Custom Solutions grew strongly, expanding beyond textbooks to educational solutions including on-demand of assessments for personality, behaviour, ability, achievement, speech and language, and career interest, authoring of original content: customised technology: and on-demand curriculum, assessments and benefited from the strong growth of our AimsWeb data management and progress monitoring service for the courseware.
Response to Intervention RTI market which monitors Pearson formed new strategic partnerships to provide children who are having difficulty learning and the materials and online learning services to educational publication of WAIS-IV and MMPI-RF, new editions of the institutions.
These included Rio Salado College in key products for assessing intelligence and personality.
Arizona, which has 450 online classes and 48,000 students: the Colorado Community College system, to Major contract wins in Student Information Systems provide digital textbooks for 17 courses: and Louisiana include South Carolina 709,000 students, Dallas Community & Technical College System, to provide 165,000 students and Baltimore 83,000 students.
students with a customised online learning programme Our new Edustructures business, which provides across 47 campuses through the combination of custom interoperable systems to support data collection textbooks, eCollege and MyLabs.
and reporting between school districts and state governments, continued to win contracts with State eCollege, Pearsons platform for fully-online distance learning in higher education, increased enrolments Education Agencies.
It successfully implemented proof-of-concept projects in Kansas and Alaska, by 34% to 2.5 million and benefited from continued strong renewal rates.
It achieved good new business and expansion of projects in Virginia, South Carolina and Wyoming.
performance both in the US and internationally, including Brazil: deployed its new.
Next platform enabling rapid new product development: and Higher Education sustained investment to drive growth in International Highlights in 2008 included: and K-12 markets.
The US Higher Education publishing market grew 3.6% Pearson achieved strong growth in publishing and in 2008, according to the Association of American related services for students in workplace and vocational Publishers.
The industry benefited from healthy education.
We launched new partnerships with the enrolments, even in tougher economic conditions, and National Restaurant Associations leading food safety federal government action to support student funding.
programme, ServSafe, and the International Fire Service We continued to see strong demand for instructional Training Association IFSTA fire training programme.
materials that are enhanced by technology and customisation.
Pearson grew faster than the industry and outperformed the market for the tenth straight year.
We continued to invest in established and new author franchises, such as Campbell & Reeces Biology: Tros Chemistry: Lilienfeld, Lynn, Namy & Woolfs Psychology: and Wysocki & Lynchs DK Handbook.
Pearsons MyLab digital learning, homework and assessment programmes grew strongly and now span the curriculum.
Our MyLab products were used by more than 4.3 million students globally, with student registrations 48% higher than in 2007.
Evaluation studies show that the use of the MyLab programmes can significantly improve student test scores and institutional productivity.
pdf 16 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Pearson Education continued Europe International Education CER Underlying Highlights in 2008 included: millions 2008 2007 growth growth In the UK, Edexcel received over 1.3 million registrations Sales 866 735 11% 2% for vocational assessment which, when combined with Adjusted more than 2.1 million registrations for general operating profit 135 92 26% 16% qualifications, made it one of the UKs largest assessment organisations.
Edexcel marked 4.3 million A-level and GCSE scripts onscreen, representing Overview 88% of all student work marked by Edexcel examiners.
Pearson is the world leader in education publishing and related services outside North America.
Over the past Edexcel was awarded the contract to administer the five years, this has been Pearsons fastest-growing 2009 National Curriculum Tests for Key Stage 2 by the business, increasing sales at a headline compound UK Qualifications and Curriculum Authority.
annual growth rate of 16% from 484m in 2004 to Edexcel made a significant investment in supporting the 866m in 2008 and operating profit five-fold from growth of academic and vocational qualifications both in 27m in 2004 to 135m in 2008.
The business has the UK and internationally.
These included the UKs new achieved strong organic growth and successfully Diploma qualification for 1419 year-olds: the IGCSE integrated a number of acquisitions including Edexcel, qualifications to meet the needs of international schools Harcourt International and PBM.
and colleges: and BTEC, Edexcels flagship vocational Looking ahead, we expect our International Education qualification.
In schools, BTEC registrations have grown businesses to continue to benefit from a series of from about 70,000 to 250,000 in the past two years.
powerful growth trends: increasing public and private MyLab digital learning, homework and assessment spending on education: growing participation rates programmes were used internationally by more than in elementary, secondary and higher education: the 237,000 students, up 82% on 2007, and are now sold demand for assessment to provide measures of in more than 65 countries worldwide.
MyLabs and achievement: the growing technology infrastructure Mastering Physics, two of Pearsons online education in educational institutions: and the rise of English programmes, continued to win international adoptions, and other international languages.
increasingly with localised versions for individual In 2008, we made good progress on our strategic goals, markets.
extending our strong position in English language Our UK school publishing business grew ahead of the learning and educational technology, developing market with the successful integration of Harcourt services for measuring and certifying student progress, International.
This was driven by curriculum reform and and providing integrated solutions to help educational market share gains in the secondary market, helped by institutions achieve their goals.
We also expanded our strong publishing, innovative technology and integrated product range and geographic presence through the assessment for learning.
acquisitions of Harcourt International and Fronter.
Sales increased by 11% to 866m and profits by 26% The combination of Pearson content, customisation to 135m at constant exchange rates.
Headline profit capabilities and technology supports strong growth of 47% also benefited from some transactional performance in Higher Education and ELT across foreign exchange gains.
European markets including France, Benelux and Central & Eastern Europe.
Section 3 Our performance 17 Asia and Pacific Pearson announced the acquisition of Fronter, a learning platform also known as a Learning Management System Highlights in 2008 included: or LMS which provides easy-to-use tools for secure The New York Institute of Finance NYIF opened a Beijing online education and collaboration.
The Fronter platform office under the name of Pearson Financial Consulting enables students to learn whenever and wherever they to educate and train Chinas financial and business choose: review their personal study plan: submit professionals through classes, in-company courses and assignments: communicate with teachers, peers and monthly financial forums.
parents: and study on their own or in a group.
Teachers use the platform to create, store and repurpose learning In India, Pearson saw rapid sales growth underpinned resources and coursework which their students access by strong local publishing of titles including online.
The platform includes more than 80 tools for Macroeconomics by Errol DSousa of IIM Ahmedabad teachers and students and is highly customisable in and Upinder Singhs book on Ancient and Medieval terms of functionality, design and language.
Two books published by Pearson Education won the First and Third Prize in the Delhi Management Associations DMA-NTPC Awards.
Africa and the Middle East In Thailand, Pearson secured its largest adoption of Highlights in 2008 included: MyITLab outside North America at Sripatum University Pearson won a contract to deliver the Abu Dhabi Education accompanied by the Go!
Councils external assessment programme over three years starting in 2009.
The tests cover English, Arabic, Pearson was named Secondary Publisher of the Year mathematics and science for students in grades 3 to 11.
2008 at the Australian Awards for Excellence in Educational Publishing, based on factors including the Pearson worked with Jordans Ministry of Education quality of products, accuracy of information, quality of to build a test development system which has been customer service, innovation of products and services, enhanced to support the creation of test items and and prompt delivery of products.
Successful and rapid tests in Arabic, replacing a paper-based system.
Good growth in higher education was supported by strong take-up of Pearson announced its intention to increase its MyLab and Mastering products.
ownership in Maskew Miller Longman in South Africa, and bring together its education companies in the region In China, Pearson acquired two chains of private into a new organisation, Pearson Southern Africa 85% English-language schools.
Learning provides owned by Pearson.
The creation of Pearson Southern instruction for children aged five through 12, principally Africa will help Pearson deploy its global resources in Shanghai.
Dell English offers English-language throughout the region, and better support students and training to students typically between ages of 15 and 35, teachers in such critical areas as assessment, teacher principally in Beijing.
development and professional and vocational learning.
Pearson announced the acquisition of an additional 22% stake in Longman Nigeria, the leading educational publisher in Africas most populous country, taking our ownership to a controlling 51% stake.
The business performed strongly in 2008 supported by an order for two million textbooks for mathematics and English by the states of Lagos and Bauchi.
18 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Pearson Education continued Latin America Professional Highlights in 2008 included: CER Underlying millions 2008 2007 growth growth Rapid growth in Mexico, Pearsons largest market in Sales 244 226 1% 1% the region, with particularly strong growth in custom publishing.
In English Language Teaching, we won an Adjusted operating integrated custom publishing, academic support and profit 36 27 26% 26% services solutions contract with CONALEP, the national vocational technical secondary programme.
Overview We developed a custom publishing programme for a Our Professional education business is focused on leading test prep academy, CONAMAT, which included publishing and other learning programmes for Simplified Mathematics, the best selling title of the professionals in business and technology, and on testing programme, selling over 20,000 units.
and certifying adults to become professionals.
In Panama, the Ministry of Education adopted Prentice Over the past five years, we have increased sales in this Hall Virtual Labs and Lab Manuals for Chemistry and division at a compound annual rate of 11% in constant Biology for 75,000 high school students.
currencies and operating profit from a loss of 5m in 2004 to a profit of 36m in 2008.
Over that period, we In Brazil, which has Latin Americas largest and fastestgrowing university population, Pearson provided custom significantly re-oriented our professional publishing businesses towards long-term growth markets and built publishing services to five leading universities in business, math, science, engineering and several professional testing into a profitable industry leader.
We see good growth for these businesses, which will other fields.
benefit from rising demand for work-related skills and Growing Government tenders business in Maths and qualifications in both developed and developing Science including the success of a new local math markets: and from close connections with professional series for middle schools in Mexico and the adoption of content and customers in other parts of Pearson.
two levels of our primary Science programme in Chile, adapted from our US Scott Foresman 5th 6th Grade programme, to support local curriculum standards in Spanish.
Strong growth of English Language Teaching materials across Latin America underpinned by performance in Mexico, Argentina, Colombia, Peru and Central America.
International Education key financial performance measures Section 3 Our performance 19 Professional testing and certification Professional publishing Highlights in 2008 included: Highlights in 2008 included: Approximately six million secure online tests were Scott Kelby, an author at our technology imprint delivered in more than 4,000 test centres worldwide Peachpit, was the top-selling author of computer books in 2008, an increase of 2% over 2007. in the US for the fifth consecutive year with titles such as The iPhone Book, Mac OS X Leopard Book and Registration volumes for the Graduate Management The Adobe CS4 Book for Digital Photographers.
Admissions Council test rose 12% worldwide in 2008, including a 22% increase outside the US.
The iPhone Developers Cookbook by Erica Sadun, initially published online as a DRM-free ebook, became New business included contracts to provide certification the #1 computer book for Amazon Kindle and the #1 exams for the Health Authority AbuDhabi, end of course book on Safari.
When published in print form, it became exams for Maryland University College, certification the #1 Computers & Internet Book on Amazon.
exams for the Institute of Supply Management, the development and administration of tests for the We created nearly 200 video based educational lessons Colorado Office of Barber and Cosmetology Licensure 230 hours of video including Aarron Walters SEO And and an exclusive contract with Adobe.
Beyond, and Deitel & Associates C# 2008 Fundamentals I and II and built new distribution channels for video via Renewals included contracts with the Georgia Insurance our websites and via Safari Books Online.
Licensing Board, the Virginia Board of Nursing, the Law National Admissions Consortium, Measurement Pearson developed new iterative publishing programme Research Associates, Inc. and the Kentucky Real called Rough Cuts which allows authors and customers Estate Commission.
to interact ahead of publication, building awareness and capturing customer contributions.
Almost 25% Pearson VUE introduced several security enhancements of the print books published in 2008 entered the to its high-stakes testing, including implementation Rough Cuts programme, benefiting from comments prior of palm vein recognition technology, a non-intrusive to print publication.
identification system, and of digital watermarking of exam data.
Strong growth of eBooks, videos and other digital assets sold directly via our websites and our joint-venture, Pearson VUE announced the transition of The Institute of Safari Books Online, and through other digital retail Internal Auditors certification exam, the Certified Internal outlets such as the Amazon Kindle and Sony eReader.
Auditor, from paper-and-pencil to computer-based test delivery.
The Certified Internal Auditor designation is the Sales of English and local language technology books only globally accepted certification for internal auditors saw good growth in international markets including the and will be delivered in English, Japanese, French, Middle East, South Africa, India and South America with Spanish and Italian.
best-sellers including CCNA Exam Certification Library by Wendell Odom, Presentation Zen by Garr Reynolds and Pearson VUE agreed a partnership with NIIT Ltd. of India Effective Java 2E by Josh Bloch to expand Pearson VUEs certification network in India, extending a range of tests for students throughout the Titles by Pearsons business imprints, including FTPress country.
In a first phase, Pearson VUE and NIIT will set and Wharton School Publishing, included Financial up testing facilities in Bangalore, Chennai, New Delhi, Shock by Mark Zandi, Chief Economist at Moodys and Hyderabad and Pune.
an advisor to the White House, on the causes of the credit crunch with particular emphasis on the sub-prime mortgage market.
