20 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 FT Group CER Underlying FT Publishing millions 2008 2007 growth growth Highlights in 2008 included: Sales FT Publishing benefited from a shift towards subscription FT Publishing 390 344 9% 4% and service-based revenues.
FT Publishing sales were up Interactive Data 406 344 10% 9% 9% and operating profit up 9% to 74m 56m in 2007 Total 796 688 9% 7% despite a tough advertising market, particularly in the fourth quarter.
Adjusted operating profit Financial Times maintained worldwide newspaper FT Publishing 74 56 9% 0% circulation at approximately 435,000 434,196 average Interactive Data 121 97 15% 13% for the JuneDecember ABC period and won both major UK press awards: Newspaper of the Year at the 2008 Total 195 153 13% 8% British Press Awards and Newspaper Awards.
In the UK National Readership Survey, readership rose more than Overview 16% to 418,000.
The FT Group is a leading provider of essential FT circulation revenues were up 16% as investment in information in attractive segments of the global business content and demand for high-quality analysis of the information market.
These include insight and analysis global financial crisis supported an increase in pricing through the Financial Times, FT. com and The Economist, and quality of circulation.
and intelligence, valuations and indices through Mergermarket, FTSE and Interactive Data.
FT Publishing advertising revenues declined 3%, with a weak advertising market in the fourth quarter as financial In recent years, the FT Group has significantly shifted institutions, technology companies and recruiters its business towards digital and subscription revenues.
In 2008, we took a We have sold our largely print and advertising-based series of actions to reduce costs and prepare for more national media companies Recoletos in Spain, Les difficult trading conditions in 2009.
Echos in France, FT Deutschland in Germany : acquired digital businesses with international opportunities FT. com benefited from its launch of an innovative access Mergermarket, Exec-Appointments.
com, Money-Media : model involving registration for access to more than and invested steadily in our global and digital three articles per month.
Subscribers grew 9% to businesses including the Financial Times, FT. com 109,609, and registered users increased more than fiveand Interactive Data.
fold from approximately 150,000 at the end of 2007 to 966,000 at the end of 2008.
As a result of this strategy, in 2008 digital services accounted for 67% of FT Group revenues, up from 28% The Financial Times continued to invest in international in 2000: and in 2008 advertising accounted for 25% expansion and fast-growing markets.
It launched a new of FT Group revenues, down from 52% in 2000.
On a edition for the Middle East, and Rui, a lifestyle and continuing business basis, FT Group sales have wealth-management magazine for Chinas fast-growing increased at a headline compound average growth business elite.
FT acquired Money-Media, which provides online news and commentary for the fund-management industry.
Looking ahead, we believe that the FT Groups premium Money-Media rolled out Ignites Europe, an online news and global positions, combined with our digital and service for people working with the European crosssubscription businesses, put us in a good position to border fund industry.
A strong performance from Mergermarket, benefiting from its digital subscription model, with contract renewal rates of almost 85%.
The Mergermarket and Debtwire products performed particularly well, emphasising that the services remain valuable to customers throughout the cycle.
Section 3 Our performance 21 Interactive Data Mergermarket launched two new products, Debtwire Highlights in 2008 included: ABS and Debtwire Restructuring Database, in response Interactive Data revenues up 10% and operating profit up to growing levels of distressed asset sales and 15% to 121m 97m in 2007 driven by strong new sales restructuring funds.
It continued to expand and acquire throughout the year and approximately 95% renewal new customers geographically in the US, Europe and rates within its Institutional Services segment.
Asia, launching its M&A event-driven product dealReporter in Russia, Poland, Turkey, the UAE and Interactive Data continued to benefit from growth trends, South Africa.
Mergermarket also continued to build its including: heightened scrutiny around the valuation of Pharmawire product for financial institutions that securities: increasing regulation: increasing adoption of support the pharmaceutical industry.
low latency data for algorithmic trading: and continuing need to differentiate wealth management offerings with Mergermarkets conference business Remark had bespoke web-based client solutions.
a strong year, with significant growth in the number of events, attendees and newsletter publications.
It also Pricing and Reference Data continued to generate good increased its digital offering in this business through growth in North America and Europe.
Growth is primarily video, podcasts and live webcasts.
organic, providing additional services to customers: and also benefited from bolt-on acquisitions, most recently The Economist, in which Pearson owns a 50% stake, the announced purchase of NDF, a leading provider of increased global weekly circulation by 6.4% to 1.39m securities pricing, reference data and related services for the JulyDecember 2008 ABC period.
to most of the major financial institutions in Japan.
FTSE, in which Pearson owns a 50% stake, announced Real-Time Services saw strong growth in its real-time several new indices including expansion of the FTSE data feeds business and continued expansion of its Environmental Opportunities Index and introduction, Managed Solutions business in the US.
Real-Time in partnership with the Athens Exchange, of the Services added a number of new market sources in North FTSE ATHEX Liquid Mid Index.
America and the Middle East.
The Managed Solutions business announced that it had doubled the number of clients in the US during the past year to 80.
FT Publishing key performance measures Continued investment in expanding the breadth and depth of the data covered and products offered, including a new alliance to provide complex derivatives and structured product valuation services: and in the capacity of its real-time infrastructure to allow for the anticipated growth in real-time market data volumes.
Interactive Data key performance measures
