Directorsreport | Businessreview Inordertomeet therequirementsof theLandfill  Directive,  been  REGULATORYAND setstatutory targets for thediversionof  All waste management facilities including the biodegradable municipalwaste fromlandfill.
development and expansion of landfill sites, are subject to planning permission from the The UK is required under the EU Landfill Eachwastedisposal authorityhasbeen relevant local authority.
Major facilities such Directive to reduce the amount of  theamountof bioas EfW plants above 50MW must also receive biodegradable municipal waste going to degradablewaste itmay disposeof tolandfill consent from the Secretary of State for landfill sites as follows: fortheyears2005 to 2020.
These allowances Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
are designedto ensure thattheUK as a In addition significant facilities including to 75% of 1995 level by 2010 wholeachieves therequirementsof theEU landfill sites and waste treatment facilities LandfillDirective.
Subjecttosome constraints, to 50% of 1995 level by 2013 require an Environmental Permit previously a  ortrade Pollution Prevention and Control PPC permit to 35% of 1995 level by 2020. allowances under  from the relevant regulator.
 Following the implementation in October 2007 allocationwithout suchan allowancefacesa of the Pre-Treatment Regulations, all waste Viridor believes that good environmental penaltyof150 pertonnein additiontothe going to landfill must have undergone some and operational management is important cost ofdisposingof thewaste.
Thisis expected form of pre-treatment including recycling.
in winning future planning consents.
It has toresult intheintroductionof alternative achieved ISO 14001 Environmental treatmentand disposal processesat higher At the same time the UK Government has set Management Systems accreditation at all cost than currentroutes.
targets for recycling and composting of of its key sites and is now implementing its municipal waste to increase from the current The Government  as Business Management System incorporating level of a little over 30% to 40% by 2010, 45% afurther  away from externally accredited environmental, quality by 2015 and 50% in 2020.
Landfilltax appliesto allwaste and health and safety management standards.
is promoting recycling by various measures disposed ofat a licensedlandfillsite, unlessthe including encouraging councils to provide , suchas soilfrom Planning applications are subject to rigorous separate collection of recyclableswhich  2012. assessment by local authorities who will enhances the recycling rate obtainable at MRFs.
Forinert consider them against the backdrop of policies There are specific targets for recycling of waste, landfilltax was chargeableat 2per contained within waste local plans that have all packaging with financial incentives in the  April2008.
been adopted for their areas.
Applications form of Packaging Recovery Notes PRNs and Astandard rateof 32pertonneappliesto all have to address a wide range of issues and the Packaging Export Recovery Notes PERNs.
othertaxable waste upfrom24in 2007 08 relevant regulator is a statutory consultee in Specific regulations affect waste electrical and whichisdue torise by a further8pertonne this process.
electronic equipment which has its own system per annum toreacha levelof 48pertonne of WEEE Evidence Notes which are tradable.
Above: Right: Waste collection Far right: Restored landfill at Beddington 22 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Viridor sametimeacquiring Somersets Local Authority  RenewablesObligation RO Waste Disposal Company LAWDC, Wyvern  Under the RO the Government has a target Waste Services which has been renamed Viridor  to generate 10% of UK electricity usage from Waste Somerset.
TheViridor Laingconsortium To assist in meeting their landfill diversion renewables by 2010, and 15% by 2015 is expected to reach financial close shortly for targets, many local authorities are seeking compared with under 5% generation from the Greater Manchester Waste Disposal to let integrated waste management contracts renewables at present.
The EU has an Authority PFI contract.
covering a range of activities often including aspirational target to generate 20% of total household waste recycling sites HWRS, energy from renewables by 2020 which Viridor recognises that there is a range composting, recycling and recovery, EfW, equates to over 30% of electricity from of risks associated with entering into such waste transfer and bulk transport and renewables in the UK.
contracts, which are often for a 25-year term.
However, subject to a careful assessment of Production of renewable energy is incentivised the risks on a contract-by-contract basis, the In a number of instances these will be under the system of ROCs whereby renewable company will continue seeking to secure financed under PFI arrangements where energy generators get a premium in addition such contracts.
local authorities apply to the Government for to the underlying brown energy price for funding of capital projects which fall within their production.
This premium relates to the  the eligibility criteria.
Successful applicants balance between actual UK output and target receive cash funds known as PFI credits which EU directives andrelatedUK legislation, as UK output.
At present the UK is behind target do not have to be repaid and can be used by well , have been and many believe it will remain so for some the local authority to fund a proportion of the referredtopreviously.
Eligibility for ROCs is capital and operating expenditures needed for governed by complex rules.
The EnvironmentAgency EA andtheScottish anaerobic digestion and certain other waste Environment ProtectionAgency SEPA monitor technologies are eligible.
Councils may also choose to let long-term performance  contracts using PPP arrangements.
Breachesare subject A recent change was the introduction of they forego the complexities of securing PFI toprosecution.
TheEA andSEPAcanalso the banding of ROCs.
This will mean that all credits.
Viridor considers that the nature of requiretheoperator to undertakeupgradesto landfill gas projects accredited by 1 April the contract is very similar whether it is a PFI , where a pollution 2009 will continue to receive one ROC per or a PPP.
Those accredited after that estimates that as much as 30 billion of remedial action to be undertaken.
date will receive 25% of one ROC.
Viridor is investment will be required in the UK to currently ensuring that the vast majority of meet municipal waste landfill diversion Waste facilities are also subject to the same its capacity is accredited by 1 April 2009. targets by 2020. regulations as other industries, including In addition certain technologies such as health and safety, control of substances Anaerobic Digestion AD have been Viridor has been operating a PFI contract with hazardous to health and the Working Time incentivised with double ROCs.
Viridor is West Sussex County Council since April 2005.
In addition the transport of waste .
In  is subject to specific controls.
, atthe Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 23
