Directorsreport | Businessreview ChrisLoughlin ChiefExecutive SouthWestWater  .
We have made excellent progress with our PURESERVICE OVERVIEW focused objectives of: This year a number of projects have been delivered to progress the Pure Service vision: improving service to customers and This year South West Water has been laying the tackling affordability issues foundations for the future.
Our vision Pure Accenture was awarded the customer Water, Pure Service and Pure Environment was service and billing contract, giving us the completing required investment in our launched during 2007 and is being used as the opportunity for a step change in customer assets and infrastructure for the benefit basis for our plans over the next 25 years.
service through quality improvements and of our customers and the environment more efficient ways of working The vision defines the following aspirations for improving operating efficiencies.
South West Water: a new contact centre system was installed Delivery against our long-term aspirations to improve our call-handling services for Pure Water investment in maintaining our set out in our vision has already started.
The benefits assets to give our customers the highest of the new system are already being seen, quality drinking water PUREWATER with a significant improvement in capacity Pure Service improving the services that and a reduction in the number of repeat To progress the Pure Water vision, there have customers experience contacts from customers been a number of key achievements during the year: Pure Environment delivering sustainable WaterCare, a ground-breaking new sewerage services for the regions benefit.
customer care programme, was launched this has been our 11th consecutive year early in 2007 targeted at helping those without water restrictions.
Persistent rain Underpinning the vision is the strategy of most in need to pay their bills.
Customers during the summer months, followed by striking the right balance between investing are advised on how to manage better both below average rainfall during the winter to improve our services, financeability and, their water use and household budget, months, have tested our supply demand importantly, customer affordability.
including claiming all the benefits to which resilience.
The company has put in place they are entitled.
Some customers benefit We must meet ongoing regulatory a comprehensive strategy to help ensure from moving on to a special payment plan requirements.
The Governments new water a continued secure supply of water for which enables them to make regular strategy for England, Future Water, was the region.
Customer satisfaction with affordable payments, thereby reducing the published in February 2008.
The themes of the the reliability of the supply received from companys outstanding debt.
In 2007 08 South West Water vision are echoed in the South West Water is at its highest ever WaterCare has delivered tangible benefits Governments strategy and the key challenges level of 94% to nearly 2,000 customers and has been of addressing future requirements for water projects have been delivered to modernise commended by the Government as an supply and demand: water quality in our our infrastructure, such as a major upgrade exemplary service offered to customers natural environment: the impacts of climate for Littlehempston Water Treatment Works, change: and tackling customer affordability, the company improved its position in both which serves 160,000 homes in Torbay and form a significant part of our strategy.
the Water and Sewerage Companies and South Devon All Companies league tables for 2006 07 The new vision and strategy for South West we achieved our target of keeping leakage in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment Water formed the basis of our early work in at or below 84Ml d. We have achieved or OPA, with a best ever ranking of fifth out preparation for the next Periodic Review beaten our leakage target in every year of ten amongst the water and sewerage due in 2009. since targets were introduced by Ofwat in companies compared with our sixth place in December 2007 we published our 1999 2000 in 2005 06 Strategic Direction Statement which sets one of the most significant elements we won first place in the sustainability out our aspirations and the challenges we of the current investment programme category of the Water Industry Achievement face in pursuing our Pure Water, Pure 2005-2010 is water mains rehabilitation.
Awards 2008 for our work in assisting Service and Pure Environment vision A further 479.9km of water mains were business customers to save money and over the next 25 years replaced or relined during the year as conserve water.
in March 2008 we issued our draft Water part of the companys ongoing Putting Resources Plan, which sets out our strategy the Sparkle Back into Your Water to ensure that all customers have a secure programme, agreed with the Drinking Water supply of water for the next 25 years.
Inspectorate DWI for completion by 2010.
Four key programme milestones have now Developing the Pure framework has assisted been successfully achieved.
Work to meet South West Water in focusing on delivering a the fifth and final milestone is under way strong performance over the past 12 months.
and is due to be completed before 2010 drinking water quality overall compliance for the calendar year 2007, as monitored by the DWI, achieved its highest ever level of 99.97% compared with the 99.96% level achieved in 2005 and 2006.
4 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
