Directorsreport | Businessreview  MAINTRENDSANDFACTORS ASAT31MARCH2008  DEVELOPMENT, PERFORMANCE Main facilities ANDPOSITIONOFTHE COMPANYSBUSINESS Other facilities The  BUSINESSANDSTRATEGY     policies.
   first instancetominimise theamountof , wastetransfer waste generated, thento maximisereuseand stations, treatmentplants,  recycling,  energy civicamenity sites HWRS   .
The Government is :    togo tolandfill.
This Directive was  of wastedisposal the methane generatedbylandfills, althoughin   energygeneration .
 At the same time it is increasingly recognised  that waste is a major renewable energy source, : accounting for approximately 30% of current.
PFI&PPPcontracts UK renewable energy or roughly 1.5% of total.
recyclingoperations UK electricity production: principally this is.
currently from landfill gas utilisation, which EfWplants.
has grown by 600% over the past 10 years.
,  The Institution of Civil Engineers has recently .
estimated that waste could theoretically account for up to 17% of total UK electricity Viridor isoneof  operatorsin theUK witha  of production.
Even if this is an over-estimate  at 31March2008.
Thecompanyis at present fillingthisat a it is still clear that waste can make a major rate ofapproximatelysix  an  contribution to the UKs future energy needs.
14 years atcurrentrates of fill  a whole.
The Governments target of diverting Gas produced from decomposing waste on landfill sites is increasingly used to generate electricity.
municipal waste away from landfill up to 2020 It is a form of renewable energy and now represents 24% of the UKs total renewable energy is leading to a decline in the landfill market.
The Governments strategy is to increase the percentage of However, with only around six or seven years electricity generated from renewable sources from the current figure of approaching 5% to a target consented capacity intheUKasawhole of 10% in 2010 and 15% in 2015, with an aspiration of 20% in 2020.
Historically, renewable energy  Agency estimates projects were supported by the Government through the NFFO scheme.
Fixed price Retail Price Index and with new consents difficult to achieve, RPI contractswithtermsof upto15yearswere awardedtothemost competitiverenewable projects Viridors 84 million cubic metres is regarded as infivetranchesof bidding.
In  replacedby  a very valuable resource.
Whilst open-market Certificates ROCs regime.
The overall price for electricity supplied under ROCs is currently brown energy prices in 2007 08 were below substantially higher than that achieved under the most recent NFFO scheme.
This has facilitated the 2006 07 peaks, they have since recovered increasing of Viridors total landfill gas power generation capacity to a current 84 MW at 31 March strongly, and the premium for renewable 2008, compared with 28MW in March 2002.
Of this 45% is under NFFO and 55% under ROCs.
As the UK increasingly relies on imports of energy and seeks to grow To take advantage of opportunities presented by the Governments developing waste strategy, its output of renewables, Viridorspower Viridor is pursuing composting, EfW and a range of recycling or related treatment opportunities generationbusinessis expected to become including materials recycling facilities,  treatment, anaerobic digestion, an increasingly valuable asset.
The need for composting and civic amenity or household waste recycling sites.
These may be combined in councils to achieve their landfill diversion integrated waste management contracts.
targets creates attractive opportunities for PFI PPP contracts such as Viridors with West Inpursuing its strategy, Viridorseeks togrowitswaste managementbusiness, bothorganically and Sussex and Somerset, for facilities such as throughacquisition.
Ithascontinuedto be an activeparticipantin theconsolidationof the UKwaste the Lakeside EfW plant, and forrecycling markettodateand, sinceOctober2001,  thewaste sectorforan  aggregate considerationof over290million.
Theyhave been  Management and Viridor Electrical Recycling.
20 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts
