Directorsreport can be obtained from Companies House employees share plans.
None of these is considered to be significant in terms in the UK or by writing to the Company OTHERSTATUTORY of their potential impact on the business Secretary at the registered office.
INFORMATION of the Group as a whole except for The holders of the Companys shares are agreements relating to 210 million of entitled to receive the Companys reports term loans and 85 million of drawn and accounts and in relation to general  revolving credit facilities maturing on meetings of the Company they have the REVIEW various dates up to and including right to attend and speak, exercise voting 15 August 2010 which could become rights and appoint proxies.
The principal activities of the Company repayable upon a change of control of b there are no restrictions on the transfer and its subsidiaries the Group are the the Company.
A change of control will be of issued shares of the Company or on the provision of water and sewerage services and deemed to have occurred if any person or exercise of voting rights attached to waste management.
Information regarding persons acting in concert as defined in them, except where the Company has the Group, including important events and its the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers exercised its right to suspend their voting progress during the year, events since the at any time is are or become s rights or to prohibit their transfer year end and likely future developments is interested in more than 50% of the following the omission of their holder or contained in the business review set out on issued ordinary share capital of the any person interested in them to provide pages 2 to 42 of this Directors report.
Company or shares in the capital of the the Company with information requested Company carrying more than 50% of the by it in accordance with Part 22 of the In addition the business review contains a fair voting rights normally exercisable at a Companies Act 2006 or where their and balanced review of the business of the general meeting of the Company.
holder is precluded from exercising Group, including its position and prospects, voting rights by the Financial Services Key Performance Indicators and a description  Authoritys Listing Rules or the City Code of the principal risks and uncertainties facing on Takeovers and Mergers.
Statutory Group profit on ordinary the Group in accordance with the requirements c details of significant direct or indirect activities after taxation was 133.6 million.
of the Combined Code and Section 234ZZB of holdings of securities of the Company are The Directors recommend a final dividend the Companies Act 1985 as well as further set out in the shareholder analysis on of 13.56p per ordinary share to be paid to information on employee, environmental, page 114 shareholder information shareholders on the register on 8 August 2008, social and community matters, reflecting the d the Companys rules about the making a total for the year of 19.81p, the cost requirements of Section 417 of the Companies appointment and replacement of of which will be 69.1 million, leaving a Act 2006 which came into force on 1 October Directors are contained in the Articles retained surplus of 64.5 million.
The business 2007 in respect of financial years commencing and accord with usual English company review on pages 28 to 35 analyses the financial on or after 1 October 2007.
In addition in law provisions.
The powers of Directors results in more detail and sets out other accordance with the ABI Corporate Social are determined by UK legislation and the financial information, including the Directors Responsibility Guidelines, statements are Memorandum of the Company and the opinion on asset values on page 32. included on any significant environmental, Articles in force from time to time.
social and governance ESG risks and the DIRECTORS Changes to the Articles must be actions taken in mitigating these risks within approved by the shareholders by David Dupont and Kate Mortimer are due to .
retire at the AGM on 31 July 2008 and offer Further information on ESG aspects of the e the Directors have the power to make themselves up for re-election.
In addition, as Groups business are included in the corporate purchases of the Companys own shares Ken Harvey has been a Director for over nine responsibility section of the business review on in issue as set out in the section on years, in accordance with the Combined Code pages 36 to 41.
The principal subsidiaries page 45 Purchase Of Own Ordinary he offers himself up for re-election annually.
of the Company are listed in note 38 to the Shares and such rights have been The Board continues to believe that Kate financial statements on page 109. exercised as set out in that section.
The Mortimer, as a Non-executive Director Directors also have the authority to allot standing for re-election is independent, and  shares up to an aggregate nominal value that she makes an effective and valuable The following disclosures are made pursuant to of 30,210,712 which was approved by contribution to the Board, demonstrating Part 7 of Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 shareholders at the 2007 Annual General continued commitment to the role.
Neither as inserted by Section 992, Companies Act Meeting AGM.
In addition, shareholders Ken Harvey nor Kate Mortimer has a service 2006 in accordance with the EU Takeover approved a resolution giving the contract, although Ken Harveys contract for Directive 2004 25 EC.
As at 31 March 2008: Directors a limited authority to allot services is terminable upon 12 months notice.
shares for cash other than pro rata to David Dupont has a service contract which is a details of the Companys issued share existing shareholders.
These resolutions due to expire in six years time, being upon his capital, which consists of ordinary shares remain valid until the conclusion of this normal retirement date.
Resolutions for the of nominal value 40.7 pence each, are years AGM.
Resolutions will be proposed above Directors re-election will be proposed set out in Note 31 to the financial at this years AGM to renew these at the AGM.
No Director has, or has had, a statements on pages 99 to 103.
The Directors have no material interest, directly or indirectly, at any the Companys issued shares are fully present intention to issue ordinary time during the year under review in any paid up, rank equally in all respects shares, other than pursuant to employee contract significant to the Companys business.
and are listed on the Official List and share schemes.
A list of all the Directors during the year is set traded on the London Stock Exchange.
f there are a number of agreements which out in the emoluments table on page 50.
The rights and obligations attaching to take effect, alter or terminate upon a Further details relating to the Directors and the Companys shares, in addition to change of control of the Company their service contracts or contracts for services those conferred on their holders by law, following a takeover bid, such as bank are set out on pages 46 to 50 and details of the are set out in the Companys Articles of loan agreements, Eurobond documenDirectors interests in shares of the Company Association Articles, copies of which tation, private placement debt and are given on pages 51 to 53.
44 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts PennonGroup AUDITORS     LLP were appointed Research and development activities within auditors until the conclusion of the nineteenth a So far as each of the Directors in office at the Group involving water and waste treatment Annual General Meeting.
A resolution for their the date of the signing of the report are aware, processes amounted to 0.2 million during the re-appointment upon the recommendation of there is no relevant audit information of which year 2006 07 0.1 million.
the Audit Committee of the Board will be the Companys auditors are unaware: and proposed at the AGM.
b each of the Directors has taken all the PENNONGROUPDONATIONS steps each Director ought to have taken During the year, donations amounting to APPOINTEDBUSINESS individually as a director in order to make 64,300 were made.
Details relating to themselves aware of any relevant audit South West Water Limited is required to charitable and other donations will be set out information and to establish that the publish additional financial information in the Corporate Responsibility Report which Companys auditors are aware of that relating to the appointed business as water will be available for viewing on the Companys information.
and sewerage undertaker in accordance with website at www.
co. uk from the Instrument of Appointment from the 4 July 2008.
No political donations were made.
FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS Secretary of State for the Environment.
Details of the financial risk management A copy of this information will be available TAXSTATUS objectives and policies of the Group and the from 11 July 2008 upon application to the The Company is not a close company within the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity Company Secretary at Peninsula House, meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes and cash flow risks are set out in the business Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR.
PAYMENTSTOSUPPLIERS ANNUALGENERALMEETING  It is the Groups payment policy for the year The nineteenth Annual General Meeting of EMPLOYEEINVOLVEMENT ending 31 March 2009 to follow the Code of the Company will be held at the Sandy Park The Group has a culture of continuous The Better Payment Practice Group on supplier Conference Centre, Sandy Park Way, Exeter, improvement through investment in people payments.
Information about the Code can be Devon EX2 7NN on 31 July 2008 at 11.00am.
at all levels within the Group.
The Group is obtained from www.
co. uk In addition to routine business, resolutions committed to pursuing equality and diversity The Company will agree payment terms with will be proposed at the Annual General in all its employment activities including individual suppliers in advance and abide by Meeting to: recruitment, training, career development and such terms.
The ratio, expressed in days, promotion and ensuring there is no bias or between the amount invoiced to the Company renew the existing authorities to issue a discrimination in the treatment of people.
by its suppliers during 2007 08 and the limited number of shares and to purchase In particular, applications for employment are amount owed to its trade creditors at up to 10% of the issued share capital of welcomed from disabled persons and special 31 March 2008, was 33 days.
the Company arrangements and adjustments as necessary seek authority to make political donations are made to ensure that disabled applicants  under the Political Parties, Elections and are treated fairly when attending for interview The Company has authority from shareholders Referendums Act 2000 or for pre-employment aptitude tests.
to purchase up to 10% of its own ordinary Wherever possible, the opportunity is taken to shares as renewed at the AGM in 2007 which re-elect Messrs K G Harvey and D J Dupont retrain people who become disabled during was valid as at 31 March 2008 and remains and MsKMH Mortimer as Directors of their employment in order to maintain their currently valid.
In connection with the return the Company employment within the Group.
Employees are of cash to shareholders as set out in the approve new Articles of Association to consulted regularly about changes which may Circular to shareholders dated 23 January provide for new legislative provisions affect them either through their trade union 2006, the Company during 2007 08 purchased arising from the implementation of appointed representatives or by means of the from the market 8,245,008 ordinary shares further provisions of the Companies Act elected Staff Council which operates in South 40.7p of which 960,000 were cancelled and 2006 including dealing with conflicts of West Water for staff employees.
These forums, 7,285,008 were held in Treasury for the interest of Directors.
together with regular meetings with particular purposes of employee share schemes at a cost groups of employees, are used to ensure that of 49.3 million amounting to approximately Details of the resolutions are set out in employees are kept up to date with the 2.3% of its issued ordinary shares.
Of the the separate Notice of Annual General operating and financial performance of 7,285,008 shares held in Treasury 873,602 Meeting circulated to shareholders with this their employer.
The Group also uses a were subsequently re-issued under the Annual Report.
monthly information cascade process to Companys Sharesave Scheme for proceeds provide employees with important and up of 1.6 million.
to date information about key events.
By Order of the Board A total of 57,967 ordinary shares were also KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Further information about employment purchased during the year by the Pennon Company Secretary matters relating to South West Water is set out Employee Share Trust, Pennon Share Plans 26 June 2008 on pages 13 and 14, and to Viridor on page 24 Guernsey Limited, for the deferred element of the business review.
of the Groups Annual Incentive Bonus Plan.
The total purchase price was 0.3 million and The Group encourages share ownership the shares amounted to approximately 0.02% amongst its employees by operating both an of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave Scheme and a Share Incentive Plan.
At 31 March 2008 around 35% of the Groups employees participated in these plans.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 45
