22 Board of Directors 1 5 2 6 3 7 4 8 9 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 23 1.
Hamish Leslie Melville Group Chairman age 57 Non-Executive Director age 64 JohnWhite was appointed Group Chairman in April 2006, Hamish Leslie Melville is a Managing Director and previously having been Group Chief Executive for 13 years.
Chairman of the European Investment Banking Committee He has spent all his working life in the housing industry.
of Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited.
He is Chairman After joining Persimmon in 1979 he was responsible for of The Mercantile InvestmentTrust Plc.
Mr Leslie Melville establishing the Groups operations in the Midlands, following was appointed to the Board in 1995 and is a member of the which he was appointed Regional Chairman for the South.
MrWhite was appointed to the Board in 1986 and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the Risk Committee.
David Thompson Senior Independent Director age 54 2.
MCIOB DavidThompson is Chairman of Marstons PLC and Group Chief Executive age 55 Chief Executive of Anglia Maltings Holdings Limited.
Mike Farley was appointed Group Chief Executive in He is also a non-executive director of Caledonia Investments April 2006 following a very successful period as Chief Plc andTheTribal Group Plc.
Appointed to the Board in Executive of the original South Division.
He joined August 1999, he is the Senior Independent Director, Persimmon in 1983 and was appointed to the Board in 1989.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Mr Farley is a member of the Chartered Institute of Building Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
and was responsible for establishing theWessex operating business and for developing the business in the Midlands.
Neil Davidson CBE Mr Farley is a member of the Risk Committee.
Non-Executive Director age 58 Neil Davidson is Chairman of the Nickerson Rothwell 3.
ACA Group, Leicestershire County Cricket Club Limited and Group Finance Director age 47 Yorkshire Carbon Liaison, a division ofYorkshire Forward Mike Killoran joined the Company in 1996 and was and a Director of Emerging Media.
He was previously appointed to the Board in January 1999.
A chartered Chief Executive of Arla Foods UK PLC until he retired in accountant by profession, Mr Killoran worked in June 2005.
He is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility manufacturing, distribution and retail sectors before Committee and a member of the Audit and Remuneration joining the Group.
He took over his present role in Committees.
April 1999 and is a member of the Risk Committee.
David Bryant Non-Executive Director age 53 Group Development Director age 56 NicholasWrigley is Managing Director of Rothschild David Bryant joined the Company in 1985 and was London and a member of its Global Investment Banking appointed to the Board in 1991.
Appointed Group Committee and Global Management Committee.
He has Development Director on 1 July 2005 he has responsibilities over 25 years mergers and acquisitions experience at for a number of Group functions including Sales and Rothschild including three years in Australia.
Before joining Marketing, Media and PR, Health and Safety and Rothschild he qualified as an accountant.
appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Mr Bryant is also Chairman of the East Midlands, Anglia Audit and Nomination Committees.
Richard Pennycook Non-Executive Director age 45 Richard Pennycook was appointed to the Board on 14 March 2008.
A chartered accountant and graduate of Bristol University, he has been the Group Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC since 2005.
Previous roles include Group Finance Director of RAC plc, Finance Director of J DWetherspoon plc, CEO of Welcome Break Holdings PLC and Non-Executive Director of Richer Sounds plc.
Mr Pennycook was appointed to the Audit Committee on 19 June 2008.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008
