6 Business Review 2008: Our Strategy Development Our business requires in depth knowledge of local markets in order to engage subcontractors, plan sites in accordance with local demand, to anticipate customer taste in specific markets and to assess the regulatory environment.
Our divisional structure is designed to utilise our local market expertise.
We ensure we are not dependent on a single supplier or subcontractor for the construction of our new homes and Mike Farley, Group Chief Executive maintain efficient operations by utilising standardised materials available from a variety of sources.
Introduction Sales Our strategy is to be a leading national housebuilder, We continue to follow our strategy of reducing exposure building homes ranging from small affordable starter homes to local market volatility by maintaining operations across to large premium family homes and selling to both the geographically and economically diverse markets private market and housing associations.
throughout the UK to enhance our sales potential.
This strategy has now been complimented by a stronger We monitor our sales, maintain realistic pricing and then focus on cash generation in order to strengthen our balance closely match our build programmes with our customer sheet.
We continue to improve our business processes to orders.
We ensure a strong focus on quality and customer control costs and we have repositioned each of our satisfaction.
operating businesses to gain market share in our core housing markets that offer the best growth opportunities Corporate Responsibility for the future.
Our key responsibilities are to build sustainable homes and Cash Generation communities, to operate efficiently and to minimise our impact on the environment, to work with local The decline in mortgage availability and housing demand communities, to promote the skills of our employees, to throughout the country has necessitated a review of our provide a safe and healthy working environment for our business strategy in the construction and sale of new homes workforce and to care for our customers.
As a consequence our main strategy is now the generation of cash to reduce our debt, maintain Our strategy is to integrate these complex social and liquidity and manage our balance sheet.
environmental issues into our management processes from the start of our developments.
Land Our current landbank represents a c. 6.8 year supply.
Our strategy is to reduce our landbank to an equivalent of c. 5 years supply so as to align our landbank with the expected future consumer demand for our homes.
We continue to control a substantial amount of land both owned and through option agreements which we promote through the planning process as part of our long term strategy for replacing land at below open market value.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008 7 Business Review 2008: Principal Risks The Groups financial and operational performance is subject to a significant number of risks, which are subject to continual assessment by management to mitigate and minimise these risks.
There are also many risks which are outside of our control which can affect our business.
Our principal risks are: Risk Impact Mitigation The housebuilding industry is sensitive to We minimise the level of speculative National and regional changes in job growth, interest rates and build undertaken by closely controlling our economic conditions consumer confidence.
Further deterioration work in progress levels.
in economic conditions may significantly decrease demand and pricing for new homes, which could have a material effect on our business revenues, margins and profits.
Capital requirements Our ability to continue to manage our The Group actively maintains a mixture of business depends on our ability to access medium and long term debt and bonding capital on favourable terms.
We could be lines to ensure sufficient funds and bonding adversely affected by a change in our credit are available to support operations.
rating or disruption in the capital markets resulting in credit facilities not being available.
We also require access to bonding facilities to secure planning, road and sewer agreements for our developments.
Mortgage availability Any further restrictions in the market We ensure construction is matched to availability of mortgages for our customers our level of sales.
could reduce demand for our homes and affect revenues, margins and profits.
We operate in a market with many other We constantly review our prices and sales Competitive markets national, regional and local housebuilders.
incentives offered to customers to maintain Increasing levels of competition for a appropriate sales volumes.
We plan our reduced number of buyers could reduce the developments to provide the right house number of homes we sell and affect styles and specification to suit the local revenues, margins and profits.
Our business is subject to extensive and We hold a landbank sufficient to provide Regulatory compliance complex laws and regulations principally security of supply for short term relating to planning, the environment and requirements.
We operate comprehensive health and safety.
Our obligations to comply management systems to ensure regulatory with legislation can result in delays in land compliance and reduction in reputational development and housebuilding activity risk.
causing us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict land development and construction.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2008
