18 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Management structure 1 January 2009 Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive Group Chief Executives Committee Maroun Semaan Robin Pinchbeck Group Chief Operating Group Director of Strategy Officer and Corporate Development Subramanian Sarma Marwan Chedid Rajesh Verma Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Engineering & Engineering & Engineering Services Construction Construction Ventures From our headquarters in Sharjah As part of our value offering to Drawing on extensive engineering, UAE, and with support from several customers, Engineering & construction, procurement and other regional engineering offices, Construction Ventures has operations experience, our Engineering & Construction established strategic companies engineering services blend provides tailored and integrated and joint ventures with practical experience with the latest engineering, procurement and complementary organisations in advances in technical innovation construction EPC solutions for order to drive growth in new across conceptual, front end onshore projects while adhering markets and across new product engineering and detailed design.
to strict principles of safety and lines.
Already adding value to With a pool of resources that quality of design.
We provide Petrofacs suite of services, the includes a full range of discipline project execution services through three key elements of Engineering engineers and specialists, we work a variety of contracting models to & Construction Ventures are: closely with our customers to suit the individual requirements of Petrofac Emirates a joint venture establish project teams with the the customer and the projects, with with Mubadala Petroleum Services optimum combination of skills and most of our current portfolio of Company in Abu Dhabi experience.
Our aim is to ensure projects being undertaken on a Petrofac IKPT a joint venture that the best development solution lump-sum turnkey basis.
with Indonesias IKPT pursuing is identified in order to provide LNG opportunities maximum value to our customers.
Petrofac Saudi Arabia Executive members of the Petrofac Limited Board.
Business review 19 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Management structure At the end of 2008 we announced a restructuring within our group which took effect on 1 January 2009.
The structure has been created to improve integration and provide a platform for future growth.
Our services are now delivered through seven business units, five of which are led by Maroun Semaan as Group Chief Operating Officer, and the other two, by Amjad Bseisu, Chief Executive, Energy Developments.
Group Chief Executives Committee Keith Roberts Richard Milne Amjad Bseisu Chief Financial Officer Group Director of Legal Chief Executive and Commercial Affairs Energy Developments Bill Dunnett Leigh Howarth Gordon East Rob Jewkes Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director & EVP Offshore Engineering Petrofac Training Production Solutions Project Development & & Operations Operations Energy Developments We provide a full range of services We have capabilities in three core We offer our customers a We co-invest in oil & gas including operations management, areas: the provision of single-point of access to a wide production, processing and offshore engineering, construction competence-led training services: range of production improvement transportation assets, leveraging and maintenance: consultancy services to identify or services provided under the extensive engineering and Brownfield provides engineering assess competency gaps or risks value-aligned commercial operations capability of the & construction modifications for within an organisation: and structures.
Our specialist engineers Petrofac group to better brownfield sites: and through outsourced tailored management and consultants use innovative understand and help mitigate Atlantic Resourcing, provides an solutions.
Our integrated approach technologies, combined with development risks, and enhance international recruitment and to training and competence knowledge and experience, to help project returns in complete selection service enables our customers to achieve improve production, profitability, alignment with our partners.
Operations Management offers competent, safer and more efficient operational efficiency, asset Our Energy Infrastructure and a variety of facilities management workforces.
With a global footprint integrity and the recovery of Upstream teams bring considerable solutions for both on and offshore we operate or manage a total of 16 marginal reserves.
Our specialist technical, operational, commercial installations training centres in eight countries service providers, Eclipse, Caltec, and asset management skills Offshore Engineering & Projects and annually train more than i-Perform, SPD and Plant Asset backed by the strong financial delivers project management 50,000 individuals in the areas of Management enable us to provide resources of the group.
and engineering services to the safety, technical, operations and services either independently or as offshore and sub-sea emergency response while part of a wider integrated service.
development market managing the training requirements for many thousands more on behalf of our customers.
