56 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Governance 57 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2008 Board of Directors 1 Rodney Chase 6 Keith Roberts c Non-executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Rodney Chase was appointed non-executive Chairman of Petrofac Keith Roberts joined Petrofac in March 2002 as Chief Financial in June 2005.
Rodney spent 38 years at BP plc, of which 11 were Officer having spent most of his working life as an investment served on its board.
He was deputy group CEO on his retirement banker based in the City of London.
After positions in commercial from the BP group in May 2003.
He also spent time as CEO of the banking with Standard Chartered Bank and then with County exploration and production, and marketing and refining divisions.
Bank, the merchant banking subsidiary of National Westminster He continues to serve as non-executive deputy chairman of Tesco Bank, Keith moved into corporate finance with Hawkpoint Partners plc: non-executive director of Computer Sciences Corporation: where he was a managing director and a member of the operating non-executive director of Nalco Company and non-executive committee.
He has previously served as a non-executive director director of Tesoro Corporation.
He has previously held positions of the Peacock Group plc.
Age 52. as a board member of BOC plc and Diageo plc.
7 Kjell Almskog a c d 2 Ayman Asfari Non-executive Director c Group Chief Executive Kjell Almskog was appointed to the Petrofac Board in March 2005.
Ayman Asfari joined Petrofac in 1991 to establish Petrofac Kjell has held a number of senior executive positions including 13 International.
Ayman has more than 28 years experience in the oil years at the international ABB group - most latterly as deputy group & gas industry and served as Chief Executive Officer of Petrofac CEO and Head of its Oil, Gas & Petrochemicals division.
He was International until his appointment as Group Chief Executive of then Chief Executive of Kvaerner from 1998 until its merger with Petrofac Limited in January 2002.
Ayman previously worked as the Aker in 2001.
Kjell was appointed non-executive chairman of Intex managing director of a major civil and mechanical construction Resources ASA, a Norwegian listed mining and exploration business based in Oman.
Ayman currently serves as a member company in November 2007.
He continues to serve as nonof The Board of Trustees of The American University of Beirut.
executive deputy chairman of Kverneland Group ASA and as a Age 50. senior advisor of the Taylor Group.
3 Michael Press 8 Amjad Bseisu a b c d Senior Independent Director, Non-executive Director Chief Executive, Energy Developments Michael Press was appointed to the Petrofac Board in April 2002, Amjad Bseisu joined Petrofac in 1998 and founded the Energy having previously held senior executive positions for the Standard Developments business.
In 2007, Amjad rejoined the Petrofac Oil Company Inc and BP and as a main board director of Amerada Board having previously served for several years prior to the Hess.
Between 1997 and 2001, Michael held various posts at KBC Companys admission to listing on the London Stock Exchange in Advanced Technologies including non-executive director, executive 2005.
From 1984 to 1998, Amjad worked for the Atlantic Richfield chairman, and chief executive.
Michael is chairman of TWMA, an Company ARCO, ultimately as head of International Marketing, Aberdeen based global drilling waste management firm and Negotiations and Business Development and president of ARCO continues to serve as senior independent director of Chart Petroleum Ventures and ARCO Crude Trading, Inc. Amjad was a Industries Inc. Age 61. founding non-executive director of Serica Energy plc and Stratic Energy Corporation.
4 Maroun Semaan Group Chief Operating Officer 9 Rijnhard van Tets a b d Maroun Semaan joined Petrofac in 1991 to establish Petrofac Non-executive Director International.
From 1977 to 1991, Maroun held various project Rijnhard van Tets was appointed a nonexecutive Director of positions with Consolidated Contractors International Co, based Petrofac in 2007.
Rijnhard is currently general partner of Laaken in the Middle East, where he was involved in the management of Asset Management NV.
He was an adviser to the managing board oil & gas pipeline, process facilities and civil works projects in of ABN Amro between 2002 and 2007, having previously served as Oman and Bahrain.
Having previously been Chief Executive of a member of ABN Amros managing board for 12 years.
Rijnhard Petrofac Engineering & Construction, he was appointed Group occupied a number of very senior executive positions at ABN Chief Operating Officer in January 2009 following the group AMRO, most latterly as chairman of ABN AMROs Wholesale reorganisation.
Maroun currently serves as a member of The Board Clients and Investment Banking Group between 1996 and 2002. of Trustees of The American University of Sharjah.
Rijnhard currently serves as a non-executive chairman of the boards of Arcadis NV: Euronext Amsterdam NV: Euronext NV and 5 Bernard fide Combret Equity Trust Holdings SARL and is a non-executive director of IFF b c d Non-executive Director Europe: NYSE Euronext Inc: Stichting Administratiekantoor Bernard fide Combret was appointed to the Petrofac Board in Bhrmann NV: and a number of charitable organisations.
Bernard was deputy chairman of Totals executive committee until his retirement in 2002.
Following senior positions in both the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Finance, he spent 24 years with Elf and subsequently Total where he was CEO of refining marketing: CEO for gas, power, new energies: and CEO for trading and shipping.
He is currently non-executive chairman of Coastal Energy in addition to serving as a nonexecutive director of Winstar Resources Ltd and a member of the a Member of the Audit Committee international advisory board of Grupo Santander.
He has previously b Member of the Remuneration Committee held positions as a board member of Renault VI, CEPSA and c Member of the Nominations Committee Banco Central Hispano.
Age 66. d Member of the Risk Committee
