19 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The Premier Farnell Introduction The web is a preferred channel for Group consists of two divisions: the Marketing many EDE customers and offers a lower and Distribution Division MDD and the Industrial cost to serve channel as opposed to Products Division IPD.
This part The MDD is comprised of four businesses see of our strategy is a key element of our page 11 involved in the distribution of a wide range multi-channel end to end customer of electronic components and equipment and experience plan, which includes both maintenance, repair and operations MRO products into commercial, industrial and public sector markets our EDE and our MRO customer base.
throughout Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
Together they represented 90.1% of sales and 85.1% of operating profit in the year, based on continuing operations and before head office costs.
Within these markets, the MDD businesses serve the varying needs of Electronic Design Engineers EDEs, small scale production units, procurement specialists and maintenance and repair engineers.
In aggregate, the MDD businesses have over two million customer contacts that are attracted by a common need for a broad product range, rapid and reliable delivery and specialist value-adding services.
They place many small orders, with average order values of approximately 220 in North America and 100 in Europe and Asia Pacific.
The division stocks in excess of 400,000 different products sourced from a large number of suppliers and provides customers with access to a further four million products.
The Groups growth strategy is largely directed to this division.
Through a dedicated plan to increase the proportion of sales made to EDEs, via the web, and through internationalisation, the Company is targeting sales growth of between 6% and 8% per year.
The Industrial Products Division IPD comprises businesses supplying high-performance products to specialist industrial markets, predominantly in North America see page 11.
The division accounted for 9.9% of sales and 14.9% of operating profit in the year, based on continuing operations and before head office costs.
The following sections cover only the MDD businesses on the basis that this division represented 90.1% of sales.
The IPD businesses are covered in the relevant section of the Review of Operations.
Mark Whiteling Chief Financial Officer 20 Business Review Markets The overall electronics distribution market in which the Group value in Europe and Asia Pacific is 100 and in North operates comprises the high volume distributors, who America is 220. handle the supply of large quantities of components for the scheduled manufacturing process of electronic equipment Both Newark and Farnell offer customers a very broad manufacturers around the world, and the low volume, high range of products for use in electronic equipment.
Since service distributors who handle the requirements of EDEs the 1950s, the pervasion of electronics into everyday life engaged in the design of new products for consumers and has increased steadily and the aesthetics of these products businesses.
Premier Farnell falls into the second category has become increasingly important, as has the long term low volume, high service distribution.
The Group also impact of their creation and disposal on our health and supports MRO engineers who are maintaining and repairing planet.
Whereas electronic design activity was previously the installed product base of electronic equipment.
The chart focused on introducing new product types, this has now on the following page shows the nature of customer demand been supplemented by improvements to the look and for products over time.
The overall global electronics feel of existing products, how they affect the user, and distribution market is approaching 200 billion, of which the environmental implications.
This has an impact on the the high service element is estimated at approximately growth rate that we expect from the EDE customer base 15 billion, less than one-tenth of the total market.
The level of maintenance and repair activity varies by geography and reflects the indigenous Whilst the market remains quite fragmented the barriers to manufacturing environment and the general level of entry are being raised all the time and increasingly there are economic activity.
fewer distributors who can compete in the high service distribution space.
Customers are looking for a breadth and CPC and MCM supply electrical and electronic ranges, depth of product, superior logistics and high quality, reliable such as audio-visual and security products, to very broad product data and information.
They also want access to a customer bases, from specialist retailers and small wide selection of leading suppliers and technologies from a businesses to large organisations.
The level of general company that can guarantee its product integrity: provide economic activity therefore also influences MDDs sales.
the most accurate, updated product information available and offer same or next day delivery.
Premier Farnell is one of Migration of manufacturing the distributors able to meet these exacting requirements.
The market opportunity available to us in our main geographic markets continues to grow as design Farnell has a strong position in the UK and Australian markets engineering stays predominantly indigenous compared with and Newark is one of the leaders in North America.
Outside the migration of higher volume manufacturing to lower cost these markets, though the businesses are recognised and economies in recent years.
While lower wage rates have respected, there remains significant opportunity for growth.
attracted high volume manufacturing to Eastern Europe and Premier Farnells competitive advantage rests in its global Asia, the migration of design, research and development reach to customers and suppliers offered by the combination R&D and small scale manufacturing has not occurred in of these two businesses.
As the EDE market continues to grow the opportunities for us grow with it.
The other businesses within MDD, namely CPC and MCM, operate primarily on a national basis in their home markets In addition, there is a large installed base of electronic UK and Ireland, and North America, respectively and are equipment that needs maintaining in our traditional focused on a particular subset of the overall electronics geographic market.
Our profitable MRO business continues distribution market.
As volume manufacturing has migrated to emerging markets, these countries have grown Economic cycles their industrial infrastructure and their installed base of MDD supplies a variety of industries in a variety of electronic systems and Premier Farnell is meeting the geographic markets.
Not only does no customer account requests of a number of larger customers and suppliers for more than 2% of sales, no supplier accounts for more to support their expansion in these regions.
This diversification of geography, customer segments and suppliers limits the Companys Outsourcing exposure to regionalised economic cycles.
We support a With mounting pressures on industry in the US and Western huge range of customers in over 156 different industry Europe to become more efficient, purchasing professionals types.
Additionally, personal credit is rarely extended to are turning to their distributors for more assistance and MDD customers as orders are relatively low average value product information than ever before.
Many manufacturing and customers pay at the time of order.
The average order companies are streamlining or outsourcing the procurement 21 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Hitesh Patel, Channel Business Development Manager Analog Devices Inc ADI ADI defines innovation and excellence in signal processing.
Their analog, mixed-signal, and digital signal processing integrated circuits play a fundamental role in converting, conditioning, and processing real world phenomena such as light, sound, temperature, motion, and pressure into electrical signals to be used in a wide array of electronic equipment.
ADI is an important supplier to electronic design engineers through Farnell in Europe and Newark in the Americas.
Hitesh explains why Premier Farnells multi-channel offering is important to them as a supplier.
The Premier Farnell Group continues to be a great partner for through the websites ensures that our products get to engineers Analog Devices Inc in North America and Europe by offering as soon as they become available, which is important for us design engineers easy access to our very latest technology to continue growing our customer base.
We look forward to products for their new designs.
The speed of delivery of ADI our continued collaboration with the Premier Farnell Group parts in their catalogues and through their websites is particularly of companies.
The speed to market of new products Product lifecycle Manufacturer direct Volume distribution Volume distribution EDE growing globally at c. 6-8% MRO Premier Farnell Manufacturer Premier Farnell Student Prototype Small OEM Large OEM Service Maintenance Repair R&D Pilot Broad Broad customer customer base base Engineers Purchasing professionals Engineers OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer 22 Business Review continued of their MRO product requirements in order to reduce the Web forums where engineers can exchange technical total cost of purchasing.
These customers are reducing information inventory and ordering closer to their point of need so Speed, simplicity of use and search capability requiring reliable supply, late ordering capability and next day Reduced stockholding costs service.
Premier Farnells MDD businesses are well positioned to create operating efficiencies for such customers by Other value-adding services such as technical support reducing the number of suppliers that they deal with and Reduced transaction costs through efficient processes by offering a range of other services, such as electronic such as eProcurement and through supplier reduction procurement and guaranteed integrity of the supply chain.
These services enable customers to reduce administrative The proposition to support our MRO customer base is also expenses associated with placing hundreds, or even service led, with the availability of product and multi-channel thousands, of small orders each year, and turn to a trusted capability valued by the customer.
They also value the level source for quality products and accurate information.
of technical support available, particularly through the call centres.
Environmental legislation There is an ever growing list of European environmental Suppliers legislation that impacts the Groups electronic component The MDD constitutes a powerful marketing and support distribution businesses.
The Restriction of Hazardous capability for our franchised supply partners to reach end Substances RoHS legislation restricts the use of certain users.
Our multi-channel offering is an effective means of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
ensuring that our large, dispersed and international customer These substances are restricted to complement the ease of base, can reach us however and whenever they want to.
Our recycling, re-use and recovery at the end of a products life speed of response, web based ordering, extensive stock under the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE holding and superior next day delivery offering helps our Directive.
Beyond Europe, countries such as China, Korea customers meet their own time to market challenges.
We and Australia are all looking to implement their own versions also offer the ability to market actively to their target customer of RoHS, with others to follow.
base through the customer relationship tools that we use and to understand better the requirements of EDE and MRO The Energy using Products EuP Directive looks at the customers.
The seeding of new products and technologies energy consumption of a product from mining the raw to the design engineering community is particularly valuable material right through to its recycling at end-of-life.
Finally, to suppliers as any of their components that are specified in the REACH regulations impose tighter controls over the the early phase of a design will be required in large volumes use of 30,000 chemicals in Europe.
when that design goes into production.
All these pieces of legislation impact, and are clearly Suppliers benefit from: communicated to, the Electronics Design Engineer.
Multi-channel offering which offers improved time to market Customer proposition Fast and reliable global distribution, supported by the The proposition for the EDE customer is based on the integrity of our supply chain and the technical help for breadth of product offering from the appropriate component customers suppliers, availability of product for shipment, quality and Improved support of new markets through local language quantity of technical information to support their work and websites the integrity of the supply chain.
EDE customers typically Effective marketing to specific customer groups within seek a broad range of products from a single source.
They the Divisions 2,000,000 customer contacts and other want products to be in stock and for small, mixed orders website visitors to be delivered quickly and reliably.
This customer base is generally very web-savvy and conducts an increasing Market intelligence and feedback proportion of work on the web, including search, selection and procurement.
We are committed to ensuring that our product offering is focused on our customer base and it is our intention to Accordingly, an excellent web experience is also important continue to add further products into our stocked inventory for this customer group.
They also benefit from: to enhance our product offering for the EDE customer.
Ease of identification, selection and ordering from a choice We believe that this will also benefit our MRO customer of channels including call centres, eCommerce, field sales base as well as making us more attractive as a partner to teams and printed catalogues other suppliers.
23 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Greg Faughnan, Director of Distribution Europe Molex With a single focus on the interconnect industry, Molex has more than 100,000 reliable products.
From electronic, electrical and fibre optic interconnect solutions to switches and application tooling, Molex is an important supplier to the global Premier Farnell Group.
Their innovative technology meets the needs of our global EDE and MRO customers, alike.
Greg Faughnan explains how Premier Farnells customer reach and websites are helping them to reach customers around the world.
Molex products need to reach millions of customers the world which provide customers with everything they need.
Premier over, at the right time.
Premier Farnell provides an excellent service Farnell is the most global distributor in our channel today and we to achieve that through their global reach of customers, their are fully engaged with their value proposition around the world.
comprehensive inventory offering and their very powerful websites Malcolm Campbell, Senior Channel Sales Manager Worldwide Microchip Technology Inc.
Microchip Technology is a leading provider of microcontroller and analog semiconductors providing low risk product development, lower total system cost and faster time to market for thousands of diverse customer applications worldwide.
Malcolm Campbell describes how Premier Farnell is aiding their time to market of new products and expanding their global customer base.
The Premier Farnell group is an essential cornerstone of our Global vital to the expansion of our customer base and helps to fuel our Distribution Strategy.
The customer reach that they provide, their future growth.
Microchip continues to look for new ways to utilise ability to provide a wide range of Microchip product on-demand Premier Farnells vast resources to even greater effect, as an to the global design engineering community and the way that they ongoing part of our Global Sales Strategy.
quickly and effectively introduce our new products to the market is 24 Business Review Strategy In October 2006, the Group completed a strategic review Enhance our successful operational web and of its activities and announced the results of that review.
eCommerce platform The strategy set out at that time was one of profitable growth This part of our strategy is intended to provide design through focus on our EDE customer base, the ongoing engineers and purchasing professionals with a fast and utilisation and development of our web proposition and the efficient channel to access our growing range of products internationalisation of our business model as we expand into and associated technical information.
The web is a preferred new higher growth international territories.
In addition, in the channel for many EDE customers and offers a lower cost to strategy announcement we identified that we intended to serve channel as opposed to more traditional sales channels.
sell our BuckHickman business and this was completed This part of our strategy is a key element of our multi-channel successfully in April 2007.
Detailed below is a summary of end to end customer experience plan, which includes both the strategy and a review of the progress that we have our EDE and our MRO customer base.
made in the last financial year.
We have set a goal for this part of the strategy that we will Focus on EDE achieve at least 50% of our MDD revenue via eCommerce The global EDE market consists of customers involved in the by the end of financial year 2010. design of electronic products and components and is part of the catalogue addressable market estimated at 15 billion Internationalising our model with immediate focus worldwide.
EDE customers have similar service requirements on China and Eastern Europe wherever they are located these include: a broad product The Chinese market for small volume electronics is estimated offering, technical support, and reliable and prompt delivery.
at over 1 billion annually and growing at a rate faster than Our data indicates that over the period of the strategy Chinese GDP.
This market is highly fragmented, offering a we expect that demand for our products purchased by significant growth opportunity and potential for us to achieve design engineers will grow in the range of 6-8%.
This is market leadership with the growing number of design approximately twice the growth we anticipate in the MRO engineers graduating from Chinese universities every year part of our business.
During the current financial year, and and engaging in design activities in their local industries.
as we have implemented the key proposition elements of our EDE strategy, we have seen an increase in revenue We have made good progress this year with the launch of growth.
This is particularly true of the increase in growth Premier Electronics in China.
This business is focused on the rates for our North American and Asian markets where local design community and is supported by the investments that our levels of EDE business are lower than the European we have made this year in inventory systems with circa 28,000 business.
In particular, sales into our small customer stocked SKUs in our warehouse in Shanghai, marketing support segment in North America which are predominantly EDEs and next day delivery available in over 95 Chinese cities.
Fourth were up 28% in the year.
In APAC, we saw sales growth quarter revenue growth was over 20% reflecting the benefit of accelerate over the year as our Chinese business these investments and we are planning on achieving at least completed the migration away from its former MRO these levels of revenue growth in 2009. base and engaged with the growing EDE customer base in that market.
The expansion of the European Union and the highly fragmented nature of these new markets also offer growth A key part of the proposition is the product range that we opportunities.
During the current year we have launched offer to EDEs.
We announced last year that we intended websites in several new languages as well as hiring dedicated to add approximately 70,000 products to our current technical and marketing support for these parts of Europe.
stocked range of approximately 300,000 products with a further 500,000 lines to be available on demand.
We have In January 2008, we successfully completed the acquisition made good progress this year and have added 88,000 of the high service distribution business of Hynetic new products before deletions into stock and have Electronics in India.
This business, which had sold the made a further 50,000 available on an as needed basis.
Farnell product range for over six years as a distributor, has Concurrently, with this activity, we have continued our work offices in eight locations and employs just over 30 staff.
This managing out the RoHS non-compliant inventory in Europe business will be a platform for further investment in 2009 and improving our product life cycle management to better and 2010, into a market which also has a rapidly growing align inventory availability with the demand for product.
customer base of university graduates working in local design activities both for the Indian and the global market.
We have set as a goal for this part of our strategy that 50% of MDD revenue will come from EDE customers by the end of financial year 2010.
25 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 We have set as a goal for this part of the strategy that business prior to the execution of the strategy.
As the 20% of the Groups revenue would be from international strategy becomes more embedded within the business, or emerging markets by 2010. the two sets of measures really become one.
Initiatives to drive operational and cash efficiencies Strategic measures: As part of the strategic business review, we completed a Sales per day growth focus on the faster growing EDE thorough analysis of our business processes.
Whilst this segment and the impact of internationalisation ie operating confirmed the robustness of our existing processes, we in faster growing markets should deliver revenue growth in identified areas where improvements could be made and the 6-8% range.
which would lead to a reduction in our net operating eCommerce revenue as a % of total revenue this is used expenses to sales ratio over the three year period of our to track the effectiveness of our eCommerce investments.
We had anticipated that in 2008 we would see an International and emerging market revenue as a % of increase in this ratio due to the investments to support the total revenue this is a measure of our success in our business strategy initiatives outlined above.
internationalisation strategy and the exposure to higher growth markets.
During 2008 we started work on these initiatives and have made slightly better progress than planned, such that our Gross margin % gross margin stability is a key platform operating expense ratio to sales decreased from 28.0% to to deliver operational gearing.
EDE margins are higher as 27.9% in the year, after making the necessary investments are web margins and these mitigate the impact of lower in support of our key strategy enablers.
We anticipate further margins in the emerging markets.
Return on sales % is a function of both the gross margin stability and the success of efficiency programmes as We also identified actions to manage the working capital well as reflecting the multi-channel cost to serve impact of the business more effectively as part of the business of our strategy.
We said that we would improve our inventory People engagement as a service business, our results turns whilst maintaining current service levels and would are achieved through our people.
Part of our investments achieve a reduction in our working capital to sales ratio over in the strategy have been in ensuring that we have the the period of approximately 2%.
We planned to achieve right people in our business and that our employees are this through working with our customers and suppliers to actively engaged.
enhance our processes and to reduce waste and errors.
These improvements in working capital would be used Working capital as a % of sales this is a measure of the to fund the investment in the other strategic business success of our cash efficiency programmes.
Financial measures: During 2008 we saw a number of these actions deliver Return on net operating assets % this is an overall improvements across our businesses.
Our working capital measure of the effectiveness of managements investment to sales ratio ended the year at 25.7%, down from 27.1% in operational assets.
We have set a target of 30% for in 2007.
We have a number of ongoing initiatives in 2009 the Group.
and into 2010 and we remain confident of achieving the Free cash flow to sales % this is a combined measure of 2% overall reduction.
both the improved profitability and cash flow targets of the strategy.
We have set as a goal that we will achieve a free Key performance indicators cash flow to sales ratio of 6%.
The business strategy is intended to deliver increased shareholder value over the period through the successful Carbon footprint execution of the strategic building blocks outlined above.
We are aware that all businesses have an impact on the The key performance indicators for the Group are discussed environment in which they operate.
As part of our strategy, in more detail on page 8 and 9 of this report.
They fall into we are seeking to both limit the impact of the strategy on the two groups strategic and financial.
The strategic metrics environment as well actively working to reduce the impact of are those that are used to track our success in executing the Groups existing business.
The actions being taken to the building blocks of our strategy and the financial metrics address our carbon footprint are outlined in our Corporate measure the outcomes of those strategies in conjunction Social Responsibility report commencing on page 43. with the successful performance management of our core 26 Business Review Review of Results 2007 52 weeks 2008 53 weeks Reported Exchange Growth Group results continuing operations m Reported restated adjustment At CER at CER Revenue 744.7 723.3 23.7 699.6 4.6% Gross margin % 39.7% 39.5% 39.5% Operating profit 88.0 83.1 2.5 80.6 9.2% Operating margin % 11.8% 11.5% 11.5% Net finance costs 16.8 20.8 0.7 20.1 16.4% Profit before tax 71.2 62.3 1.8 60.5 17.7% US $: 2.00 1.86 2.00 Euro: 1.44 1.47 1.44 Constant Exchange Rates.
Note: Prior year income statement figures have been The Groups gross margin in the year from continuing restated to exclude the results of the BuckHickman operations was 39.7% compared to the prior year of business following its disposal on 10 April 2007.
This reflects nine consecutive quarters of gross of this discontinued operation are shown as a single number margin stability which underpins the Groups strategy on the face of the income statement below profit after and differentiates Premier Farnell from the industry.
tax from continuing operations, including comparative information which has been restated accordingly.
Further Operating profit from continuing operations for the 53 week details relating to the disposal of this business are given financial year was 88.0 million compared to the prior year in note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Operating margin for the year was 11.8% up from 11.5% in the prior year, reflecting the Group sales from continuing operations for the 53 week improved gross margin and a reduction in operating financial year were 744.7 million 2007, 52 weeks: expenses as a percentage of sales, even after the ongoing 723.3 million, reflecting year on year sales growth, based investment in our strategy.
There was an adverse impact on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant on operating profit of 2.5 million from the translation of exchange rates, of 4.6%.
All segments reported positive overseas results compared with the prior year, reflecting sales growth throughout the year.
Group sales in the first the continued weakness of the US dollar, partly offset by half grew 3.5% despite more challenging markets in both the strengthening of the Euro in the second half of the year.
Although these market conditions A one cent movement in the exchange rate between the continued in the second half, year on year sales growth US dollar and sterling, impacts the Groups operating improved to 4.2% in the third quarter and 7.0% in the profit by approximately 0.25 million per annum, and a fourth quarter, with sales growing faster than the market one cent movement in the exchange rate between the in our major territories, as the benefits from the Groups Euro and sterling impacts the Groups operating profit strategic initiatives gained momentum.
In particular, by approximately 0.2 million per annum.
At constant MDD North America sales growth accelerated throughout exchange rates, the increase in operating profit was 9.2%, the second half with growth of 4.9% in the third quarter or 7.1% after adjusting for the extra week.
Operational increasing to 9.0% in the fourth quarter as the business gearing, representing the year on year increase in operating gained momentum.
profit as a percentage of the increase in sales, both at constant exchange rates, was 16.4% for the year.
Sales in Greater China also increased rapidly achieving 23.4% growth by the fourth quarter reflecting the transition Return on net operating assets operating profit expressed of the business to become more focused on the higher as a percentage of net assets excluding cash, financial margin EDE segment.
In Mainland Europe the business liabilities, taxation and goodwill for the year improved to continued its strong performance with full year sales growth 30.2% from 28.8% in the prior year.
of 10.2%, the second consecutive year of double digit sales growth.
In the UK, the business continued to outperform the market and, following definitive steps taken to improve sales of the Farnell brand, fourth quarter sales in the UK grew 3.2% after a flat performance in the third quarter.
27 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Net finance costs for the year were 16.8 million compared to 20.8 million in 2007 a reduction of 16.4% at constant Sales growth % exchange rates, reflecting the benefit of the improved net borrowing position, the benefit arising from the purchase 13.1 and cancellation of preference shares during the year and 12.0 the impact of the US dollar exchange rate.
9.6 Profit before taxation from continuing operations was 7.0 71.2 million compared to the prior year of 62.3 million, 5.4 an increase of 17.7% at constant exchange rates or 15.4% 4.4 4.2 after adjusting for the extra week, reflecting the improvement 2.6 in operating profit and the lower net finance costs.
2007 2008 The Group reported a loss after taxation from discontinued Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 operations of 13.5 million comprising the post tax trading profit of the BuckHickman business up to the date of disposal of 0.1 million and the post tax loss on the sale of the business of 13.6 million.
The profit after taxation from discontinued operations in 2007 of 10.1 million comprised Gross margin % the post tax trading loss of the BuckHickman business of 0.6 million, the post tax trading gain of the Kent business 39.8 39.7 39.7 39.6 39.6 of 0.6million, and the post tax gain on the sale of the Kent 39.5 39.4 39.4 business of 10.1 million.
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders was 36.3 million 2007: 52.4 million.
Basic earnings per share for the year were as follows: 2008 2007 53 weeks 52 weeks 2007 2008 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total 10.0p 14.4p Continuing operations 13.7p 11.6p Earnings per share from continuing operations of 13.7p represented year on year growth of 18.1% or 21.2% at Operating margin % constant exchange rates.
12.1 11.7 11.7 12.0 11.7 11.5 11.3 11.3 2007 2008 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 28 Business Review Review of Operations Marketing and Distribution Division MDD Product and supplier portfolio MDD comprises: Newark, Farnell, MCM and CPC.
A number of significant franchise agreements and territorial expansions were signed during the year and the Group now Continuing businesses has over 60 franchise additions to underpin its strategy with 2007 a world class line card of suppliers to enhance its 2008 52 weeks proposition to the EDE segment.
m 53 weeks restated Growth Revenue 670.9 649.9 4.5% New supplier additions during the year included: Operating profit 84.4 79.6 8.2% Operating margin % 12.6% 12.2% New major suppliers Restated to exclude discontinued operations.
Fairchild Semiconductor Semiconductor Linear Tech Semiconductor KOA Europe Passives Overall, sales rose by 4.5% in the year.
Despite the more SHARP Microelectronics Optoelectronics challenging market conditions, sales growth accelerated Cirrus Logic Semiconductor in the second half of the year, particularly in the Americas, Cornell Dubilier Europe Capacitors and grew faster than the market as the strategy drove more Littelfuse Europe Circuit protection profitable growth.
Operating profit was 84.4 million with Bourns Electro-mechanical connnectors operating margin of 12.6% 2007: 12.2% reflecting the Turck Inc Connectivity sensors continuing tight cost control even after the ongoing Mountz Inc Power assembly MRO Tecktronic Measurement Bus Div Test and Measurement investment in the Groups strategy.
There was an adverse GE Infrastructure Sensing Sensors impact on operating profit from the translation of overseas Tyco Electronics Identification Connectors results of 1.6 million reflecting the relative weakness of the Omron Scientific Automation safeguarding US dollar 2.3 million partly offset by the relative strength Elsta Duracool Health and Safety of the Euro 0.7 million.
OKR SRC Devices Sensors ISSI Global Semiconductor Web sales grew 32.9% in the year.
Momentum from the Ohmite Resistors implementation of the new web front end across the Fujitsu Semiconductor MNB Fans Americas at the end of the prior year and the successful Optek EAP Optoelectronics roll-out to Europe and Asia Pacific in April 2007 continued Ohmite for Europe Resistors to build, supported by continuing enhancements to the Cirrus Logic East Europe, APAC, Russia Semiconductor speed, simplicity and search capabilities of the global web ROHM EMEA Semiconductor platform.
The new website regularly reaches the top of L-Com US Connectivity sensors the non-sponsored search engine listings, for electronic Coleman Cable Cable and Wire component distributors and is a key element of the CDI Torque tools and measuring devices Divisions multi-channel offering, giving electronic design Mountz Torque tools and measuring devices engineers the rapid access to quality data and product New emerging technology suppliers information they require.
Investment in eCommerce tools during the second half of the year, resulting in quality Enfis Optoelectronics and timely data, has enabled the businesses to increase Equinox Optoelectronics the pace and accuracy of the Divisions eCommerce IST LED Drivers development.
By the fourth quarter, eCommerce sales Telegesis Wireless Comms THAT Corp Semiconductor accounted for 29.4% of sales across the Division.
Batronix Programmning devices Nanotron Wireless RF The multi-channel approach for the MDD Division has Memsic Sensors continued to support the offering with product selection SENTEC Dev kit for Micros in the new catalogues issued during the year reflecting Analogue and Micro Semiconductor greater focus on design centric products.
A number of Olmec Advanced Materials Electroluminescence global technology campaigns were launched in the year, Hamamatsu Photonics using the power of the web, including Global ED World, Blutechnix ADI DSP Design Boards Aker Oscillator a microsite incorporating new tools and information for Fox Oscillator design engineers.
Seoul Semiconductor Power LED Micro Crystal Crystals 29 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Jim Bruorton, Vice President, Global Channel Sales KEMET KEMET Corporation delivers industry leading, high performance capacitance solutions.
With the most complete line of surface-mount and through-hole capacitor technologies across tantalum, ceramic, aluminium, film and paper dielectrics, KEMET is an important supplier to the EDE customer segment around the world.
Jim Bruorton discusses how Premier Farnells internationalisation and web proposition have helped to open our partnership to global markets.
With a long standing relationship with Newark already established, products.
The recent introduction of many new local language KEMET was eager to build on that success with the rest of the websites, along with new offices and dedicated resources, has Premier Farnell Group.
Opening up our partnership to the Europe positioned them for growth in a number of emerging markets and Asia markets was the logical next step and since doing so we have seen tremendous growth.
KEMET is delighted to have a partner that provides the engineering community with such a comprehensive service, across multiple Our customer penetration numbers have increased dramatically: geographies and in such a timely and efficient manner.
We have our newest products are getting to the electronic design engineers faith in their model because we have seen it work, and are looking quicker than ever, and product availability through their website forward to continued growth on the latest KEMET products.
provides an outstanding service to customers looking for those Suppliers looking to reach our growing EDE customer base MDD Americas Newark and MCM continue to partner with us in exclusive programmes as we 2008 2007 forge close relationships, supported by initiatives such as m 53 weeks 52 weeks Growth the Groups Asian Supplier summit held in the fourth quarter Revenue 326.7 329.3 4.1% of the year.
Operating profit 31.0 30.5 9.9% Operating margin % 9.5% 9.3% These new franchises, together with existing suppliers, resulted in the Division adding over 88,000 new EDE and MRO products to its stocked portfolio during the year Statistics from the Semiconductor Industry Association SIA and 50,000 new products which are available on demand.
showed a year on year decline in billings in the Americas in As part of its strategy the Division plans to continue to 2007 of 6.3%.
Despite these challenging market conditions, add additional stocked products to enhance our EDE sales in MDD Americas grew 4.1% in the year, with a proposition and to increase its on demand range by significant acceleration in sales growth through the second 500,000 during the three year target period.
The Divisions half third quarter: 4.9%, fourth quarter: 9.0% as the portfolio now includes the majority of the worlds leading implementation of the strategy drove momentum.
semiconductor, passive and electro-mechanical brands, providing design engineers across the globe with increased Underlying operating margin improved to 9.5% despite access to an impressive product range of depth and breadth.
market pressures and ongoing investment in the strategy.
During the year, a number of significant supplier awards Web sales in MDD Americas grew by 33.0% in the year were gained, including the Chairmans Award 2007 from and by 48.8% in the fourth quarter.
Total eCommerce sales Ohmite, Newarks largest resistor supplier and the Organic represented 19.7% of total sales in the fourth quarter, Sales Growth award from Honeywell.
reflecting the strategy drive to this higher margin channel and the continuing enhancements being made to the new web platform.
30 Business Review continued Review of Operations Pete Venuto, VP Sales, Americas and Europe AVX Corporation AVX Corporation is a leading worldwide manufacturer of a broad line of passive components and interconnect products.
Their technology leading portfolio satisfies the widest application range possible such as mobile communications, automotive, space and medical level qualifications.
As a company, AVX never loses sight of its customers needs.
Pete Venuto, VP Sales, Americas and Europe explains how their partnership with Premier Farnell has evolved with our strategy.
Premier Farnell has become an integral part of introducing our Premier Farnell is key to seeding the market with a range of technologies to a global market.
The relationship has grown over products from AVX that otherwise could prove difficult to many years, moving from a one-dimensional approach with the introduce.
Maintaining the term technology leader sometimes catalogue, to a multi-channel, proactive approach.
means that we require feedback from the widest range of engineers possible and Premier Farnell provides this important Just a few short years ago it would take an annual cycle of events communication.
This level of interaction has proved very important to create the next portfolio ready for the market.
Now we have a to the development of some of our new product groups.
new parts list web ready within a matter of days.
This makes the whole dynamic of a new product launch more relevant to design AVX technology and design expertise combined with Premier engineers than ever before, so much so that Premier Farnell is part Farnells account penetration and purchasing feedback will drive of our formal new product launch review process.
our business to new levels and continue to strengthen our relationship with Premier Farnell.
Group Leader Logistics Services Fabio Formaenti, PH ESE, Research Engineer European Organization for Nuclear Research CERN CERN welcomes thousands of users from its 20 European member states and collaborating countries around the world.
Its a European lab working at the very edge of technology, focussed on particle physics and the structure of our universe.
The work being done here will provide the data to research and solve many problems, and is driving huge breakthroughs in the world of industry, semiconductor design and medicine.
At CERN we value our relationship with Premier Farnell.
Their Open communication is vital to our relationship with Premier Farnell.
24 hour delivery, the availability of small quantities of products Based on input from customers like us, Premier Farnell have designed and their multi-channel offering are all important to our success.
a new peel package for highly sensitive products and the success of this packaging ensures that when we get certain components The website is a critical tool to provide us with access to accurate they have not been compromised in the delivery process.
This is and detailed information relating to a product.
Although we turn just another step to ensure we get the products as fast as possible.
to the web as a first point of contact, it remains necessary that we call Premier Farnell and speak to one of their engineering experts It is nice to work with a company that cares about their customers.
on occasion, and I am pleased that this multi-channel service It is nice to be valued and consulted for our opinions.
I look forward continues to be available.
31 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Newark MCM Newark is a market-leading multi-channel distributor of MCM distributes electronics and related equipment to electronic components, eProcurement solutions and service and repair professionals and technical hobbyists stockroom management services in the Americas.
Its throughout the US and comprises 7% of MDD Americas customers include design engineers and maintenance sales.
During the year sales grew by 3.1% despite technicians in the US, Canada, Mexico and Brazil.
By sales, issues surrounding the North American housing market it comprises 93% of MDD Americas.
Newarks sales grew having a negative impact on the home security and home 4.2% in the year, accelerating to 9.4% in the fourth quarter.
entertainment segment of the business.
This performance was supported by a strengthened leadership team during During the year, Newark focused on the EDE segment the year with the appointment of a new President and a new with the business launching a programme promoting over Chief Financial Officer.
The business continued to benefit 100,000 products from the Farnell business in to the from its marketing campaigns including flyers, e-mail and North American market.
Initiatives to re-activate customers resulted in with sales process and customer database improvements, MCM increasing its number of active customers by over helped drive strong sales growth from the smaller customer 10% on the prior year.
Web sales continued to grow strongly, segment, which grew 28% year on year and 43% in the up 23.3% over the prior year, reflecting improved functionality fourth quarter.
Newarks annual catalogue was delivered and increased e-marketing spend.
Total eCommerce sales in September 2007, promoting over 128,000 products accounted for 48% of total sales by the fourth quarter.
including 24,000 new products, many of which targeted the EDE segment.
MDD Europe and Asia Pacific Farnell, CPC and Premier Electronics Web sales accelerated rapidly during the year supported by Continuing operations search engine marketing, web functionality improvements 2007 and multi-channel marketing activities, with the fourth 2008 52 weeks quarter showing year on year web sales per day growth m 53 weeks restated Growth of over 50%.
Revenue 344.2 320.6 4.8% Operating profit 53.4 49.1 7.2% The business also benefited from the quality leadership Operating margin % 15.5% 15.3% recruitment in the year, including a new President appointed in February 2007, a new Chief Financial Restated to exclude discontinued operations.
Officer and a Senior Vice President of Product and Supplier Management, together with a further two supplier and Sales were up 4.8% in the year.
In Mainland Europe, sales product management industry experts, a new Global growth remained strong despite tougher comparators Head of Technology Marketing to drive EDE support and sales in the UK outperformed the market throughout and programmes, and additions to the Global eCommerce the year.
In Asia, the benefits from the Groups strategic team to continue to develop the Groups leading edge initiatives, in particular the transition of the China business, proposition.
started to be realised in the second half of the year.
The operating margin improved by 0.2 percentage points in The effective marketing programmes that contributed to the year reflecting continued cost control.
Newarks performance during the year resulted in the company being awarded, in November 2007, 25 Channel Marketing Awards from the National Electronic Distributors Association NEDA, sweeping a number of categories for the second year running.
These included awards for image advertising, integrated marketing campaigns, a corporate newsletter for design engineers, and the companys website.
NEDA also awarded its first Best in Show award to Newark in recognition of its achievement.
32 Business Review continued Review of Operations The new web front end launched in the Americas in UK December 2006 was introduced in to the Europe and The Divisions UK sales, comprising sales from Farnell UK Asia Pacific region in April 2007, making available to and CPC brands, increased 2.2% in the year.
EDE customers new product associations including cross-referencing for obsolete products, alternative Farnell: Farnell markets and distributes electronic components, products and upgrades.
This, together with other test and measurement equipment and MRO products enhancements throughout the year to further improve to design engineers and purchasing professionals, with the speed, simplicity and search compatibilities of the web businesses in the UK, Mainland Europe and Asia Pacific region.
platform and to increase performance and reliability, resulted in web sales increasing 32.9% in the year.
In addition, the Farnell UK retained its market share gains achieved in the Division launched Polish, Hungarian, Czech Republic and prior year through its leadership position on RoHS.
Despite Slovakian web sites, as part of its expansion plans into the difficult market conditions, with the Association of Eastern Europe, and a website in the Asean region for Franchised Distributors of Electronic Components AFDEC Thailand.
This drive of web activity has resulted in new reporting a sales decline in the UK of 6.6% excluding Farnell, sales records by the web being achieved every quarter sales showed positive growth over the year as a whole.
with total eCommerce sales representing 38% of total sales However, this was not the performance that Premier Farnell by the fourth quarter, with some countries now transacting expected and definitive steps were taken at the start of the over half their sales through eCommerce channels.
This fourth quarter to improve the situation.
As a result, fourth level of activity has equated to, in Europe, a web order quarter year on year sales moved into positive growth now being received every 10 seconds throughout a compared to the decline reported in the third quarter of 2.4%.
The business continues to drive sales via its multi-channel marketing activities with over 1,000 Europe-wide web and Revenue by region email campaigns launched in the year and continued 2008 2007 Revenue selective direct mailings.
m 53 weeks 52 weeks growth UK including exports 179.1 172.3 2.2% CPC: CPC distributes electrical and electronic equipment Mainland Europe 134.4 118.1 10.2% and accessories.
Asia Pacific 30.7 30.2 1.2% Sales for the year increased 4.9% with initiatives in direct Restated to exclude discontinued operations.
marketing, eMarketing and search engine optimisation delivering success, together with actions to reactivate Mainland Europe lapsed customers and the prospecting of potential In Mainland Europe, Farnell continued to deliver its strong customers.
Performance was supported by the launch performance, despite the tougher comparators, with sales of the 2008 catalogue in August to over 80,000 customers growth of 10.2%, the second consecutive year of double together with successful direct mail initiatives.
This reflects ongoing development of restructuring of CPCs private label offering, the business the businesss multi-channel approach, a strong web saw a significant increase in its market share of the mains performance including the launch of further Eastern electrical sector in the fourth quarter.
CPCs web sales grew European websites, and continued targeted marketing 30% year on year, following the launch of the new web front activity, all of which have contributed to the development end, as the business saw record numbers of unique visitors of the Divisions differentiated EDE service proposition.
Despite pricing pressures, operating margins In October, the business launched peel pack packaging, were maintained.
an innovative packing method for small quantities of semi conductors aimed at providing ease of use to customers.
November saw the third successful multi-channel marketing campaign across all European businesses for innovation in EDE packaging and latest technology, resulting in over one million contacts across multiple channels.
New catalogues were launched across Europe during the year including first editions of translated Eastern European catalogues, distributed to five countries.
33 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Kenneth Siber, Managing Director Mindstorm Ltd. Mindstorm is a cutting edge marketing technology company that creates surface solutions to excite and amaze people.
Their multi-touch, interactive technologies transform otherwise static surfaces into intelligent displays, and passive customers into active participants by fusing light and touch into playful interactivity.
Mindstorm turns to Premier Farnell during the design phase of its products, for small orders and fast delivery.
com At Mindstorm we are always working on new prototypes of our products available to EDEs has improved, which means that products.
We are a software company that is committed to we can generally get everything we want by visiting the Farnell providing our customers with cutting edge hardware and in order website.
This is a definite bonus as we get our complete order to do that we need access to the latest technologies as soon as within 24 hours, ensuring that we complete our projects on time they are available.
The product information available on their website is really helpful, Our focus at Mindstorm is quality and innovation, and its nice especially when we arent exactly sure what we are looking for or to work together with a distributor who is focused on the same.
when we want to compare different components.
The range of Jay Pok, Chief Executive Officer LHI Technology The global medical device market is changing rapidly.
Faced with improving patient care in all areas, supporting the processes in place for patient care and ensuring that their solutions are cost effective for the end user, EDEs are developing new, cutting edge technology every day.
Innovation and speed are crucial in this competitive market.
China is one of the fastest growing economies in the world and range of electronic components, stocked from the worlds leading has the largest population.
These factors have combined to suppliers compliments the needs of our engineering development strengthen the Chinese medical device market which is estimated team and enable us to speedily develop products on time for to be worth 3 billion.
LHI Technology is a leading medical cables manufacturer based Through our Mandarin and English websites, our distribution in China.
LHI is dedicated to the manufacturing of Patient centre in Shanghai and next day delivery to over 90 Chinese cities Monitoring and Surgical cable interconnects and assemblies.
Premier Farnell offers our Chinese customers a truly local service.
Jay Pok, CEO, explains that Farnell-Newarks comprehensive 34 Business Review continued Review of Operations Don Phillips, Research and Development Manager Le Maitre Special Effects Inc.
Le Maitre is responsible for some of the most spectacular and prestigious displays of pyrotechnics.
With shows all over the world and for some of the most celebrated performances including Cirque fide Soleil, Disney on Ice and the Super Bowl, Le Maitre turns to Newark for the products they need fast.
With daily performances for many of its shows, Le Maitre values Newarks global next day delivery promise.
Le Maitre Special Effects is a premier supplier of effects equipment inventory is essential for the quick turnaround required in business for the entertainment industry.
Our products range from fog, today.
The good communication we get is key: by providing timely haze and bubble machines to flame and stage pyrotechnics.
information critical schedules can be met.
The solid support Our equipment is used worldwide from small shows to major provided by the Newark team allows us to concentrate on what concert productions.
Due to the demands for quick delivery and we do best.
Newarks wide range of product and the ability to customised product we require solid support from our vendors.
access its other divisions gives us a large selection of parts.
In our business if you dont have it or cant make it quickly you This allows us to reduce the number of vendors required and dont get the business.
This comes as a win-win for both our companies.
We have found that we can rely on Newark to deliver the goods.
By accessing the website and selecting the parts required we As the old saying could read: behind every good manufacturer get next day delivery on most items.
Access to Newarks large is a good vendor!
Asia Pacific The success of the strategy in China was recognised Although Farnells sales in Asia Pacific declined slightly in the in January 2008 when the business received the Reliable year, this reflected a first half decline of 6.1% and second Electronic Component Suppliers award, a pioneering half growth of 3.9% with sales accelerating as the region award endorsed by the Chinese Ministry of Information began to realise the benefits from its strategic initiatives.
The first quarter saw the launch of the new Premier The transition from a traditional MRO customer base to Electronics business in China which included the opening the more profitable EDE customers, which has proved of a new warehouse and distribution centre, with the so successful in China, is now taking place across all capability to deliver next day to over 95 major Chinese of Farnells South East Asian businesses.
cities, a fully implemented Mandarin language Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system, and the launch of a new The Australian and New Zealand markets continue to be Mandarin Chinese language catalogue and web platform.
Although sales were down An enhanced website was launched in December 2007 slightly in the year there was an improving trend in the giving greater flexibility which has already seen a significant second half with positive fourth quarter sales growth of 2.3%.
As anticipated, sales in China declined in During the year the business launched a new competitive the first half of the year as the business transitioned from its web offering aimed at meeting local customers needs.
mainly MRO, lower margin, customer base to become more focused on the growing higher margin EDE segment.
This The acquisition of our distributor in India at the end of the transition started to realise benefits in the second half, with financial year will allow us to strengthen our position in year on year sales growth of 23.4% by the fourth quarter, the fast growing Indian EDE market through our 30 supported by the four branches now established in the staff and eight branches as investment in the Asia Pacific region, including Chengdu and Shenzen which were region continues.
opened in the third quarter.
35 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Industrial Products Division Despite significant increases in the cost of its raw materials, The Industrial Products Division comprises principally particularly brass ingot, Akron Brass has continued to two businesses, Akron Brass and TPC Wire & Cable, maintain its margins through cost control and manufacturing both supplying high performance products to specialist efficiencies, including improved assembly processes.
In addition there is a smaller business, Cadillac Electric.
TPC Wire & Cable TPC is a distributor of high performance electrical wire, 2008 2007 cable and connectors designed for heavy duty or harsh m 53 weeks 52 weeks Growth industrial environments, operating in the United States, Revenue 73.8 73.4 5.7% Canada and Mexico.
Operating profit 14.8 13.7 15.6% Operating margin % 20.1% 18.7% TPC achieved sales growth of 8.4% during the year with the business continuing to benefit from its successful diversification into non-automotive markets, including rail, Sales grew by 5.7% in the year, reflecting a strong wood, utilities and off road equipment.
The business performance by both Akron Brass and TPC Wire & Cable.
experienced significant growth in the original equipment At constant exchange rates, operating profit increased manufacturers OEM market with high demand for heavy 15.6% on the prior year and operating margin improved duty cable for robotics in the automotive manufacturing despite raw material cost pressures.
Sales to automotive manufacturers in the US, who continue to face difficult trading conditions, now only Akron Brass account for approximately a quarter of TPCs sales.
Akron Brass is a market leader in the manufacture and sale of high performance fire-fighting equipment for fire truck Despite the continuing raw material cost pressures, in manufacturers, public fire services and industrial facilities.
particular the volatility of copper prices, the business has Its products are designed to improve the safety and efficiency continued to successfully maintain margins through pricing of personnel and equipment engaged in the suppression of strategies, effective management of the supply chain, and fire and also includes lighting and electrical control solutions.
tight control of operating costs.
It sells through its own field sales force and through distributors to customers all over the world.
It has a high Cadillac Electric share of the North American market and seeks to grow by Cadillac Electric is a small distributor of electrical and broadening its product range and reaching new geographic industrial automation products and engineered solutions to and industrial markets assisted by appropriate acquisitions.
manufacturers in the United States.
Sales in 2008 declined 20.4% to 6.3 million following the known wind down of a Sales at Akron Brass increased 9.3% in the year.
The business made a small operating profit first three quarters of the year the business benefited from during the year.
the strong, prior year, fourth quarter order intake from North American fire equipment manufacturers, which was driven by changes in regulatory requirements.
The slowdown in this activity in the fourth quarter of the year was offset by a continued strong performance from the international and industrial segments.
Akron Brass continues to develop its international markets, with new opportunities arising in South America and Asia.
Sales to the industrial market showed strong growth due to focus outside of the petrochemical markets, with orders from new markets including vehicle and tank washing applications.
The development of new lighting products, such as Diamondback perimeter warning lights, has received very positive feedback from end users and vehicle builders.
36 Business Review Financial Review A review of the Groups results and operations is given Taxation on pages 26 to 35.
Other financial matters are noted below.
The Groups effective tax charge for continuing operations can be analysed as follows: Net finance costs 2008 2007 Net finance costs for the year of 16.8 million m 53 weeks 52 weeks 2007: 20.8 million comprised net interest payable of 10.8 million 2007: 13.0 million and a net cost of Profit before tax 71.2 62.3 6.0 million 2007: 7.8 million relating to the Companys Adjust for preference convertible preference shares.
dividends 5.6 6.7 Adjusted profit The net interest charge of 10.8 million 2007: 13.0 million before tax 76.8 69.0 was covered 8.1 times 2007: 6.4 times by operating profit.
The lower net interest charge reflects the Groups improved net borrowing position with the underlying level of net Tax charge 21.4 27.9% 20.0 29.0% financial liabilities at 3 February 2008 after adjusting for Effect of UK rate exchange rates being 30 million lower than a year ago, reduction on together with the benefit from the impact of the US dollar deferred tax 0.8 exchange rate.
Adjusted tax charge 22.2 28.9% 20.0 29.0% The net cost in respect of the Companys convertible preference shares, included the preference dividend for After adjusting for the effect of the UK rate reduction on the year of 5.6 million 2007: 6.7 million, together with a deferred tax, the effective tax rate was in line with the prior 1.3 million 2007: 1.4 million charge for the amortisation year.
This effective tax rate compares favourably with the of the implied redemption premium on preference shares.
corporate tax rates of 30.0% in the UK and 35.0% in the US, reflecting the Groups efficient financing structure.
During the year the Company purchased and cancelled 1,236,500 of its preference shares for a total cash cost Business acquisition of 17.7million.
Based on the book value and fair value On 31 January 2008, the Group acquired that part of the of the instruments at the date of purchase, the financial trade and net assets of Hynetic Electronics Private Limited liability element of the preference shares was reduced by used in carrying on its business in India as an existing 18.5 million and the equity element by 3.2 million.
A gain authorised distributor of Farnell products, for a total of 0.9 million was recognised in the income statement consideration including costs of 0.9 million.
The fair value being the difference between the book value and fair of the net assets acquired, including intangible assets, was value of the financial liability element at the date of purchase.
not significant, resulting in goodwill arising of 0.9 million.
The gain arising from the difference between the book value and fair value of the equity element of 3.1 million was Business disposal recognised as a movement in retained earnings.
In 2007, On 10 April 2007, the Group disposed of its BuckHickman the Company purchased and cancelled 565,000 of its business, part of the Marketing and Distribution Division, preference shares for a total price including costs of 8.4 Europe and Asia Pacific, to BSS Group plc.
The pre-tax loss million, resulting in a gain of 0.3 million being recognised on disposal was 13.6 million, after the write-off of goodwill in the income statement.
Further details relating to the allocated to this business of 19.3 million, and the net cash Companys preference shares are given in note 15 to the consideration received during the year was 24.4 million.
BuckHickman generated sales in 2007 of 99.8 million and an operating loss of 0.8 million.
The results of this business have been reclassified as a discontinued operation and are included in the income statement as a single line below profit after taxation from continuing operations, with comparatives restated accordingly.
The comparative information in respect of discontinued operations also includes the results of the Kent business which was disposed on 31 July 2006.
37 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Ordinary dividend Cash flow and net debt The Board is recommending an increased final dividend of Free cash flow attributable to ordinary shareholders is 5.2 pence per share 2007: 5.0 pence per share, which, summarised below.
2008 2007 together with the interim dividend, amounts to a total m 53 weeks 52 weeks dividend per share of 9.2 pence 2007: 9.0 pence, and with a total impact on shareholders funds of 33.4 million.
Operating profit from continuing operations 88.0 83.1 The final dividend is subject to approval at the Annual Depreciation and amortisation 19.1 18.7 General Meeting on 17 June 2008.
Changes in working capital 4.7 5.8 Additional pension scheme funding Post-retirement benefits UK defined benefit plan 3.1 2.4 The Group accounts for pensions and other post-retirement Other non-cash movements 1.5 1.8 benefits in accordance with IAS 19.
The net charge for Cash generated from continuing post-retirement benefits from continuing operations was operations 97.8 91.8 0.3 million 2007: 0.4 million and can be analysed Cash generated from discontinued as follows: operations 1.2 1.2 2008 2007 Credit charge m 53 weeks 52 weeks Total cash generated from operations 96.6 90.6 Defined benefit pension plans 2.5 2.1 Capital expenditure 17.5 14.4 Defined contribution pension plans 2.3 1.8 Proceeds from sale of property, Other post-retirement benefits 0.5 0.7 plant and equipment 1.9 5.1 Interest and preference dividends 16.5 20.2 Continuing operations 0.3 0.4 Taxation 23.1 18.7 Free cash flow 41.4 42.4 The liability relating to the UK plan at the year end was 13.5million 2007: 21.6 million with the decrease on Free cash flow to revenue % 5.6% 5.9% the prior year arising principally from an increase in the market-related bond rate used to discount the schemes Cash generated from continuing operations represented liabilities at the year end, partly offset by the overall asset 111% of operating profit and reflects the continued tight performance being below actuarial expectations, and control of working capital across the Group.
Working capital contributions made to the plan of 3.4 million in the year.
increased by 4.7 million in the year, or 2.5%, well below the rate of sales growth.
Despite the addition of 88,000 stocked The US plan remains over-funded and a contribution holiday products during the year to enhance our offering to EDE will continue for the foreseeable future.
The pension asset customers, inventory increased by only 2.2 million as the relating to this plan at the year end was 53.4 million inventory profile and inventory turns improved.
Total working 2007: 56.8 million, with the reduction on the prior year capital as a percentage of sales improved from 27.1% to arising from the net income in the year of 2.9 million, 25.7% during the year.
together with a benefit from the improved discount rate, being more than offset by the underperformance of US Capital expenditure of 17.5 million included 10.4 million equity markets compared to actuarial expectations.
of software development costs, principally to enhance existing systems.
The disposal of surplus property in the UK generated proceeds of 1.9 million.
38 Business Review continued Financial Review The change in net financial liabilities is summarised below: manage the exposures arising from volatility in these markets, with derivative instruments being entered into m when considered appropriate by management.
Opening net financial liabilities 281.3 The Group treasury function is responsible for sourcing and Free cash flow 41.4 structuring borrowing requirements, managing interest rate Ordinary dividends 32.7 and foreign exchange exposure and managing any surplus Business acquisitions 0.6 funds, which are invested mainly in short-term deposits with Business disposals 24.4 financial institutions that meet the credit criteria approved Issue of ordinary shares 1.4 by the Board.
Specifically, counterparty creditworthiness Purchase of ordinary shares 2.5 is determined by reference to credit ratings as defined by Preference shares net impact 0.5 the global rating agency Fitch.
For all deposits of more Derivative financial instruments 2.8 than 1 million, minimum short-term credit ratings are F1 Exchange movement 0.9 highest credit quality and minimum long-term ratings are Closing net financial liabilities 254.1 A high credit quality.
For deposits of over 5 million, the minimum ratings increase to F1 and AA for short-term and long-term ratings, respectively.
In addition, monthly At 3 February 2008, the Groups net financial liabilities reports are produced by the Group treasury function which comprised the following: 2008 2007 are used to monitor treasury activities.
Important treasury m m management decisions are approved by the Board and an annual report detailing the Groups debt, cash and hedging Cash at bank and in hand 37.6 32.2 activity is reviewed by the Board.
Group policy prohibits Bank loans and overdrafts 85.7 92.9 speculative arrangements in that transactions in financial US $225 million Senior Notes instruments are matched to an underlying business due 2010 and 2013 114.2 114.8 requirement, such as forecast debt and interest repayments Other loans 3.0 2.6 and expected foreign currency revenues.
The Group uses Preference shares 85.9 103.1 derivatives only to manage its foreign currency and interest Derivative financial instruments 2.9 0.1 rate risks arising from underlying business activities.
The 254.1 281.3 Group treasury function is subject to periodic independent reviews by the Internal Audit Department.
Controls over interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and The maturity of the Groups gross financial liabilities at transaction authenticity are in place and dealings are 3 February 2008 of 288.8 million, excluding derivative restricted to those banks with the relevant combination financial instruments, is as follows: of geographic presence and suitable credit rating.
m The Group monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties Due within 1 year 0.1 and credit exposure for each counterparty.
Between 1 and 2 years 0.1 Between 2 and 5 years 119.4 The Group typically hedges transactions primarily related to After 5 years 169.2 the purchase and sale of inventories denominated in foreign 288.8 currencies through foreign exchange forward contracts.
These contracts reduce currency risk from exchange rate movements with respect to these transactions and The Group has multi-currency bilateral bank facilities of cash flows.
198.1 million, which carry a LIBOR based floating rate of interest.
These facilities expire mid-2010 and, at 3 February The Group does not hedge profit translation exposure, 2008, 112.3 million of these facilities were unutilised.
unless there is a corresponding cash flow, since such hedges provide only a temporary deferral of the effect of Treasury operations movements in exchange rates.
Similarly, while a significant The Group is exposed to a number of different market risks, proportion of the Groups borrowings are denominated in including movement in interest rates and foreign currency US dollars, the Group does not specifically hedge all of its exchange rates.
The Group has established policies and long-term investments in overseas assets.
procedures within the treasury function to monitor and 39 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS As described in other sections of this report, dealing The Groups consolidated financial statements have been successfully with the implementation of the RoHS legislation reported in accordance with IFRS.
The Group has adopted has also provided a considerable opportunity for the Group IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which requires to outperform its competitors.
additional disclosures in respect of financial instruments, details of which are given in notes 12 and 19 to the The Chinese equivalent of the EU RoHS legislation came consolidated financial statements.
The Group has not into force on 1 March 2007, although the most substantive been required to adopt any other new accounting standards elements are yet to be enforced.
The Group has during the year which have had a significant impact on the approached this legislation in the same proactive manner consolidated financial statements.
The combination of the Groups experience in dealing with the effects of the legislation The financial statements of the Company for the year ended in Europe and North America and the smaller scale of 3 February 2008 on pages 109 to 116 continue to be its business in China means that the Chinese legislation prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
presents much less of a risk to the Group.
The Chinese legislation does, however, also present a considerable Principal risks and uncertainties business opportunity and work has been underway for There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could some time to capitalise on this.
have an effect on the Groups performance.
As at the date of this report, the Board considers the risks described Market migration below to be the principal risks facing the Group.
The Group Premier Farnells available market has remained relatively has a risk management structure in place that is designed stable compared with the migration of manufacturing to to identify, manage and mitigate business risks.
This forms lower cost economies in recent years.
While lower wage part of the Groups system of internal control that is rates have attracted high volume manufacturing to described in detail on page 59.
The key risks identified Eastern Europe and Asia, the migration of research and through this risk management process and how they development and small scale manufacturing, two of Premier are managed are detailed below.
Farnells primary customer groups, is less pronounced.
Work carried out as part of the Groups review of strategy, RoHS legislation announced in October 2006, confirmed that much of the The legislation implementing the EU Directive on the electronic design engineering work that forms a large part Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances of the Groups customer base has remained in regions in in electronic and electrical equipment the RoHS Directive which the Group has a strong presence.
In addition, there has been an area of focus for the Group during prior years is a large installed base of electronic equipment in Premier as the legislation took effect on 1 July 2006.
Moving to Farnells traditional geographic markets that needs compliance involved the replacement of a significant maintaining, providing an ongoing market for the Groups proportion of stocked products with compliant alternatives.
Nevertheless, there is This brings with it the potential risk of stock write-offs likely to be an ongoing decline in the Groups manufacturing greater than those for which provision has been made if the customer base in these geographic markets.
This risk is transition is not well managed.
The Group has had a senior being addressed in two ways: first, by emphasising growth management team in place for over three years to address in the electronic design engineering segment of the Groups this risk and has been working closely with its suppliers and customer base and, second, by increasing the Groups customers.
The approach taken to achieve compliance with presence in Asia and Eastern Europe.
Further progress was the legislation is very clear and well defined and has been made in this area during the year with completion of the communicated to suppliers and customers.
The position acquisition of the Hynetic business in India as a distributor regarding levels of stock and potential write-offs is managed of Farnell products and the launch of local transactional closely and the Groups internal targets to reduce any stock websites in a number of Eastern European countries write-off in Europe have been met.
The position in North and a Mandarin language website in China.
The Group America is more complicated due to the lack of a hard, will continue to increase its presence in developing markets legislatively mandated date for compliance, but good to mitigate dependence on territories where the market progress has also been made here and the Group for its products and services is more mature.
considers that it is well placed to minimise its exposure.
40 Business Review continued Financial Review Systems and infrastructure transactional web sites.
During the year the Group has The operations of the Groups main businesses are continued to roll out new web sites based on its global heavily dependent on its principal distribution facilities in eCommerce platform, including a dual Mandarin English Gaffney US, Leeds UK and Lige Belgium, from which a language site for China.
New analytical tools have helped significant proportion of customer orders are despatched, to identify opportunities to improve both functional and and on the Groups IT hardware and software.
The increased speed and stability of the takes steps to protect these distribution facilities with websites has led to significant increases in eCommerce measures such as sprinkler protection and the separate revenues.
Improving electronic channels is part of delivering storage of highly flammable products and works closely a multi-channel approach that provides flexibility for with its insurers in assessing the risks of damage to these customers and reduces the cost to serve.
In addition, business continuity plans exist and are under review with the aim of minimising the adverse impact Foreign currency on the business should significant damage occur.
For the As a relatively high proportion of the Groups sales and UK and European business, this planning is assisted by the operating profits arise in North America, the Groups Groups ability to switch order fulfilment between distribution reported results are adversely affected by weakening of facilities in Leeds and Lige, as these facilities hold a the US dollar against sterling.
This profit translation risk is proportion of common products.
In the US a review of approximately 0.25 million per annum of operating profit warehouse management systems has led to improvements for each one cent movement in the US dollar exchange in performance and more robust contingency plans.
The Group has denominated most of its external borrowings in US dollars in order to mitigate this risk and The resilience of the Groups IT infrastructure is regularly provide a hedge against dollar denominated operating cash reviewed by management and plans are developed to flows and the Groups US investments.
address areas of potential weakness.
Where practicable, these plans are fully tested.
In addition to the US dollar, the other major currency for which the Group has a translation risk is the Euro.
Whilst Competitive pressures there was a benefit from the strengthening of the Euro The Groups Marketing and Distribution Division, which towards the end of 2008, a significant weakening of the accounts for 90.1% of the Groups sales, operates in a Euro would adversely affect the Groups results.
This profit fragmented market with a number of international and many translation risk is approximately 0.2 million per annum regional competitors.
This environment creates pressure of operating profit for each one cent movement in the on the prices that the Division is able to charge for its Euro exchange rate.
products and on the levels of service it provides.
It is therefore fundamental that the Divisions proposition to its The Groups policy is not to hedge profit translation risk customers remains attractive and at the forefront of its unless there is a real cash exposure since such hedges chosen markets.
The Group maintains awareness of provide only a temporary deferral of the effect of movements developments in the market, including actions by in exchange rates.
competitors, and anticipates and responds to such developments.
The results of the review of strategy Human resources announced in October 2006 clearly defined the Groups As a service business, Premier Farnell relies heavily on its emphasis on areas of profitable growth via differentiation employees.
It would be damaging to the Group if it were from its main competitors.
An important factor in recent unable to attract and retain personnel at key management years has been customer demand for the ability to transact levels.
The ways in which this risk is addressed are with the Group electronically.
Electronic channels described in detail in the Resources and relationships are increasingly preferred by customers and also bring section of this report.
There is, therefore, a significant focus on the Groups progress in continually upgrading its eCommerce capabilities, such as the ease of use of its 41 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Legal risks All parts of the Group are focused on reducing the cost and The Group operates internationally and is subject to laws disruption associated with high levels of staff turnover and and regulations in a large number of countries.
Combined excessive absenteeism, particularly in distribution centres with this, the large numbers of customers and suppliers to and call centres where turnover has historically been the Group result in a complex set of contractual obligations highest.
During the year most areas of the business and a risk of non-compliance.
The Group addresses this risk in a number of ways: The Group actively encourages open communications.
Through reviews and training provided by the in-house Management teams are expected to host formal business legal department updates for employees at least quarterly, following the Companys quarterly results announcements.
The Group Advice provided by suitable external counsel has a well established European Employee Forum which Monitoring and reporting of issues by the Internal has been in operation since 1999.
The development in the Audit function year of a Group-wide intranet gives all employees timely access to news, information and communication from the Internal control processes requiring local management CEO and leadership team.
to report on areas of potential non-compliance Controls on the levels of management required to approve In 2007 the Group organised the first global on-line proposed contractual arrangements engagement survey to seek the opinions and ideas of all employees about their experiences of working in Resources and relationships the business and this has provided insight to shape the Employees priorities to harness the commitment and high performance Premier Farnell is essentially a service business.
Consistent of all employees into the future.
excellence in service delivery relies on high levels of contribution and performance from all employees.
Market position and reputation The Marketing and Distribution Division trades through Employees throughout the Group receive feedback on several major brands including Farnell and Newark.
their performance through the annual Group Performance As their product portfolios and customer bases are diverse, Review Process.
This clarifies responsibilities and objectives, the precise market positions of these brands are hard to addresses employees development needs and helps quantify.
The roots of these major brands are all over match individuals career development aspirations with 70 years old and have high recognition and prominence the business needs of the Group.
They are true multi-channel operations with online and paper-based product information The Group places strong emphasis on individual and team and marketing programmes.
The success of these performance.
In the year, in addition to normal incentive programmes within their key market segments, as well plans for sales personnel, almost half of non-sales staff had as their brand reputations, is reviewed through regular an element of their remuneration related to performance.
During the year, the Group continued to invest in training Customer relationships and in particular through the investment in an on-line The MDD businesses have a customer base comprised performance management system to ensure alignment of of some 2,000,000 customer contacts.
Contacts are objectives throughout the business and to build skills and typically design, production and maintenance engineers or capability.
Further expansion of content was made available procurement specialists.
They represent a diverse spectrum through the Premier Farnell OnLine Learning Centre with of private and public organisations, covering all industries both internally developed materials and content sourced and areas of commerce.
No single customer represents in partnership with a leading business school.
Over the last more than 2% of Group sales.
12 months there has been a particular focus on robust talent management processes and on leadership The Group has customer relationship management CRM development with the use of competency-based systems within its key MDD businesses.
These are adding interviewing techniques to improve the effectiveness of to a growing understanding of customers needs and external recruitment.
enabling the business to offer specific customers the services that they most value.
42 Business Review continued Financial Review The MDD businesses manage relationships with customers Distribution network and inventory through multiple channels including catalogues, websites The Marketing and Distribution Division has sales offices and conversations with customers, both by phone and in 24 countries.
These are supported by a network of face-to-face.
distribution centres that enable the Division to ship products anywhere in the world within one to three days.
Almost all Supplier relationships orders are dispatched on the day they are placed.
The MDD businesses work with over 2,500 suppliers, stock approximately 400,000 products, and offer access to more The network is comprised of seven primary than 4,000,000 other products.
The Divisions attraction distribution centres: to suppliers is directly related to its ability to seed new US Gaffney South Carolina and Springboro Ohio products to market, to drive customer acquisition across UK Leeds and Preston its global customer base and to drive multi-channel solutions-based technology marketing.
Mainland Europe Lige Belgium Asia Singapore The supplier base is balanced to offer customers around the globe a breadth of products from many different suppliers, Australia Sydney while also offering deeper product ranges from some key suppliers with whom the Division has strategic alliances These are supplemented by satellite warehouses in other and improved commercial terms.
locations including Mexico, Brazil and China.
Collectively, this network typically handles over 20,000 orders per day Across Farnell and Newark, the portfolio of suppliers is and stocks some 400,000 products.
Technology systems managed by an international team.
The largest suppliers are therefore central to delivering high service.
The network within this portfolio include many global premium brands is managed by a global supply chain team that shares best for whom integrated, go to market strategies are developed.
practice between locations and drives a programme of During the year, the Division continued to build its continuous improvement in accuracy, efficiency and service.
proposition to design engineers, securing new distribution agreements to fill technology gaps and securing territorial At the year end the Group held 155 million of inventory extensions with existing suppliers to support our emerging in its businesses, of which 135 million was in the MDD businesses in Asia Pacific.
Elsewhere within the Division, supplier relationships are Inventory is managed on a line-by-line basis, utilising managed at a business level, enabling specific customer best in class forecasting and stock monitoring IT systems.
needs to be met by sourcing, for example, locally branded The re-ordering of most products is automated, enabling products, or value-for-money products from Asia.
purchasing teams to manage order quantity, delivery or demand exceptions.
Order fill rates are among the highest in the industry, in line with the Groups commitment to service excellence.
The Division aims to increase stock turns through the use of ever more intelligent systems, seamless supply chain integration with suppliers, and elimination of any non-moving stocks.
The Division uses a variety of third-party carriers to ship orders.
It has a strategic relationship with UPS, its principal carrier, responsible for approximately two-thirds of its worldwide deliveries each day.
43 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Business Review CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility a high performance Our programme is focused on our environmental impacts: company working to build a sustainable future the communities in which we operate: our people: trading Premier Farnell takes seriously its role as a responsible ethically with our customers and suppliers and the health corporate citizen and seeks to take account of the and safety of our employees.
economic, social and environmental impacts of its operations.
It is our belief that acting in this way is a source We have been a member of the FTSE4Good Index of of business opportunity, improved competitiveness and Corporate and Social Responsibility since its launch in July sound business practice.
2001 and the Group is also a member of Business in the Community BiTC, a movement of 700 of the UKs top We have defined Corporate Social Responsibility as the companies committed to improving their impact on society.
sustainable development of our business balancing our We participate in the BiTC Corporate Responsibility Index responsibilities to our shareholders, the environment and and were one of the biggest improvers in the Index results society.
We believe that by releasing the power of individuals announced in 2007. within Premier Farnell, we can have a positive impact on society and reduce our impact on the environment.
Our programme and reporting follow the framework used in the BiTC CR Index, facilitating the external validation of our As an organisation with strong core values, we are driven programme.
We use the feedback from our submission to to deliver results by being totally reliable, resourceful, assist us in identifying those areas where we should focus customer focused and by conducting ourselves with our efforts.
These values translate into every aspect of our business.
Our CSR programme is helping to create an Every year we identify, publish and report against specific organisation in which our employees are proud to work improvement targets in this CSR report and have been and in which our stakeholders have confidence.
Premier Farnell carbon footprint This visual shows the principal steps in the life of a product sold by Premier Farnell.
All of the steps shown in the central box have been taken into account in determining the Groups carbon footprint.
Premier Farnell carbon footprint Internal Premier Farnell Products Processes Transport movements of products Raw materials extraction Storage and handling of products Delivery of products from Employee business travel Raw materials transportation Heating and lighting of premises manufacturer to Premier Farnell Raw materials processing IT support Delivery of products from Manufacturing processes Unpacking and repacking of products Premier Farnell to customers to make products Packaging waste Disposal of products at Catalogue and direct mail production end of life paper and energy used Manufacturing products Akron 44 Business Review continued CSR Report The Board has overall responsibility for establishing the Our performance this year Groups CSR policies and the Chief Executive Officer Environment is accountable for ensuring that the Group operates in The pervasion of electronics in every aspect of todays world accordance with these policies and reviews progress means that we all rely on electronics for innumerable tasks on a monthly basis.
Reporting of our performance is led each day.
Electronic design engineers are under pressure by the Company Secretary and the Board receives a to design more electronic products, faster, while taking into report on the Groups CSR performance at least every account how their design affects the environment and six months.
Periodic updates are provided on the individual users.
Our responsibility to our customers and the environment A copy of our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy can is at the heart of everything we do.
It is critical that we meet be obtained on our website at www.
com our customers growing needs for environmentally friendly premier farnell csr or by contacting Caroline Walker, products, while decreasing our own environmental impacts.
Group Head of CSR and Environmental Affairs on 44 0 113 387 5282.
Our principal environmental impacts are carbon emissions, our use of paper and packaging and waste.
We have set Note the following programmes and targets in order to reduce References to years throughout the CSR report are to our impact on the environment.
calendar years, rather than the Companys financial year.
Data is presented in this report in two ways: the absolute Three year carbon reduction programme total quantity of usage generation and, to provide a method We have defined our carbon footprint and developed a of assessing relative performance from year to year, unit rates strategy and three year plan to reduce our carbon emissions based on sales turnover i. e. quantity per 1,000 of sales.
to the lowest practicable and economic level.
We include in our carbon footprint those of our primary activities over Highlights of the year which we have direct control all our activities from the Our major achievements this year have been: receipt of products into our warehouses to their despatch to customers including the production of catalogues A further improvement of 10% in our rating in the BiTC CR and marketing material : our use and the disposal of Index putting us in the silver category: packaging: business travel and the energy required to The implementation of a plan to continue reducing carbon operate our facilities.
emissions to the lowest practicable and economic level: In those areas outside our direct control for example the The development of our approach to sustainable delivery of products to our facilities by our suppliers and to procurement: our customers by third party carriers, we are working with Over 150 teams across the Group made and delivered our suppliers and customers to better understand the community and environmental commitments during opportunities for improved efficiency.
the year: Highlights of our carbon reduction programme in 2007 The appointment of a full-time Group Head of CSR and include: Environmental Affairs: Completed energy audits in all our major facilities: Positive feedback from our employee engagement survey in which the CSR section achieved the highest score of all New programmes and targets to reduce consumption major indicators: and through measurement, energy management and investment in energy efficient equipment: Monthly feedback of progress on objectives to CEO.
The piloting with our principal third-party logistics provider of monthly reporting of the carbon emissions created by our parcel distribution activity: and A sustainable procurement programme covered on page 48.
45 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Live Edge Electronic design for the global environment Design engineers are increasingly being challenged to design electronics that are environmentally friendly.
Through ongoing engagement with our EDE customer segment, we are committed to working together in order to build sustainable businesses ours and theirs.
As a part of our commitment to the environment and engagement The award announcement was made at a virtual ceremony, with EDE customers, Premier Farnell hosted its first annual Live reflecting both our commitment to the web and our commitment Edge competition.
The competition challenged EDEs from to reducing carbon emissions.
around the world to submit designs for innovative products that utilise electronic components and have a positive impact on the The winning design, a ceiling fan that combines an electronically environment.
The winning prize package was valued at US$100,000, commutated motor and controller, and aerodynamically efficient comprising a US$50,000 cash prize and a support package to help blade design that reduces fan input power by up to two-thirds of bring the winning design to the market, valued at $50,000.
a traditional fan, was submitted by John Noble.
John is an EDE customer from Malaysia, and he believes that: Live Edge has More than 3,500 engineers registered for the competition from provided design engineers with a forum to focus more on the over 100 countries.
issues of sustainability and not just growth.
One of the principal drivers of better energy management Driving high standards in our use of paper is employee behaviour and we actively encourage and packaging employees to conserve the Companys resources through One of our principal environmental impacts is the use of our own green facilities award scheme.
This promotes paper in the publication of our product catalogues and environmentally friendly working practices, enabling marketing material and packaging.
We take a proactive individual sites to self-assess their performance, earning approach to reducing the environmental impact of our points for conserving energy, reducing waste disposal and publications and packaging, whilst taking into account increasing levels of recycling.
The scheme, which has been economic and market factors.
running since 2003, has this year been given added impetus by the carbon reduction programme.
All our Premier Farnell communicates with its customers via larger facilities have teams of green champions and a a combination of catalogues, direct mail and the web.
further five of the Groups facilities have achieved the green Whilst it is the Groups strategy to increase the level of facility award this year, bringing the total to 12.
In 2008 web-based business, paper materials continue to be we aim to have all the remaining larger facilities accredited important in offering customers choice in the way they to this award.
In November 2007, Farnell in Leeds and CPC in Preston This year we have formalised and published the ways in achieved accreditation to the Energy Efficiency Accreditation which we aim to mitigate the impact on the environment Scheme EEAS which recognises businesses that are of our paper publications by setting appropriate minimum making positive moves to reduce energy consumption, standards for their production paper and print, distribution become more energy efficient and reduce carbon emissions.
46 Business Review continued CSR Report It is our policy to: Reducing waste to landfill Premier Farnell has identified the generation of waste as one Engage with suppliers of paper and print who can of its three significant environmental impacts.
The nature of demonstrate their commitment to mitigating the our business is such that we place orders on our suppliers environmental impacts of their production processes in large quantities and then break down these orders into through certification to a recognised and properly the quantities required by our customers.
This process managed and audited scheme: creates waste and we engage with our suppliers with the Specify either virgin paper from certified, sustainable objective of minimising waste and specifying packaging sources or recycled paper with the highest available which is recyclable, wherever possible.
post-consumer recycled content according to cost considerations and the production constraints of We also focus our efforts on minimising the volume of waste individual publications: which goes to landfill.
Where possible we re-use waste packaging and, where this is not achievable, we ensure Only place contracts with printers who have a published that it is sorted and recycled.
environmental policy and recognised environmental certifications: All our large facilities have recycling programmes and Specify that the packaging used for protecting catalogues initiatives in place to increase the volume and types of waste and direct mail in the delivery system is manufactured with that are recycled.
The CPC facility in Preston, UK currently recycled and recyclable materials: achieves the highest proportion of waste recycled at 89%.
Ensure we maintain up to date customer data which Overall, the Group recycles 63% of its waste, up from 59% ensures that the publication is relevant to the end in 2006. customer, thereby minimising wastage: and Encourage our customers to recycle all publications As a supplier of electrical and electronic equipment, we and packaging at the end of their lifespan.
have producer obligations under the WEEE legislation to provide our customers with a service to enable them to We have been setting and achieving targets to reduce the dispose of their waste electrical and electronic equipment weight of the paper in our product catalogues for the last correctly in compliance with the legislation.
Akron Brass, four years and to increase the proportion of post-consumer which manufactures fire-fighting equipment from brass and recycled material where appropriate.
aluminium, re-use and recycle the industrial waste created by their manufacturing process.
We are also concerned with reducing the environmental impact of the packaging we use to protect the products Embracing environmental legislation we supply and to ship our customer orders.
This year we There is an ever growing list of European environmental have developed and introduced new cell type packaging legislation that impacts the Groups electronic component which, in addition to providing enhanced protection for distribution businesses.
The Restriction of Hazardous the integrated circuits we supply, has the added benefit Substances RoHS legislation restricts the use of certain of being fully recyclable.
hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
These substances are restricted to complement At our international distribution centre in Leeds we have the ease of recycling, re-use and recovery at the end of a replaced air-filled plastic protective packaging materials with products life under the Waste Electrical and Electronic an environmentally friendly alternative based on recyclable Equipment WEEE Directive.
Beyond Europe, countries paper from sustainable sources.
This packaging process is such as China, Korea and Australia are all looking to also more energy efficient.
At our distribution centres in implement their own versions of RoHS, with others to follow.
the US, we are increasingly re-using inbound packaging materials and shredded waste office paper for the The Energy using Products EuP Directive looks at the same purpose.
energy consumption of a product from mining the raw material right through to its recycling at end-of-life.
At the same time, we are moving to packing boxes which Finally, the REACH regulations impose tighter controls are manufactured from sustainable, managed sources and over the use of 30,000 chemicals in Europe.
Utilised World Resources Institute WRI recommended CO2 conversion factors.
The total CO2 emissions for the year were substantially reduced by the disposal of the BuckHickman business in April 2007.
All these pieces of legislation impact, and are clearly We monitor both the number of workplace injuries and communicated to, the Groups principal customer base of illnesses and the number of lost-time workplace injuries electronics design engineers.
Representatives of the Group and set a target to achieve rates of less than half of the were invited to present three training programmes on averages for our industry.
European environmental legislation at a recent Academy of Certified Hazardous Materials Managers conference in India.
We have our own behaviour-based safety programme, Safety STAR Safety Through Accountability and Evaluation Recognition, which requires supervisors to encourage We collect data on the amount of energy used and carbon safe work practices, promotes regular safety observations, dioxide emitted, waste disposed and waste recycled by encourages and holds employees accountable for working the Groups operations in order to assess our safely and regularly asks employees for their ideas and environmental impact.
suggestions for improving safety at their facility.
Two of our facilities in the US have achieved Safety STAR status.
In order to ensure that we have representative and reliable environmental data, we review new data each quarter In addition, two of the five US businesses: Cadillac Electric and compare it to data from prior years.
This continual and MCM recorded no injuries and all five of our US review and comparison allows us to detect and correct businesses qualified for the US National Safety Council any errors and may result in the restatement of certain Occupational Safety Excellence Awards, having achieved prior year figures.
lost-time injury rates of less than half the industry average.
Health and safety All our UK facilities are accredited to OHSAS 18001: 1999, Our aim is to provide a safe and healthy environment for the internationally recognised standard for health and safety our employees and visitors to our premises and to keep management systems.
the number of working hours lost through health and safety incidents to a minimum.
48 Business Review continued CSR Report The estimated cost incurred by our US operations for Workplace and community injuries resulting in days away from work in 2007 was Our aim is to be recognised by existing and potential future $266,000.
This cost is based on a $38,000 average cost employees as a responsible employer that values its people per disabling injury as estimated by the US National Safety and provides an environment in which they can develop their Council.
This cost includes wage losses, medical expenses, skills and make a contribution to the success of the business.
administration expenses and employment costs.
We also wish to make a contribution to the communities in In Europe and Asia Pacific the estimated cost for injuries which we operate, building goodwill and a reputation as a resulting in days away from work in 2007 was 35,649 good neighbour and employer.
Our community investment applying UK estimates of 2,097 per occurrence, based strategy and charitable giving policy support this aim.
on Health and Safety Executive figures.
Highlights of our workplace and community programme Marketplace include: Our relationships with our customers and suppliers are at the heart of our business and we believe we can and should Over 150 teams across the Group made and delivered work together to build a sustainable business.
This year we CSR commitments as part of our activities to launch the undertook the development of a sustainable procurement new financial year: and programme and identified the core impacts which are 79% of employees thought that Premier Farnell is socially important to us and which we believe we can influence and environmentally responsible, the highest score in the through our supply chain.
They are: employee survey carried out in August.
Ethical trading labour practices and working conditions in our own brand supply chain: Our community investment strategy is based upon building sustainable partnerships with local community groups Waste generation and disposal of waste: using our resources and in particular our time to support Carbon emissions created by the delivery of goods to their activities.
our distribution centres and our shipments to customers: and Employees are encouraged to volunteer in company time.
Funds are raised principally through employee fundraising Paper used in the production of our product catalogues activities and supplemented for specific projects with funds and marketing activity.
from the corporate charity budget.
All employees are eligible to apply for funds and these can be a cash donation, Highlights of our marketplace programme matched funds or goods in kind.
The budget of 20,000 in 2007 include: has been fully utilised this year.
Engaging with a social enterprise with considerable experience and expertise in this area, Action Sustainability, Our community partners and projects represent causes and securing funding from UK government Department with which our employees have demonstrated through of the Environment, Food and Rural Affiars DEFRA to discussion groups and surveys their interest and support.
assist in the development of a sustainable procurement Through dialogue with the community partners, activities programme: are identified which can be supported by the employee Development and publication of our supply chain volunteering programme.
These include large projects, CSR policy: met by team challenges and ongoing, regular activities met by individual volunteers.
Defining workplace standards for the factories of those suppliers with whom we contract to produce own brand In the US, all of the Groups businesses participate in the products: United Way, a community-based umbrella organisation Engaging with eight of our most important own brand supporting various human services organisations with whom suppliers in order to assess them against our labour the businesses have had a relationship since the 1980s.
practices and working conditions standards: and In each of our US businesses we have employees who Development and roll-out of training for our commercial undertake leadership roles in United Ways fundraising teams on the environmental and social issues affecting activities and every year we run a pledge and donations our supply chains.
A number of team and individual initiatives have this year benefited local community groups and charities 49 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 including Adopt a Soldier programmes, donations of clothing to a homeless shelter and the annual American Helping Ravenswood Elementary School Cancer Societys Daffodil days fundraiser, which is a great success and hugely popular with employees.
Taste of Ravenswood community event Newarks neighbour, Ravenswood Elementary School, is a Our largest site in Europe and Asia Pacific is in Leeds, UK.
90% low income school that has beaten all the odds to be This is located in an inner city area which borders on the considered in the top 15% of Chicago Public schools.
As prosperous and fast developing city centre.
Two-thirds of an electronics distribution company in the community, we the employees at this site live in Leeds and of these over wanted to show support and raise funds for the school to half live in the local area.
If we make a difference in our local buy electronics for their students to engage and learn at community, we contribute to the community in which many new levels that would be otherwise unavailable to them.
We had an event called Taste of Ravenswood which involved local establishments donating food and services.
We have established partnerships with two local groups who We sold pizza, make your own sundaes, and raffle tickets work with the elderly and disengaged young people and a to employees for many of the donated items.
This raised number of local schools.
Regular activities such as escorted awareness both for local businesses and the school.
We shopping trips and tea dances for the elderly, supporting also held a Jeans Day where employees paid $5 each to primary age children in reading programmes, mentoring of wear jeans and show their support for the school.
The young people and team gardening challenges have been school was extremely grateful for our participation, thank undertaken this year by a committed group of volunteers.
you notes were received from the entire first-grade class, the principal and head of the parents organisation and we Across the Group employees have identified the good were included in their monthly newsletter.
Our little events causes they want to support and are giving their time, made a difference for almost 500 students a total of money and commitment in a variety of ways: examples $3,300 was raised for the school.
include the donation of money raised through the recycling of aluminium cans to a local childrens hospital and loose coin collections to sponsor a child in a developing country.
We remain a member of the FTSE4Good Index of Corporate and Social Responsibility.
We participated in the The Group recognises that these types of activity not only BiTC Corporate Responsibility Index for the third time this benefit the community groups and good causes involved, year and improved our rating by a further 10%, putting but also deliver business benefits in providing training and us in the silver category of the Index.
We are also among development opportunities for those employees who a small number of companies that have participated in the participate.
Our new online personal development planning Business in the Environment regional survey of Corporate system Futures enables employees to capture the Environmental Engagement every year since its inception in volunteering activities they have undertaken, assess the 1999 and shown continual progress, increasing our overall development opportunities and benefits delivered and score by 3% in the latest survey.
discuss these as part of their performance review process with their line manager.
This year our UK businesses achieved accreditation to the Energy Efficiency Accreditation Scheme EEAS the national Awards and achievements benchmark standard for energy efficiency in the UK, which We are delighted to report that five Premier Farnell recognises businesses that are making positive moves to companies qualified again this year for the US National reduce energy consumption, become more energy efficient Safety Council Occupational Safety Excellence Awards.
These awards recognised exemplary safety records at Newark, MCM, Akron Brass, TPC Wire & Cable and Audit of this report Cadillac Electric sites.
"As part of the process of ensuring that we have robust data as a reference point, our Internal Audit Department have In addition, Ken Manchen our Director of Safety, Health assessed the processes used to collect and collate the and Environmental Affairs for the Americas was honoured information contained in this CSR report and their proposals with an ""Outstanding Commitment to Safety"" award by for improvement have been implemented."
The Internal Audit the National Safety Council for his long and continued department carry out a review of the key data presented commitment to safety.
in the report every two years and this review has been undertaken for this report.
50 Business Review continued CSR Report Performance against 2007 environmental targets and actions planned in 2008 Target 2007 Progress Target 2008 Achieve green facility status at two Five of the Groups facilities have Achieve green facility status at all more locations in the Group.
achieved green facility status this year.
Achieve ISO14001 accreditation at Farnell France facility.
Carry out an energy audit at Newark and Energy audits have been undertaken and Implemented carbon reduction plans in the Farnell Mainland Europe and Asia energy saving opportunities identified in each of the larger facilities to achieve a Pacific facilities.
all the Groups larger facilities.
10% reduction in the carbon emissions created by the heating and lighting of Set targets for reduction in energy Energy efficiency plans have been those facilities by 2009 against the consumption for all business units.
developed and are being implemented.
We have achieved accreditation to the Achieve EEAS accreditation at the Energy Efficiency Accreditation Scheme European Distribution Centre Lige.
EEAS, the national benchmark standard Evaluate US accreditation schemes for for energy efficiency, in the UK at our external validation of the US businesses facilities in Leeds and Preston.
environmental programmes and, if appropriate, target accreditation of at least one business.
Carry out an audit of printing and copying An equipment audit has been undertaken Carry out an audit of printing and copying equipment to maximise the use of energy in the UK, the purpose of which was to equipment to maximise the use of energy and paper efficient equipment and set rationalise and update office equipment and paper efficient equipment and targets for the reduction of paper printers, faxes and copiers with the objective achieve a 5% reduction in paper consumption at two facilities.
of providing benefits both to the users and consumption at two of the Companys reducing the consumption of energy and major US facilities.
The audit recommendations will be implemented in quarter one FY09.
Savings in energy and consumables are being quantified and targets set.
Reduce the grammage of the paper used The paper grade used for the CPC 2007 Work with printers and paper for printing the main catalogues in Europe catalogue and the Farnell 2008 catalogues manufacturers to quantify the carbon and Asia Pacific by 10% lighter weight was reduced in line with our target.
The emissions created by the production of paper requires fewer raw materials to CPC catalogue was printed on 29g m, the catalogues and direct mail pieces and produce and transport, creating fewer Nordic Swan certified paper and the determine what percentage of the CO2 emissions.
Farnell 2008 catalogues are being printed Groups carbon footprint this activity on 30g m FSC Forestry Stewardship accounts for.
Increase the post-consumer recycled Council certified paper.
content of the direct mail pieces across the Premier Farnell brands.
MCM have produced their first flyer using Specify recycled paper and or FSC FSC certified paper.
Reduce the overall weight of paper certified paper for catalogues and or consumed in producing the Newark Farnell has changed the paper stock direct mail where available and catalogue by 10%.
used for its direct mail campaigns to competitively priced.
papers with a minimum of 45% postconsumer recycled content.
Due to difficult conditions in the US paper market, Newark was unable to source paper with recycled content for their direct mail programme in 2007.
However, from February of this year, direct mail and sheet-fed work will all be printed on paper with a recycled content.
In addition Newarks 2008 catalogue will be printed on paper with a minimum of 45% post-consumer recycled content, up from 35% in the 2007 catalogue.
Our major US facilities now have Achieve a further increase in recycling Establish programmes at all major US programmes established for the recycling of globally.
facilities for recycling used batteries, batteries, computers, fluorescent lamps and computers, fluorescent lamps and pallets.
Overall the US businesses increased levels of recycling from 58% to 63%.
Target a 5% increase in general recycling Lige increased the amount of waste it activity at the Lige Distribution Centre.
recycles by 16% and now recycles 59%.
Maybrook and CPC now recycle 66% and 89% of their waste respectively.
51 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Performance against 2007 health and safety targets and actions planned in 2008 Target 2007 Progress Target 2008 Continue to monitor the number of In 2007 the rate at which industrial injuries Continue to monitor the number of recordable and lost time workplace and illnesses occurred at Premier Farnell recordable and lost time workplace injuries and illnesses that occur at our facilities worldwide was 0.68 injuries per injuries and illnesses that occur at our facilities in 2007, and achieve rates of less 100,000 hours worked.
Our goal was to facilities and achieve rates of less than than 50% of the averages for our have a rate of 50% or less than the 50% of the averages for our industry.
Our industry average was 1.42 injuries per 100,000 The Groups occupational injury and hours worked, putting us below 50% of illness rate is compared to occupational the industry average.
injury and illness rates for other industry segments as compiled and published by The number of lost-time injuries and the US Department of Labor, Bureau of illnesses that occurred at Premier Farnell Labor Statistics for 2006 being the latest facilities worldwide was 0.31 lost-time statistics available.
injuries and illnesses per 100,000 hours worked.
Our industry average was 0.44 lost-time injuries and illnesses per 100,000 hours worked putting us at 72% of the industry average, but falling short of our target of 50% of the industry average.
The Group did not achieve the target as a result of a worse than target performance in the Europe and Asia Pacific region which outweighed the better than target performance in the US.
The Newark Gaffney distribution centre Achieve Safety STAR status at an Achieve Safety STAR status at has implemented a safety observation additional facility in 2007.
programme and achieved Safety STAR status.
The safety and environmental manager at Encourage each safety manager to Akron Brass has completed her complete 10-hour OSHA-approved Occupational Safety and Health General Industry training in 2007.
Administration OSHAapproved General Industry training.
Safety managers at the other US businesses have committed to undertake the training in 2008.
Training for Farnell and CPC first line A number of new courses have been Develop and deliver training on developed for the Online Learning Centre managers to continue.
implementing risk assessment online and namely Managing Health & Safety in the face to face in Farnell Leeds and CPC.
Workplace: Introduction to Health & National Examination Board for Safety at Work: Manual Handling: DSE Occupational Safety and Health Workstation Assessment and Training and NEBOSH certificate level training Accident Investigation.
completed for two key managers at the The first line managers at Maybrook have Leeds distribution centre.
completed courses in Manual Handling and Managing H&S at Work.
The first line managers at CPC have completed the Manual Handling course.
Discussions have been undertaken Review benchmarking tools to identify with the British Standards Institute to areas where improvements can be understand the potential benefits of managed through all H&S processes and benchmarking tools.
systems that will help drive safe systems of work and reduction in accidents.
The benchmarking tool offered by BSI was not considered appropriate and this piece of work will not be progressed.
The Avian Flu Preparedness plans have Implement Avian Flu Preparedness Plans been reviewed by the Groups Safety, in all businesses.
The plans are considered to be effective and sufficient for the current situation.
52 Business Review continued CSR Report Performance against 2007 marketplace targets and actions planned for 2008 Target 2007 Progress Target 2008 Follow up the supplier engagement with This target was re-scoped as we Complete the labour practices and a CSR questionnaire.
developed our understanding and focus working conditions assessment and have through our sustainable procurement agreed plans in place as appropriate for Include CSR criteria in all new supplier programme.
the Groups eight most important by audit and selection processes.
sales value own brand manufacturers A supply chain policy has been written in Asia.
and published, sustainability criteria have been incorporated into processes, job Develop a sustainable procurement descriptions, development plans and programme at Newark, sharing learning vendor scorecards.
A supplier survey has and best practice from the European been developed and is being piloted with programme.
eight of our own brand suppliers.
Engage with key suppliers on waste and A training workshop has been developed carbon emissions.
and is being delivered to commercial Sign up to the BiTC Marketplace teams to increase awareness and Principles.
understanding of sustainable procurement practices.
Widen the policy to include environmental The Premier Farnell supply chain CSR practices.
policy includes the environmental impacts of carbon emissions, waste and paper and is published on the Premier Farnell website.
53 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Performance against 2007 workplace and community targets and actions planned in 2008 Target 2007 Progress Target 2008 Achieve a further improvement in our The Group participated in the BiTC CR Achieve a further improvement in our score in the BiTC CR Index Index for the third time this year.
score in the BiTC CR Index as part of our The Group achieved a rating at the top progress towards our target of achieving end of the silver ranking, with a score Platinum status by 2010. of 88%, an increase of 10% on the previous year.
Continue to monitor the rates and causes The Group monitors the rates of Continue to monitor the rates and causes of employee absenteeism and take absenteeism and also the causes.
of employee absenteeism and take actions to achieve reductions actions to achieve reductions The average rate of employee absenteeism across all the US businesses of 1.63% was lower than the US national rates of 1.87% for same size organisations.
Since absenteeism rates keep parity with US national rates, reduction targets are not set in the US.
In Europe targets were set for each of the distribution centres and call centres.
The absence rates represent hours lost divided by hours available and targets were achieved with the exception of the Maybrook Distribution Centre.
Whilst short-term absence has been controlled at Maybrook, there has been a higher than expected long-term absence rate.
The management team continue to monitor this and the appropriate actions are taken to reduce this wherever possible for example phased return to work and lighter duties.
