54 Board of Directors & Officers 55 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Sir Peter Gershon, CBE, FREng, Harriet Green, BA Hons Aged 46 Mark Whiteling, M. Comm Hons Chairman, Aged 61 Appointed as Chief Executive Officer 3 April Aged 45 Appointed as Non-Executive Chairman 2006.
Previously ran volume distribution Appointed as Chief Financial Officer 1 March 2005.
Currently Chairman of businesses in four continents, including 1 September 2006.
Formerly Group Finance Symbian Limited, GHG Limited General Asia Pacific for Arrow Electronics as well as Director Communisis plc, the pan-European Healthcare Group and Vertex Data Science having functional responsibility for worldwide print management direct mail group.
He is also a member of the marketing, suppliers and strategy.
Prior to joining Communisis in November 2004, he Advisory Board of the UK Defence Academy joining Arrow in 1994 was Managing Director was Group Finance Director of Tibbett & and the Court and Council of Imperial of the Macro Group, part of Diploma plc.
Britten plc, a FTSE 250 logistics company.
Formerly Chief Executive of the Office of Government Commerce, Managing Laurence Bain, CA Aged 54 Steven Webb, LLB Solicitor Aged 45 Director of Marconi Electronic Systems Appointed Chief Operating Officer July 2002 Appointed as Company Secretary and and a member of the GEC plc Board.
and joined the Board as an Executive Director General Counsel in December 2000. on 1 July 2003.
Previously Vice President and Previously Company Secretary and General Director of Operations for Motorola in Europe, Counsel of Kelda Group plc and Company Middle East and Africa Secretary of Kalon Group plc William B Korb, B. S. I. E. AMP Aged 68 John Roques, CA Aged 69 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July in January 2003.
Non-Executive Director, BBA Aviation CEO of Gilbarco Incorporated.
Non-Executive plc and Henderson Group Plc.
Formerly Director of Cambrex Corporation.
Paul Withers MA Aged 51 Dennis Millard CA SA MBA Aged 59 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2007.
Formerly Main Board in September 2007.
Formerly Group Finance Director of BPB plc.
Non-Executive Director Director of Cookson Group plc.
Executive Chairman of Smiths News Plc, Non-Executive Director of Debenhams plc, Cary J Nolan, BA B. S. E. E. Aged 65 EAG Limited and Xchanging plc.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 1999.
Formerly President, CEO Picker Andrew Dougal, B Acc, CA Aged 56 International Inc. President Cooper Surgical Appointed as a Non-Executive Director and President Xerox Medical Systems in September 2006.
Non-Executive Director of Toshiba of Hanson plc, the international building Medical and Tomotherapy Inc. materials company and previously Finance Director of Hanson, the diversified industrial group.
Non-Executive Director of Taylor Wimpey plc, Creston Plc and formerly of BPB plc Non-Executive Directors.
Committees Nominations Committee Membership at March 2008 Sir Peter Gershon Chairman William Korb Audit Committee John Roques John Roques Chairman Andrew Dougal Remuneration Committee Cary Nolan Andrew Dougal Chairman William Korb William Korb Dennis Millard Cary Nolan John Roques Paul Withers
