61 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report Principal activities and business review During the year, the Premier Farnell Executive Trust acquired A detailed review of the Groups activities and the development 1,153,693 of the Companys ordinary shares for a total of its business, together with an indication of likely future consideration of 2.5 million, in order to meet future obligations developments and a description of the principal risks and under the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan.
uncertainties it faces, are set out on pages 3 to 42.
Information Directors about environmental matters, employees and social and The names and biographical details of the Directors who held office community issues appear on pages 43 to 53. at the date of this report appear on page 55.
No other Directors The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged and is the held office during the year.
distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial products to the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Sir Peter design, maintenance and repair sectors.
Gershon will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and offer himself for re-election.
A formal evaluation Profit and dividends process having been carried out during the course of the year in The Groups operating profit for the financial year from continuing respect of Sir Peter, his performance continues to be effective and operations was 88.0 million 2007: 83.1 million.
The Groups he continues to demonstrate commitment to his role.
profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders was 36.3 million 2007: 52.4 million.
Dennis Millard and Paul Withers, who were appointed during the year, will retire and offer themselves for election at the forthcoming The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5.2 pence Annual General Meeting.
Dennis Millard and Paul Withers are 2007: 5.0 pence per ordinary share be paid on 25 June 2008 Non-Executive Directors and do not have service contracts.
to those shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 30 May 2008.
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence per During the financial year ended 3 February 2008 the Company ordinary share was paid on 17 October 2007, making a total for provided indemnities to each of its Directors in accordance with the the year of 9.2 pence 2007: 9.0 pence per ordinary share.
provisions of the Companys Articles of Association providing for the indemnification of Directors out of the assets of the Company to the The Premier Farnell Executive Trust holds ordinary shares in the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities constitute qualifying third Company acquired in the market in order to meet obligations party indemnities for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and under the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan or to provide remain in force at the date of approval of this report.
The trustees have waived the right to receive dividends in respect of the ordinary shares held by the Trust.
As announced on 19 March 2008, John Roques and Cary Nolan will retire from the Board with effect from the close of Disposals the Companys Annual General Meeting in June 2008.
On 10 April 2007 the Group sold the BuckHickman business, Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, service part of the Marketing and Distribution Division, Europe and Asia contracts and interests in the Companys shares is given in the Pacific, to the BSS Group plc.
The pre-tax loss on disposal was Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 70.
The details of Directors 13.6 million, after a write-off of goodwill allocated to this business interests in the Companys shares form part of this report.
of 19.3 million, and the net cash consideration received in the year was 24.4 million.
Information required by section 992 of the Further details of the disposal are given in note 24 to the Companies Act 2006 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out in notes 15 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Share capital The Companys authorised share capital comprises ordinary Details of the changes in the issued, ordinary share capital of the shares of 5 pence each nominal value and cumulative convertible Company during the year are set out in note 20 to the Consolidated redeemable preference shares of 1 each nominal value.
As at 3 February 2008, the ordinary shares and preference shares represented 75.95% and 24.05% respectively of the At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will be Companys total share capital.
seeking authority to purchase its ordinary and preference shares.
Authorities were previously granted at the Annual General Meeting The rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares and its in 2007, but expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
preference shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys articles of association the During the year under review the Company purchased 1,236,500 articles, a copy of which can be obtained on request from the of its cumulative redeemable preference shares in the market for Company Secretary.
A summary of the rights attached to the a total consideration of 17.7 million.
These shares had a nominal preference shares appears in note 15 to the Consolidated value of 1,236,500 and represented 17.64% of the cumulative Financial Statements.
convertible redeemable preference shares in issue prior to such purchases.
All shares purchased were then cancelled.
The purchases are considered to be beneficial to the ongoing earnings and cash flow profile of the Group.
62 Directors Report continued The articles contain certain restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Charitable and political donations and preference shares and on the exercise of voting rights attached In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating certain to them, including where the Company has exercised its right to items of stock to charitable organisations.
In addition, during the prohibit transfer following the omission of their holder or any person year the Group made charitable donations in cash of 47,000. interested in them to provide the Company with information Further details of the Groups charitable activities appear in the requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review on 2006.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to receive notice of, page 48. but not attend or vote at general meetings of the Company other than in limited circumstances.
The Group continues its policy of not making contributions to political parties.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the articles.
Changes to the articles must be approved by Employment shareholders passing a special resolution.
The Directors powers The Group places great emphasis on optimising the contribution are conferred on them by UK legislation and by the articles.
made by employees at all levels around the world.
A Group-wide The Directors authority to effect purchases of the Companys Performance Review process is in its ninth year of operation.
shares on its behalf is conferred by resolution of the shareholders During the year, this process has been enhanced by the inclusion and renewed annually at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
of a 360 degree review for all those in the Group involved in leading others and by making the whole process available on-line.
There are no agreements between any Group company and any The Group continues to invest in the development of its employees of its employees or any Director of the Company which provide for and has carried out a review of leadership skills and development compensation to be paid to the employee or Director for termination needs.
Specific employee development programmes are designed of employment or for loss of office as a consequence of a takeover on the basis of these identified needs.
In addition, all employees of the Company, other than provisions that would apply on any have attended workshops covering the attributes required for high termination of employment.
performance and are now entitled to spend an hour every week on The Companys multi-currency bilateral bank facilities contain personal development activities.
The content available through the provisions allowing the lending banks to exercise termination or Groups on-line learning centre was increased during the year in other rights in the event of a change of control.
terms of customised internal course material and access to a wide range of external materials delivered in partnership with a leading The trustees of the Premier Farnell Executive Trust an employee business school.
A comprehensive induction module now exists benefit trust may vote or abstain from voting shares held in the trust which forms part of every new employees introduction to the in any way they see fit.
A formal job grading system exists across the Group to assist remuneration practices as well as career development Financial instruments and organisational planning processes.
Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and in respect of financial instruments is set out under the heading a structured communication programme allows factors affecting Treasury Operations on page 38 and in note 19 to the Consolidated their employment to be discussed.
All employees attended kick off Financial Statements.
meetings at the beginning of the financial year which provided them with the opportunity to understand their individual role in delivering Supplier payment policy the Companys strategy.
A comprehensive cascade process The Groups operating companies are responsible for agreeing ensures that information on the Companys performance is made terms and conditions under which business transactions with available to coincide with its quarterly results announcements.
Payments to suppliers are made in Cyber cafes have been installed in many of the Companys accordance with those terms, provided that suppliers also comply locations around the world to allow access to the Groups intranet with all relevant terms and conditions.
At 3 February 2008, the for those who do not normally work using personal computers.
amount the Group owed its suppliers represented 30 working days An all employee engagement survey was conducted during the purchases 2007: 31 working days.
The Company is a holding year, providing a mechanism for detailed feedback on many company and does not have any trade creditors.
aspects of what it is like to work for the Company.
During the year a wide cross-section of the workforce had the opportunity to Product research and development participate in the implementation of the Groups business strategy The Groups product research and development activities are through participation in the Premier Farnell Leadership Council.
restricted to the development of new or enhanced products for This forum consists of quarterly meetings at which the strategy and Akron Brass and are not significant in the context of the Group key issues related to its implementation are discussed.
Akron Brass is part of the Groups Industrial the permanent members of the Council, each meeting is attended Products Division.
by individuals invited to contribute as subject matter experts or because of their high performance and potential.
In addition, the Group is constantly striving to provide new and improved solutions to customer service and the Innovation Lab, Working in close co-operation with elected representatives from referred to in the review of our strategy, is a good example of this.
its European operating companies, the Groups European Works Council The Premier Farnell European Forum is in its eighth year of operation.
The Forum provides an arena for the exchange of relevant and appropriate information and constructive dialogue between management and employees on European issues.
A similar forum, specific to the UK, is in the course of being amalgamated with this body.
