10 Strategic Overview Our multi-channel, high service business model, superior logistics and access to a global network of companies, offer customers a truly unique value proposition.
As we continue to strengthen our offering and While our strategy is largely focused on the execute flawlessly on our strategy to ensure that our EDE customer segment, our highly profitable customers have access to the right mix of products maintenance, repair and operations MRO segment at the right time, we are targeting sustainable and and our Industrial Products Division continue to meet profitable growth by focusing on the following customers needs globally.
three areas: The high service electronic distribution marketplace in 1 Targeting growth in the electronic design which we participate is worth an estimated 15 billion engineering EDE customer segment: and, although highly fragmented, there are few other 2 Increasing business via the web: and companies that offer customers the breadth and depth of products that ours can access.
With next 3 Internationalising our business model.
day delivery to many cities around the world, well developed websites, and local distribution facilities, our companies are providing a service that really sets us apart from our competition.
Customers are the heart of our business and through ongoing and open dialogue with them, we are able to constantly evaluate their needs and adjust our inventories and operations to ensure that we have what they want, when they want it.
In a world that is faster than ever before, this is essential to our success and theirs.
There are few other companies that offer customers the breadth and depth of products that ours can access.
Laurence Bain Chief Operating Officer 11 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Group Overview Premier Farnell is organised into two divisions Marketing & Distribution Division 1 Sales: 670.9m 4.5% www.
com Our Marketing and Distribution Division operates predominantly in the high service, time critical sector of the electronic components market, focused particularly on the needs of design engineers and purchasing professionals globally.
The Group's multi-channel approach offers quality data and http: sg.
com information on products and services with a supplier line card and stock profile developed to anticipate and meet customers needs.
Our depth of stock ensures the important needs of the maintenance and repair customer sector continue to be met.
com Countries of operation Austria, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, www.
com Holland, Hong Kong, India, Ireland, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States.
co. uk Industrial Products Division 1 Sales: 73.8m 5.7% 2 Operating profit: 14.8m 15.6% www.
com Our Industrial Products Division comprises businesses supplying high-performance products to specialist industrial markets.
Though predominantly in North America, these businesses have www.
com expanded their sales efforts into international markets, and find new customer sectors for expansion in domestic markets.
com United States 1 Sales growth based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant exchange rates and for like periods.
