16 Strategic focus Profitable growth through: internationalising our business model Globalisation through localisation Premier Farnell has operations in more than 20 countries around the world.
Our success internationally is derived from our local approach to business, while accessing the expertise and products from our global network of companies.
Strategic goals for 2008 Achievements in 2008 Priorities for 2009 Reorganise our Chinese In April 2007, Premier Farnell Continue to strengthen our business to focus on the launched Premier Electronics alignment with the needs of rapidly growing EDE to meet the needs of EDE customers in China, customer segment.
electronic design engineers through new product and in China.
constantly improving their Expand into India.
Farnell India began operations Further penetrate emerging on 31 January 2008, Support our operations in markets of Eastern Europe.
India and ensure that they Develop the EDE offering in have the requirements Further penetration of the Americas to focus on this to provide high service Eastern Europe occurred fast growing sector.
solutions to the local with the launch of four local engineering community.
Evaluate growth A new web front end, the opportunities in global addition of 138,000 products markets with high growth and a strengthening of potential, with a particular our management team focus on Eastern Europe.
by experienced industry executives has improved Support our American our acquisition of electronic based Industrial Products design engineers in Division as it continues to the Americas.
17 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Internationalising our business model China India Eastern Europe China has more electronic Premier Farnell acquired part Premier Farnell increased its design engineering graduates of Hynetic Electronics in January footprint in Eastern Europe during than any other country.
Now operating as Farnell the year by entering Poland, over 140,000 products through India, customers have access Hungary, the Czech Republic our multi-channel proposition, to all our traditional channels, as and Slovakia.
Direct entry into including five branches and a well as Knowledge Centres in these markets means that mandarin website, Premier each of its eight branches, where customers are supported by Electronics is well placed to meet they can go and place orders a two tiered approach the the needs of these customers.
local language website and sub-distribution agreements with partners.
Premier Electronics China launched 02 04 07 Hynetic: Developing the Indian market Under-penetrated markets in Europe Through our local language catalogues and websites, Electronics also secured a delivery contract to guarantee next knowledgeable employees in each of our markets, our day delivery to over 95 Chinese cities, launched a mandarin multi-channel offering, and unique approach to business website and partnered with various suppliers in order to seed we ensure that the local market can access our global the market with new technologies for the EDE customer network of companies, seamlessly and without delay.
With more than 20,000 stock keeping units SKUs stocked in Shanghai and another 140,000 products available Emerging markets in Asia and Eastern Europe have provided from global distribution centres, Premier Electronics is setting a us with a significant platform for profitable and sustained new service standard appreciated by our Chinese customers.
These markets are experiencing an explosion in indigenous engineering design companies and there is In India the Company acquired part of the trade and net increasing need for reliable products from a trustworthy assets of high-service distribution company Hynetic service provider, in a timely manner.
Our access to a vast Electronics Private Limited Hynetic.
Our business began array of products and our superior logistics, which includes trading as Farnell India on 31 January 2008.
Farnell India has next day delivery to cities all over the world has set us apart eight branches from which to serve the local community and from our competition.
through Hynetics position as an authorised Farnell distributor, it had already earned our brand a well known reputation with Unlike the manufacturing activity that has moved offshore, the local community.
Premier Farnell is excited to have this many of our large customers have kept their design and foothold in the region as its design capabilities continue to innovations teams within the mature markets of the UK, develop and grow.
mainland Europe and North America.
Although economic growth in these markets tends to be lower than in the In North America and Europe we have seen the businesses emerging markets, there remains strong demand for attract significant numbers of new EDE customers and they electronic design engineers, providing a natural platform continue to drive business through the web.
In this region for our growth.
many of our businesses have already achieved our initial target of 50% business via their websites.
Design engineers are called upon to design better, stronger and smarter, and think carefully about the aesthetics and Although much of our internationalisation is focused environmental impact of their products.
As the market leader around the EDE customer segment, our Industrial Products in RoHS compliant products, we are well positioned to Division continues to strengthen its reputation outside its grow our business through a targeted approach to the EDE home market in the US and our MRO business has seen customer segment.
increased demand in emerging markets due to the increase in infrastructure to support industrialisation.
Throughout the year Premier Farnell gained traction in many of its markets.
Our global network of companies and distribution centres, combined with our local approach to conducting business, In China, we launched Premier Electronics and opened a and local and knowledgeable employees, really does give new warehouse and distribution centre in order to focus Premier Farnell and its customers a unique value proposition on the needs of Chinas local design engineers.
Premier from which to succeed.
18 Business Review Development, performance and position of the Group Customers are looking for a breadth and depth of product, superior logistics and high quality, reliable product data and information.
They also want access to a wide selection of leading suppliers and technologies from a company that can guarantee its product integrity: provide the most accurate, updated product information available and offer same or next day delivery.
Premier Farnell is one of the distributors able to meet these exacting requirements.
This Business Review is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and is framed around the principles and guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews published in the UK by the Accounting Standards Board.
Its purpose is to provide information which is significant to understanding the development, performance and position of the Group, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and to include the key performance indicators KPIs used by the Group to monitor this development, performance and position.
Additionally, the Business Review is intended to highlight trends, where identifiable, in factors which affect the development, performance and position of the Group.
Note: Throughout the Business Review: all figures relate to continuing operations unless otherwise stated sales growth is based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant exchange rates and for like periods growth in operating profit, profit before tax and earnings per share are all calculated at constant exchange rates unless otherwise stated
