14 Strategic focus Profitable growth through: web development & the multi-channel approach Speed, search and living in a web world Web users are becoming increasingly sophisticated and expect more from the websites they use.
We continue to enhance our websites in order to provide design engineers with speed, an improved search function for our products and services, and ensure that the information is relevant and reliable.
Strategic goals for 2008 Achievements in 2008 Priorities for 2009 Roll-out a new web front Achieved 33% growth in web Through our newly created end, globally.
sales during the year, and are Innovation Lab we will work now receiving an average of with eCommerce users to Enhance our one web order every ten gain a first hand insight into internationalisation strategy seconds in Europe.
their experiences and needs, by introducing local language integrating solutions from websites in markets around Introduced five new local their feedback.
language websites, including Mandarin, Polish and Support our Knowledge Support electronic design Hungarian.
Centres in India and engineers by developing a investigate options for one-stop shop, complete Launched a website for Knowledge Centres in other with relevant and necessary EDEs that features news and emerging markets.
information relevant to their everyday jobs, including Enhance the tools available Interface with suppliers and legislation, new products and to EDEs on our websites, customers to develop new industry news.
ensuring they have the most online tools.
relevant information in a Created an Innovation Lab to timely manner and access ensure that Premier Farnell finds to an online community of unique solutions targeted to our colleagues.
Continue to improve search engine marketing in the US market in order to propel the level of growth in web sales.
15 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Web & multi-channel Speed, service Connecting the world Innovation Lab and searchability A powerful web experience is Electronics Design World Through our newly developed essential to meet our customers further differentiates Premier Innovation Lab, Premier Farnell needs.
Premier Farnell has Farnell in the Electronic Design is gaining more insight into invested time and money Engineering market.
Now a customer behaviours than to improve the speed, global website, EDWorld is ever before.
With an initial service and searchability of connecting our customers focus on the eCommerce user our websites, making this our and suppliers to one another experience, the Innovation Lab most comprehensive channel.
through a huge range of will ensure unique solutions and features and content.
enhancements are integrated in our business, seamlessly.
Speed, simplicity, search Engaging EDEs Innovative solutions Customers can now access our websites in as many as Our newly created Innovation Lab will work alongside tools six local languages, making this the most comprehensive like TeaLeaf.
The Innovation Lab will work directly with channel available to our customers, globally.
From Mandarin customers and suppliers, gaining increased understanding to Czech, we are able to meet the needs of our customers about what it is they would like our eCommerce channel to in their local language.
Based on an open dialogue with EDE customers and their key suppliers, the Innovation Lab will engage with the The world in which we live is changing at a rapid pace.
web team to integrate unique solutions without disruption The web is becoming more important and is a preferred to regular business.
channel for many of our customers, especially the EDE sector.
These engineers turn to the web before any other Insight is power and we are harnessing the insight we gain channel and appreciate the speed and searchability that through the web to make each visit more powerful than our team has been so committed to improving.
The flexibility of the web as a primary channel has many When we first communicated our business agenda in 2006 benefits to the customer and us, as a company.
From our we said we were targeting 50% of business via eCommerce perspective, the web has a lower cost to serve, and through channels, however upon seeing the rapid growth already in applications like TeaLeaf and the creation of Innovation Lab, this area we have modified our target to 50-70% of business we are able to gain insight into customers web experiences.
The world is changing even faster than we expected and many of our European and East Asian TeaLeaf allows us to monitor each customers web visit.
It is operations have met the 50% threshold or are very close.
a tool used to gain insight into what customers are viewing, In light of the progress already made against this target, which search terms they use and at which point they leave we will not accept a target that is easily achievable: we will the website.
This capability allows us to add new products continue to push, continue to develop and continue to grow quickly and, based on reliable customer data, it gives us the our web offering in line with customer need.
knowledge to modify search terms in order to reflect what the customers are actually searching, and it allows us to As the dawn of Web 3.0 approaches we will continue to gain more information about why a customer may not have develop our already leading edge websites.
