12 Strategic focus Profitable growth through: focusing on EDEs globally Electronic Design Engineers The pervasion of electronics in the world in which we live is high.
Electronics have significantly changed the way in which we live, and will continue to do so at a faster pace than any other time in history.
Strategic goals for 2008 Achievements in 2008 Priorities for 2009 Expand our supplier portfolio Added more than 60 Through our recently created to ensure the right mix of suppliers to our portfolio Innovation Lab, work with niche, specialist and broad and enhanced many of customers to ensure we line franchises.
our supplier relationships have the products and since the inception of solutions they need, Add more than 70,000 our strategy.
products to our current stocked range and a further Added an additional 88,000 Continue to add additional 500,000 to our on demand products to our stocked stocked product to enhance line in the next three years.
range and 50,000 to our our EDE proposition and add on demand line.
500,000 to our on demand Ensure accurate and line during our three year detailed product information Invested in engineering target period.
is available through all support for our customers.
Continue deep investment Continued to lead in the in primary, secondary and Expand our line of distribution of RoHS tertiary engineering support environmentally friendly compliant products for our customers.
products and maintain throughout Europe and our leadership position carried that expertise Continue to develop an through RoHS.
environmentally friendly product offering, and engage with customers and our suppliers finding new ways to reduce our environmental footprint.
13 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Focusing on EDEs globally Live Edge Packaging Customer commitment The first annual Live Edge Through developing our Next day delivery is critical to our competition was held to search innovative, fully recyclable, peel customers.
Through partnerships for an innovative electronic packaging, Premier Farnell with logistics organisations design that had a positive impact ensures the integrity of small, around the world, we are on the environment.
The winner highly sensitive electronic committed to getting our received US$50,000 cash components.
Traditional customers what they need, when and a support package worth packaging can result in damaged they need it.
During the year US$50,000 to bring his design products and waste, but the Premier Farnell extended its into production.
peel package has created a strategic partnership with UPS new standard of delivery.
to guarantee next day delivery throughout Europe.
Committed to the environment Innovation in packaging Next day service Electronic design engineers are under increasing pressure to anticipate the needs of our customers in various markets design and develop new innovations faster than ever before.
and ensure that we can supply them with products before The aesthetic and environmental impact of electronics is our competitors.
becoming increasingly important to consumers and placing EDE customers are technologically savvy and expect that new demands on engineers and the companies they work from the suppliers they rely upon.
Through our unique proposition, Premier Farnell is well attracted new customers to our business and we continue placed to serve this high speed market.
As a market leader to harness the power of the web and evolve our websites in RoHS compliant products, access to our global network to give these customers a more enjoyable and efficient web of distribution centres, and our superior logistics, we are able experience.
As we continue to move from Web 1.0 to 2.0 to deliver more than 99% of orders same day or next day to our websites will provide our customers with increased customers around the world.
access to information, products and one another.
Whats more, our research has shown that the needs of The growth of the EDE sector is expected to be 6-8% design engineers globally are almost exactly the same.
Through the right pricing, products and people, we It doesnt matter if they are in Shanghai or New York, are able to grow this customer segment, around the world.
engineers need the latest products as soon as they hit the market and the world over, they want access to the same products.
This knowledge has allowed us to more accurately
