20 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir David John 70, became non-executive Tony Durrant 50, joined Premier in June 2005.
John Orange 66, joined Premiers Board as Chairman in March 1998.
He was nonAfter qualifying as a Chartered Accountant a non-executive director in February 1997. executive Chairman of the BOC Group plc with Arthur Andersen, he joined Lehman He held a variety of senior international from January 1996 until January 2002 and Brothers in London, initially as an oil sector management and legal posts during his the non-executive Chairman of Balfour analyst.
He joined the investment banking 30 years with the BP Group.
Mr Orange is Beatty plc from May 2003 to May 2008.
Sir division of Lehman in 1987 and from 1997 currently a non-executive director of Exile David is currently the Chairman of the British was a Managing Director and Head of the Resources Inc.
He is Premiers senior Standards Institution and was appointed European Natural Resources Group.
In this independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Royal Society for Asian role, he managed both client relationships Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Affairs in January 2009.
He is an advisor to and numerous transactions for a variety and a member of the Audit and Risk and the Calor Gas Board and a Member of the of European and North American clients.
Sir David He is a non-executive director of Clipper Professor David Roberts 65, joined Premier is the Chairman of Premiers Nomination Windpower plc.
He joined the Premier Board in June 2006 as a non-executive director.
in July 2005 as Finance Director.
Professor Roberts has over 30 years Robin Allan 49, joined Premier from Neil Hawkings 47, joined Premier in experience in all aspects of exploration Burmah Oil in July 1986, working initially as May 2005 after more than 20 years with worldwide and extensive knowledge of deep a geologist.
After technical and new venture ConocoPhillips where he worked in a variety water areas, sedimentary basins, stratigraphy roles he spent six years in South East Asia, of engineering, commercial and management and prospect assessment.
He spent 22 years initially managing Premiers Asian existing roles around the world, undertaking with BP in a number of technical roles, and new venture business and later assignments in the UK, Dubai and Indonesia.
including Global Exploration Adviser and becoming Premiers Country Manager in He joined the Premier Board in March 2006 Distinguished Exploration Adviser.
He became a member of the as Operations Director.
Roberts is a non-executive director of Premier Board in December 2003 as Director GETECH plc and has established his own David Lindsell 61, joined Premiers Board of Business Development.
He is a visiting in January 2008 as a non-executive director.
professor and fellow of Royal Holloway, Joe Darby 60, joined Premiers Board as a He was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP for University of London, the University of non-executive director in September 2007. nearly 30 years and has extensive experience Southampton and IFP School in Paris.
Mr Darby has over 35 years of experience in across a range of industry sectors, with a Professor Roberts is a member of Premiers the energy sector, including eight years with strong knowledge of the oil and gas sector.
Shell Petroleum before becoming Managing Mr Lindsell is currently a non-executive Director of Thomson North Sea Ltd.
He has director of Drax Group plc and Deputy Michel Romieu 69, joined Premiers Board held a number of senior roles, including Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review as a non-executive director in January 2008.
Chief Executive, with LASMO plc.
He is a member of the Supervisory Mr Romieu has over 30 years experience in has held non-executive roles at British Board of the European Financial Reporting the international energy sector, including Nuclear Fuels plc, Mowlem plc and Centurion Advisory Group.
Mr Lindsell is the Chairman 25 years with the Elf Group, where he held Energy Inc and was Chairman of Mowlem plc of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee and several senior positions including Chief 2005-2006 and Faroe Petroleum plc a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive of Elf UK and the groups Gas 2003-2007.
Mr Darby is a member of Division.
He was elected President of the UK Simon Lockett 44, Chief Executive, joined Premiers Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Offshore Operators Association for the year Premier in January 1994 from Shell and has Nomination Committees.
1995, and held the position of Director for worked in a variety of roles for Premier, Gas of CRE, the French energy regulator, including the management of investor from 2000 to 2003.
He has established his relations, as Commercial Manager in own consultancy specialising in providing Indonesia and as Country Manager in advice to the gas industry, and is a lecturer Albania.
He became a member of the Premier at the French Petroleum Institute.
Mr Romieu Board in December 2003 as Operations is also President of Uprigaz.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee.
Mr Lockett is a member of Premiers Nomination Committee.
Premier Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Financial Statements GOVERNANCE 21 David Lindsell, Tony Durrant, Joe Darby, Simon Lockett, Professor David Roberts Robin Allan, Neil Hawkings, John Orange, Michel Romieu, Sir David John Premier Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Financial Statements
