Board of directors Board of directors Sir Richard Broadbent David Martin Steve Lonsdale Steve Clayton Steve Williams Nick Buckles Veronica Palmer Simon Batey Angie Risley 48 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Sir Richard Broadbent KCB Steve Clayton BA, FCIT, MiMgt Veronica Palmer OBE Chairman Group managing director Non-executive director Age: 55.
Sir Richard was appointed to the corporate affairs Age: 68.
Veronica was appointed to the Board in July 2004 and was appointed Age: 55.
After graduating from London Board as a non-executive director in chairman in November 2004.
As chairman, University in 1975, Steve held various September 2001, and since September 2007 Sir Richard chairs the Nomination Committee management positions with London has chaired the Safety Committee.
Veronica of the Board and is also a member of the Transport.
He was managing director of also sits on the Audit and Nomination Remuneration Committee.
Leaside Bus Company Limited from 1988, Committees and was chairman of the which was acquired by the group in 1994.
Remuneration Committee from June 2005 Sir Richard is the senior independent until September 2007. director of Barclays plc and was executive Steve was appointed to the Board in chairman, HM Customs and Excise, from February 1998 with responsibility for the Veronica is chairman of the Northern Ireland 2000 to 2003.
He was formerly a member of groups UK bus operations.
Since March Transport Holding Company Board.
She held the Group Executive Committee of Schroders 2005 he has been group managing director the position of director general of the plc and non-executive director of the corporate affairs, with responsibility for Confederation of Passenger Transport UK Securities Institute.
human resources, health, safety and the from 1989 until June 2001.
Earlier she environment, technical services, corporate worked in the brewing industrys trade David Martin BA, FCMA, MiMgt communications and all government association as parliamentary secretary Chief executive relations activities across the group.
He is following a successful career in the Royal Air Age: 57.
David qualified as an accountant chair of the Group Corporate Responsibility Force and as an employment consultant in in 1977 after graduating in business studies.
Committee and sits as a member of the Europe.
Veronica has an MBE for military He held a variety of general management Safety Committee.
services and an OBE for services to the positions before joining the bus industry in transport industry.
Steve will retire as a director immediately after 1986.
After leading a management buy-out the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2009.
Veronica will retire as a director immediately of an East Midlands based bus company, after the Annual General Meeting on he was involved in the acquisition of National Steve Williams, LLB 22 April 2009.
Express and the subsequent management Non-executive director buy-outs leading to the creation of British Bus Age: 61.
Steve was appointed to the Board Simon Batey BA, MA, FCA Group Limited.
as a non-executive director on 1 September Non-executive director 2005 and on 18 October 2005 was appointed Age: 55.
Simon joined the Board as a nonDavid joined Arriva in 1996 on the acquisition senior independent director.
Steve sits on executive director on 1 October 2003 and of British Bus, becoming a member of the the Nomination and Audit Committees and since 1 January 2004 has been chairman of Board in February 1998 with specific will chair the Safety Committee from the Audit Committee.
Simon also sits on the responsibility for the groups international 22 April 2009.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees, operations and development.
From March and, from 22 April 2009, the Safety 2005 he was group managing director Steve is chief legal officer and group general Committee.
operations and deputy chief executive until counsel of Unilever plc and Unilever NV.
Prior his appointment as chief executive in to joining Unilever, Steve spent 11 years at Simon has 20 years experience in a number April 2006.
Imperial Chemical Industries plc in the legal of senior finance roles in industry.
Between and company secretarial departments.
Steve 2000 and 2006, Simon was group finance Steve Lonsdale BA, FCA is a non-executive director of Whitbread PLC director of United Utilities plc and, from 2006 Group finance director where he is also senior independent until August 2007 he was chief financial Age: 51.
Steve graduated from the University director and is chairman of the fide Le Warr officer of Thames Water Utilities Limited.
of Newcastle upon Tyne with a degree in Pavillion Trust and a trustee of Arts & From 1987 to 2000, he worked for AMEC economics and accounting before joining Business.
He served for nine years as a plc, initially as deputy group finance director Coopers & Lybrand in 1978.
He qualified as non-executive director of Bunzl plc until 2004. and then, from 1992, as group finance a chartered accountant in 1981 and spent director.
Simon has been a non-executive eight years working in the profession in the Nick Buckles director of Telecity Group plc since October UK and overseas.
Steve joined the group in Non-executive director 2007 and has also served as a non- 1987 where he worked as group accountant Age: 48.
Nick was appointed to the Board as executive director of THUS Group plc.
until 1991 when he was appointed to the a non-executive director on 19 July 2005, and Board as group finance director.
Steve has since September 2007 has been chairman Angie Risley responsibility for all finance, legal and company of the Remuneration Committee.
Nick also Non-executive director secretarial matters.
sits on the Nomination Committee and, Age: 50.
Angie Risley, group human from 22 April 2009, the Safety Committee.
resources director of Lloyds Banking Group plc, will be appointed to the Board on 9 March Having joined Securicor plc in 1985, 2009 as a non-executive director.
Angie was Nick was appointed to its Board in 2000. formerly an executive director of Whitbread Following the merger between Securicor plc PLC, until May 2007, having joined the group and the security businesses of Group 4 in 1989.
She has also been a member of the Falck, he was appointed deputy chief Low Pay Commission, and a non-executive executive and chief operating officer of the director of Biffa plc.
Subject to her election merged Group 4 Securicor now G4S plc in as a director at the Annual General Meeting, July 2004, becoming chief executive of G4S Angie will become a member of the plc in July 2005.
Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees.
49 Directors report The directors submit their report and the audited accounts of Arriva plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal activities of the group The principal activities of the group at 31 December 2008 comprised the operation of bus and train services in the UK and eleven countries in mainland Europe.
Business review A review of the groups principal activities and performance for the year is contained in the chairmans statement on pages 18 and 19, the chief executives review on pages 20 to 27, the financial review on pages 28 to 33 and the corporate responsibility report on pages 36 to 47, which collectively comprise the business review and these are included in this report by reference.
A review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company is set out on pages 34 and 35 and is also included in this report by reference.
This Annual Report & Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that occur in the future.
There may be a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements and forecasts.
Key performance indicators The group uses the following key performance indicators KPIs to assist in the understanding of the development, performance and position of the business: i Earnings per share, before goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items see financial review page 28 ii Order book see how we work page 5 iii Employee turnover and non-attendance see corporate responsibility report page 41 iv Return on capital employed see financial review page 33 v Percentage of scheduled mileage operated see corporate responsibility report page 38 vi Public Performance Measure for UK Trains see chief executives review page 25 vii Fault incidents per 100,000 km see corporate responsibility report page 37 viii Employee injuries per 100 employees see corporate responsibility report page 37 Results and dividends The profit for the year amounted to 111.2 million 2007: 90.0 million.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend on the ordinary shares of the company of 17.91 pence per share 2007: 17.06 pence, which together with the interim dividend of 6.15 pence 2007: 5.59 pence represents a total of 24.06 pence per ordinary share 2007: 22.65 pence.
The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be payable on 1 May 2009 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 27 March 2009.
The total amount paid and proposed to be paid is 47.8 million in respect of 2008 2007: 45.0 million.
Share capital The share capital of the company is made up of 290,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, each share having one vote.
As at 1 March 2009, there were 198,657,072 shares in issue.
The total number of voting rights was therefore 198,657,072.
The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in note 22 to the accounts.
Directors The names and biographies of the current directors appear on pages 48 and 49.
Steve Clayton and Veronica Palmer will retire as directors immediately following the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2009.
Sir Richard Broadbent, Simon Batey and Steve Lonsdale will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Angie Risley will be appointed as a director of the company on 9 March 2009 and will stand for election at the Annual General Meeting.
Save for Sir Richard Broadbents directorship of Barclays Bank plc, which bank was a lead arranger in a 615 million syndicated revolving credit refinancing facility that the company entered into in early August 2007 and in which facility negotiations Sir Richard played no active role, no director was interested in any contract or arrangement which was significant in relation to the groups business.
50 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Indemnification of directors In accordance with its Articles of Association and as approved by shareholders at the 2006 Annual General Meeting, the company has the power at its discretion to grant an indemnity to the directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Deeds of indemnity were issued to all directors in post in May 2006 or on subsequent appointment.
The company has maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the period.
Neither the companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No claims have been made either under the indemnity or the insurance policy.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the directors remuneration report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements and the directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent State that the group financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by the IASB, and with regard to the parent company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements Prepare the group and parent company financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that, as at the date this report was approved, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the website.
Financial information published on the website is based on the legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements and may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
