Notes to the accounts continued 28.
Group undertakings Detailed below is a list of those subsidiaries which in the opinion of the directors principally affect the amount of the profit or the amount of the assets of the group.
The group percentage of equity capital is 100 per cent and the country of registration is England and Wales in each case, except where indicated.
All subsidiaries operate within England and Wales, except where indicated: Rental and distribution Passenger transport of buses & coaches Arriva Croydon and North Surrey Limited Arriva The Shires Limited Arriva Bus and Coach Rental 1 Limited Arriva Cymru Limited Arriva Trains Wales Trenau Arriva Arriva Bus and Coach Rental 2 Limited Cymru Limited Arriva Derby Limited Arriva Bus and Coach Rental 3 Limited Arriva UK Trains Limited Arriva Durham County Limited Arriva Bus and Coach Rental 4 Limited Arriva Yorkshire Limited Arriva East Herts & Essex Limited Arriva Bus and Coach Limited Arriva Yorkshire West Limited Arriva International Trains 8 Leasing Limited Autobus Sippel GmBH Investment 2 Arriva Kent & Sussex Limited Empresa fide Blas y Cia S. L. Arriva Findiv Limited Arriva Kent Thameside Limited Eurobus-Invest Regionlis 13 Arriva International Limited Kzlekedsfejlesztsi Arriva London North Limited Arriva Motor Holdings Limited London Pride Sightseeing Limited Arriva London South Limited Arriva Passenger Services Limited MK Metro Limited Arriva Manchester Limited 9 British Bus Group Limited Osthannoversche Eisenbahnen AG Arriva Medway Towns Limited 8 MTL Services Limited Prignitzer Eisenbahn Gmbh Arriva Merseyside Limited 8 Arriva Insurance Company Gibraltar Regentalbahn AG Arriva Midlands Limited 12 Limited 7 SAB Autoservizi S. r. L. Arriva Midlands North Limited Arriva International Northern Europe 10 2 SAB Autoservizi F. V. G. S. p. A. Arriva Noroeste SL Limited 11 Sadem S. p. A. Arriva North East Limited Arriva International Southern Europe Stevensons of Uttoxeter Limited Arriva Northumbria Limited Limited Tellings Golden Miller Group plc Arriva North West Limited Arriva 2007 Limited The Original London Sightseeing APS Leasing Limited Tour Limited 3 Arriva Personenvervoer Nederland B. V. Property 6 Transportes Sul do Tejo S. A.
6 Arriva Portugal Transportes LDA 1 Veolia Transport Danmark AS British Bus Properties Limited 4 Arriva Scotland West Limited 8 Verkehrsbetriebe Bils Gmbh 1 Arriva Skandinavien A S Except where marked by shares are XC Trains Limited Arriva Southern Counties Limited held by a subsidiary company 5 Arriva Sverige AB 1 Registered and operates in Denmark Arriva Tees & District Limited 2 Registered and operates in Spain Arriva Teesside Limited 3 Registered and operates in the Netherlands 4 Registered and operates in Scotland 5 Registered and operates in Sweden 6 Registered and operates in Portugal 7 Registered and operates in Italy 8 Registered and operates in Germany 9 Registered and operates in Germany 85% owned 10 Registered and operates in Italy 60% owned 11 Registered and operates in Italy 80% owned 12 Registered and operates in Gibraltar 13 Registered in Hungary and operates in Hungary and Slovakia 80% owned 106 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
