How we work How we work We operate according to several different business the basis of competitive tendering.
During a transition period, models which vary by country, by region, and by the mode however, contracts may be awarded directly following of transport.
negotiation with an incumbent operator.
Deregulated services Gross cost contracts In a deregulated bus market, the key commercial In a gross cost contract the tendering authority agrees to relationship is directly between Arriva and our passengers - pay an operator a specified sum to provide the specified they are our customers, and their fare payments are the service for a specified period.
Revenue from fares is passed dominant source of income for the business.
Our services to the tendering authority, which bears the revenue risk.
have to be profitable in order to be sustainable, to generate The service provider generally carries the cost risk, though the profits which underpin investments in replacement there may be provisions for cost increases to be passed vehicles, our depot facilities, and the expansion and through, such as elements of wage or fuel costs.
the tendering authority will take responsibility for working out routes, and may also specify the vehicles to be used.
In a deregulated market we compete against other forms of transport, and against other operators of similar transport, Because the operator has no direct commercial relationship in just the same way as a high street retailer competes for with passengers it is common for the tendering authority to the spending power of the public.
We bear the revenue risk, provide a system of bonuses and penalties to give operators which is to say that if the travelling public decides to switch a financial incentive to provide the desired quality of service.
to another form of transport, the lost revenue directly affects The UK London bus business, some rail operations in our finances.
Sweden and Germany, and bus contracts in Denmark, Even deregulated services are subject to significant are examples of Arrivas gross cost contracts.
oversight, scrutiny and regulation in various ways, and Net cost contracts there is usually a layer of sector-specific regulation.
In our In a net cost contract the operator takes on both the UK Bus operations, for example, the quality of operation revenue risk and the cost risk.
It keeps the revenues from and fitness for service of our vehicles and drivers is fares, and the tendering authority provides a contribution in regulated by Traffic Commissioners.
the form of additional contracted income.
This offsets Most of the bus operations in the UK, outside London, are obligations that the tendering authority may have to ensure deregulated and operate on a purely commercial basis.
the provision of a public transport service, or to meet social Contracted services are more common in other European objectives where the cost of providing such a service would countries, and Spain and Portugal operate on a largely not be commercially viable if it depended solely on the fare commercialised basis.
income that it could achieve.
Contracted services On especially popular and important services it may be In most of our mainland European bus and rail markets, possible for the tendering authority to receive a premium the London bus market, and the UK rail market, our primary payment from the operator running these routes rather than customer is some form of public-sector body.
government or transport authority may offer various forms UK rail franchises, Italian bus contracts, and bus and rail of contract which give an operator the right to operate contracts in the Netherlands are examples of where Arriva services, usually exclusively, on a particular route or in a operates this business model.
Increasingly, as European transport markets become more liberalised, these contracts are awarded on 4 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Revenue split As a result of the different business models under which we operate, revenue across the group is derived from a combination of passenger revenue, and non-passenger revenue, including contracted government payments.
The table below shows the 2008 revenue split for different parts of the group.
Total Passenger Non-passenger revenue revenue revenue m % % UK Bus 922.4 49 51 UK Trains 837.8 48 52 Mainland Europe - Bus 860.5 21 79 Mainland Europe - Trains 421.5 36 64 Total 3,042.2 39 61 Weighted average Visibility of contracted revenue The order book represents the expected future revenue from public transport contracts already won by the group.
Group order book By providing forward visibility of a large proportion of future Turn to the directors bn revenue, it helps to demonstrate the underlying strength report on page 50 14 and stability of the business.
for more information 12 on Key Performance Indicators KPIs It tracks estimated future revenue from contracted business, 10 of over a year in duration, rolled forward to reflect contract 8 variations and updated to current prices at each year end.
6 London Bus 4 The principal areas of the group where contractual UK Trains 2 arrangements prevail are the bus operations in London, Italy, Mainland Europe 0 the Netherlands and Scandinavia, and the rail operations in 2007 2008 the UK, Germany, the Netherlands and Scandinavia.
The other parts of the group, principally the UK regional Between 2007 and 2008, the group order book has grown bus business and Portugal, operate under concessions, eight per cent to 12.9 billion.
licences or other commercial arrangements, and are The 30 per cent increase for the Mainland Europe division not included.
includes an exchange rate impact.
In local currency, the Mainland Europe order book was maintained broadly at 2007 levels.
Turn to inside Arriva on page 8 for the contract and order book information by country 5
