The range of fuel performance can be more than 20 per cent between similar models.
We continue to work with vehicle manufacturers to reduce vehicle weight and improve fuel consumption where possible.
However, sometimes this is offset by other factors.
For example, the Euro VI emissions standard, due for introduction in 2014, will further improve urban air quality, but may in itself increase fuel consumption.
The majority of waste handled by our businesses is that left by passengers on our trains and buses.
Across the group we employ waste contractors whose operations include waste separation, recycling and energy generation from waste.
Arriva employees have embraced recycling policies at the group head office, and many other locations across the group, and are separating most types of general waste from office environments for recycling.
46 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Energy and water management Snapshots from 2008 The CO from vehicle fuel may be the largest part of 2 Promoting greener travel choices Arrivas environmental impact but we also work hard to minimise other impacts.
Arriva has been encouraging people to think One of Arrivas Italian companies, SAF, put environmental about the impact of their journeys and making considerations to the forefront in the design of its new head the case for modal shift from private to office in Udine.
A photovoltaic plant has been included to public transport harness solar energy, and vehicle washing equipment that In Liverpool, Arrivas Green way to Liverpool One recycles water.
marketing campaign set out to get people to use buses serving the citys new flagship shopping Wind turbines were commissioned at the Arriva Trains centre.
The promotion highlighted benefits to the Wales Machynlleth depot and TSTs Moita depot in Portugal local environment and easing of congestion, during 2008.
The turbine at Machynlleth runs alongside leading to reduced vehicle emissions solar-powered domestic water heating, energy efficient lighting, and rainwater harvesting systems.
The new headquarters for our CrossCountry rail franchise in the UK is equipped with energy-saving equipment including motion-sensitive lighting, waste segregation and recycling arrangements, and water-efficient toilets.
In London, a comprehensive energy management and monitoring programme saw Arriva put time clocks on all heating systems, replacing failing oil boilers with condensing boilers, reducing long flow and return pipework, and using smaller water heating units in summer.
This produced an eight per cent reduction in gas consumption within Arriva London in 2008 compared to 2007.
A combination of water reclamation units, leak reduction, auto shut-off taps and toilet flush management systems has resulted in a 21 per cent reduction in water In recognition of increasing environmental and consumption in 2008 in Arriva London.
social awareness among travellers, Arriva Trains Wales has introduced an online calculator to In order to make a year-on-year comparison of water and compare the CO emissions of a rail journey 2 energy consumption within Arrivas businesses the compared to travelling by car.
A range of Fair Trade annual totals are averaged across the number of products has been introduced to Arriva Trains vehicles operated.
Wales catering services Water consumption average per vehicle cubic metres Environmental themes were also a key part of 2008 2007 Arriva Scandinavias I love my bus marketing campaign which also focused on punctuality and Bus 6669 customer service Rail 305 500 In Spain, Arriva Noroeste was awarded the ISO 14001 environmental management standard and Group 88 88 ISO 9001 quality management certification in 2008.
Our new Spanish business, fide Blas, achieved renewal of its ISO 9001 and 14001 Energy consumption average per vehicle kilowatt hours certification as well as implementation of EMAS, 2008 2007 the European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme Bus 10,74010,735 In the Lisbon area TST held an inter-schools Rail 30,489 63,380 painting competition.
TSTs environmentally friendly bus cartoon mascot Buzinas inspired children to Group 12,614 13,035 paint pictures about transport and the environment.
Winning designs were adopted for use on TST buses 47
