The big picture The big picture desirable in themselves, but also underpin good financial Key facts performance over time.
Three divisions 43,500 employees We keep our business balanced.
Our operations include a mixture of cash generative businesses in mature markets, 12 countries One billion plus and growth businesses in opening markets.
We depend on passenger journeys 15,000 buses no single mode of transport, on no single contract, on no a year 570 train sets single source of revenue, and no single source of funding.
We have a broad range of stakeholders and aim to operate in ways which benefit many different sets of stakeholder Our strategic approach interests.
Arriva is a large scale business, but never forgets to be local.
We understand when to think big and when to focus on the To our passengers, we aim to provide safe, reliable and detail.
Our sources of competitive advantage are not easy comfortable services that are an attractive alternative to for others to replicate.
other modes of transport Our broad footprint in mainland Europe gives us practical To our transport authority customers, we bring the experience of operating successfully in many different benefits of private sector delivery.
We aim to provide commercial and regulatory regimes.
Bringing together value for money for the services their communities rely experts from many regions and city-scale operations into on, affording them improved services and or lower public spending one group supports innovation and helps us to spread best practice and identify economies of scale.
We are thirsty for To our employees, we aim to provide worthwhile longknowledge and learning.
We run transport networks on the term work, of recognised value to their own communities, ground, and learning networks within our organisation.
in a safe, supportive working environment To the wider community, in every city, region or country Our wealth of local contacts and our network of operating where we operate, we aim to provide the social and and maintenance bases help us to develop existing economic benefits of affordable, accessible travel, and businesses and to develop new opportunities for the future.
responsible management of the environmental impact By understanding each local market in depth we constantly of transport stay abreast of the evolving bigger picture of how our To our investors, we aim to provide long-term growth in markets are evolving across Europe.
earnings and dividends based on a varied portfolio of business models, a mixture of contract sizes, types and We think long term, and build our market positions piece by durations, a range of transport modes, and a broad piece.
We may start small, but our long-term aim is always range of operating territories to be one of the top three private sector operators wherever we work.
Our commercial focus is on winning and retaining Individually, each of our three divisions Mainland Europe, contracts and generating organic growth.
In those activities UK Trains and UK Bus has attractive and distinctive we use the expertise and experience gained from 10 years features, and is run by its own dedicated management of operating across Europe.
team under its own managing director.
Taken together, our three divisions form a blend of resilient market positions We strive for operational excellence.
It makes our services and growth opportunities.
It rewards our tendering authorities for their confidence in us.
It makes our Each countrys bus and rail markets have their own distinct employees proud of what they do for their communities.
characteristics, which is one reason why each of our city or It improves our reputation amongst our stakeholders.
regional businesses is run by people who are part of the Punctuality, reliability and serviceability are naturally communities they serve.
Turn to inside Arriva on page 8 for the country 6 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 by country information Arriva operating countries Train operating area Bus operating area New contracts yet to start Associate company Barraqueiros 7 operating area Inside Arriva Inside Arriva Our public transport services across 12 countries Bus operating area span a wide range of operating environments, in locations with varying market characteristics.
Train operating area Here we give you an insight into those differing New contracts yet to start operating environments and the role Arriva plays.
relationship is direct with the customer, and we take full United Kingdom revenue risk.
Where there is deemed to be a social need Revenue for services, local authorities may contract out services to 1,760.2 million operators on routes that would not otherwise be 2007: 1,137.1 million commercially viable.
Order book 7.7 billion Our UK Regions business represents about two-thirds of 2007: 8.0 billion the UK Bus division.
It runs around 4,500 buses and has Buses a market share of approximately 15 per cent.
6,000 London Train sets In London the bus market is regulated, and is contracted 217 out by the citys transport authority, Transport for London Employees TfL.
Contracts specify the required routes, vehicles and 23,300 timetables and are closely monitored to ensure high quality Entered bus market services, with TfL bearing the revenue risk under gross 1980 cost contracts.
Entered rail market 2000 Our London operations represent around one-third of the UK Bus division.
We operate approximately 20 per cent of Population London 60.5 million this market, covering almost 65 million miles a year.
Also in London, we run The Original Tour, which provides sightseeing Liberalisation stage Mature tours of the capital.
In the UK, where our plc headquarters are based, we are well known as one of the largest bus operators, and as an operator of highly performing rail franchises.
UK Bus The UK bus market has two different operating environments: UK Regions Outside London, the UK bus market is deregulated, having been privatised in the mid 1980s.
Bus companies operate on a commercial basis, providing services where our 8 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 UK Trains Arriva Trains Wales The UK rail market is competitively tendered, with At Arriva Trains Wales ATW, we operate under contract to companies bidding for franchises of set timescales and the Welsh Assembly Government.
UK rail franchises are generally much We began operating the 15-year franchise in 2003, providing larger than their equivalents in mainland Europe.
inter-urban, rural and commuter passenger rail services Arriva currently operates two UK rail franchises: throughout Wales and the English border counties.
The ATW network, over 1,000 miles of track, stretches from CrossCountry Manchester, through north and south Wales and across to In November 2007 Arriva began operating a nine-year Birmingham and Gloucester.
franchise on the CrossCountry network.
Geographically the most extensive rail franchise in the UK, it stretches from Franchise support payments at ATW decline slightly Aberdeen to Penzance, and from Stansted to Cardiff, each year over the life of the franchise.
covering around 1,500 route miles and calling at more than The future 100 stations.
In both the UK regions and London, we aim to maintain At CrossCountry we operate under contract to the UK our bus market share, whilst working to improve operational governments Department for Transport.
steadily decline over the life of the franchise, reducing to In rail, we will be concentrating on maintaining and almost zero by the time the franchise comes to an end in 2016. improving the excellent operational performance of our two franchises.
Our successful bid for the franchise included an innovative programme of improvements and benefits for travellers, At CrossCountry, we will continue putting our plans into including a 35 per cent increase in seating capacity at action to add capacity by the end of the summer, and critical evening peak times on principal routes, with the improve the customer experience.
introduction of additional newly-refurbished trains, and the At ATW we are continuing to work closely with the Welsh refurbishment of existing rolling stock.
Assembly Government to develop rail services, and will be adding a new half hourly service between Merthyr Tydfil and Cardiff from May.
9 Inside Arriva continued Germany Netherlands Revenue Revenue 365.0 million 2007: 219.2 million 221.9 million 2007: 178.5 million Order book Order book 1.6 billion 2007: 1.2 billion 1.4 billion 2007: 1.2 billion Buses Buses 1,000 930 Train sets Train sets 212 Berlin 50 Employees Employees Amsterdam 3,200 2,500 Entered rail market Entered bus market 2004 1998 Entered bus market Entered rail market 2005 1999 Population Population 82.3 million 16.4 million Liberalisation stage Liberalisation stage Bus, emerging Bus, mature Rail, mid-liberalisation Rail, emerging Cross border service to the Netherlands Cross border service to Germany Cross border service to the Czech Republic Cross border service to Austria Germany is the largest European transport market, and we Bus are developing a network of bus and rail operations across The 19 regional authorities in the Netherlands have had the country.
responsibility for public transport since January 2001 when the Passenger Transport Act 2000 came into force.
Bus The regional authorities are obliged to organise public The highly regulated bus market is almost three times as transport into concessions, which are periodically put out big as that of the UK.
It is hugely fragmented and to open tender.
Three big cities in the Netherlands, dominated by public sector companies, including Amsterdam, Rotterdam and the Hague, are yet to put state-owned Deutsche Bahn DB.
Conditions differ widely concessions out to tender.
between the regions, and a substantial proportion of the market is still closed, with the exception of the federal The market is still dominated by formerly state-owned state of Hesse which has decided on a programme to Connexxion.
Arriva is one of the three largest private bus tender all bus services by 2010. operators in the Netherlands, with approximately 20 per cent of the regional bus market.
Rail The rail market is also dominated by DB, however 20 per cent Rail of the regional rail network has now been competitively Very little of the rail network has been competitively tendered by regional authorities, with around half of the tendered to date, but as regional rail responsibility transfers routes awarded going to the private sector.
to regional authorities, this is due to increase.
The rail market is dominated by state-owned NS Rail, and Arriva is The future the largest private operator.
Economic pressures are increasingly driving the need for market testing in Germany.
With high state capital subsidies The future due to end, private companies are becoming an increasingly We will continue to build on our established position as one attractive option for the regional authorities.
In rail, it is of the leading private bus and rail operators in the expected that more short-distance passenger routes will be Netherlands.
Having developed a strong reputation for put up for tender.
There is much exciting potential for future operational reliability and passenger growth, we are well growth, in both bus and rail, in this emerging market.
placed to benefit from further liberalisation in this market.
10 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Italy Revenue 190.5 million 2007: 146.8 million Order book 0.4 billion 2007: 0.4 billion Buses 1,940 Employees 2,550 Entered bus market 2002 Population Rome 59.1 million Liberalisation stage Bus, emerging Rail, yet to liberalise Including share of associates Bus The public transport system in Italy is highly subsidised with low fares.
With competitive tendering yet to emerge fully, the situation in Italy remains diverse.
The market is highly fragmented with a large number of local operators, owned principally by regions and municipalities.
Arriva is the largest wholly privately owned public transport operator in Italy, with approximately five per cent of the bus market.
Rail The responsibility for regional rail networks is devolved to local authorities, however early attempts at competitive tendering have failed.
The state-owned passenger rail operator, Trenitalia, has an 83 per cent market share, with 26 region-owned operators sharing the remaining 17 per cent.
If, and when, competitive tendering commences in the rail market, we will monitor any regional developments with interest.
The future Successive changes in government have delayed the liberalisation process.
Nevertheless, we are constructively working with municipal companies, and local and regional authorities to find innovative transport solutions.
We continue to believe that further opening of the market remains in the interests of the authorities, potentially bringing medium-term opportunities for Arriva.
11 Inside Arriva continued Scandinavia Revenue Order book 404.0 million 2007: 270.2 million 1.6 billion 2007: 1.2 billion Denmark Sweden Buses Buses 1,650 430 Stockholm Train sets Train sets 47 30 Employees Employees 5,000 1,300 Copenhagen Entered bus market Entered bus market 1997 1999 Entered rail market Entered rail market 2003 2007 Population Population 5.4 million 9.1 million Liberalisation stage Liberalisation stage Bus, mature Bus, mature Rail, mid-liberalisation Rail, mid-liberalisation Bus Bus The Danish bus market is a mature regulated market.
Competitive tendering is well established in the Swedish Five Passenger Transport Authorities have the responsibility bus market, after deregulation commenced in the 1980s.
for public transport services, including determining ticket Bus contracts are typically six years in length, gross cost, prices, timetables and contract duration in their regions.
with quality incentives and bonus penalty regimes.
Contracts are typically gross cost, of six years in length.
Arriva has secured a market share of around four per cent, Quality and service incentives apply.
mainly in the south of the country.
In March 2009, Arriva is the largest private sector public transport operator we became the first new market entrant in Stockholm in in Denmark.
Having acquired the Danish operations of 10 years when we started operating buses in the Veolia, the second largest bus operator, in July 2007, Swedish capital.
our bus market share is approximately 60 per cent in Rail Copenhagen and 50 per cent of the overall market.
The rail market is dominated by the state-owned operator, Rail Swedish Railways.
Regional rail contracts are typically The rail market was opened to public tendering in 2000. gross cost contracts of between three and five years.
InterArriva became the first private company to be awarded a regional services tend to be net cost, with some awards of rail franchise, operating 15 per cent of the regional network between 10 and 15 years.
The rail market is dominated by After entering the rail market in June 2007 with the nine-year state-owned DSB Danish State Railways, which operates Pgtag contract in the Skne region, we now have around contracts under direct award from the Ministry of Transport.
nine per cent of the short distance train market, by The future kilometres operated.
This will increase in June 2009 when Arriva has integrated the former Veolia operations well, we start operating between Gteborg and rebro.
establishing scale in the bus market.
We are now focusing The future on improving the quality of our contract portfolio, and are Transport markets in Sweden have benefited from a successfully retaining contracts at improved prices.
significant passenger increase over recent years, and It is expected that one-third of DSBs regional rail kilometres present a growth opportunity for both our bus and rail will be competitively tendered in the next 10 years, and there businesses.
We will be working hard to ensure our is potential that 25 per cent of DSB will be privatised in the operations make the most of this passenger growth and near future.
Our experience means we are well placed to will be looking to expand our bus operations and build benefit from the increased levels of rail tendering expected upon our rail presence in Sweden.
12 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 Inside Arriva continued Iberia Revenue 175.3 million 2007: 105.4 million Portugal Spain Buses Buses 1,550 470 Train sets Employees 6 980 Employees Entered bus market 3,160 1999 Entered bus market Population Madrid 2000 44.5 million Population Liberalisation stage 10.6 million Bus, emerging Lisbon Rail, yet to liberalise Liberalisation stage Bus, mid-liberalisation Rail, yet to liberalise Including share of associates Barraqueiro operating area shown in yellow Bus Bus The bus market in Portugal is a regulated market in transition, The urban bus market is operated by private and city-owned with no competitive tendering.
Municipalities are responsible companies, whilst the inter-urban and long-distance for allocating routes or transport service networks by concessions are operated by private companies.
awarding exclusive concessions to independent operators, Long concessions have typically been granted, or by delivering the services directly.
The national with exclusive rights.
government is responsible for setting fares.
Traditionally the bus market in Spain is diverse, with many In addition to our Arriva operations, we have a 31.5 per cent operators.
A number of larger bus groups are emerging, stake in Barraqueiro, Portugals largest bus and rail operator.
however the market remains fragmented with 4,000 Arriva is the third largest operator in the bus market.
plus small operators, including a large number of family businesses.
Rail Urban and regional rail services are operated under In 2008, we more than doubled the number of buses we concessions allocated by the state, dominated by stateoperate in Spain with an acquisition in Madrid.
The first and only private Rail company to hold a rail concession is Fertagus, owned by The rail passenger market is yet to liberalise, and is Barraqueiro.
Through Barraqueiro, we also have an interest dominated by state railway companies, with funding in the Metro Sul do Tejo tram operation, to the south provided for loss-making regional and urban services.
There are no immediate plans to implement The future competitive tendering.
Work is underway to alter the legislation in force for bus public The future transport provision at a regional and national level.
Many bus concessions with exclusive rights over long Metropolitan transport authorities are in the process of periods will expire over the next five years, bringing being established for the cities of Lisbon and Oporto.
opportunities for bidding for these concessions.
We have There are no early signs of a move to competitive tendering focused on building a strong presence in the greater in the rail market, but when changes do occur, we are well Madrid area, and we are well placed to benefit from any placed to benefit through the established good reputation market developments.
14 | Driving on Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15
