Governance continued Senior management 01 02 03 04 01 Neil Preston Company Secretary 03 Karen Caddick Group Director of Human Resources Neil Preston, 48, is responsible for ensuring that the company Karen Caddick, 39, joined Punch in October 2006 and leads the meets all our legal and regulatory requirements as a plc.
He is a HR function across the Group.
Karen started her career with Royal Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants and & Sun Alliance in 1993 and performed several HR roles including has held various roles within Punch, including Finance Director Head of HR for More Th n. Karen then moved to Barclays as Head of Punch Group and Punch Retail now known as Spirit Group.
of Employee Relations & HR Policy.
She also led the HR functions at Prior to this he worked for Allied Domecq and started in the Channel Five Broadcasting and The Financial Times prior to joining industry in 1986.
Karen is a Graduate of the Chartered Insurance Institute and a Fellow of The Institute of Personnel & Development.
02 Neil Griffiths Property & Development Director Neil Griffiths, 47, was appointed Property & Development Director 04 Tracy Jones Group Strategy Director in June 2005, and is responsible for the strategic development of Tracy Jones, 46, joined Punch in November 2007 and is responsible the estate, maximising profitability through acquisition, investment, for Group internal strategic development and implementation.
rental growth and alternative use development.
Neil joined Punch Tracy started her career in the hotel industry as a graduate with in 2001 and has been responsible for building the Companys Trusthouse Forte, after a number of years specialising in food and industry leading acquisitions team.
Neil was previously with Warner beverage she moved to Hilton Hotels as part of its national sales Brothers where he was international Property Director responsible team.
Since then, she has worked in a number of commercial for pan-European multiplex cinema development.
Prior to that, roles within the hospitality industry including Allied Domecq, Neil held senior positions with Bass plc including Head of Property Inntrepreneur and Unique Pub Company.
In recent years she ran and board member of Bass Leisure Entertainments as Commercial her own company supplying consultancy services to the hospitality Development Director.
industry for clients including Scottish Courage, Terra Firma, Admiral Taverns, Tragus and Punch Taverns.
