Directors report The Directors present their annual report to shareholders on the affairs of the Group and the Company together with the audited financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 23 August 2008.
Results and dividends The results of the Group for the period are set out in the Consolidated income statement on page 48.
An interim dividend of 5.5p per share was paid to shareholders on 27 June 2008.
As announced on 3 September 2008, the Directors will not be proposing the payment of a final dividend.
Principal activity and review of the business The Groups main trading activities are the operation of public houses either under the leased model or as directly managed by the Group.
The leased model involves the granting of leases to tenants who operate the pub as their own business, paying rent to the Group, purchasing beer and other drinks from the Group and entering into profit sharing arrangements for income from leisure machines.
Pubs that are directly managed involve the employment of a manager to operate each managed pub and the Group receives all revenues generated by the pub and is responsible for costs.
A review of the years activities and future developments, and information on the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, are included in the Business review.
The management of business risk is set out in the Corporate governance statement.
Key performance indicators KPIs are shown on page 01.
Directors and their interests The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 22 to 23.
During the year the following changes in directorate took place: Robert McDonald resigned on 17 October 2007, Randl Shure resigned on 16 January 2008 and Andrew Knight resigned on 7 July 2008.
Deborah Kemp and Mark Pain were appointed on 8 November 2007, Ian Wilson and Tony Rice were appointed on 6 December 2007 and Mike Tye was appointed on 7 July 2008.
Following the year end Deborah Kemp left the Board on 21 October 2008 and Roger Whiteside was appointed on 3 November 2008.
There are no special provisions contained in any of the Directors contracts for loss of office beyond normal contractual obligations: further details of Directors contracts are contained within the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 34 to 46 of this report.
The Board decided it was not necessary to incur the extra costs associated with an external search consultant or open advertising in the recruitment of Mark Pain, Ian Wilson and Tony Rice to the Board.
A shortlist of suitable candidates was generated from existing business contacts and interviews held.
If the Nomination Committee felt that no suitable candidates had been identified by this process then an external search consultant or open advertising would have been utilised.
The procedure for the appointment, replacement and re-election of Directors and the role of the Nomination Committee is disclosed in the Corporate governance statement on pages 30 to 33 of this report.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mike Tye and Roger Whiteside offer themselves for election at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 14 January 2009, this being the first opportunity for shareholders to approve their appointment.
Giles Thorley, being the only eligible director, will retire by rotation and offers himself for re-election at the AGM.
25 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review Governance continued Directors report continued The beneficial interests of Directors, who held office at 23 August 2008, in the share capital of the Company are shown below.
At At At 3 November 2008 23 August 2008 18 August 2007 Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Peter Cawdron 4,850 4,850 4,850 Giles Thorley 293,784 293,784 232,234 Phil Dutton 30,000 30,000 Jonathan Paveley 25,883 25,883 10,894 Mike Tye Deborah Kemp 99,558 99,558 89,965 Fritz Ternofsky 6,337 6,337 6,337 Mike Foster 4,275 4,275 4,275 Ian Fraser Mark Pain Ian Wilson 35,500 35,500 Tony Rice 16,364 16,364 None of the Directors has any interests in the shares of any other company in the Group.
A statement of the Directors remuneration and their interest in share options of the Company is set out in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 34 to 46.
Directors conflicts of interests On 24 September 2008 the Company held a General Meeting to approve amendments to the Companys Articles of Association to reflect certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to conflicts of interest that came into force on 1 October 2008, enabling the Board to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of interests.
Following changes to the Articles of Association the Board has reviewed the interests of the Directors and their connected persons and has authorised any interests which conflicted or potentially conflicted with the interests of the Company.
On an ongoing basis, the Nomination Committee will conduct periodic reviews of conflict authorisations to determine whether the authorisation given should continue, be added to or be revoked by the Board.
Directors indemnity The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity cover as defined in section 233 of the Companies Act 2006 which is provided for the benefit of the Companys directors and officers by a subsidiary company, Punch Taverns PGE Limited.
com Substantial shareholdings As at 3 November 2008, being the last business day prior to the publication of this report, the Company has been notified of the following substantial interests representing 3% or more in the ordinary shares of the Company.
UBS AG 12.03% David Einhorn 9.73% Goldman Sachs 8.14% QVT Financial LP 7.96% Glenhill Capital Management 5.42% AXA SA 4.98% Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 4.93% Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 4.46% Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 4.13% Barclays plc 4.10% Morgan Stanley 3.26% Rabobank International, London 3.06% Political and charitable contributions During the year the Group made charitable contributions of 12,100 2007: 59,000.
The Group made no political contributions.
Disabled employees The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by handicapped or disabled persons.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
The environment The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral to its business operation.
It is also committed to introducing measures to limit any adverse effects its business may have on the environment and will promote continuous improvement in accordance with best available techniques.
Employee involvement The total number of employees at the end of the period was 19,416.
The Group recognises the value of its employees and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable importance on communications with employees which take place at many levels through the organisation on both a formal and informal level.
Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and the Group operates an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan SIP, in which 919 employees in total participate.
Employees purchase shares either as a one-off amount or on a monthly basis.
These are then held in trust for a period of three years at which point the Company matches the total number of shares purchased.
Under the SIP, after a period of five years i. e. a further two years the shares are released to the employee free of tax and National Insurance.
27 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review Governance continued Directors report continued Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 23 August 2008 the Company had nil 2007: nil days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Financial instruments The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements, to which the Company is a party, contain provisions which alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid: A 50m revolving credit facility contains a clause that if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company then the facility agent may immediately cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, due and payable.
The 275m 5.0% convertible bonds contain a provision whereby, upon a change of control event, holders of the convertible bonds may exchange or redeem their bonds at a pre-determined exchange price as set out in the bond documentation.
The Company is also party to certain non-material agreements including trust deeds relating to the Companys employee share incentive plans that do contain change of control provisions in the event of the takeover of the Company but these are not considered to be significant on an individual basis.
Additional information for shareholders Following the implementation of the EU Takeovers Directive into UK law, the following provides the required information for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
At 23 August 2008, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares known as ordinary shares.
The share capital disclosures in note 25 to the accounts contain full details of shares allotted or purchased during the year and an explanation of movements in share capital during the year.
In a general meeting of the Company, on a show of hands, every member who is present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
The AGM notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of resolutions to be considered at the meeting either by proxy notice or present in person or proxy.
The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM to buy back up to 26,626,094 shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next AGM.
Such authority will only be exercised by the Directors after giving due consideration to the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
At the forthcoming AGM, authority will be sought for Directors to allot shares in the Company representing approximately 33% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the AGM notice.
Further details of these resolutions are contained within the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders with this report.
There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the Company other than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example under the Market Abuse Directive.
com In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Directors and persons discharging managerial responsibility PDMRs of the Company require prior approval from the Company to deal in the Companys securities, and are prohibited from dealing during closed periods.
The Company operates various share schemes which involve employee ownership of Company securities.
One such scheme, the Punch Taverns Share Incentive Plan SIP involves the use of an Employee Benefit Trust, into which employee purchased shares Partnership Shares are held on Trust for a qualifying period.
During this time the shares are beneficially owned by employees, attract voting rights and are eligible for dividends.
The voting rights in respect of these shares are exercised by the trustees on behalf of the employees.
The Company also operates a Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB for certain senior employees.
25% of the senior employees bonus is awarded in shares Bonus Shares which are held in a General Trust for a qualifying period and attract full dividend and voting rights which are exercisable by the employees should they wish.
In the event of an offer being made to acquire the Partnership or Bonus Shares, employees are entitled to direct the trustees to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
In addition, there are no people holding securities that carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Post balance sheet events Subsequent to the year end the Group has repurchased and cancelled over 168m of the nominal value of outstanding debt.
Full details of these transactions are contained within note 36 to the financial statements.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparation of the financial statements.
By order of the Board of Directors Neil Preston Company Secretary 3 November 2008 29 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Financial statements Governance Business review
