16 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 stAteMeNt oF DiRectoRs RespoNsiBiLities iN Respect oF tHe DiRectoRs RepoRt AND tHe FiNANciAL stAteMeNts the directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare financial statements in accordance with international Financial Reporting standards iFRs as adopted by the european Union.
the financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
in preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: b select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: b make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: b state whether applicable iFRs have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and b prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
the directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the companies Act 1985. they are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
in so far as the directors are aware: b there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and b the directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
to the best of my knowledge: b the financial statements, prepared in accordance with iFRs give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole: and b the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
the directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board DR PETER FINNEGAN CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 25 March 2009
