12 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DiRectoRs RepoRt the directors are pleased to present the Annual Report together with the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES the principal activity of the Group is the production and supply of multicrystalline silicon wafers to the worldwide photovoltaic market.
the Group supplies multicrystalline silicon wafers to some of the major photovoltaic cell makers in the world.
the chairmans statement and Business Review contain a review of these activities and comments on the future outlook.
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2008 is shown on page 28. the movement in the Group reserves during the year is shown on page 30 and segmental information is shown in note 8 on pages 42 and 43.
PROPOSED DIVIDEND the directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend in respect of the current financial year of 0.04 per share.
this has not been included within creditors as it was not approved before the year end.
together with the interim dividend of 0.02 per share this gives a total dividend of 0.06 per share.
the final dividend will be paid on 10 June 2009 to shareholders on the register on 15 May 2009. this dividend is payable in cash in sterling and will be converted from euros into sterling at the forward exchange quoted by the Royal Bank of scotland Group at 11.00am on 1 June 2009.
A final dividend of 0.025 per share was paid for the year ended 31 December 2007 in June 2008.
No interim dividend was paid in 2007 because the company did not list on the London stock exchange until June in that year.
BUSINESS REVIEW the Group is required by the companies Act to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2008 and of the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Business Review.
this information can be found on pages 4 to 9. the Business Review also includes details of expected future developments in the business of the Group.
there are no significant developments since the balance sheet date as set out in note 33 to the Group financial statements.
SUMMARY OF KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS the Group monitors the performance of each of its business units through detailed monthly operational and financial reporting, with comparisons to plan.
Updated business forecasts are regularly made.
in addition, the Group maintains regular reviews and dialogue with each of the Groups operational business units.
At Board level, the most important key performance measures are: b megawatts peak output equivalent from wafers produced: b revenue: b earnings before interest and tax eBit : b net cash from operating activities: b free cash flow, defined using the cash flow statement as net cash from operating activities less cash used in investing activities less interest received: b eBit excluding currency gains and losses as a percentage of revenue eBit margin excluding currency gains : and b earnings per share.
comparative performance in the current year and prior year is summarised as follows: 2008 2007 Megawatt peak output equivalent as above 230MW 190MW Revenue 274.1M 263.4m eBit 142.8M 67.5m Net cash from operating activites 89.0M 63.3m Free cash flow 22.9M 36.1m eBit margin excluding currency gains 38.8% 25.2% earnings per share euro cents 25.2 12.0 FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS FOR THE BUSINESS OUTLOOK the Boards assessment and evaluation of future development and the outlook for the business is discussed in the Business Review which can be found on pages 4 to 9.
13 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES the Group strategy for achieving consistent and sustainable growth and margins in a changing economic environment is to manage the way the Group operates in different international markets.
the Group mitigation strategy includes spreading market risks to achieve an acceptable balance of revenue earned from different geographic markets and adopting a natural hedging position by sourcing raw materials and other direct materials or services where possible in the same currencies as sales revenues are derived.
therefore, at the operating level, the Groups natural hedging position limits the Group exposure to foreign currencies.
However, Group management is currently working to balance exposure to currency amounts receivable by matching these with equivalent liabilities in the same currencies.
the Group had a large balance receivable in Japanese Yen in respect of accounts receivable on 31 December 2008 and these receivables expose the Group to the risk of a significant decrease in the Japanese Yen exchange rate.
However, it is the intention to put in place borrowings in Japanese Yen so that this effect is hedged.
the Group focuses on supplying top tier customers in the photovoltaic industry.
the industry is dominated by a small number of major producers of solar cells and a larger number of smaller cell manufacturers.
Accordingly, by concentrating on the larger well established customers, there is some concentration of customer credit risk.
the Group currently holds cash deposits in various currencies which exposes it to interest rate risk.
However, these currencies are generally held against future fixed capital and working capital expenditure to expand the business.
the Groups principal financial assets are cash deposits and trade receivables.
During the current financial turmoil the security of large banks has been called into doubt.
Accordingly, the Board has decided that the Groups cash deposits shall be spread more widely.
At the end of 2008 the Group had net cash deposits of 81 million and as current deposits mature these funds will be split into smaller tranches, some of which will be placed with new banks.
this process will be mainly completed in the first half of 2009. other risks and uncertainties facing the business are discussed in the Business Review which can be found on pages 4 to 9.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments comprise borrowings, internal cash resources, trade receivables and trade payables arising from normal trading.
the Groups borrowings are in Japan and are utilised to finance the Groups working capital requirement in respect of its business activity in Japan.
the Group is actively seeking to increase these borrowings to a level equal to the outstanding debtor book in Japan.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY the environmental policy is discussed in the corporate and social Responsibility Report which can be found on pages 21 and 22.
DIRECTORS the names of the directors who served during any part of the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2008 are: Maarten Henderson chairman chairman of the nomination committee Member of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee Dr iain Dorrity chief executive officer and executive Director Dr peter Finnegan chief Financial officer and executive Director Dr Hubert Aulich executive Director, German operations John sleeman chairman of the audit committee chairman of the remuneration committee Member of the nomination committee Nonexecutive directors.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 11.
All the directors served throughout the year.
BENEFICIAL INTERESTS IN SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the Group or any of its subsidiaries were party during the year.
14 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DiRectoRs RepoRt coNtiNUeD SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 11 March 2009 the Group had been notified, or is aware, of the following shareholdings amounting to 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the company: Number of % of issued ordinary ordinary shares shares Dr iain Dorrity 44, 085,974 10.58% Barry Garrard 41,881,642 10.05% stuart oldham 26,718,750 6.41% schroder investment Management Ltd 23,917,376 5.74% Graham Young 15,037,110 3.61% Jp Morgan Asset Management 14,418,180 3.46% Andreae Renz s 14,403,285 3.46% Legal & General investment Management Ltd 12,931,846 3.10% SHARE CAPITAL the authorised share capital and allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of the company is shown in note 26 to the financial statements.
there were no changes to the number of shares during the year and up to the date of this report.
As at the date of this report, 416.7 million ordinary shares of 2 pence each were allotted, called up and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 12.3 million.
the company has a single class of share capital, which are ordinary shares of 2 pence each, full details of rights accorded to the holders of these ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares have the rights accorded to them under UK company law, including the right to receive the companys Annual Report and Accounts, attend and speak at general meetings, appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
subject to the provisions of the companies Act 1985, the companies Act 2006 and of the Articles of Association, the company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends to be paid to members according to their respective rights and interests in the profits of the company.
However, no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
the Board may declare and pay such interim dividends as appears to the Board to be justified by the profits of the company available for distribution.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amount paid up on the shares.
the company was given authority at the 2007 Annual General Meeting to allocate further shares up to a maximum of 2,778,169 which was approximately 33% of the issued share capital on 16 April 2008. this authority will expire at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and approval will be sought from shareholders at that meeting for a similar authority to be given for a further year.
the company was given authority at the 2007 Annual General Meeting to make market purchases of up to 41,672,533 of its own ordinary shares.
this authority will expire at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and approval will be sought from shareholders at that meeting for a similar authority to be given for a further year.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS Listed below are the directors at 31 December 2008 together with their notifiable interests in the share capital of the company: Maarten Henderson Nil iain Dorrity 44, 085,974 Hubert Aulich 11,355,469 peter Finnegan 2,671,912 John sleeman Nil 15 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 GOING CONCERN the directors are confident, having reviewed management accounts, forecasts and customer contracts and after making appropriate enquiries at the time of approving the financial statements, that the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the accounts.
POLICY ON THE PAYMENT OF CREDITORS individual companies within the Group operate different creditor payment policies.
in Germany it is policy to take advantage of prompt payment discounts where offered, which are typically discounts of 2% or 3% for payment within ten days, otherwise standard terms are an average of 30 days net: in the UK and Japan payment is made in line with standard terms, which are an average of 45 days.
EMPLOYEES the Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and prospective employees.
the Group recognises that its operation and reputation depends upon the skill and effectiveness of its employees and is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of age, sex, religion, sexual orientation, race, nationality or ethnic origin.
DISABLED EMPLOYEES it is the Groups policy to give sympathetic consideration to the recruitment, continuing employment, training, career development and promotion of disabled persons.
in the event that a person became disabled he or she would continue to be employed, wherever possible, in the same job.
if the degree of disablement made this impractical, every effort would be made to find suitable alternative employment and to give any appropriate training.
the Groups policy on training and career progression applies equally to everyone within the Group whether or not disabled.
DONATIONS During the period under review the Group made charitable donations of 4,330 2007: nil.
it is the Groups policy not to make general political donations but the Group might consider making certain contributions to parties supporting environmental friendly policies.
No political donations were made in the period 2007: nil.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR the directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
AUDITOR Grant thornton UK LLp have indicated that they are willing to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint Grant thornton UK LLp as auditor for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board MATTHEW WETHEY GROUP SECRETARY 25 March 2009
