10 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 DiREctORs AnD ADVisORs left to right: Dr Peter Finnegan, Dr Hubert Aulich, Maarten Henderson, Dr iain Dorrity and John sleeman.
COMPany nuMBer inDePenDent auDitOr regiStrarS 06019466 gRAnt tHORntOn uK llP EQuiniti REgistRARs Registered Auditor Aspect House regiStereD OFFiCe chartered Accountants spencer Road Brook House 1 Westminster Way lancing 174 Milton Park Oxford OX2 0PZ West sussex Bn99 6DA Abingdon Oxfordshire OX14 4sE BankerS SOLiCitOrS nAtiOnAl WEstMinstER BAnK Plc nORtOn ROsE llP DireCtOrS thames Valley corporate Office 3 More london Riverside Maarten Henderson chairman Abbey gardens london Ec2A 2HA Dr Hubert Aulich 4 Abbey street Dr iain Dorrity Reading Rg1 3BA Dr Peter Finnegan John sleeman COrPOrate aDViSOrS J P MORgAn cAZEnOVE COMPany SeCretary 20 Moorgate Matthew Wethey london Ec2R 6DA 11 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BOarD OF DireCtOrS' BiOgraPhieS Maarten henDerSOn Dr iain DOrrity cHAiRMAn cHiEF EXEcutiVE OFFicER Mr Henderson, a Dutch national, graduated in economics from Hamburg Dr Dorrity has a PhD in Physical chemistry from Exeter university.
He started his career at multinational electronics company Dr Dorrity joined the company in 1986 and became responsible for Philips in 1972, where he held various commercial and financial positions, sales and marketing in 1988.
He was a member of the MBO team that ending as Member of the Board of Management and cFO of Philips acquired the crystalox business in 1994 and was appointed to the Boards Kommunikations industrie Ag in 1996.
After that, he was cFO and Member of both crystalox limited and crystalox solar limited at that time.
of the Board of Management of schmalbach lubeca Ag an international subsequently following the merger of PV silicon gmbH and crystalox packaging company listed in germany from 1996 to 1999, of KPn n. V. the limited he became a member of the management Board of PV crystalox Dutch telecommunications incumbent listed in Amsterdam and new york solar gmbH in 2002 and a Director of the company on its formation from 2000 to 2004, and of nuon n. V. a Dutch energy company from 2004 in December 2006.
Dr Dorrity has over 25 years experience in crystal to 2006. in 2006 and early 2007, he worked for mobile service provider growth and semiconductor materials with an emphasis latterly on debitel Ag as interim cFO and head of the divestment team.
From April 2007 multicrystalline silicon technology.
Prior to joining crystalox Dr Dorrity to October 2007 he worked as Member of the Board of Management spent eight years working in research and in industry with general and cFO for getronics n. V. an international ict services company listed Electric company.
From March until July 2007 Maarten Henderson had been appointed by Hagemeyers general meeting of shareholders as Hold separate Manager a B Director of the Management Board of Hagemeyer n. V. a company listed in Amsterdam.
Dr Peter J. Finnegan DBa, MBa, FCMa Dr huBert auLiCh cHiEF FinAnciAl OFFicER EXEcutiVE DiREctOR, gERMAn OPERAtiOns Dr Finnegan has a Doctorate in corporate Finance from Henley Dr Aulich has a PhD in Physical chemistry from nyu, new york city, Management college, an MBA from Manchester Business school usA.
Dr Aulich founded PV silicon gmbH in 1997 with his partner and is a Fellow of the chartered institute of Management Accountants.
in 2002 he became a member of the Dr Finnegan became company secretary of crystalox in 1985 whilst Board of PV crystalox solar gmbH where he had responsibility for he was Financial Director of its holding company Elkem Holdings limited, the german operations including the production and sales of wafers and was appointed to the Board of both crystalox solar limited and and was appointed as a Director of the company on 21 May 2007. crystalox limited in 1994.
He was appointed as a Director of the company Prior to founding PV silicon gmbH, Dr Aulich worked for siemens on its formation in December 2006.
Dr Finnegan has overall group solar group.
Dr Aulich joined the central Research laboratories of responsibility for finance, accounting, planning, financial control, legal siemens Ag in Munich, germany, in 1974 where he worked in various matters and investor relations.
Prior to joining the group he worked positions in the field of optical fibre communication and photovolztaics.
for a number of large international manufacturing companies in From 1988 to 1991 he was Managing Director at PV Electric, a joint various positions including chief Accountant, company secretary venture of siemens solar gmbH, germany, and Arco solar, usA, where and Financial Director.
he was responsible for the commercialisation of amorphous silicon thin film technology.
in 1992 he became Managing Director at siemens solar gmbH where he was responsible for technology of thin film and crystalline silicon solar cells.
He was senior Vice President for technology and Research for the siemens solar group responsible for research and development in thin film and crystalline silicon solar cells as well as for systems application for germany, usA and Japan.
JOhn SLeeMan nOn-EXEcutiVE DiREctOR Mr sleeman graduated in physics from the university of Durham.
He started his career at Deloitte & touche in 1970 where he qualified as a chartered Accountant before moving to samuel Montagu now part of HsBc Plc in 1975, becoming a Director in 1988.
During his time at HsBc, Mr sleeman qualified as a chartered Banker and held various project finance and corporate finance roles, ending in 2003 as Managing Director, Head of international team, corporate Finance.
Mr sleeman held directorships with a number of companies within the HsBc group.
subsequently, he was an advisor to Emerging Markets group specialising in structured financial solutions and strategic advice and a Director of OsJc Power Machines, Russias largest manufacturer of generators and turbines.
Mr sleeman was a director of Jsc Open investments, one of Russias largest players on the real estate market, during the year.
He is a partner of s. P. Angel corporate Finance llP, an appointed representative of s. P. Angel & co. limited, which is authorised by the FsA and is a member of the london stock Exchange.
