overview QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Chief executive officers review our vision our vision To be the worlds leading provider of defence and security technology-based solutions and services How we will achieve it Ensure we have outstanding people, facilities and technologies available to provide innovative, high-value solutions to our customers important problems.
Provide research, technical advice, technology solutions and services to customers in our core markets of defence and security, and transfer know-how and capability into important adjacent markets.
Group strategies Strengthen our North American presence Continue building our business in North America, delivering good organic growth supplemented by targeted acquisitions.
Maintain and build existing relationships Build on our powerful UK defence franchise, growing our market share in technology insertion, advice and managed services, whilst robustly defending our market-leading position in MOD research.
Further penetrate established defence markets Build valuable new market positions in selected EMEA markets outside the UK.
Apply our technologies to commercial markets Take selected defence technologies into new markets, through direct exploitation, venturing and licensing.
05 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Chief executive officers review continued Performance overview 2008 was another year of strong operating and financial performance and we are well positioned for further growth as a result of effective execution against our key strategies.
QinetiQ North America QNA once again delivered significant organic growth, supplemented by five further targeted acquisitions.
The range of products and services offered to customers continued to grow and diversify, whilst a planned consolidation of our business groups to give greater critical mass will allow us to pursue increasingly larger opportunities.
Europe, Middle East and Australasia EMEA delivered good growth in both Managed Services and Consulting and we continue to see good opportunities in Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies, including further penetration of overseas markets.
Restructuring into fewer business units will improve customer focus whilst delivering measurable benefits to profit margins.
Our entry into the Australian market will provide improved access to growing international markets.
Opportunities for technology ventures have developed further and seven ventures were successfully spun out into a separate fund with an external partner.
We continue to believe that our selective and targeted approach to investment will generate attractive returns over the medium term.
Financial overview Revenue increased 19% to 1,366.0m, including organic growth of 8.6%, and underlying operating profit increased 20% to 127.0m.
Order intake continues to be robust with a book to bill ratio achieving our Group target of 1.1:1.
Total funded backlog, including the LTPA, is 5.7bn, which gives us excellent forward visibility for the business.
Net cash inflow from operating activities of 102.3m translates into an underlying operating cash conversion of 77% for the year, up from 56% last year.
Underlying earnings per share increased by 19% to 13.4p per share.
We propose to increase the final dividend to 2.92p per share bringing the total dividend to 4.25p per share.
This represents an increase in total dividend of 16.4% over last year and is covered 3.2 times by earnings.
Delivery against our strategy Continue building our business in North America, delivering good organic growth supplemented by targeted acquisitions QNA has seen another year of strong performance with 17.5% organic growth in revenue.
This has been supplemented by our continuing acquisition programme in North America which added five further businesses.
The acquisitions of ITS, 3H Technology and Pinnacle CSI provide the IT Services and Mission Solutions businesses with enhanced access to the homeland security and intelligence communities through excellent customer relationships and strong contractual positions.
The acquisitions of Automatika and Applied Perception continue to build on our expertise in robotic and autonomous platforms in the Technology Solutions business.
The existing QNA businesses have delivered impressive operating results in the period.
In particular, the Technology Solutions business has had an exceptional year through very strong orders and sales of the TALON robot range.
Over $200m of further funding for TALON robots was received in the year and in excess of 800 TALON robots were shipped.
A $400m follow on indefinite delivery indefinite quantity IDIQ contract was received in May 2008.
Over 2,000 units have now been shipped to Iraq and Afghanistan, most of which are being used to locate and remotely disable roadside bombs.
QNA has also shown an increasing diversity in product offerings such as LAST Armor and the EARS Sniper Detection systems gaining traction in the year.
Integration of the QNA businesses has made significant progress with a clear focus on business development activities to ensure that QNA continues to bid for, and win, larger opportunities than its constituent parts have previously been able to achieve.
One such example was NASAs award of a $190m five-year contract to our Mission Solutions business to provide environmental test and integration support ETIS services.
QNA is now a $1bn plus integrated business and has been successful in recruiting highly experienced defence industry professionals, with excellent customer insights, to help continue driving strong organic growth from our resilient positions in the defence, security and intelligence markets.
At a business unit level, we see further integration opportunities and during the course of the coming year, will merge the IT Services operations into the Systems Engineering and Mission Solutions businesses thereby continuing to improve customer focus and opportunity exploitation.
06 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager overview QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Chief executive officers review continued Build on our powerful UK defence franchise, growing our market share in technology insertion, advice and managed services, whilst robustly defending our market-leading position in MOD research At the start of the year, we created our EMEA sector by combining the Defence & Technology and Security & Dual Use businesses.
We are pleased that these integrated EMEA operations have returned to growth in the year, with revenue increasing organically by 4.5% and direct revenue from the MOD increasing by 14.6m to 599.1m.
In March, we also successfully completed the 951m re-pricing agreement covering the second five-year term of the 25-year Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA with the MOD.
We continue to work with the MOD towards finalising the 30-year Defence Training Rationalisation DTR contract, for which we are the preferred bidder.
We expect to agree the customer requirements and pricing in 2008 and to finalise the contract by the end of March 2010.
During the course of the year, we have conducted a review of the EMEA structure and, with effect from 1 April 2008, have reorganised the sector into four offering-focused businesses: Managed Services: Consulting: Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies.
This reorganisation will improve the engagement with our defence customer base and has also allowed us to remove a significant amount of duplication, as we have consolidated a large number of units into these four businesses.
This process will be completed in the first half of the coming year and, once finalised, we expect to deliver full-year annual savings of at least 12m.
We have taken the cost of achieving this reorganisation of some 33m as a non-recurring charge in the income statement.
Good progress has been made on using the excellent customer access provided by our North American business to accelerate the deployment of EMEA technology into the largest accessible global market.
During the year, we successfully sold our SPO stand-off detectors developed in EMEA to the US Transportation Security Administration through QNA and we are currently pursuing a pipeline of other similar cross-sector opportunities.
Build valuable new market positions in selected EMEA markets outside the UK The creation of the EMEA sector also underlined our ambition to deliver growth from defence markets beyond the UK and North America.
We believe that the structure and team we have created will allow us to pursue exciting opportunities to replicate offerings from EMEAs core UK market into selected international defence markets.
As other defence markets mature over the coming years, our value-based services and solutions become more relevant to these potential new customers.
Our initial view of the likely markets that offer the best prospect in the medium term are in Asia Pacific, Scandinavia and the Middle East.
During the year, we established a footprint in Australia with the acquisition and subsequent integration of three defence consulting businesses as QinetiQ Consulting Pty.
Historically, we have provided services to the Australian defence marketplace from the UK and the establishment of a QinetiQ base in Australia, with an in-country capability of over 300 employees, provides the mechanism to leverage the wider range of our services to our Australian customers.
We continue to review other geographical markets, although our immediate priority is to bed down our Australian operations.
Once achieved, they will provide us with a basis to expand our offering through parts of the South East Asian market.
Closer to home, we are looking to establish a representative office in Scandinavia, with the volume of business opportunities making it increasingly important for us to maintain a closer interface with our customers in this region.
07 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Chief executive officers review continued Take selected defence technologies into new markets, through direct exploitation, venturing and licensing The EMEA reorganisation will allow us to improve our targeting of key non-defence markets such as security and energy & environment, where many of our consulting-led solutions and services are in demand as these markets develop.
Evidence of the significant role we can undertake in these markets was demonstrated through the award of a contract worth up to 33m as part of the UK Home Offices e-Borders programme where we are providing security accreditation and human factors services.
We have added to our capabilities in the security marketplace through the October 2007 acquisition of Boldon James, a company offering highend secure messaging solutions for government, military and security customers worldwide.
We continue to develop a pipeline of new ventures where we believe these will deliver attractive returns on investment in the medium term.
In August 2007, we completed a transaction with Coller Capital to establish a technology venture fund consisting of seven of our ventures.
The creation of the fund enables these ventures to be managed by an independent team focused on accelerated growth with access to Coller Capitals expertise in commercialising technology and further funding from QinetiQ and Coller Capital.
These businesses continue to make satisfactory progress.
The Tarsier integrated camera enhancement programme has attracted significant additional interest, with an order placed for a radar and camera system from BAA for London Heathrow Airport and a camera system order from Vancouver International Airport, our original launch customer for the radar system.
Our people The expertise, commitment and integrity of our people is an essential component of the strong results delivered this year and the continued successful implementation of our strategy.
During the year, we have welcomed new employees into the Group who will further enhance our strong existing capabilities.
Over 1,300 new employees have joined the Group through acquisitions with many more joining to meet the demand of our organic growth.
I thank all our people for their hard work and dedication during the year.
We place great emphasis on talent management to ensure the effective recruitment, retention and development of key skills across the organisation.
The professionalism and quality of our people is paramount to our continued success.
Our recruitment strategy recognises the need to replenish and refresh our capabilities and we look to maximise this pipeline by using a comprehensive programme encompassing graduate recruitment, student placement and apprenticeships to ensure that a broad mix of scientific, engineering, technical and managerial talent joins the Group and provides leadership to the organisation.
We also continue to strengthen our senior management team, with key additions in both QNA and EMEA.
To keep the Groups capability at the leading edge of our customers expectations and to provide opportunities for our employees to develop and fulfil their potential, we continually invest in programmes and activities alongside customer delivery.
The Competing to Win project launched in the UK last year, which focused on developing staff to lead and win major new business opportunities, has become an invaluable training and development programme.
Graduates of the programme have taken key roles throughout the business, including leadership of our successful bid into the Home Office e-Borders programme.
08 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager overview QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Chief executive officers review continued Future prospects and outlook We are well positioned in our key primary markets and will continue to execute our strategy effectively in the coming year.
In North America, our business has delivered strong organic growth and is well positioned to continue to benefit from the market opportunities that exist.
We believe that the specific markets we serve, and the high-end solutions and services we provide, are key to the defence, homeland security and intelligence policies of any future US Administration.
We believe our highly focused North American business will continue outpacing the expected growth rate of the overall US defence budget and we are targeting continued double-digit organic growth.
Our newly restructured EMEA business is well positioned to respond in a flexible and agile way to meet its customers needs.
Our opportunity going forward is to respond to the challenges faced by our customers and to use technology-rich solutions to provide them with value-for-money propositions.
Technology development and insertion into new platforms to extend the life of existing platforms is a key strength that we add to the defence supply chain.
On the Consulting and Managed Services axis, our specialist procurement, test and evaluation services help ensure the MOD acquires and utilises equipment that gives the right balance of through-life capability and value to the UK armed forces.
The EMEA business has the organisation and capabilities in place to maintain the growth trajectory it has now established.
Looking further out, as the headwind of MOD research fully opening to competition recedes, we are well placed to deliver accelerated growth from EMEA.
We will continue to target selective acquisitions to complement and grow our capabilities and to access new markets.
The Groups strong balance sheet position, inherently cash generative operations and access to committed financing facilities allow us to continue to make value-enhancing acquisitions at a similar rate to that delivered in recent years.
We will also continue to invest in opportunities to exploit our defence technologies in other markets, where these opportunities offer attractive projected returns.
Our business model and forward visibility to earnings are robust.
Our ability to innovate and respond quickly to our customers needs with value-for-money solutions through the deep expertise of our people ensures that the Group is well positioned to benefit from the opportunities that exist in all of our key markets.
We enter the new year with confidence and expect to continue making good progress towards our Group targets including our increased medium-term operating margin of 11%.
Graham Love Chief executive officer 28 May 2008 09 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
