GOveRnAnCe  ReportoftheDirectors ReportoftheDirectors The Directors present their report and the audited financial Principal financial instruments risks and uncertainty statements for the year to 31 March 2008.
The report from the The Groups principal risks in relation to the use of financial Directors on Corporate Governance is set out on pages 52 to 57 instruments arise on contracting with customers in foreign and the Remuneration Committee report on pages 58 to 64. currencies and through the use of interest rate swaps and caps to manage interest rate exposure on the Groups borrowings.
A more detailed description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties Principal activity and policies related to the use of financial instruments is contained QinetiQ Group plc is a public limited company, listed on the London in the Business Review on pages 42 to 44.
Stock Exchange and incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 4586941.
Directors and Directors interests The Directors in office at the date of this report and details of the QinetiQ Group plc is the parent company of a Group whose principal Board committees on which they sit are detailed on pages 50 and 51. activities during the year were the supply of technology-based The dates of Director appointments can be found on page 62.
Details solutions and products and provision of technology-rich support of the Directors emoluments and interests are shown in the Report services for government defence and security organisations, such as of the Remuneration Committee on pages 58 to 64. the UK MOD and the US DoD, and for commercial customers around the world.
Directors appointment, removal and powers Rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors Business review and Group results of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association and The profit on ordinary activities of the Group before tax was 51.4m changes to these Articles must be submitted to shareholders for 2007: 89.3m.
The profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of approval.
The Shareholder Relationship Agreement entered into the parent company was 47.4m 2007: 69.0m.
between QinetiQ and MOD at IPO entitles MOD to nominate one Non-executive Director to the Board, for so long as MOD does not A description of the Groups performance during the year and the dispose of any further ordinary shares in the Company, and likely future developments is contained in the reports of the thereafter for so long as it holds at least 10% of QinetiQs issued Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on pages 2 to 10 and in the ordinary share capital.
The Directors are responsible for the Business Review on pages 11 to 49. management of the business of the Company and their powers are subject to the Memorandum and Articles of Association and Principal risks and uncertainty any applicable legislation and regulation.
A description of the Groups principal risks and uncertainty is contained in the Business Review on pages 42 to 44.
Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer, upholds the principles Principal changes to the Group of the UK Employment Services Two Ticks symbol and is accredited The Group made a number of acquisitions and disposals in the year by Investors in People.
Every possible consideration is given to which are disclosed in detail in notes 13 and 5 respectively.
applications for employment, regardless of gender, religion, disability or ethnic origin, having regard only to skills and competencies.
This Research & development policy is extended to existing employees and any change which may One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision affect their personal circumstances.
The policy is supported by of funded research and development for customers.
The Group strategies for professional and career development.
also invests in the commercialisation of promising technologies across all areas of business.
Further description of the Groups QinetiQ seeks to utilise a range of communication channels to research & development activity is contained in the Business employees in order to involve them in the running of the organisation.
This is done using various media including in-house magazines, intranet, regular newsletters, bulletins, management briefings, trade Proposed dividend union consultation and widespread training programmes.
During the year the Group paid an interim dividend of 1.33p per share 2007: 1.20p.
The Directors recommend the payment of a Environment final dividend of 2.92p per ordinary share 2007: 2.45p.
Subject Details of the Groups policy and practice in relation to the to the approval of shareholders the final dividend will be paid environment is detailed in the Corporate Responsibility report, on 5 September 2008 to shareholders on the share register on contained in the Business Review on pages 45 to 49.
Political and charitable contributions Policy and practice on payment of suppliers The Group made no political donations in the year.
Donations during The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment prior to the year to UK charities amounted to 184,000 2007: 19,000. commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms based on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
At 31 March 2008, the trade creditors of the Group represented 35 days of annual purchases 2007: 31 days.
65  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager   Corporate Governance if the contractor QinetiQ Limited ceases to be a subsidiary of the The Companys application of the principles of good governance in QinetiQ Group, except where such change in control is permitted respect of the Combined Code, as revised by the Financial Reporting under the Shareholders Agreement to which MOD is a party.
Council June 2006, is described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 57.
The Company is party to a 500m Revolving Credit Facility with Lloyds TSB Bank plc as agent expiring 19 August 2012.
Under the Share capital terms of the Facility, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its As at 31 March 2008 the Company had: capacity as Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is a change of control of the Company, any Lender may request by not less than 90 days notice to the Company, 1 Authorised share capital of 1,400,000,000 of ordinary 1p shares that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts with aggregate nominal value of 14,000,000 and 1 Special Share be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
with an aggregate nominal value of 1.
On 6 December 2006, QinetiQ North America, Inc as Borrower 2 Allotted and fully paid share capital of 660,476,373 ordinary and the Company as Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase shares of 1p each with an aggregate nominal value of 6.6m Agreement to issue $135m 5.44% Senior Notes due 6 December 2013 including shares held by employee share trusts.
and $125m 5.50% Senior Notes due 6 December 2016.
Under the terms of the agreement, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its Details of the shares issued during the financial year are shown in capacity as Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: note 32 on page 108. or 2 there is a change of control of the Company, the Notes must be prepaid within 90 days of the change of control, provided only that The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the Articles of there is no rating downgrade, or where there are no rated securities, Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the a rating of at least investment grade is obtained.
Companys reports and accounts, to attend and speak at General Meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights in person or by Major shareholders appointing a proxy and to receive a dividend where declared or paid At 19 May 2008 being the latest practicable date prior to the out of profits available for such a purpose.
issuance of this report the Group had been notified of the following shareholdings of at least 3% in the ordinary share capital of The Special Share is held by HM Government and it confers certain the Group: rights under the Articles of Association which are detailed in note 32 on page 108.
These include the right to require certain persons with a UK Ministry of Defence 18.9% material interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their ordinary Lansdowne Partners Ltd 9.1% shares.
The Special Share may only be held by and transferred to BlackRock Investment Management Ltd 5.0% HM Government.
At any time the Special Shareholder may require Fidelity International Ltd 5.0% QinetiQ to redeem the share at par and if wound up the Special Allianz SE 3.1% Shareholder would be entitled to be repaid capital before other Legal & General Group plc 3.0% shareholders.
Any variation of the rights attaching to the Special Share requires the written approval of the MOD.
Allotment purchase of own shares At the Companys AGM held in July 2007, the shareholders passed Change of control significant agreements resolutions which authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,322,756 to disapply counter-parties to require prior approval, exercise termination, pre-emption rights up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of control and for the Company to purchase Ordinary Shares up to 10% of its of the Company or if the Company no longer remains a UK company.
Equivalent resolutions will be laid before the 2008 AGM.
The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year contract awarded to QinetiQ by MOD on 14 December 2006.
The terms of this During the year the Company provided funding to the trustees of contract require QinetiQ Ltd to remain a UK company which is its employee share schemes to make market purchases of the incorporated under the laws of any part of the UK or an overseas Companys ordinary shares to cover future obligations under company registered in the UK and that at least 50% of the Board of outstanding share option and other share-based awards.
Further Directors are UK nationals.
The terms also contain change of control details are disclosed in the Business Review on page 39. conditions and restricted share transfer conditions which require prior approval from HM Government if there is a material change in the ownership of QinetiQ Ltds share capital, unless the change Restrictions on Transfer Shares relates to shares listed on a regulated market, with material defined As outlined on page 108, the Special Share confers certain rights as being 10% or more of the share capital.
Additionally there are under the Companys Articles of Association to require certain restrictions on transfers of shares to persons from countries persons with an interest in QinetiQs shares which exceed certain appearing on the restricted list as issued by HM Government.
prescribed thresholds to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on grounds of national security or conflict of interest.
The Long-Term Partnering Agreement is a 25-year contract which QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February 2003 to provide test, In addition, at IPO, certain members of the senior management team evaluation and training services to the MOD.
This contract contains which includes the Chairman and the Executive Directors entered conditions where the prior approval of HM Government is required into a Lock Up agreement, which prohibited the disposal of ordinary 66  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager GOveRnAnCe   shares in the Company save in certain limited circumstances for a period of three years ending on 15 February 2009.
The practical impact of such arrangements is that for each member of the senior management team subject to the Lock Up agreement, 28% of their respective ordinary shares held at IPO continue to be subject to the prohibition on disposal.
Articles of Association Save in the respect of any variation to the rights attaching to the Special Share, the Company has not adopted any special rules relating to the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association other than as provided under UK corporate law.
Employee Share Scheme Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as trustee in respect of all ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share Incentive Plan the Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited will send a Form of Direction to all employees holding shares under the Plan, and will vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance with the instructions received.
In circumstances where ordinary shares are held by the corporate sponsored nominee service, Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited will send a Proxy Form to all shareholders utilising such corporate nominee service, and will vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance with the instructions received.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirmed that, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 30 July 2008 at 2.00 pm at the Institute of Mechanical Engineers, 1 Birdcage Walk, Westminster, London SW1H 9JJ.
Details of the business to be proposed and voted upon at the meeting is contained in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is sent to all shareholders and also published on the website www.
com By order of the Board Lynton Boardman CompanySecretary 85 Buckingham Gate London SW1E 6PD 28 May 2008 67  5june2008  PROOF5 final............. proofreaderfinal............. a cmanager
