QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 our Board of Directors our Board of Directors 1 3 2 7 5 a b a b d 1 Sir John Chisholm 4 Sir David Lees Chairman Non-executive Director Deputy Chairman Senior independent Sir John Chisholm 61, the Non-executive Chairman of QinetiQ, Non-executive Director was Chief Executive Officer of QinetiQ previously DERA from Sir David Lees 71 joined the Board of QinetiQ in August 2005.
1991 to 2005, transforming it into a successful trading fund and He is currently Chairman of Tate & Lyle plc.
He has also been a developing its commercial business.
Until October 2006, he was member of the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers since June the Executive Chairman of QinetiQ.
Previously Sir John was UK 2001.
Sir David joined GKN plc in 1970 and became Group Managing Director of Sema Group plc and prior to that he was Finance Director in 1982.
He was appointed Group Managing a Director of CAP Group plc.
In 1979, he founded and became Director in 1987, and Chairman and Chief Executive in 1988 Managing Director of CAP Scientific Ltd. After a degree at before becoming Non-executive Chairman in 1997 until his Cambridge in Mechanical Sciences, Sir Johns work experience retirement in May 2004.
Other notable roles include being a included periods at General Motors and Scicon Ltd, part of BP.
member of the National Defence Industries Council between Sir John was formerly President of the Institution of Engineering 1995 and 2004, Chairman of Courtaulds plc from 1996 to 1998, a and Technology and is currently Chairman of the Medical Research Non-executive Director of the Bank of England between 1991 and Council.
He is also a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, 1999 and Chairman of the CBI Economic Affairs Committee from the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institute of Physics.
The 1988 until 1994, as well as being a member of the CBI Presidents Board considers Sir Johns extensive knowledge of Defence and Committee from 1988 to 1996.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Security Technology markets, and his unrivalled experience of Non-executive Joint Deputy Chairman of Brambles Industries plc QinetiQs business gained whilst Chief Executive Officer, to be and Brambles Industries Limited.
Sir David is currently a a valuable asset to the Board in terms of decision-making and Non-executive Director of the Royal Opera House and he is also a understanding the strategic issues affecting the Group.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board considers that Sir Davids detailed understanding a of the Defence sector, coupled with his extensive experience of 2 Graham Love corporate governance and the City and its institutions, significantly Chief executive officer executive Director enhances the operation of the Board, particularly in the context Graham Love 54 is the Chief Executive Officer of QinetiQ, having of Sir Davids dual role of Deputy Chairman and Senior previously been Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to rejoining DERA in Independent Non-executive Director.
2001, he was Chief Executive of Comax Secure Business Services Ltd, leading it through its privatisation in 1997 before its sale to a Amey plc in 1999.
Before that, Graham was Finance Director of 5 Colin Balmer DERA from 1992 to 1996.
After a degree in English at Cambridge, Non-executive Director his career included management roles with Ernst & Young, KPMG Colin Balmer CB 61 was appointed to the Board of QinetiQ in and Shandwick plc, as well as several years in international February 2003.
He served as Managing Director of the Cabinet consulting.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Office from 2003 until his retirement in 2006.
Previously, Accountants in England and Wales.
Colin was Finance Director of the MOD, with responsibility for QinetiQs privatisation and the subsequent investment by Carlyle as part of the PPP Transaction.
He has extensive experience 3 Doug Webb across the MOD including periods as Private Secretary of two Chief Financial officer executive Director Ministers for Defence Procurement, a secondment to the UK Doug Webb 47 is the Chief Financial Officer of QinetiQ.
Doug Delegation to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation NATO was appointed to the Board in September 2005, having previously and as a Minister for Defence Materiel in Washington DC, been Group Financial Controller.
He joined QinetiQ in June 2003 United States.
Colin was formerly a member of the Independent from LogicaCMG, where he had most recently been the Regional Financial Reporting Advisory Board and the Advisory Council of Finance Director for Continental Europe.
During his eight years Partnerships UK and is currently a member of the Foreign and with Logica, Doug spent the period from 1995 to 2000 in the US Commonwealth Offices Audit and Risk Committee and is on in various management roles at its US subsidiary, including Chief the Board of the Royal Mint, chairing their Audit Committee.
Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice The Board considers that Colins extensive knowledge of the President, Telecoms Division.
He trained as an accountant with development of QinetiQ throughout its public-private partnership, Price Waterhouse and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered and his in-depth understanding of the working of Government, Accountants in England and Wales.
On 17 January 2008, Doug particularly the UK MOD, provides the Board with a unique announced his intention to take up the position of Chief Financial insight into the issues facing Government in delivering its Officer with London Stock Exchange Group plc and resigned as procurement objectives and partnering with industry suppliers.
50 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager GoverNANCe QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 our Board of Directors continued 4 8 6 9 c d 6 Noreen Doyle 8 Edmund P. Giambastiani Jr Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Noreen Doyle 59 was appointed to the Board of QinetiQ in Admiral Giambastiani 60 was appointed to the Board of QinetiQ in February 2008 and serves as an independent Non-executive October 2005 and serves as an independent Non-executive Director.
She also sits on the Board and Audit Committee of Director.
Between 2005 and 2007, Ed was the second highestranking military officer in the United States, having served as the Credit Suisse Group Zurich and is a Non-executive Director of Newmont Mining Corporation Denver and Rexam plc.
In August seventh Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, which was the culmination of a 37-year career in the US Navy.
Eds distinguished 2005, Noreen completed her four-year term as First Vice President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development career has also included assignments as Special Assistant to the CIAs Deputy Director for Intelligence, Senior Military Assistant EBRD, where she chaired the EBRDs Operations Committee and was a member of the Executive Committee.
Prior to her to the US Defense Secretary and Commander, US Joint Forces Command.
He also served as NATOs first Supreme Allied appointment as First Vice President, Noreen was firm-wide head of Risk Management.
She joined the EBRD in 1992 to establish its Commander Transformation, when he led the transformation of the military alliance.
Ed currently serves as the Non-executive syndications functions.
Before joining the EBRD, Noreen had a distinguished career at Bankers Trust Company now Deutsche Chairman of the Board of Directors for Alenia North America, Inc and is a Non-executive Director of SRA International, Inc and Bank in corporate finance and leveraged financing with a concentration in oil, gas and mining.
Noreen has a BA from the Monster Worldwide Inc.
The Board considers that Eds extensive knowledge of the US Defence and Security domain significantly College of Mount Saint Vincent, Riverdale, New York and an MBA from Tuck School at Dartmouth College.
The Board considers that enhances the operation of the Board, as QinetiQ continues to pursue its strategy of growing its US platform in the defence and Noreens extensive international business experience, particularly in the areas of corporate finance, risk management and banking, security technology sector.
to be of significant benefit to the Board as QinetiQ continues its c strategy of developing new business opportunities outside its 9 Nick Luff traditional UK market, particularly in North America.
Non-executive Director Nick Luff 41 joined the Board of QinetiQ in June 2004 and serves b c d 7 Dr Peter Fellner as an independent Non-executive Director.
Nick was appointed Finance Director of Centrica plc in March 2007, having previously Non-executive Director Dr Peter Fellner 64 joined the Board of QinetiQ in September served as CFO of the P&O Group.
He trained as a chartered accountant with KPMG and is a member of the Institute of 2004.
Peter is Executive Chairman of Vernalis plc and is also the Chairman of both Acambis plc, and the privately held Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Nick joined P&O in 1991 and held various finance roles before joining the Board biotechnology company, Astex Therapeutics Limited.
In addition, he serves as a Director of two European biotechnology as Finance Director in 1999.
In October 2000, he became Chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess Cruises plc on its demerger from companies, UCB SA and Evotec AG and also Consort Medical plc.
Previously, Peter served as Chairman of Celltech Group plc from the P&O Group and returned as Chief Financial Officer of P&O in May 2003.
Nick has also served as a Non-executive Director 2003 to July 2004, having been Chief Executive Officer from 1990 onwards.
Before joining Celltech, he was Chief Executive of Roche on the board of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV, the Dutch-listed international container shipping company.
The Board considers UK from 1986 to 1990, having previously been a Director of Roche UK Research Centre.
The Board considers that Peters detailed that Nicks experience of operating as Chief Financial Officer Finance Director with P&O and Centrica, coupled with his understanding of the commercialisation of innovative technologies, and his experience of bringing high-technology extensive exposure to a variety of industrial sectors, provides the rigorous financial and commercial scrutiny required of a FTSEbusinesses to the public markets, are a valuable asset to the Board in terms of the development of QinetiQs portfolio of listed company at the Board level, particularly in the context of his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
leading technologies and the evolution of QinetiQs remuneration policies, particularly in the context of his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
a b c d Member of Compliance Committee Member of Nomination Committee Member of Audit Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Chair of Committee 51 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
