BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA QinetiQ eMeA Our EMEA business is built on a heritage of deep technical expertise at the forefront of research in a wide field of technologies.
Our position as a trusted advisor to the MOD provides us with access to every major UK military programme and enables expansion into other maturing defence and security markets.
The EMEA business was reorganised in April 2008, and now focuses on Managed Services, technology-led Consulting, Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies.
our principal markets and customers Our primary markets are defence, security and energy & environment.
Clive Richardson, Chief operating We serve the following principal customers: officer, QinetiQ eMeA UK Ministry of Defence MOD Share of Group revenue US Department of Defense DoD Australian Department of Defence UK National Security Agencies Other UK Government agencies Achievements The reorganisation of the EMEA business into four offering-focused businesses 60% was completed with effect from 1 April 2008.
Consolidation of multiple existing business groups into the four sectors provided opportunity for 820 m elimination of duplicate overheads.
It is expected that the charge of 32.6m will Share of 2008 Group revenue yield benefits of at least 12m per annum from the second half of 2008.
MOD confirmed that Package 1 of the Defence Training Rationalisation DTR revenue increased programme would progress with financial close now expected by the end of 2009.
DTR is the largest incremental opportunity for the UK business.
A 951m firm price agreement in respect of the second five-year term of the 41m Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA from 1 April 2008 was signed during March 2008.
820.1m 2008 779.3m 2007 Our Consulting business was part of Trusted Borders, the winning consortium 797.2m 2006 for the Home Offices e-Borders programme, an order worth up to 33m 780.8m 2005 to QinetiQ.
790.7m 2004 The Managed Services business won several contracts worth up to 16m for the modification work required to release eight heavy-lift Chinook helicopters Underlying operating profit to service.
We expect the first of the Chinooks will be operational in 2009.
The US Transportation Security Administration TSA purchased 12 SPO threat detection systems from the Applied Technologies business as part of a package 9.6% of measures that will enhance security technology for travellers in the US.
80.0m 2008 The Integrated Systems business sold four Towed Array Handling Systems 73.0m 2007 TAHS to the Spanish Navy, utilising electronic drive technology that provides 73.7m 2006 a compact, robust and reliable solution, minimising the impact on other 67.2m 2005 inboard systems.
62.6m 2004 23 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued Delivering long-term partnerships The Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA for test and evaluation and training support services between QinetiQ and the Ministry of Defence MoD provides significant and steadfast support for the MoDs capabilities on the front line.
one of the largest contracts of its kind in the United Kingdom, the 25-year LTPA, which includes four pricing reviews, is valued at 5.6bn to 2028. over its second five-year term, the LTPA will provide services to the MoD at a firm price of 951m.
The test and evaluation and training support services provided under the LTPA covers air, maritime and land environments.
it includes MoD Boscombe Down, which is the primary national centre for the provision of independent advice, research support, 951m development, and test and evaluation services to the MoD for Air Systems.
The site provides an integrated offering of complex second term agreement services and facilities that support capability improvement for every current UK air platform in the defence area.
The diverse and numerous range of services provided throughout the UK by the LTPA includes missile and air flight weapon testing, environmental testing of explosives and munitions, ordnance disposal and maritime operational signature measurement.
The Long-Term Partnering Agreement is a contract for change.
No one can predict what may happen in the military arena in 20 years, so our job is to prepare for the unexpected challenges that will inevitably arise in the future.
we have devoted time to developing performance management systems and continuous improvement programmes which have achieved enhanced quality systems, working practices, training programmes, safety regimes and a better understanding of the MoDs needs.
working as a team with other divisions within QinetiQ, we have already delivered annual cost savings of 22m to the MoD during the first five years of the LTPA.
Shaun Pethybridge, Head of Contract Negotiation Team 24 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued Keeping UK borders safe e-Borders is an advanced border control and security programme, for the UK Home office.
The programme is being delivered by Trusted Borders, the consortium led by raytheon Systems Limited and including QinetiQ.
it will be implemented by 2011, when the maintenance phase will commence, and will deliver increased security at strategic border sites in the UK ports, harbours, stations and airports.
i make sure that the team meets the Home office requirements for QinetiQs part of the programme in conformance with regulatory and industry standards.
our teams responsibility is two-fold.
we advise on the border security system and its accreditation, including the documentation, making sure the iT is secure.
we also provide human factors consultancy and support.
These are two of QinetiQs major strengths and contribute to the smooth functioning of the system as a whole.
Luisa Godfrey, Practice Leader, Transport and Security 25 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued Helping improve Sea King helicopter performance Limited aircraft performance at higher altitudes was preventing the Joint Helicopter Command Sea King Mk 4 from being deployed in battlefield operations.
Modified main rotor blades, manufactured by Carson Helicopters, a US-based commercial operator, offered the potential to address the shortfall in performance without redesign of the helicopter.
5.25m contract in response to an MoD Urgent operation requirement Uor, the Aircraft Test and evaluation Centre, a unique collaboration between MoD and QinetiQ, put forward a solution for the fitting and certification of modified blades.
The successful 5.25m, 12-month project was delivered in partnership with Agustawestland, who supplied a modified tail rotor, and has enabled increased forward speeds of Sea King helicopters, with performance gains of up to 20%.
The result gives greater operational flexibility and increased support by UK battlefield helicopters to the multi-national task force in Afghanistan.
A rigorous and intensive programme of performance evaluation and flight testing was carried out on a QinetiQ-owned Sea King helicopter, which we needed to fully instrument to collect the data required.
we designed, manufactured and installed the instrumentation on the aircraft.
The system was designed to allow on-board monitoring of all parameters in real-time, enabling trials to be carried out safely and efficiently.
Charles Ford, Project Manager 26 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued We were able to complete the testing in a short timeframe which allowed Joint Helicopter Command Sea King HC Mk 4 helicopters to be deployed in action as quickly as possible and provide the much needed added capability to operations.
Charles Ford, Project Manager 27 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued Supporting the royal Air Force with front line operations Converting and flight testing eight Chinook helicopters for heavy-lift front line duties as soon as possible is the challenge facing the QinetiQ team at MoD Boscombe Down.
This major modification programme involves QinetiQ working with Boeing in a deal worth approximately 11m.
During the course of the work, the aircraft will be stripped, modified, reassembled and tested.
once converted, all eight Chinooks will join the existing fleet of the UK royal Air Force Chinook helicopters supporting front line operations.
My team provides the coordination of the whole supply chain involved in the conversion of eight Chinook Mk 3 helicopters for heavy-lift front line duties.
our responsibility is to control the supply of all the parts we need for the programme and the development of the control-metrics to ensure we deliver the programme to schedule.
The time scales are extremely demanding.
in our coordinating role, we are responsible for manufactured parts made at MoD Boscombe Down and all government-furnished assets, as well as equipment supplied by Boeing and third-party suppliers.
we ensure that all equipment is available at the correct time, together with the supporting documentation.
This is typical of the kind of agile engineering work carried out by QinetiQ Flight engineering Services.
Peter Hoadley, Head of engineering, Logistics and Support Services, Flight engineering Services 28 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued Helping the Ministry of Defence prepare for airborne threats Mission Training through Distributed Simulation Capability Concept Demonstrator MTDS-CCD provides a realistic virtual synthetic training environment for training aircrews.
The facility comprises a mix of immersive air and land front line capabilities, enabling participants to experience combat conditions and allowing air crews to conduct realistic exercises simultaneously with remote sites.
The principal aim of the programme is to address key investigative areas, defined by MoD, and provide recommendations to support the requirements of a future full MTDS.
7.8m contract The 30-month 7.8m programme is being delivered by Team ACTive, the QinetiQ-led consortium which includes Boeing as principal partner, Aviation Training international Ltd and rockwell Collins.
i am a member of a team providing technical input for the MTDS-CCD programme.
one aspect of the teams responsibility is to integrate all aspects of a synthetic environment from flight simulators and exercise management to the briefings delivered to the training audience carried out over distributed networks to support a series of pre-planned events.
The continually evolving nature of the programme makes it exciting to be a part of.
Fraser Bruce, Systems and Software engineer 29 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued DeFeNCe TrAiNiNG rATioNALiSATioN SoLAr-PowereD SPACeCrAFT ProPULSioN The Defence Training rationalisation DTr is a nationally QinetiQ has developed an advanced spacecraft propulsion important programme for the delivery of specialist training to technology that will enable the european Space Agency eSA the UK Armed Forces.
in January 2007, the Metrix consortium, to propel future spacecraft using electrical energy from solar a joint venture between QinetiQ and Land Securities Trillium, arrays.
The ion engine, which uses accelerated beams of xenon was awarded Preferred Bidder status for Package 1 of the DTr.
ions to provide thrust, will be flown for the first time on the Package 1 involves training in aeronautical and electroeSAs Gravity Field and Steady State ocean Circulation explorer mechanical engineering, communications and information GoCe spacecraft, in a mission to measure and map the earths systems.
in March 2008, QinetiQ received a commitment from gravity.
The spacecraft is due for launch in the summer of 2008. the MoD to underwrite costs for a body of preparatory work in advance of the contract award for Package 1, which is expected in late 2009.
Market review UK defence The UK Government completed its Comprehensive QinetiQ and MOD positions QinetiQ well for future Spending Review in late 2007 and the MOD announced managed service operations as they arise.
Our success that the defence budget would grow at an average 1.5% in achieving preferred bidder status for Package 1 of per annum in real terms over the next three years.
With the Defence Training Rationalisation DTR programme the Government committed to the current campaigns in highlights QinetiQs position as a trusted advisor to key Afghanistan and Iraq as well as several significant new customers.
Across other areas of technical support, platform programmes, such as the plans for new aircraft procurement advice and efficiency programmes, the carriers and replacing the nuclear deterrent capability, MOD continues to increase its use of flexible third-party MOD have confirmed budgets are under pressure.
This service providers to balance the cost and improved front has resulted in uncertainty and delays in letting new line delivery challenges it faces.
However, the budget challenges The MOD is keen to combine its own technology that this presents in the medium term are likely to strategy with those within industry with the aim of provide QinetiQ with opportunities for technology producing a joint national strategy.
MOD has been insertion and consulting to enhance existing military seeking to do this through the Technology Foresight capabilities and extend their life span, and to facilitate programme to identify areas in which technological the affordability of these larger programmes over a excellence might best be concentrated and developed.
QinetiQs extensive network within universities and The MOD continues to utilise outsourcing, partnering SMEs positions the Group well to meet the MODs desire and managed services arrangements to deliver improved to draw knowledge and technology from a wider science defence services in support of the front line.
The success base in delivering research programmes.
of the Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA between 30 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued Australian defence Energy & environment The Australian defence budget is set to grow in real The level of concern about the impact of the global terms at an average of 3% per annum until 2015 as economy on the levels of energy usage and on climate originally outlined in the 2000 Defence White Paper.
change is at an all-time high.
At a governmental The new Australian Government reiterated its level, there are an increasing number of international commitment to this level of growth in the Defence harmonisation agreements being established.
The market structure and business level, there is a greater awareness and focus dynamics in Australia are similar to those in the UK and on tackling the increasing environmental and economic QinetiQ already has a good working relationship with costs of effectively using scarce natural resources.
the Australian Department of Defence.
In February Funding has historically been fragmented in these areas, 2008, QinetiQ made its first three acquisitions in however there is now an improving level of clarity in Australia establishing an in-country presence focused national budgets and it is estimated that climate change, on the provision of independent technical consulting to environment & energy and resource efficiency budgets the Australian Department of Defence.
This business available from EU and US Governments are in the region will be able to enhance its offerings into the Australian of 3bn.
Responding to these opportunities, QinetiQs market by leveraging the broader and deeper technical technical expertise focuses on areas such as primary consulting and advisory capabilities from our UK and energy supply solutions, through our work on fuel cells North American businesses.
and gas turbines, renewable energy expertise, lowcarbon transport technologies and environmental Other defence markets impact management.
QinetiQ provides services across other international defence markets, principally from its UK operational base.
As these markets continue to mature, they become more focused on procuring bespoke technology solutions and ensuring that they retain the ability to manage the development path through the life of a platform or capability.
The technical consulting support services, innovative performance enhancements and test and evaluation services offered by QinetiQ are becoming increasingly relevant to such customers in selective Asia Pacific, Scandinavian and Middle Eastern markets.
Security and counter terrorism Governments across the world continue to increase their spending on homeland security, intelligence and counterterrorism in response to the emergence of new, rapidlyevolving local and global threats.
There is a growing focus on heightened security in public spaces such as large events and public transport.
There is also a large commercial market, in particular for information security.
It is likely that a significant proportion of this demand will be satisfied through the effective use of high-technology solutions and intelligence services such as QinetiQs stand-off people scanning technology which is being used in mass transit screening applications by the Transportation Security Administration in North America.
The first National Security Strategy for the UK was released in March 2008, setting out the nature of new security challenges and how the UK Government will respond.
Funding for counter-terrorism is set to increase to 3.5bn by 2010 11, with the Government continuing to invest in order to strengthen security and build capacity.
QinetiQ is well placed within this community through its existing relationships with national security agencies and police forces to provide services, as evidenced by the award of a substantial contract under the Home Offices e-Borders programme in the year.
TorNADo F3 For BvrAAM QinetiQ secured a 5.1m contract from the MoD to use the Tornado F3 as the test platform on which to support trials for the Beyond visual range Air-Air Missile BvrAAM Meteor.
The programme of work offers the MoD a low-risk and cost-effective alternative option to Typhoon in the Meteor trials while protecting other issues such as agreed work shares with the five other european nations involved: Sweden, Spain, Germany, italy and France.
31 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued Trend in UK defence spending EMEA reorganisation and portfolio review UK defence budget billions The EMEA sector was reorganised during the year and, with effect from 1 April 2008, operates through 40 four offering-based businesses: Managed Services, 35 Consulting, Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies.
The analysis of 2007 and 2008 orders 30 and revenue is reported in line with the new sectors.
25 The principal movements are in the reallocation of the 20 MOD Research and Security & Dual Use businesses 15 which largely move to Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies respectively.
Additionally, tasking orders 10 and certain other accreditation services move from 5 Procurement & Capability Support to Managed Services.
0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 The reorganisation provided the opportunity to Budget Supplement consolidate business groups into the four new sectors, eliminating duplicate overhead roles.
An investment Source: UK MOD of 32.6m in rationalisation is now expected to yield Note: UK fiscal years ended 31 March sustainable annual benefits of at least 12m per annum from the second half of calendar 2008.
Financials A portfolio review of the EMEA sector is under way to 2008 2007 identify any non-core activities.
The review may lead to m m further strategic partnering, IP licensing, new venture Revenue creation or exit from certain non-core activities.
Managed Services 370.7 336.2 Managed Services Consulting 105.4 97.5 The Managed Services business provides long-term, Integrated Systems 268.2 270.7 Applied Technologies 75.8 74.9 technology-rich outsourced services to Government Total 820.1 779.3 customers and independent accreditation services.
The business focuses on transformational opportunities Underlying operating profit 80.0 73.0 through the deployment of QinetiQs broad and Underlying operating margin 9.8% 9.4% distinctive technical capabilities.
Orders Revenue growth of 10% in Managed Services reflects Managed Services 195.5 301.8 the strong order flow in both 2007 and 2008 and 9m Consulting 121.2 117.2 of additional LTPA revenue on closing out the first Integrated Systems 264.9 288.6 five-year pricing period.
Applied Technologies 80.9 76.1 The 25-year LTPA established QinetiQ as a trusted advisor Total 662.5 783.7 to MOD.
It provides a platform for further growth Book to bill ratio 1.05:1 1.29:1 and positions QinetiQ as a technology independent 1 Funded backlog 640.8 632.6 accreditation services supplier to government and prime 1 manufacturer organisations.
Our composite average Excluding remaining 4.7bn 2007: 4.8bn, 2006: 5.0bn backlog in respect of the LTPA contract.
performance scoring during the first five-year period of the LTPA to 31 March 2008 was 92.6% against a Revenue increased by 5.2% in EMEA 2007: 2.2% decline, minimum target of 80%, with a score of 95.1% last year.
The Managed Services and The pricing negotiations for the second five-year period Consulting businesses in particular have strengthened that commenced on 1 April 2008 set the price and their position, delivering revenue from the Combined confirmed the capabilities required by the customer Aerial Target System CATS and Typhoon contracts for this period.
The single largest incremental growth opportunity for Underlying operating profit improved by 40 basis Managed Services is Package 1 of the UK MOD Defence points to 9.8% reflecting the benefits of improved Training Rationalisation DTR programme.
Pre-contract revenue growth and ongoing programmes to improve funding was confirmed in April 2008, which will support business efficiency.
detailed planning for the contract.
During the year, Funded backlog, including the remainder of the LTPA, 7.1m of bid costs were capitalised with respect to the amounted to 5.3bn at the year end 2007: 5.3bn.
Groups preferred bidder status, which is lower than the expected spend due principally to the timing of due diligence work streams.
Up to 15m of costs are expected to be capitalised during the next 12 months as the contract progresses through to financial close expected by the end of 2009.
32 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued ZePHyr UNMANNeD Air veHiCLe over-rooFiNG STrUCTUre TeSTiNG An ultra-lightweight carbon fibre aircraft, weighing just 30kg, UK military forces currently experience mortar and rocket despite a wingspan of 18 metres, the Zephyr Unmanned Air attacks on a daily basis in camps across both iraq and vehicle UAv flies on solar power.
The aircraft uses a bespoke Afghanistan.
QinetiQ conducted a series of trials during 2007 autopilot system to navigate between way points.
to establish design data for protective structures capable of resisting the blast, fragmentation and ballistic penetrative Zephyr secured a place in the history of UAv development capabilities of dynamically fired rockets and mortars.
The trial by establishing the British record for the longest duration series was a success and the advice provided to MoD has unmanned flight.
The high-altitude long-endurance HALe contributed to the improved protection of UK forces.
aircraft achieved a 54-hour flight, reaching an altitude of 58,370 feet in July 2007.
Image: Test munition Consulting Consulting provides technical advice as a result of In line with QinetiQs strategy to build valuable new harnessing our unique and distinctive combination of market positions outside the UK, the Group made its technical and process insight, innovation and integrity.
first three acquisitions in Australia in February 2008.
The business delivers decision and project support The Australian defence market is similar to that in the for both civil and defence customers, reducing risk, UK and the budget of A$22bn 10bn is set to grow at increasing programme coherence and providing cost- 3% per annum in real terms to 2015.
The acquisitions of modelling services.
Areas of expertise include security, Ball Solutions Group, Novare Group and AeroStructures transportation, aerospace, energy, environment Group, with collectively 300 employees, provide the and safety.
opportunity to build on existing relationships that QinetiQ has developed with the Australian Department Revenue increased by 8.1% to 105.4m, of which organic of Defence.
The book to bill ratio of 1.15:1 supports the growth objectives for the business.
The Consulting business was part of the winning consortium for the Home Offices e-Borders programme, an order worth up to 33m.
It is well positioned to target a pipeline of larger opportunities, similar to the e-Borders programme, and benefit from greater outsourcing by defence ministries across the EMEA region.
33 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ eMeA continued Integrated Systems Applied Technologies The Integrated Systems business focuses on delivering The Applied Technologies business addresses leading-edge technology capabilities into the air, land opportunities in the core defence market together and sea arenas, primarily to defence customers.
This with growing physical security, digital security and business specialises in underwater systems, maritime energy & environment sectors.
The repeatable platform systems, ground systems, sonar systems, technology propositions it develops principally derive intelligence solutions, distributed training and from customer-funded research and development simulation, integrated airborne surveillance and space programmes.
Its strategy is to grow through the pullTotal revenue increased by 0.9m to 75.8m during through of research technology into the supply chain, the year, reflecting the part-year benefit of the Boldon which will be achieved both by leading consortia on James acquisition.
Boldon James is a provider of secure research and development programmes and by acting messaging software for military, government and as the technical authority or system integrator in the security customers worldwide, enhancing QinetiQs implementation of solutions in the defence supply chain.
portfolio of security-based products, broadening the Revenue and order intake remained relatively flat in year customer base and providing additional routes to market.
Growth in the The Applied Technologies business developed the SPO Integrated Systems business was held back by the wellstand-off threat detection system, a passive device publicised budget pressures at the MOD following the capable of identifying potential concealed threats UK Government Comprehensive Spending Review, which located on individuals from distance, without requiring has significantly delayed the letting of new supply people to slow their pace or pass through a physical contracts, as well as by the expected decline in MOD portal.
A number of units were sold by our North research revenue.
American business to the US Transportation Security The Integrated Systems business conducts a significant Administration TSA as part of a package of measures amount of the total customer-funded research and under an indefinite delivery indefinite quantity IDIQ development activities within EMEA.
QinetiQ continues contract that allows for additional purchases over the to retain its position as the leading independent provider next two years.
of research services to MOD.
The 3.3% decline in MOD research across the Group was lower than expected despite the further opening of the MOD research budget to competition.
Total MOD research revenue across the EMEA business was 166.7m 2007: 172.4m.
The success in maintaining research revenue reflects QinetiQs deep understanding of its customers needs industry leader allied to the increased partnering with internationally recognised experts within universities and industry.
The MOD research budget available to industry is fully open to competition with effect from 1 April 2008 2007: 83%.
CoNNeX weLL PerForATioN in a concentrated three-year joint effort, Shell international e&P, QinetiQ and GeoDynamics have succeeded in developing a breakthrough perforating technology called TM reActive Perforating that has the potential to substantially improve hydrocarbon recovery by producing clean, debris-free perforating tunnels.
This is achieved by applying a revolutionary concept created and patented by QinetiQ, utilising a new shaped charge liner technology that creates a beneficial secondary reaction upon detonation.
This novel well perforation solution started as a Shell GameChanger project and is now marketed by TM TM GeoDynamics as CoNNeX Perforating.
reActive and TM CoNNeX are trademarks of GeoDynamics, inc.
Image: Comparative penetration tests 34 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
