BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ ventures QinetiQ ventures QinetiQ Ventures is responsible for realising value from QinetiQ technology outside our core markets.
Value is created through the development of new revenue streams, the creation of spin-out businesses and the sale or licensing of intellectual property.
Achievements The Tarsier runway foreign object detection FOD system was designed to Clive Richardson, Chairman, monitor operating runways and provide real-time information in support of QinetiQ ventures improving safety standards and aircraft throughput at airports across the world.
A supplemental camera system has been developed during the year to our strategy provide day and night visual capabilities alongside the radar detection and imaging.
Operational highlights from Tarsier include: QinetiQ ventures strategy is to n Landmark order from BAA for an installation of four units covering both deliver incremental value from runways at London Heathrow Airport intellectual property developed n through the funded research & Radar installation at Dubai airport now ready to go live n development and other core Order from Doha International Airport for radar units secured operations of the Group.
n Order from Vancouver International Airport for camera units secured n Ongoing successful trials at TF Green Airport in Warwick, Rhode Island on The business exploits QinetiQ behalf of the Federal Aviation Administration FAA.
intellectual property iP in sectors adjacent to our core In August 2007, QinetiQ created, with Coller Capital, a new Technology Venture defence and security technology Fund to accelerate the development and value realisation of seven of its markets.
Both QinetiQ and Coller Capital have committed to provide funding up to 20m each over the initial five-year life of the fund.
value is optimised for each venture through a number of routes including organic growth, partnering with third parties, iP licensing and business realisations.
35 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ ventures continued Monitoring and tracking valuable assets one of the seven companies in the QinetiQ ventures LP fund, omni-iD was granted its first patent in August 2007.
Historically, radio Frequency identification rFiD tags could not be used with items or products which had any metallic or liquid component.
Now, after two years research, omni-iD has overcome this problem with a major breakthrough in rFiD technology.
The result is the omni-iD passive UHF rFiD tag, which can be used to track and identify assets no matter what material they are made from.
This has enabled the use of rFiD in applications such as the tracking of high-value iT assets where the presence of metals has historically prevented rFiD being used.
My role is to oversee and improve the development of our rFiD tag technology.
with data security and iT asset management becoming ever more important, omni-iD tags are set to play a key role in enabling more streamlined business processes and greatly reduced iT infrastructure costs.
Unlike conventional rFiD tags, ours are immune to the detrimental effects of metals and liquids and have a small form factor: our smallest tag, the omni-iD Prox has a footprint half that of a postage stamp and is only 3mm thick.
our tags have enabled rFiD to be used where previously it couldnt be, so now everything can have an omni-iD tag instead of a barcode, which represents a significant potential market for our products.
James Brown, Technical Manager, omni-iD 36 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ ventures continued improving airport operations Developed to meet the challenge of foreign object debris FoD on airport runways, the QinetiQ Tarsier runway debris detection system solves an age-old problem which threatens safety and costs airlines and airport authorities around 4bn a year worldwide.
while current FoD detection and removal methods involve scheduled visual runway inspections, typically every few hours, the Tarsier radar system scans a runway once every minute, throughout the day and night.
installed by QinetiQ for BAA at London Heathrow Airport, the system is assisting operational teams by ensuring that FoD is quickly detected and removed, thereby easing congestion by minimising flight disruptions and delays.
BAA was an early adopter of the technology and needed to know that it was fit for the proposed task.
My role was to support and work with BAA to help them understand how the system would benefit them, both operationally and in terms of safety.
As the system helps avoid flight disruptions and passenger delays caused by FOD, it is of benefit to the airlines and the airport.
Andy Blay, BAA Account Manager Tarsier is a world first, no other automatic FoD detection system of any kind is deployed and integrated into an airports operations.
My job at Heathrow was to put the Tarsier system into operation, including the management of the physical installation and its components, from the iT infrastructure, concrete foundations and steel tower to the innovative electronics and software.
our challenge was to demonstrate the capability of the system at Heathrow and to work with them to develop appropriate operational procedures.
Andy Wicks, Project Lead 37 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review QinetiQ ventures continued SCieMUS STiNGrAy GeoPHySiCAL LTD The space sector was Sciemus entry point into the insurance Listening with light Fosar is a passive fibre optic seismic market when it was established in 2002, providing advanced risk monitoring system which can be deployed permanently on modelling and quantification.
QinetiQ, which holds a minority the seabed to provide high-quality time-lapse images of oil and stake in the company, contributes with its proprietary gas reservoirs.
This data can be used to help oil companies to intelligence and mathematical modelling capability.
increase the amount of oil and gas extracted.
in partnership with Liberty Syndicates, the LibSat consortium During 2007, Stingray Geophysical Ltd continued the was formed, which is now the largest satellite insurance development and testing of its Fosar system, based on provider in the world.
Sciemus has three further models in technology licensed from QinetiQ.
it was awarded grants the pipeline, developed in partnership with QinetiQ: Power totalling almost 2.5m from the UKs Technology Strategy Station risk, Property risk and Cyber risk.
Board and Norways Demo 2000 programme.
Stingray became part of the QinetiQ ventures LP fund in August 2007.
Operations Financials The QinetiQ Ventures LP fund has made good progress 2008 2007 during the short period since its creation in August m m 2007.
The ZBD zero power, shelf-edge, labelling display Revenue 5.7 12.0 business announced further trials with Tesco in March Operating loss 15.1 6.9 2008.
Omni-ID won the Best in show award at the RFID Orders 7.5 14.3 Journals 2008 showcase exhibition which provided Funded backlog 6.4 7.6 exposure to a number of potential customers.
The reduction in reported orders, revenue and backlog Ventures transferred into the QinetiQ Ventures LP in 2008 reflects the transfer of businesses previously fund include: consolidated into the QinetiQ Venture fund, which is now equity accounted, and certain one-off licence ownership revenue booked in the prior year.
at the point of Name contribution Activity Operating losses, which include the Groups share of the Intrinsiq Materials Ltd 100% Test and production QinetiQ Venture fund, increased to 15.1m for the year of nanomaterials reflecting the planned increased level of QinetiQ revenue Omni-ID Ltd 100% Low cost RFID tagging investment in the Ventures portfolio.
Quintel Technology Ltd 50% 3G mast sharing antennas 3.3m of cash funding was contributed to the QinetiQ Aurix Ltd 88% Audio data mining Venture fund to accelerate development of the funds ZBD Displays Ltd 31.6% Zero power LCD portfolio companies.
displays for retailers Sciemus, the insurance risk assessment specialist, in Stingray Geophysical Ltd 19.9% Geophysical survey which the Group holds a 10.7% interest, completed an technologies external funding round in which the Group participated, Metalysis Ltd 16.3% Low cost production of metal powder allowing an increase in fair value of 3.2m to be recognised through equity.
38 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
