Directors Philippe Litard D Mark Bristow # Chairman Chief executive Managing director of the Global Natural Resources Fund Chief executive of Randgold Resources, which was founded from 2000 to 2003.
Prior to July 2000, he was director of the on his pioneering exploration work in West Africa, since its Oil, Gas and Mining Department of the International Finance incorporation.
Has subsequently led the company's growth Corporation.
His experience in corporate and project finance through the discovery and development of world-class assets with UBS, IFC and the World Bank extends over 30 years, into a major gold mining business with a market capitalisation most of them in the minerals business and in Africa.
Now of more than US$3.5 billion.
Has also played a significant an independent consultant and a promoter of mining and part in promoting the emergence of a sustainable mining energy investments.
Appointed a director in February 1998 industry in West Africa.
A geologist with a PhD from Natal and chairman in November 2004.
University, he has held board positions at a number of global mining companies and is currently a non-executive director of Rockwell Resources International.
08 | Randgold Resources Chairman of the audit committee Member of the audit committee Chairman of the remuneration committee Member of the remuneration committee # Chairman of the governance and nomination committee Member of the governance and nomination committee Graham Shuttleworth Robert I Israel Financial director Independent non-executive Graham joined Randgold Resources as chief financial officer Until April 2000, a managing director of Schroder & Co Inc and financial director on 1 July 2007 but has been associated of New York and head of its energy department.
Is now with the company since its inception, initially as part of its partner at Compass Advisers, LLP.
His experience in management team, involved in listing the company on the corporate finance, especially the natural resources sector, LSE in 1997, and subsequently as an advisor.
Was appointed a director in 1997. accountant, he was a managing director and the New Yorkbased head of metals and mining for the Americas in the global investment banking division of HSBC before taking Aubrey L Paverd up his new position at Randgold Resources.
At HSBC he Independent non-executive led or was involved in a wide range of major mining industry Dr Aubrey Paverd was appointed to the board in 1995.
He transactions, including Randgold Resources Nasdaq listing, holds an MSc degree from Rhodes University, South Africa its bid for Ashanti Goldfields and its 2005 US$110 million and a PhD from James Cook University, Queensland, Australia equity offering.
and brings more than 40 years of international geological experience to the board.
Served as vice president of exploration for Newmont in USA and from 1994 to 1999, was Bernard H Asher the group executive exploration at North Limited in Australia.
Senior independent non-executive Is now an independent consultant and a non-executive From 1986 to 1998, he was an executive director of HSBC director of Compania fide Minas Buenaventura.
Holdings plc and chairman of the HSBC Holdings subsidiary, HSBC Investment Bank plc.
He was chairman of Lonrho Africa plc, vice chairman of the Court of Governors of the Karl Voltaire London School of Economics and of the Legal & General Independent non-executive Group plc and a director of Morgan Sindall plc.
He is Dr Karl Voltaire is a graduate in mineral resources engineering chairman of Lion Trust Asset Management.
Was appointed from the Ecole des Mines in Paris and holds an MBA and a director of Randgold Resources in 1997 and senior PhD in Economics and Finance from the University of Chicago.
He started his career as a mining engineer in Haiti and subsequently spent 23 years in the World Bank Group in Washington DC, the bulk of it at the International Finance Norborne P Cole Jr Corporation IFC where his last position was that of director Independent non-executive of global financial markets.
Subsequently, was director of Norb Cole started working for the Coca-Cola Company as the Office of the President at the African Development Bank.
a field representative in the USA in 1966 and advanced Since early 2005, has been CEO of the Nelson Mandela steadily through the organisation, becoming chief executive Institution.
of Coca-Cola Amatil in Australia in 1994, a position he held until 1998.
Under his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil was built into the second largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
Now Jon Walden based in San Antonio, Texas, he serves on the boards of a Independent non-executive number of US companies.
A chartered accountant, Jon Walden is managing director of Lex, a subsidiary of HBOS, and is also the senior independent director of Morgan Sindall.
He was formerly a Christopher Coleman main board director of RAC and also held various positions Independent non-executive at Rank Xerox.
He was appointed to the Randgold Resources Christopher Coleman is co-head of banking at N M Rothschild, board in November 2008. a director of N M Rothschild & Sons, chairman of Rothschild Bank International in the Channel Islands and serves on a number of other boards and committees in the Rothschild group, which he joined in 1989.
A BSc Econ graduate from the London School of Economics, he served as a nonexecutive director of the Merchant Bank of Central Africa from 2001 to 2008.
He was appointed to the board of Randgold Resources in November 2008.
From left to right : Christopher Coleman, Jon Walden, Norborne Cole Jr, Robert Israel, Graham Shuttleworth, Bernard Asher, Mark Bristow, Aubrey Paverd, Philippe Litard and Karl Voltaire.
