Management From left to right : Luiz Correia, Tania fide Welzim, Lindsay Earl, Paul Gillot and David Haddon.
From left to right : Paul Harbidge, Bill Houston, Amadou Konta, Victor Matfield and Philip Pretorius.
Luiz Correia Paul Harbidge Operations manager Group exploration manager A metallurgist with 21 years experience in the gold mining Geologist with over 15 years experience, mainly in West industry, he has a BSc Eng as well as a BCom degree.
He Africa, having previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American joined Randgold Resources in 2005 and in 2006 was and Ashanti.
Joined Randgold Resources in 2000 and was appointed operations manager responsible for the mining, appointed group exploration manager in 2004. planning, processing, maintenance and engineering functions at Loulo.
Bill Houston Human resources executive Tania fide Welzim Has a masters degree in human resources management Group financial controller and 26 years experience in human resources and Tania is a chartered accountant with ten years experience organisational development.
Joined Randgold in 1992 as in finance including eight years in the mining industry.
Is group training and development manager, and headed the responsible for financial reporting in the group as well as group human resources function from 1996.
He is a director internal control procedures.
of Morila SA, Somilo SA and Seven Bridges Trading.
Lindsay Earl Amadou Konta Projects engineering manager General manager - Loulo An electrical engineer by training, he has spent 40 years in Has a degree in civil engineering as well as several the gold and platinum mining industries in Africa.
Was management and project management qualifications.
Was employed on the construction of both the Morila and Loulo appointed mine foreman and superintendent at Syama mine mines for Randgold Resources and is currently involved in by BHP and served as mining manager from 1997.
In 2001, the development of the Tongon project.
was promoted to construction manager for Randgold Resources in Mali and to Loulo general manager in 2004.
Paul Gillot Group manager metallurgy Victor Matfield Starting as a learner official at Rand Mines, he gained Group corporate finance manager 19 years operational and management experience before A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate finance rejoining Randgold Resources in 2008, where he is manager in 2001.
Prior to that, served as financial manager responsible for all metallurgical activities at the operating of the Syama mine and as financial manager of the Morila mines as well as the projects.
He is a director of Seven Bridges Trading.
David Haddon Philip Pretorius General counsel and secretary Human resources manager Qualified as an attorney in 1984.
He has overseen the Joined Randgold Resources in 2008, bringing with him administrative obligations of Randgold Resources since its 20 years of human resources experience of which the last incorporation and assumed secretarial responsibility when 13 years were spent exclusively dealing with the West African it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 1997.
He is gold mining industry.
Philip has been involved in establishing a director of Seven Bridges Trading and other group various gold mining projects in Mali.
graduate diploma in management practice from the University of Cape Town.
10 | Randgold Resources From left to right : Chris Prinsloo, Rod Quick, Graeme Rapley, Adrian Reynolds and Mahamadou Samak.
From left to right : Ngolo Sanogo, John Steele, Samba Tour and Lois Wark.
Chris Prinsloo Mahamadou Samak Group financial and commercial manager General manager - Mali Qualified as a chartered secretary and has 35 years A professor of company law at the University of Mali, experience in the mining industry including finance, capital Mahamadou was instrumental in writing the Malian labour legislation.
He is the resident executive manager in Mali projects, administration and supply chain management.
and is responsible for government liaison and legal counsel Appointed as commercial manager for the Randgold Group for the Francophone region.
in 1993, financial director of Somisy SA in 2000 and group financial and commercial manager in 2002, responsible for group accounting, supply chain management plus the risk Ngolo Sanogo management and insurance portfolio.
Currently serves on Financial controller - Mali the boards of Morila SA, Somilo SA and Kankou Moussa Has a masters degree in economics from the National School SARL.
of Administration of Bamako as well as several management, accounting and financial qualifications.
Qualified as an auditor in 1992 before joining BHP Mali in 1995.
Appointed Rod Quick material manager in 1998 and management accountant in Group general manager - project development, evaluation 2001 at the Syama mine.
Following the sale of Somisy SA and environmental in 2004 was appointed Randgold Resources Mali financial A geologist with 14 years experience in the gold mining controller.
industry, he joined Randgold Resources in 1996.
Rod has been involved in the exploration, evaluation and production John Steele phases of the Morila, Loulo and Tongon deposits and was Group general manager - capital projects appointed Somilo resource manager in 2005.
He is now Responsible for the successful construction and responsible for all project development and evaluation.
commissioning of Randgold Resources Morila and Loulo mines and currently leads the team developing the new Graeme Rapley Tongon mine in Cte dIvoire.
As well as heading the capital Construction manager, Tongon project projects function within Randgold Resources, he continues Has been the construction manager for six gold and copper to provide operational oversight at Morila and Loulo.
plants in five countries around the world, as well as for the China Harbour development in Tanjing.
Established the Samba Tour reconstruction agency for the Indonesian government in the General manager - Morila wake of the 2004 tsunami.
Has a masters degree in chemical engineering and geochemistry and was part of the team that set up Malis first research laboratory for the mining and petroleum Adrian Reynolds industries in 1985.
As country manager for BHP Minerals, Group general manager - technical oversaw that companys exploration programmes in West Has 26 years experience in the mining industry and was Africa.
Joined Morila in 2000 and was promoted to operations part of the team that developed the original Randgold manager in 2004 and to general manager in 2007.
His key responsibilities are technical oversight of the companys operations including compilation Lois Wark of feasibility studies, audits, compliance and evaluation Group corporate communications manager opportunities.
He is a director of Morila SA and Somilo SA.
A member of the Randgold Resources team since its inception who assumed management of the cartography department in 1995, Lois is responsible for the coordination of the groups communication and investor relations programmes as well as for the management of its South African subsidiary, Seven Bridges.
Lois holds a diploma in land surveying: cadastral and topographical.
