qxd:Layout 1 17 3 09 07:54 Page 32 B DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Board of directors 1.
Name:Peter Johnson Title: Chairman Appointment: January 2007 Age: 61 Skills and experience: He is currently chairman of Inchcape plc, having been group chief executive from 1999 until 2005.
He is also a non-executive director of Bunzl plc and vice president of the Institute of the Motor Industry.
He was previously sales and marketing director of the Rover Group, chief executive of the Marshall Group and a non-executive director of Wates Group Limited.
Name:Ian Burke Title: Chief executive Appointment: March 2006 Age: 52 Skills and experience: He was previously chief executive of the Holmes Place Group the former health club operator, chief executive of Thistle Hotels plc and managing director of Gala Clubs, the bingo operator.
He is currently a director of Business in Sport and Leisure Limited.
Name:Paddy Gallagher Title: Finance director 3 4 Appointment: June 2008 Age: 45 Skills and experience: He was previously finance director of Quadriga Worldwide Limited and held a number of senior finance positions in the technology sector, with Dell Corporation, Wang and Sun Microsystems.
Name:RichardGreenhalgh Title: Senior independent non-executive director Appointment: July 2004 Age: 64 Skills and experience: Formerly chairman of Unilever UK from 1988 until 2004.
5 6 Currently chairman of The Council for Industry and Higher Education, CARE International UK, First Milk, and chairman of the UK advisory board of a US listed outsourcing company, OPI.
7 32 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008 RK004 p32-33 AW3.
Name:OwenODonnell Executivecommittee Title: Non-executive director Appointment: September 2008 Age: 42 Skills and experience: Currently chief Ranks executive committee financial officer of Joost, the online assists the chief executive in media company.
Previous appointments directing and promoting the include chief financial officer of the online gaming companies Betfair and profitable operation and King.
com, director of finance and development of the Group.
performance measurement at Pearson plc and finance director of FT. com and Extel.
Name:BillShannon Name:IanBurke Name:MarkJones Title: Non-executive director Title: Chief executive Title: Managing director, Rank Interactive Appointment: April 2006 Skills and experience: See opposite Age: 44 Skills and experience: Joined Rank as Age: 59 Name:PaddyGallagher managing director of its interactive Skills and experience: Currently business in December 2008.
He was Title: Finance director chairman of Aegon UK plc and The Grill founder and chief executive of Online Group and he is also a non-executive Skills and experience: See opposite Travel Corporation plc and managing director of Barratt Developments plc director of lastminute.
In addition, and an operating partner at Tri-Artisan Name:FrancesBingham he has held senior management positions Partners, a private equity house.
Title: Company secretary at Travelocity and Harrods.
Previously he was an executive director Age: 44 of Whitbread PLC, chairman of the Skills and experience: Joined Rank Name:PhilUrban Gaucho Grill restaurant group and in April 2008.
For eight years she was Title: Managing director, Grosvenor a non-executive director of Matalan plc.
company secretary and legal director Casinos of the health and fitness group, Holmes Age: 46 7.
Name:JohnWarren Place, and prior to that she was a solicitor Skills and experience: Joined Rank in Title: Non-executive director in private practice.
June 2008 as managing director of its Appointment: January 2006 casino businesses.
His previous roles Age: 55 Name:AlanArmstrong include managing directorships of both Skills and experience: Formerly group Title: Compliance and development Whitbreads pub restaurants division director finance director of WH Smith PLC and and Scottish and Newcastles restaurants United Biscuits plc and a non-executive Age: 54 and accommodation division.
director of RAC plc and Rexam plc.
Skills and experience: Appointed Currently holds non-executive compliance and development director Name:SueWaldock directorships at Bovis Homes Group in July 2006 having been divisional Title: Human resources director plc, BPP Holdings plc, Spectris Plc and compliance director for Ranks gaming Age: 56 Uniq plc.
Prior to that he Skills and experience: Appointedgroup held positions in training, audit and .
compliance, licensing, security, health  and safety, property and development,  legal and insurance and public affairs.
  Name:JulianBarker  Title: Director of strategy .
Age: 37 Skills and experience: Joined Rank in Name:SimonWykes February 2008 as director of strategy.
Title: Managing director, Mecca Bingo Previous roles include director of strategy Age: 41 at Orange and director of strategy and Skills and experience: Appointed planning at Wanadoo.
 Name:ValentinCorua  Title: Managing director, forMeccaBingo.
Hehasalsoworkedfor Top Rank Espaa LeisureParcs, GalaGroup inbingoclubs Age: 55 andcasinos andFirstLeisure.
Skills and experience: Joined Rank to set up Top Rank Espaa in 1994.
Previous positions in the Spanish gaming industry .
