1,143m 26% adjusted net income for the year increase in adjusted net income for the year Our consumers are the centre of our vision Disproportionate focus on our 17 Powerbrands Our vision and passion is to deliver better solutions for people Powerbrands are Reckitt Benckisers globally leading brands in when, for those small moments every day, the quality of our high growth categories, and of the 17 Powerbrands, 15 are products makes a real difference to their lives, in home, health either Number 1 or 2 globally.
We have further strengthened our or personal care.
More than ever this means providing them with leadership positions for our Powerbrands in 2008. the right value for money.
That might mean a premium price for This year we further strengthened and refined our Powerbrands a new and better product or, alternatively, a lower price while to 17, and we are transitioning other brands with the maintaining product performance.
A good example of the latter same footprint into them.
As an example, in the US we are is the Vanish co Pack as explained on page 7. transitioning Electrasol and Jet Dry into the Finish brand, and A clear and consistent strategy in Europe, transitioning Calgonit into Finish.
This delivers both Our clear and consistent strategy is to drive above industry benefits for the consumer, through better and faster access to growth and returns through: our innovation pipeline, and increased effectiveness and efficiency for us, through common advertising and packaging.
A disproportionate focus on driving our Powerbrands, global leaders in categories with high growth potential, and Our newly acquired Mucinex brand, the US leading cough completing their international roll-out.
and decongestion remedy, made it to the Powerbrand list straightaway.
This brand came with the acquisition of the Adams High levels of media and marketing investment, and business and has already delivered results over and above our continuous innovation.
Transforming net revenue growth into even better profit and Powerbrands accounted for 62% of Reckitt Benckisers 2008 net strong cash flow.
The 17 Powerbrands Continuing to invest behind our brands Our growth has been achieved by ensuring that consumers know HOUSEHOLD HEALTH CARE about our products and the reasons to buy them.
This year we Fabric care: Vanish, Calgon, Strepsils, Mucinex, Nurofen, again increased our marketing and advertising investment behind Woolite Gaviscon our brands and reaped the reward.
In harder market conditions, Surface care: Lysol, Dettol, we think it is more important, not less, to invest in keeping our PERSONAL CARE Bang, Harpic brands at the forefront of consumers minds.
Media deflation has Dettol, Veet, Clearasil Dishwashing: Finish enabled us to get more value, but despite lower costs, we have FOOD Home care: increased our media investment by 14% at constant exchange Frenchs Air Wick, Mortein compared to the previous year.
We remain amongst the highest investors in media in the industry, with 12.4% of net revenue See page 4 for more on Reckitt Benckiser Powerbrands.
ploughed back into advertising our brands.
2 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 45% 80.0p increase in dividend per share dividend per share Innovation driving above average growth Strength of organisation and culture Investment and product innovation are the key driving factors The Reckitt Benckiser culture lies at the heart of our success.
Led behind the Powerbrands and RBs growth.
Consumers today by a strong management team, who are heavily incentivised to are making their purchasing decisions with even greater scrutiny.
achieve performance, our people are entrepreneurial and take it Our innovation has been crucial in giving consumers even more upon themselves to own and create initiatives and deliver great reason to buy our products.
The success of Finish Max in 1 is a execution.
They are driven and dynamic, and want to make their great example, as explained on page 6. mark.
We enjoy constructive conflict with each other and our partners, and like to take calculated risks to gain advantage in Turning our growth into cash some of the most competitive markets in the world.
We keep the We turn our growth into attractive profits and cash flow through organisation slim, streamlined and unbureaucratic.
In this way margin expansion and cash conversion.
we can have fast decision-making, be spontaneous and respond We drive our margins by focusing on higher margin categories rapidly to changing consumer needs and market conditions.
We then build on this by having a never-ceasing Our commitment to performance is total, whether it is financial cost optimisation programme, which in all market conditions results or impacting upon climate change and helping those relentlessly looks at taking cost out without taking anything away more vulnerable in society.
To tackle the total carbon footprint from consumers and, where possible, making the products even of our products, from cradle-to-grave, in 2008 we progressed better.
The Vanish co Pack on page 7 is a good example.
At a our Carbon 20 initiative and developed detailed plans and time when consumers are looking harder for value for money, measurements for working with consumers to achieve our we are able to give them 10% more Vanish for the same price commitment to reduce our total carbon footprint by 20% by reducing 70% of the plastic in the packaging.
We moved by 2020. from a round tub to a resealable pouch.
This also helped improve Reckitt Benckisers environmental impact, which has remained an This year we also delivered on the last part of our commitment important focus even in more challenging times.
to save 150,000 lives through working with Save the Children across the world.
We are now working with them on a new Through our cost optimisation programme, we have managed programme, which will see our commitment have even more to minimise the price increases we passed on to consumers to impact in the future.
partially offset the rise in commodity costs.
With this activity, and benefiting from the faster growth on our higher margin It works, but were not complacent RB Pharmaceutical and consumer health care businesses, we have Our results for 2008 show that our clear and consistent strategy driven adjusted operating margins up by 80bps and delivered very works and can be adapted to more challenging conditions.
This has strengthened the financial position of Our strategy continues and, together with the entrepreneurial the Company and allowed the return of funds to shareholders.
flair and passion of our people, will be the fundamental driver of We have increased the full year dividend by 45% and funded a our future success.
Bart Becht Chief Executive Reckitt Benckiser 2008 3
