PORTFOLIO STRATEGY OUR POWERBRANDS keep delivering.
One of the main elements of our global company strategy making us a world leader in household, health and personal care, is driving above industryaverage growth through a disproportionate focus on our Powerbrands.
Our strong market positions are now led by 17 Powerbrands, which are: Household Fabric care 22% of net revenue Fabric Treatment, worldwide No.
1 led by Vanish Water Softeners, worldwide No.
1 led by Calgon Garment Care, worldwide No.
2 led by Woolite Surface care 17% of net revenue Worldwide No.
1 driven by: Multipurpose Cleaners, worldwide No.
1 led by Lysol, Dettol and Bang Lavatory Care, worldwide No.
1 led by Harpic and Lysol Dishwashing 11% of net revenue Automatic Dishwashing, worldwide No.
1 led by Finish Home care 14% of net revenue Air Care, worldwide No.
2 led by Air Wick Pest Control, worldwide No.
2 led by Mortein Health & Personal care 26% of net revenue Health care Medicated Sore Throat Relief, worldwide No.
1 led by Strepsils Cough Relief, worldwide No.
2 led by Mucinex Leading positions in Analgesics and Upper Gastro-Intestinal Relief in Europe and Australia led by Nurofen and Gaviscon Personal care Antiseptic Personal Care, worldwide No.
1 led by Dettol Depilatories, worldwide No.
1 led by Veet Acne Treatment, worldwide No.
2 led by Clearasil Food 3% of net revenue Mustard, worldwide No.
1 led by Frenchs 4 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 5 INNOVATION When people are looking hard at good example.
Finish is the diamond FINISH every purchase they make, we need standard in dishwashing and shine, Innovation drives the to stay close to them, with a steady and Quantum goes beyond Max in 1 Powerbrands that drive stream of solutions that make their in bringing ultimate shine and clean our growth.
The success of daily routines easier and better.
That makes Quantum a perfect product to introduce the Max in 1 shows innovation The fresh idea that Max in 1 brings to Finish Powerbrand, into which we is vital in giving consumers the multi-benefit tablet is an example are transitioning local brands like of an ever better solution.
People even more reasons to buy.
appreciate the convenience of its tabs with dissolvable wrappers that go Powerbrand transitions dont straight into the dishwasher without just bring packaging and media unwrapping.
To keep them in perfect efficiencies.
With Finish, as with condition, its reusable and recyclable all our Powerbrands, they bring tubs have easy-to-reseal lids, ensuring quicker innovation to more people.
Max in 1 is always ready to deliver This is innovation that strengthens exceptional cleaning, wash after our position in category leadership wash, even at lower temperatures.
globally: above all it drives growth.
How else does innovation drive the Powerbrands we give disproportionate focus to?
Innovation helps to facilitate the transitions of local brands into Powerbrands.
The rollout of Finish Quantum in the US is a 6 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 IT DELIVERS!
