Report of the Directors The Directors submit their second Annual There have been no material disposals during The Directors were granted authority at the last Report to the members of the Company, the year.
Annual General Meeting AGM held in 2008 with the audited financial statements for to allot relevant securities up to a nominal Employees the year ended 31 December 2008. amount of 23,694,000.
That authority will During 2008, the Group employed an average apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
Review of the activities and development of 24,300 2007 23,400 people worldwide, of At this years AGM, on 7 May 2009, of the Groups business whom 2,400 2007 2,200 were employed in shareholders will be asked to grant an authority The principal activities continue to be the the UK.
The Group is committed to the to allot relevant securities up to a nominal manufacture and sale of household and health principle of equal opportunity in employment: amount representing approximately one third care products.
no applicant or employee receives less of the Companys issued share capital as at the favourable treatment on the grounds of Audited results for the period are set out on latest practicable date prior to the publication nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
The performance of the of the Notice of AGM, such section 80 The Group recognises its responsibilities to business is described in the Chairmans authority to expire on 30 June 2010 the last disabled persons and endeavours to assist them Statement on page 14, the Chief Executives date by which the Company must hold an to make their full contribution at work.
Where Statement on pages 1 to 3 and the Business AGM in 2010 or on the date of the next AGM employees become disabled, every practical Review on pages 15 to 23.
Within the Business of the Company in 2010, whichever is earlier.
effort is made to allow them to continue in Review, which appears on pages 15 to 23, their jobs or to provide retraining in suitable A special resolution will also be proposed to principal risk factors are given under alternative work.
renew the Directors power to make Relationships and Principal Risks on pages non-pre-emptive issues for cash up to a 18 and 19, details of the key performance It is essential to the continued improvement in nominal amount representing less than 5% of indicators KPIs are given on page 23 and efficiency and productivity throughout the the Companys issued share capital as at the information on the likely future developments Group that each employee understands the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Company under Company Prospects on Companys strategies, policies and procedures.
Information regarding environmental Open and regular communication with matters, the Companys employees and social As described in the Chairmans Statement on employees at all levels is an essential part of the and community issues are given on page 19. page 14 a rolling share buy back programme management process.
A continuing programme Information about persons with whom the has continued throughout 2008.
Details of of training and development reinforces the Company has contractual or other market purchases made, under the authorities Groups commitment to employee involvement.
arrangements which are essential to the given to the Directors by shareholders on business of the Company are given on page 18.
The Board encourages employees to become 4 September 2007 and at the Annual General shareholders and to participate in the Groups Meeting held on 1 May 2008 to make such The information referred to above fulfils the employee share ownership schemes, should purchases up to a maximum of 72,000,000 requirements of the business review provisions they so wish.
Sharesave schemes across the shares, are given in note 21 on page 62.
The of s. 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and is world give employees the opportunity to authority granted on 1 May 2008 will apply incorporated by reference into, and shall be acquire shares in the Company by means of until the conclusion of this years AGM.
The deemed to form part of, this report together regular savings.
shares purchased may be held as Treasury with the other information referred to in this shares or cancelled, depending upon the best report.
This Report of the Directors has been Share capital interests of the Company.
drawn up and presented in accordance with, As at 31 December 2008, the Companys issued and in reliance upon, applicable English share capital comprised two classes of share: The Company has decided not to pursue a buy company law and the liabilities of the Directors subscriber and ordinary shares, the preference back programme in 2009, following the in connection with this report shall be subject shares having been redeemed at par on 31 July decision to move to a dividend payout ratio of to the limitations and restrictions provided by 2008.
Details of changes to the ordinary shares 50%.
However, the buy back programme is such law.
issued, shares held in Treasury, and of options subject to regular review and accordingly a and awards granted during the year are set out resolution seeking to renew this authority will In July 2008, the Directors resolved to pay an in note 21 to the accounts.
be put to shareholders at this years AGM so interim dividend of 32p per ordinary share that the Directors retain the flexibility to 2007 25p.
The dividend was paid on The rights and obligations attaching to the reinstate the share buy back programme should 25 September 2008.
The Directors are Companys ordinary shares are set out in the they so decide.
This authority will be limited to recommending a final dividend for the year Companys Articles of Association, copies of a maximum of 72,000,000 ordinary shares and of 48p per share 2007 30p, which, together which can be obtained from Companies sets the minimum and maximum prices which with the interim dividend, makes a total for House in the UK or by writing to the may be paid.
final dividend, if approved by the shareholders, Directors There are no restrictions on the voting rights will be paid on 28 May 2009 to ordinary Information regarding the Directors of the attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or shareholders on the register at the close of Company who were serving on 31 December the transfer of securities in the Company business on 27 February 2009.
2008 and those serving at the date of this except, in the case of transfers of securities: report is set out on page 12.
Further In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely that certain restrictions may from time to biographical details of all Directors are available future development will continue to centre time be imposed by laws and regulations for from the Companys website.
on the main product categories in which it example, insider trading laws : and now operates.
During the year there were the following pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial changes to the Board of Directors.
Peter White Research and development Services Authority whereby certain and Gerard Murphy resigned on 1 May 2008 The Group continues to carry out research employees of the Company require the and 17 July 2008 respectively.
Andr Lacroix and development in the search for new and approval of the Company to deal in the joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on improved products in all its categories and for Companys ordinary shares.
As Mr Lacroixs appointment increased manufacturing efficiencies.
Direct was made subsequent to the date of the 2008 expenditure on R&D in 2008 amounted to No person holds securities in the Company AGM, he will offer himself for election at this 109m 2007 92m.
carrying special voting rights with regard to years AGM.
The Company is not Acquisitions and disposals aware of any agreements between holders of Adrian Bellamy and Peter Harf have served On 30 January 2008, the Group completed securities that may result in restrictions on the on the Board for more than nine years and the acquisition of Adams Respiratory transfer of securities or on voting rights.
under the Combined Code, are therefore Therapeutics, Inc. 24 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 obliged to offer themselves for re-election on experience as the Chairman of the Cadbury plc briefed on the local business operations.
audit committee will be useful in Mr Days role Board endeavours to hold one meeting each as CFO of Reckitt Benckiser.
year at one of the operating units.
A statement of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company is shown in Table 1 at The Articles of Association require that every Full, formal and tailored induction processes are the end of this report.
Director will seek re-election to the Board at put in place on appointment to the Board least every three years, in line with provision which retain flexibility to allow the new Director Details of Directors options to subscribe for A.
to have input to the induction process so that shares in the Company are included in Table 2 areas of particular interest to that Director can on page 34 in the audited part of the Directors The Board meets a minimum of five times a be accommodated.
year and will meet further as necessary to consider specific matters which it has reserved All the Directors have access to the Company Details of the Directors service agreements are to itself for decision, such as significant Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that given on page 35. acquisition or disposal proposals or major Board procedures are followed and that the Corporate governance financing propositions.
In 2008, there were five Company complies with all applicable rules, The Company recognises the importance of regular meetings, one held by telephone regulations and obligations governing the high standards of corporate governance.
conference and one where resolutions were Companys operations.
A procedure exists for passed in writing.
A statement of the Directors the Directors to take independent professional It understands, supports and has applied the attendance at these Board meetings, and at advice, if necessary, in furtherance of their principles set out in the Combined Code on meetings of Board Committees on which they duties at the Companys expense.
Corporate Governance, as issued in July 2006, served during the year, is shown in Table 2 at and has complied with the great majority of the The members of the Executive Committee are the end of this report.
In compliance with Code detailed provisions contained in the Code.
The appointed to the Committee by the CEO, who provision A.
1.3 the Chairman holds a session ways in which the Company applies these leads the Committee.
with other Non-Executive Directors at the principles, and the few provisions with which conclusion of each formal Board meeting The Executive Committee manages the the Company does not consider that it is without the Executive Directors present.
The day-to-day operations of the Company.
appropriate to comply, are set out in the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors Individual Executive Committee members hold appropriate sections of this Annual Report and devote sufficient time to the Company.
global responsibility for specific operating Financial Statements.
functions including category development, During the year the Board has carried out a The Board comprises seven Non-Executive supply, finance, human resources and formal evaluation of its performance and that Directors including Adrian Bellamy, the information services.
The three Area Executive of its Committees and individual Directors in Chairman, who has the responsibility for Vice Presidents covering Europe, North accordance with Code provision A.
6.1. managing the Board, and two Executive America Australia and Developing Markets are Directors, Bart Becht, the Chief Executive The Board analysed responses from all Board also members of the Committee.
Officer CEO, and Colin Day, the Chief members to a detailed questionnaire.
Graham The Company has procedures in place to deal Financial Officer CFO.
The Company has Mackay, as the Senior Independent Nonwith conflicts of interest and these procedures adopted a Board structure which is similar to Executive Director, conducted an evaluation have operated effectively.
that of its key international competitor of the Chairmans performance in conjunction companies, the majority of which are based in with his Non-Executive Director colleagues Committees of the Board the USA.
The Board approves strategy, carries with input from both Executive Directors.
The Company has established three out an advisory and supervisory role and The Nomination Committee has primary Committees of the Board, the terms of accepts ultimate responsibility for the conduct responsibility for reviewing the performance reference of which are available on the of the Companys business.
The CEO, together of individual Directors and in addition to this Companys website and upon request.
with the other members of his Executive review process, the Chairman carried out an Audit Committee Committee, provides the day-to-day evaluation of the performance of individual The Audit Committee comprises three management of the Company.
Directors by face-to-face, one-on-one Non-Executive Directors: Kenneth Hydon, interviews.
The Board is of the view that it is The Board has identified Graham Mackay as the Chairman since 16 November 2006, David Tyler best placed to carry out such evaluations, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in and Andr Lacroix.
Two members of the without the need to employ the services of accordance with provision A.
3.3 of the Committee have recent and relevant financial an outside consultancy, and that this is an Combined Code.
The majority of Non-Executive experience: Kenneth Hydon, FCMA, FCCA, FCT, appropriate and cost-effective procedure.
Directors are independent, as recommended by Financial Director of Vodafone Group plc until The performance of the CEO, and of other the Combined Code.
July 2005, and David Tyler, FCMA, MCT, Group members of the Executive Committee, is Finance Director of GUS plc until October 2006.
Two of the Non-Executive Directors are not regularly reviewed by the Remuneration considered to be independent for all purposes: Committee of the Board.
The Committee monitors the adequacy and Adrian Bellamy, as Chairman of the Board and effectiveness of the internal controls, The Executive Committee presents an annual because he has served as a Director for more compliance procedures and the Groups overall strategic review and the Annual Plan to the than nine years, and Peter Harf, Deputy risk framework including the Groups Board for its approval.
Actual performance Chairman, because of the shareholding he whistleblowing arrangements.
It reviews the against the Plan is presented to the Board at represents and because he has served as a interim and full year financial statements before each of its regular meetings and any changes Director for more than nine years.
submission to the full Board and makes to forecasts as a result of current performance recommendations to the Board regarding the Mr Day is a Non-Executive Director of WPP are reviewed.
auditors and their terms of appointment.
It Group plc and in 2008, it has been agreed, All members of the Board receive timely reports reviews and monitors the external auditors subject to certain specific conditions, that he on items arising at meetings of the Board to independence and objectivity and the be allowed to join the Board of Cadbury plc enable them to give due consideration to such effectiveness of the audit process.
This is items in advance of the meetings.
non-compliant with Combined Code The Committee met three times in 2008.
4.5 which requires that no full time Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate period following the resignation of Gerard Executive Director should hold more than one briefings on the Company and its operations Murphy in July, the constitution of the non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 around the world when they are appointed to Committee was non-compliant with provision company.
Both WPP Group plc and Cadbury plc the Board.
They are encouraged to visit the C. 3.1 of the Combined Code as it had only two are FTSE 100 companies.
This exception has Companys offices and factories, whenever the Non-Executive directors as members.
It became been made because the Board believes that opportunity presents itself, where they can be compliant again upon the appointment of Reckitt Benckiser 2008 25 Report of the Directors continued Andr Lacroix as a Committee member in served on the Board for more than nine years, management, supply, sales, finance and November 2008.
The Committee received and Bart Becht is not considered independent legal, information services and human regular technical updates from the external because he is the CEO.
Throughout the organisation, auditors to keep abreast of changes in financial the achievement of business objectives Following the introduction of s. 175 of the reporting and governance matters.
In addition and the establishment of appropriate risk Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2008 and, to its routine agenda, the Committee received management and internal control are further to authority given by shareholders at additional presentations from senior embedded in the responsibilities of the AGM in May 2008 to the Directors to management covering Information Services, line executives.
authorise conflicts of interest, the Nomination Internal Audit, Group Tax and Group Treasury Committee has under its revised Terms of Budgeting there is an annual planning functions.
The Committee took advantage of a Reference the primary responsibility for process whereby detailed operating budgets Board meeting held overseas to meet with, and considering Directors conflicts of interest.
for the following financial year are prepared receive presentations from, the local financial The Committee will consider Directors other and are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term management and a member of the Committee directorships and appointments at least business plans are also prepared and are also attended an overseas balance sheet review annually as part of the overall corporate reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
governance evaluation process and, more Management reporting there is a The CFO and other senior management attend frequently as circumstances may require.
The comprehensive system of management these meetings by invitation.
The Groups Committee will recommend to the full Board reporting.
The financial performance of external auditors and the Groups Vice whether a conflict or potential conflict should operating units and the Group as a whole is President, Internal Audit attend meetings and be approved.
Approval is required to be given monitored against budget on a monthly basis have direct access to the Committee.
by the full Board and may not be delegated to and is updated by periodic forecasts.
Under s. 175, all Directors Remuneration Committee and functional executives also perform are under a duty to consider their positions fully The Remuneration Committee, chaired by regular business reviews with their at all times.
They must advise the Chairman Judith Sprieser, meets regularly to review management teams, which incorporate an immediately, if they believe a potential conflict remuneration policy for Directors and senior assessment of key risks and opportunities.
may arise so that the Nomination Committee executives.
The Committee also has may consider the position and the appropriate Risk management as part of the ongoing responsibility for making decisions on the course of action.
This may require a Director to risk and control process, operating units Chairmans remuneration.
The Committee absent himself from Board discussions or be review and evaluate risks to the achievement comprises three members, of whom two are precluded from receiving Board papers and of business objectives and the Board considered independent as defined by the may, in extreme circumstances, require his reviews those significant risks which might standards of the Combined Code.
Adrian resignation from the Board.
impact on the achievement of corporate Bellamy is not considered independent being objectives.
Mitigating controls, together the Chairman of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Internal control with any necessary actions, are identified and having served on the Board for more than The Board acknowledges that it has overall and implemented.
The Board considers that Mr Bellamy responsibility for the Groups system of internal should remain a member of the Remuneration control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and A summary of the most significant risks faced Committee in light of his considerable has established a control structure designed to by the Group is included in the Business Review experience and much valued contribution to manage the achievement of business on pages 18 to 19. the working of the Committee.
The system complies with the Operating unit controls each operating unit revised Combined Code issued in July 2006, Turnbull guidance on internal control and maintains internal controls, which are it is acceptable for the Chairman to sit on the provides reasonable, but not absolute, appropriate to its own business environment.
assurance against material misstatement Such controls must be in accordance with or loss.
Nomination Committee Group policies and include management The Nomination Committee is responsible for Throughout the year the Group has had in authorisation processes, to ensure that all nominating candidates for the approval of the place an ongoing process for identifying, commitments on behalf of the Group are Board to fill vacancies on the Board of Directors.
evaluating and managing the significant risks entered into after appropriate approval.
In and opportunities faced by the Group and particular, there is a structured process for As and when vacancies arise on the Board, the Board has performed a specific assessment the appraisal and authorisation of all material the services of an external search consultancy of internal control for the purpose of this capital projects.
are employed to seek candidates for Annual Report.
The Nomination Committee Monitoring the effectiveness of internal environment is supported by a Code of reviews each candidate as presented by the controls is monitored regularly through a Business Conduct, which employees receive consultancy and all members of the Committee combination of management review, training on annually, and a range of policies on are involved in the interview process before self-assessment and internal and external corporate responsibility.
Other key elements making their recommendations to the full audit.
The results of external and internal within the internal control structure are Board.
All members of the Board are given audit reviews are reported to and considered summarised as follows: the opportunity to meet the recommended by the Audit Committee, and actions are candidates prior to their appointment.
The Board and management the Board taken to address significant control matters continues to approve strategy and performs identified.
The Audit Committee also The Committee comprises the Chairman, an advisory and supervisory role with the approves annual internal audit plans and is who also chairs the Committee, the CEO, the day-to-day management of the Company responsible for performing the ongoing Deputy Chairman and the Chairs of both the being undertaken by the Executive review of internal control on behalf of Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The CEO and other Executive the Board.
Board believes this membership is appropriate Committee members have clearly to the Group despite this not being in The Board confirms that reviews of the communicated the Group vision, strategy, compliance with Code provision A.
4.1, which appropriateness and effectiveness of the system operating constitutions, values and business requires a majority of the members to be of internal control throughout the financial year objectives across the Group.
Adrian Bellamy is not considered have been satisfactorily completed in independent as he is the Chairman of Reckitt Organisational structure the Group compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Benckiser Group plc and has served on the operates three Area management Combined Code.
In particular major risks have Board for more than nine years, Peter Harf is organisations: Europe, North America been identified and ongoing monitoring not considered independent because of the Australia and Developing Markets and procedures are in place.
shareholding he represents and because he has centralised functions covering category 26 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 Group policy in respect of non-audit management reports directly to the CEO on REACh Registration, Evaluation, services provided by external auditors ESG matters on a regular basis.
Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals The Audit Committee and the CFO keep under is the new framework for regulation and Key areas of ESG internal control and review the independence and objectivity of the management of chemicals in Europe which performance, including ESG disclosures, are external auditors.
The Committee reviews the was formally adopted by the European Union independently reviewed and verified by both nature and level of non-audit services in December 2006 and entered into force internal and external organisations, including undertaken by the external auditors each year in 2007.
Internal Audit, and their findings regularly to satisfy itself that there is no effect on their reported to senior management, the CEO, Under REACh, as part of a phased independence.
The Board recognises that in the Audit Committee and the Board.
programme over several years, industry is certain circumstances the nature of the advice required to register most substances that are required may make it more timely and The Board has identified and assessed the manufactured, imported or used in Europe.
cost-effective to appoint the external auditors range of ESG and associated reputational risks The first of these phases, pre-registration, who already have a good understanding of the and concluded that there are limited material started on 1 June 2008.
For the majority of Group.
Any significant information technology risks to the Companys longand short-term substances i. e. ingredients used in the consultancy projects are put out to tender and value arising from ESG matters, other than Companys products the responsibility for the external auditors are excluded from this potential risks common to similarly sized registration will lie with its suppliers, who tender process.
businesses operating in its industrial sectors manufacture or import the ingredients used.
and with similarly well-known brands.
The external auditors report to the Audit The Company continues to work closely with Committee on the actions they take to comply The issues of potential material ESG and its suppliers as REACh is implemented, to with professional and regulatory requirements reputational risk identified by the Board include: ensure that the ingredients used in its and with best practice designed to ensure their products are registered.
In addition, the Industry sector and product safety independence from the Group, including Company has in place an internal REACh regulatory risks: periodic rotation of the lead engagement audit Task Force to ensure that all of its products The household products and health & partner.
Details of non-audit services are set out and their ingredients remain compliant as personal care sectors have a number of in note 4 on page 47.
REACh is implemented over the next potential product and ingredient risks, few years.
Environmental, social and governance relating to ongoing developments in ESG matters and reputational risk ingredient regulation and concerns voiced Supply chain risks: Most product, component In line with the requirements of the Companys over the potential long-term effects of and raw material supply chains present a Act 2006, a rationale has been developed and household chemicals and OTC over-thenumber of potential reputational risks a review undertaken to determine what counter drug ingredients on human health relating to: labour standards: health, safety information to include in this Report as and the environment.
The Company has and environmental standards: raw material necessary for an understanding of the comprehensive management processes in sourcing: and the social, ethical and development, performance and position of the place at Group, Area, Regional and environmental performance of third party business of the Company relating to National level to ensure that its products manufacturers and other suppliers.
The environmental matters including the impact of are both suitable and safe for their intended Companys Global Manufacturing Standard the Companys business on the environment, use, in addition to meeting applicable GMS mandates minimum requirements its employees, and social & community issues.
Additionally, regarding employment arrangements, labour Much of the information required is provided regulatory compliance and product safety standards and health, safety and here, and with regard to Employees and issues are proactively addressed by both environmental management, in line with Internal Control on pages 24 and 26 of the national and regional industry associations of international guidelines, for both the Report of the Directors, with an overall which the Company is an active member, Company and its suppliers.
Management summary and other information provided in the including those in Europe and North processes and controls in place include Business Review on page 19.
For example, the HERA Group, Area and Regional monitoring and Human and Environmental Risk Assessment auditing of compliance with the GMS and The Board regularly considers and takes project, established in 1999, is a voluntary other requirements, including the external account of the significance of ESG matters and industry programme of publicly available risk audit of third party product manufacturers.
their potential risks to the business of the assessments on ingredients of household Company, including risks relating to Product quality risks: Failures in product cleaning products www.
environmental impacts, employees, society and quality controls could potentially lead to communities, as well as reputational risks and As part of the Companys commitment to damage to the reputation of, and trust in, the opportunities to enhance value that may make continual improvements in the the Companys brands.
The Company has arise from an appropriate response.
environmental sustainability of its products comprehensive quality management and processes, it continues to progress processes and procedures in place, including The Board undertakes a formal review of ESG ingredient removal programmes, above and Group, Area, Regional and site-level Quality matters at least annually, which includes beyond regulatory requirements, to Assurance functions that oversee and providing oversight to ensure that the Company systematically remove specific ingredients monitor product quality globally.
has in place effective policies, systems and from Company product formulae and procedures for managing ESG matters and The Companys annual Sustainability Report packaging device component specifications mitigating significant ESG risks.
For example, recent programmes as part of its risk assessment procedures, the provides further information on its policies, include: removal of nitro and polycyclic Boards Audit Committee undertakes regular systems and procedures for managing ESG artificial musks, and Geranyl Nitrile, from reviews of the arrangements for, and matters and any material risks that may arise fragrances: removal of PDCB effectiveness of, risk management and internal from them, including: the extent to which it paradichlorobenzene from toilet blocks: audit, including the full range of risks facing the complies with those policies, systems and removal of NPEs Nonyl Phenol Company, which include risks relating to ESG procedures: Key Performance Indicators KPIs : Ethoxylates, APEs Alkyl Phenol Ethoxylates matters, reputational risks and risks relating and its sustainability programmes, targets and monoethylene series glycol ethers to employees.
from use in household cleaning products: The CEO is the Board member with specific removal of brominated flame retardants The Board believes that it receives adequate responsibility for ESG matters.
As part of from devices: and, the replacement of information and training on ESG matters and established management processes, which formaldehyde preservative.
their potential risks and opportunities to the include performance management systems and business of the Company, including appropriate remuneration incentives, senior reputational risks.
Reckitt Benckiser 2008 27 Report of the Directors continued Sustainability and corporate responsibility consistently applied and supported by 2009 will be to increase the notice period for Information on the Companys management reasonable and prudent judgements and general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
of sustainability and corporate responsibility estimates, and that all applicable accounting The Company can currently call general issues is provided: above: in other sections of standards have been followed.
meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear this Report of the Directors for examples days notice and in order to preserve its ability The Directors have responsibility for ensuring regarding Employees and Internal Control : so to do, will be asking shareholders at the that the Company keeps accounting records in the Business Review page 19: and, in the AGM to pass a resolution approving the calling which disclose with reasonable accuracy the Companys annual Sustainability Reports, of meetings on 14 days notice.
This approval financial position of the Company and which which provide information on its policies, will be effective until 30 June 2010 the last enable them to ensure that the financial programmes, targets and progress in this area.
date by which the Company must hold an statements comply with the Companies Act AGM in 2010 or on the date of the next AGM Relations with shareholders 1985.
The Directors as set out on page 12 of the Company in 2010, whichever is earlier.
The Board is committed to effective consider that, to the best of their knowledge, communication between the Company and its the financial statements give a true and fair Takeovers Directive shareholders.
The Executive Directors, with the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Pursuant to s. 992 of the Companies Act 2006, Director, Investor Relations, meet regularly with and profit of the Company.
which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, institutional shareholders and financial analysts, the Company is required to disclose certain The Directors are also responsible for ensuring in Europe and North America, to discuss additional information.
The following gives that reasonable procedures are being followed matters relating to the Companys business those disclosures which are not covered for safeguarding the assets of the Group, strategy and current performance issues.
elsewhere in this Annual Report.
and for preventing and detecting fraud and The Board receives regular monthly reports other irregularities.
The Companys Articles of Association the from the CEO which include updates on the Articles give the Board power to appoint share price development, major buyers and The Directors are required to prepare the Directors, but also require Directors to retire sellers of shares and on investor views, financial statements on the going concern basis and submit themselves for election at the first including analyst reports on the industry and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Annual General Meeting following their specifically on the Company.
Feedback on Company will continue in business.
Under the Combined Code, and presentations and roadshow meetings with Directors as set out on page 12 consider that, the Articles, all Directors are required to offer institutional investors is presented to the to the best of their knowledge, the financial themselves for re-election every three years.
Executive Directors following twice-yearly statements include a fair review of the roadshows in Europe and North America.
development and performance of the The Board of Directors is responsible for the business and the position of the Company, management of the business of the Company The Chairman is available to discuss governance together with a description of principal risks and may exercise all the powers of the and strategy with major shareholders should and uncertainties.
Company subject to the provisions of the such a dialogue be requested.
During the year Companys Memorandum of Association and the Chairman has met with shareholders in Going concern the Articles.
The Articles contain specific satisfaction of Code Provision D. 1.1 and reports The Directors, having made appropriate provisions and restrictions regarding the upon these meetings to the Directors.
The enquiries, are satisfied that the Company and Companys power to borrow money.
Powers Company believes that it is important that it the Group have adequate resources to continue relating to the issuing and buying back of makes key executives available, along with the in operational existence for the foreseeable shares are also included in the Articles and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, future.
For this reason they continue to adopt shareholders are asked to renew such if required, to discuss matters of concern the going concern basis in preparing the authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of with its shareholders.
The Companys Annual financial statements.
the Articles is available on request from the General Meeting is used as the main Audit Company Secretary.
opportunity for the Directors to communicate The Directors, having made appropriate with private investors.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the enquiries, state that: Articles, the Companys Articles may be Policy on the payment of creditors a so far as each Director is aware, there is no amended by a special resolution of the It is the Companys policy to follow the CBI relevant audit information of which the Companys shareholders.
This policy requires the Companys auditors are unaware: and Company to agree the terms of payments with There are a number of agreements that take its suppliers, to ensure that those suppliers are b each Director has taken all the steps that effect, alter or terminate upon a change of aware of those terms and to abide by those he she ought to have taken as a Director control of the Company following a takeover, terms.
Copies of the Code are available from to make him herself aware of any relevant such as commercial contracts, bank CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, audit information and to establish that agreements, property lease arrangements and London WC1A 1DU.
the Companys auditors are aware of employees share plans.
None of these are that information.
deemed to be significant in terms of their Directors responsibilities potential impact on the business of the Group The following statement, which should be read Charitable and political donations as a whole.
in conjunction with the Auditors Report set out Donations to charitable organisations in the UK on pages 36 and 72, is made with a view to amounted to 704,000 2007 606,000 of There are no significant agreements between distinguishing for shareholders the respective which 439,000 was donated to Save the the Company and its directors or employees responsibilities of the Directors and of the Children, the Companys nominated global providing for compensation for loss of office auditors in relation to the financial statements.
No political donations were made or employment that occurs because of a The Directors are required by the Companies 2007 nil.
Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for AGM Auditors each year which give a true and fair view of the The notice convening the second AGM of the The auditors,  LLP, state of affairs of the Company and the Group Company to be held on Thursday, 7 May 2009 have indicated their willingness to continue in as at the end of the year, and of the profit or at 11.15 am at The London Heathrow office and a resolution that they be reappointed loss for the year.
Marriott Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex will be proposed at the AGM.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the UB3 5AN is contained in a separate document financial statements on pages 37 to 79 for shareholders.
including the information on Directors One effect of the proposed implementation of remuneration on pages 30 to 35, the Company the Shareholder Rights Directive in August has used appropriate accounting policies 28 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 Substantial shareholdings As at 2 March 2009, the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company: No of % of total ordinary Nature of voting rights shares holding JAB Holdings B. V. 15.62 111,105,415 Indirect Legal and General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 4.13 29,371,884 Indirect Massachusetts Financial Services Company and or its subsidiaries 3.32 23,525,098 Indirect By order of the Board Elizabeth Richardson Company Secretary 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berks SL1 3UH 10 March 2009 Table 1 Interests in the share capital of the Company The Directors in office at the end of the year had the following beneficial interests unless stated otherwise in the ordinary shares of the Company: 2 March 2009 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Adrian Bellamy 17,385 17,385 16,372 Bart Becht 1,774,669 1,774,669 1,803,916 Bart Becht non-beneficial 1,263,821 1,263,821 333,821 Colin Day 364,624 364,624 356,746 Peter Harf 742,341 742,341 842,020 Kenneth Hydon 4,433 4,433 4,193 Graham Mackay 1,252 1,252 1,012 Andr Lacroix 1,088 88 - Judith Sprieser 2,654 2,654 2,410 David Tyler 1,127 1,127 806 Notes 1 No person who was a Director or a member of a Directors family on 31 December 2008 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary.
2 The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Table 2 Attendance at meetings In 2008, there were five regular Board meetings, one Board meeting held by telephone conference, and one where resolutions were passed in writing, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
There were three Audit Committee meetings, seven Remuneration Committee meetings including three dealt with by written resolution and one by telephone conference and two Nomination Committee meetings.
Written resolutions are required to be signed by all Directors on the Board or Members on the Committee.
Attendance by individual Directors at Board meetings and at meetings of Committees on which they sit is given in the table below.
Number of meetings attended Note Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Adrian Bellamy 7 7 2 Peter Harf 7 2 Bart Becht 7 2 Colin Day 6 Kenneth Hydon 7 3 2 Andr Lacroix a 1 Graham Mackay 6 7 Gerard Murphy b 2 1 Judith Sprieser 7 7 2 David Tyler 7 3 Peter White c 2 Notes a Andr Lacroix attended the one Board meeting held in 2008 following his appointment on 1 October 2008. b Gerard Murphy attended two of the four Board meetings held prior to his resignation on 17 July 2008. c Peter White resigned his appointment at the AGM on 1 May 2008.
He attended all meetings of the Board prior to his resignation.
