BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE A truly multi-national Board and Executive Committee.
We believe that combining talented people with different professional and cultural backgrounds, and an action-oriented perspective gives us a real competitive edge.
The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Company on behalf of the shareholders.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the ongoing management of the Company and reflects the overall management structure.
The Board of Directors Kenneth Hydon 64, British # Judith Sprieser 55, American # Bart Becht 52, Dutch # Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Was appointed a Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in 1999, on his appointment December 2003 and Chairman of the Audit in August 2003 and has been Chair of the as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He is a Fellow Remuneration Committee since June 2004.
He was appointed Chief Executive of of the Chartered Institute of Management She was previously Chief Executive Officer Benckiser Detergents, subsequently Benckiser Accountants, the Association of Chartered of Transora, Inc. an e-commerce software N. V. in 1995 and Chairman of Benckisers Certified Accountants and the Association and service company and Executive Vice Management Board from May 1999.
He holds of Corporate Treasurers.
He was the Senior President formerly Chief Financial Officer no external directorships.
Independent Non-Executive Director between of Sara Lee Corporation.
She is a Director of Adrian Bellamy 67, British # February 2005 and November 2006.
He retired Allstate Insurance Company, USG Corporation, Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the as Financial Director of Vodafone Group plc InterContinental Exchange, Inc. Royal Ahold NV Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive in July 2005 and is currently a Non-Executive and Adecco SA.
He is a Director of The Director of Tesco plc, Pearson plc and the Royal David Tyler 56, British Gap Inc and Williams-Sonoma, Inc.
He was Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust.
Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Chairman of The Body Shop International plc Graham Mackay 59, British South African February 2007.
He is Chairman of Logica until March 2008 and was formerly a director Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in plc and of 3i Quoted Private Equity plc, and of various companies including Gucci Group NV February 2005 and the Senior Non-Executive also a Non-Executive Director of Experian plc and The Robert Mondavi Corporation.
He is the current and Burberry Group plc.
His executive career Colin Day 53, British Chief Executive of SABMiller plc, one of the from 1974 to 2006 was spent in financial and Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 worlds largest brewers with brewing interests general management with Unilever plc, County from Aegis Group plc where he was Group or major distribution agreements in over sixty NatWest Ltd. Christies International plc and Finance Director from 1995.
He was formerly countries across six continents.
a Non-Executive Director of Vero plc, the Bell then South African Breweries Limited in 1978 Group plc, easyJet plc and Imperial Tobacco plc.
and has held a number of senior positions He is a Non-Executive Director of WPP Group within that group.
He joined the Board of Philip Member of the Audit Committee plc and Cadbury plc.
Morris International Inc in October 2008.
Member of the Remuneration Committee # Member of the Nomination Committee Dr Peter Harf 62, German # Andr Lacroix 49, French Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
He is Group Chief Executive Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until of Inchcape plc and Chairman of Good June 2004.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. and Restaurants AG.
He was previously Chairman Anheuser Busch Inbev and was until May 2007 and Chief Executive Officer of Euro Disney, and a Director of the Brunswick Corporation.
He is has also held positions at Burger King Diageo, Chief Executive Officer of Joh.
Colgate, PepsiCo and Ernst & Young LLP.
12 Reckitt Benckiser 2008 The Executive Committee Javed Ahmed 49, Pakistani Colin Day 53, British Rakesh Kapoor 50, Indian Executive Vice President, Europe.
Joined in Chief Financial Officer.
Joined in September Executive Vice President, Category 1992 as General Manager Canada and then 2000 from Aegis Group plc where he was Development.
Appointed SVP North American Household Group Finance Director.
Previously with various regional and central marketing roles.
In in 2001 and EVP, North America and Australia Kodak, British Gas, fide La Rue Group plc and 2001 became SVP, Regional Director, Northern in 2003.
Previously with P&G and Bain & ABB Group.
Colin is responsible for financial Europe and was appointed EVP Category Company.
Javed is responsible for Europe, controls and reporting, treasury, tax, corporate Development in 2006.
Rakesh is responsible including Eastern Europe, and Russia.
development, legal affairs and internal audit.
for global category management, R&D, media, market research and strategic alliances.
Bart Becht 52, Dutch Rob fide Groot 42, Dutch Alain Le Goff 56, French Chief Executive Officer.
Joined in 1988 Executive Vice President, North America & Executive Vice President, Supply.
Joined in and was General Manager in Canada, UK, Australia.
After international 1986 serving as Industrial Director in France, France and Italy before becoming Chief roles in marketing and sales became General Monaco, Germany and then Logistics Director Executive of Benckiser Detergents, then Manager The Netherlands, then SVP, Regional for the Group.
Alain is Benckiser N. V. Appointed Chief Executive Director, Eastern Europe and appointed Global responsible for global supply chain including Officer of Reckitt Benckiser in 1999.
Bart is Category Officer, Surface and Dish in 2005. procurement, manufacturing, warehousing and Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Appointed EVP North America & Australia logistics and for leading Squeeze and X-trim in 2008. gross margin enhancement programmes.
Alain retires in March 2009 and will be succeeded by Amedeo Fasano.
Freddy Caspers 48, German Gareth Hill 42, South African Frank Ruether 56, German Executive Vice President, Developing Senior Vice President, Information Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
Joined in September 1997 as EVP Services.
Previously Joined in July 1996 as Personnel Director for Eastern Europe.
Previously in PepsiCo and Information Systems Director at Arcadia Group and appointed SVP Human Resources in Johnson & Johnson in various roles in Europe, Ltd.
Prior to Arcadia, Gareth was at IBM UK Ltd, 1997.
Previously with Mars as Director of US, Eastern Europe and Turkey.
Freddy is Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd in South Africa Compensation & Benefits Europe.
Frank is responsible for Asia Pacific, Latin America and and Arthur Andersen.
He is a qualified responsible for human resources management, Africa Middle East.
remuneration and benefits, office facilities and organisational development.
