Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information LexisNexis provides legal, tax, regulatory, risk 35 Reed Elsevier management, information analytics and business information Annual Reports and Financial Statements solutions aligned to the workflow of legal, professional, 2008 business and government customers globally Description of business LexisNexis LexisNexis in the United States offers legal continued LexisNexis provides legal, tax, regulatory, information products in electronic and risk management, information analytics and print formats to law firms and practitioners, business information solutions aligned to law schools, corporate and tax counsel the workflow of legal, professional, business and federal, state and local governments.
Total Headquartered in New York, the principal revenues for the year ended 31 December 2008 operations are located in Ohio, Georgia, New were 1,940m.
York, Colorado, New Jersey and Florida.
LexisNexis portfolio 2008 revenue split Legal and regulatory markets worldwide US Legal Markets Total Solutions help 1 are driven by the increasing level of legislation legal professionals achieve excellence and litigation, as well as the number of lawyers.
in the business and practice of law with Opportunities are also developing through products and solutions in Client Development, 3 the delivery of value added solutions to meet Research, Practice Management and demands for greater efficiency and productivity.
Client Development solutions include the Martindale-Hubbell 2 Increasingly, legal information and services electronic network that showcases the are being delivered online, with considerable qualifications and credentials of over one 1 US Legal Markets 52% potential to deliver such products and million lawyers and law firms worldwide, 2 Risk Information and Analytics Group 19% solutions in markets outside the United States a suite of business intelligence tools that help 3 International 29% where online migration is at lower levels than lawyers find and target clients, and customer in the US legal market.
In recent years, relationship management workflow tools.
LexisNexis has, with its comprehensive US In Research, the division provides statutes public records databases, expanded in the and case law for all 50 US states as well market for risk management and information as research, analysis and citation services analytics.
This is growing rapidly due to from Matthew Bender, Michie and Shepards.
increasing consumer credit losses and Practice Management solutions include time fraud and the demand for identity verification.
and billing, case management, cost recovery LexisNexis and document management.
Litigation online revenue Services include a range of workflow solutions % of total LexisNexis for litigators including electronic discovery, revenue evidence management, case analysis, court 74 72 docket tracking, e-filing, expert identification 66 64 61 and legal document preparation.
04 05 06 07 08 It is not unusual to find employees with 10, 20, and even 30 years of LexisNexis experience.
There is a reason for this: we have great people, great markets and great customers to whom we provide great solutions.
Tom Ogburn Vice President, Government & Corporate Sales LexisNexis LexisNexis continued 36 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Description of business In addition to law firms, these LexisNexis Outside the United States, LexisNexis continued products and services are offered to International serves markets in Europe, corporations, federal government agencies Canada, Africa and Asia Pacific with a range and academic institutions together with news, of local and international legal, tax, regulatory business, financial and public records content.
and business information in electronic and print formats.
The most significant businesses Risk Information and Analytics Group offers are in the UK and France.
applications that are designed to assist LexisNexis customers in managing risk through fraud LexisNexis Butterworths in the UK is a CaseMap detection and prevention, risk evaluation, professional publisher, providing legal, tax and identity verification, pre-employment screening business information and solutions via online, and due diligence.
On 19 September 2008, print and CD media.
Publications include LexisNexis Reed Elsevier acquired ChoicePoint, Inc. Halsburys Laws of England, Simons Taxes CaseMap software ChoicePoint has merged with the LexisNexis and Butterworths Company Law Service.
enables litigators Risk Information and Analytics Group, LexisNexis in France is a provider of to efficiently assess creating a risk management business with information to lawyers, notaries and courts and analyse facts approximately $1.4bn revenues.
ChoicePoints with JurisClasseur and La Semaine Juridique and information in principal operating groups are Insurance being the principal publications.
Integrated Services, Screening, Business Services with other and Government Services.
LexisNexis aims to be the leading provider LexisNexis litigation of productivity enhancing information and solutions, CaseMap The Insurance Services group, ChoicePoints information-based workflow solutions in is also the largest core business, provides data, analytics, its markets.
The key strategic areas of focus foundation of the software and business information services are: to expand the business from research companys Total to property and casualty P&C personal into Total Solutions: to continue to offer the Litigator workflow and commercial insurance carriers in the best-in-class research tools for lawyers solution that US.
Information solutions help insurers and professionals: to grow a significant offers seamless effectively assess risks in the underwriting business in risk management and information management of process to ensure that their customers analytics: to expand internationally through information at each receive appropriate policy pricing.
The Insurity innovative online products and solutions: and step of the litigation business unit provides software, data and to continuously improve cost effectiveness.
analytics to P&C commercial and personal lines carriers to improve risk acceptance LexisNexiss principal competitors in US legal and loss mitigation.
markets are West Thomson Reuters and Factiva Dow Jones.
Major international The Screening group focuses on employment competitors include Thomson screening, tenant screening, and customer Reuters, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
The Business Services and Government Services groups provide public information solutions primarily to financial and professional services, and government customers.
These services help companies and government agencies with risk management, enhanced due diligence, verification and business credentialing, and allow companies and government agencies to better mitigate financial and reputational risk and improve their processes and productivity.
