Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 55 Structure and corporate governance Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Structure and corporate governance continued Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders maintain Board changes their rights to appoint individuals to the respective boards in During the year Patrick Tierney and Gerard van fide Aast ceased accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association to be executive directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and of of these companies.
Subject to this, no individual may be Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the Executive Board of appointed to the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier NV.
Rolf Stomberg retired as a non-executive either members of the Executive Board or the Supervisory Board director of Reed Elsevier Group plc and of Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier Group plc unless recommended by the joint and as a member of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Members of the Committee abstain when their own re-appointment is being considered.
Ian Smith was appointed Chief Executive Officer designate of Reed Elsevier and an executive director of Reed Elsevier PLC In order to safeguard the agreed board harmonisation, and Reed Elsevier Group plc on 1 January 2009.
The Nominations the Articles of Association of Reed Elsevier NV provide that Committee recommended Mr Smiths appointment after appointments of board members other than in accordance with engaging external consultants to produce a short list of nominations by the Combined Board, shall require a two-thirds candidates who met the requirements of the recruitment majority if less than 50% of the share capital is in attendance.
brief developed by the boards.
Given the still generally low attendance rate at shareholders meetings in the Netherlands, the boards believe that this At the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Annual General qualified majority requirement is appropriate for this purpose.
Meetings, to be held on 21 and 22 April 2009 respectively, Mark Elliott, David Reid and Lord Sharman will retire from All Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV directors are subject each respective board by rotation and, being eligible, will offer to retirement at least every three years, and are able then to themselves for re-election.
Having been appointed to the Board make themselves available for re-election by shareholders at the of Reed Elsevier PLC since the date of the last Annual General respective Annual General Meetings.
However, as a general rule, Meeting, Ian Smith will retire in accordance with the companys non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and members of Articles of Association and, being eligible, will offer himself for the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board serve on the respective re-election.
A resolution will also be proposed at the 2009 Annual board for two three-year terms, although the boards may invite General Meeting of Reed Elsevier NV to appoint Ian Smith as a individual directors to serve an additional three-year term.
member of the Executive Board.
The Articles of Association of Reed Elsevier NV provide that As previously announced, Jan Hommen will step down as the number of Executive Board members must be less than the Chairman and as a member of the boards at the forthcoming number of members of the Supervisory Board.
The Supervisory Annual General Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Board members and the Executive Board members together NV in April 2009. comprise the Combined Board.
Members of the Executive and Supervisory Boards can be suspended, dismissed or re-instated Dien fide Boer-Kruyt will also retire by rotation as a member at any time by a simple majority of the shareholders in a General of the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board.
In accordance with Article 44 of the Articles of Committee has requested Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt to continue as a Association, the provisions in the Articles of Association, member of the Supervisory Board for a period of 12 months, governing appointments and dismissals of members of the pending the recruitment of a successor to the Chairman of that Executive and Supervisory Boards can be amended by a simple Board.
Mrs fide Boer-Kruyt has served three terms of three years majority of shareholders in a General Meeting upon a proposal of each, and her proposed re-appointment is within the maximum the Combined Board.
period of twelve years permitted under the Dutch Code.
Board attendance Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Group plc Number of Number of Number of Date of meetings Number meetings Number meetings Number of cessation held whilst of meetings held whilst of meetings held whilst meetings Members during the year a director attended a director attended a director attended Gerard van fide Aast December 2008 6 6 6 6 9 9 Mark Armour 6 6 6 6 9 9 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt n a n a 6 2 n a n a Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 6 6 9 9 Mark Elliott 6 5 6 5 9 8 Erik Engstrom 6 6 6 6 9 9 Jan Hommen 6 6 6 6 9 9 Lisa Hook 6 6 6 6 9 9 Robert Polet 6 5 6 5 9 8 Andrew Prozes 6 6 6 6 9 9 David Reid 6 5 6 5 9 7 Lord Sharman 6 5 6 5 9 6 Rolf Stomberg April 2008 2 2 2 2 3 3 Patrick Tierney January 2008 0 0 0 0 1 0
