Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Elsevier provides its customers with scientific, technical 33 Reed Elsevier and medical content and tools that improve productivity Annual Reports and Financial Statements in research, healthcare and health education 2008 Description of business Elsevier The Science & Technology division of Elsevier continued Elsevier provides its customers with scientific, is the worlds leading global academic journal technical and medical content and tools that publisher.
Its customers are the worlds improve productivity in research, healthcare libraries, scientists, professionals, and and health education.
Total revenues for the corporations, who rely on Elsevier to provide year ended 31 December 2008 were 1,700m.
high quality content: to review, publish, Elsevier is a global business with principal disseminate, and preserve research findings: operations located in Amsterdam, London, and to create innovative workflow tools Elsevier portfolio Oxford, New York, Philadelphia, St Louis, to improve their efficiency in using that 2008 revenue split San Diego, Boston, Paris, Munich, Madrid, information.
Each year Science & Technology 1 Singapore, Tokyo, Delhi and Chennai.
publishes over 200,000 new research articles in some 1,100 journals and over 1,000 new 2 5 Elsevier serves a global network of 7,000 book titles, as well as secondary material editors, 70,000 editorial board members, in the form of supporting bibliographic 300,000 reviewers, and more than 600,000 data, indexes and abstracts, and tertiary authors.
Its products reach more than information in the form of review and 3 4 12 million researchers in 4,500 institutions, reference works.
5 million students, and 15 million doctors, 1 S&T print books nurses and health professionals.
Science & Technology has two flagship and journals 15% 2 S&T electronic electronic solutions: ScienceDirect and journals 26% Growth in the scientific information market Scopus.
ScienceDirect is the worlds largest 3 S&T databases and is driven by increases in research output, database of scientific, technical and medical solutions 9% R&D spend, the number of researchers journal articles and is accessed by over 4 Health Sciences worldwide, and the need for improved 11 million users each year.
ScienceDirect North America 29% 5 Health Sciences research efficiency.
In healthcare, growth is holds over nine million scientific articles International 21% driven by advances in medical science and the and an expanding portfolio of books online.
shift from activity-based to outcomes-based Currently ScienceDirect has just over models of patient care and associated 10,000 books titles, which includes 75 major ScienceDirect demands for increased productivity.
reference works, over 70 book series, online usage seven handbooks totalling over 190 volumes 500 500 and more than 4,700 e-books, with some 400 400 500 e-books being added to ScienceDirect each year.
Scopus is the largest abstract and 300 300 citation database of research literature from 200 200 over 4,000 different publishers.
Scopus has 100 100 more than 37 million records of scientific research articles from over 15,000 peer 00 04 05 06 07 08 reviewed journals, more than 23 million patents, and references to over 434 million Full text article web pages.
downloads millions There is much more focus on the continuous assessment and development of people at Elsevier than in any other company I have worked at before.
My own assessment involved a really strong analysis of my skills and capabilities and I really appreciated the time and detail it went into.
Claudia Pickholz Managing Director Elsevier Iberoamrica Elsevier continued 34 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Description of business Science & Technologys growing online Elsevier aims to make valued contributions continued offering also includes Illumin8, an online to the science and health communities workflow solution for corporate scientists, by combining world class content with engineers and R&D professionals.
productivity enhancing solutions for scientific researchers and health professionals In 2009 Science & Technology will launch worldwide.
Its key strategic areas of focus specific workflow solutions for researchers are: quality of content: customer service and research administrators.
The initial and customer relations: development of ScienceDirect offering will include a funding intelligence productivity enhancing online solutions: tool and a research performance tool.
expanded penetration of high growth markets: and organisational efficiency.
ScienceDirect from The Health Sciences division of Elsevier Elsevier contains serves medical researchers, practising Elseviers print science journals are generally over 25% of the health professionals, payers, educators, sold to libraries on a paid subscription basis, worlds science, students and pharma professionals globally.
with subscription agents facilitating the technological and It publishes over 700 journals, including a administrative process.
number of journals for learned societies, and healthcare print journals are mostly sold to Along with over over 2,000 book titles and clinical reference individuals through direct mail and learned 10,000 online books, works annually.
Growth in electronic health societies.
Electronic products are generally ScienceDirect offers information is accelerating and the business sold directly to institutional libraries, a rich journal continues to expand its portfolio of online hospitals, corporations and end users.
Books collection of over health information tools for education, are sold through book stores, both traditional 2,500 titles and the practitioner reference, and point of care and online, wholesalers and, particularly in ability to search a decision making.
Elseviers clinical reference medical and healthcare markets, directly to historical archive of and decision support products include end users.
Competition within the science over nine million MDConsult, which now has over nine million and technology and medical publishing fields articles.
page views per month and more than 1,700 is generally on a title by title and product by institutional customers.
Competing journals, books and provides online and multimedia products for databases are typically published by learned use by both medical faculties and students societies and other professional publishers.
to support core textbooks, including Evolve, which now has 1.4 million registered users and, through Health Education Systems Inc, testing tools for nursing and allied health markets.
Internationally, Elsevier leverages its print and online content into new markets through foreign language versions.
