Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 6 Non-Executive Directors 49 n l u 6 Jan Hommen 65 Dutch Chairman since 2005.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Chairman of the supervisory board CEO-designate of Financial Statements ING Group NV, Academisch Ziekenhuis Maastricht 2008 and TiasNimbas Business School of Tilburg University.
A member of the supervisory board of TNT NV until April 2009 and of Royal Friesland NonCampina NV.
Was vice-chairman of the board of management and chief financial officer of Royal Executive 7 Philips Electronics NV until his retirement in 2005.
Directors Previously a member of the supervisory board of Koninklijke Ahold NV.
u 7 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 64 Dutch Appointed 2000.
Member of the supervisory boards of Koninklijke Douwe Egberts a subsidiary of Sara Lee Corporation, Imtech NV and Allianz Nederland Group NV.
Member of the supervisory board of the National Registry of non-executive 8 directors and director of the leadership programmes Call and Ravel, for leaders in business, government and universities.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Serves on the Deans Advisory Council and the Technology Advisory Council at Indiana University.
Until his retirement in April 2008, was 9 General Manager IBM Global Solutions, having held a number of positions with IBM, including Managing Director of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Served on the board of IBAX, a hospital software company jointly owned by IBM and Baxter Healthcare.
President and Chief Operating Officer of NeuStar Inc. A director 10 of The Ocean Foundation.
Was President and Chief Executive Officer at Sun Rocket Inc. Before that was President of AOL Broadband, Premium and Developer Services.
Prior to joining AOL, was a founding partner at Brera Capital Partners LLC.
Previously was Chief Operating Officer of Time Warner Telecom.
Has served as Senior Advisor to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman and a Senior Counsel to Viacom Cable.
President and Chief Executive Officer of Gucci Group.
Before that spent 26 years at Unilever working in a variety of marketing and senior executive positions throughout the world including President of Unilevers Worldwide Ice Cream and Frozen Foods division.
Non-executive chairman of Tesco PLC, having previously been executive deputy chairman until December 2003, and finance director from 1985 to 1997.
Chairman of Kwik-Fit and previously a non-executive director of fide Vere PLC, Legal and General PLC and Westbury PLC.
s n u 12 Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 66 British Appointed 2002.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Non-executive chairman of Aviva PLC and a non-executive director of BG Group plc.
Member of the House of Lords since 1999.
Was chairman of KPMG Worldwide until 1999, having joined KPMG in 1966.
Previous directorships include: chairman of Aegis Group plc: deputy chairman of G4S plc: member of the supervisory board of ABN AMRO Holding NV: non-executive director of Young & Cos Brewery plc: and non-executive director of AEA Technology plc.
