18 Operating and financial review continued Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 maintenance, data fabrication, software development Reported revenues and adjusted operating profits were engineering and other activities.
These ongoing up 9% and 14% respectively at constant rates including programmes together with consolidation within acquisitions and disposals, most notably the sale of the Reed Elsevier of technology operations, procurement defence sector shows.
Overall adjusted operating margin and real estate management, are keeping costs under was up 180 basis points at 25.9%.
firm control and releasing funds for investment.
Good growth was seen across most of the show portfolio Looking ahead to 2009, legal and risk markets are more with particular successes at the ISC West security resilient than most but by no means immune from the show and National Hardware in the US: the Interclima deterioration in economic conditions.
Law firm activity Interconfort heating cooling systems show and the and corporate and government budgets are increasingly EquipHotel catering show in Paris, and the Pollutec Lyon under pressure and this will reduce underlying revenue environment event: the Aluminium show in Germany: growth.
LexisNexis has however a strong subscriber the Mipim international property show and Mipcom in base, continuous releases of new publishing and Cannes: and the London International Book Fair and workflow solutions to enhance customer productivity, World Travel Market in London.
The severe downturn a growing Risk business, and the benefit of a full years in the Spanish residential property sector did however contribution of ChoicePoint growth and synergies.
significantly reduce the size of the SIMA residential The Risk business should see continued strong growth property show in Madrid.
In Japan, M-Tech and other in the insurance business and collections sector and shows performed strongly.
The biennial shows cycling increasing demand from government.
The gearing in contributed 6% to underlying revenue growth: the most effects of lower underlying revenue growth and increased significant show cycling in was the Mostra Convegno investment on adjusted operating margin should be offset Expocomfort show in Milan and cycling out was the by the benefits of the restructuring and other actions Batimat construction show in Paris.
to improve cost efficiency and the growing profitability of the ChoicePoint business.
During the year Reed Exhibitions launched 24 new shows including the very successful Photovoltaic Power Generation event in Tokyo, and acquired nine others, expanding its footprint in the Middle East, Russia, India 8 www.
The sale of the defence shows was completed in May 2008.
This will further exaggerate the year-on-year impact of show cycling in 2009 and beyond with no odd year DSEi show to help balance the even year benefit of Mostra Convegno and other biennial shows.
Reed Exhibitions strong performance in 2008 is in part % change at reflective of the more resilient and late cycle nature of the 2008 2007 % constant exhibitions business, in comparison to other marketing m m change currencies channels.
Exhibitors book hall space well in advance and Revenue 707 577 23% 9% in a downturn demand tends to concentrate on leading Adjusted operating profit 183 139 32% 14% events.
The second half saw continued good growth Adjusted operating margin 25.9% 24.1% 1.8pts 1.1pts overall in annual shows and in cycling events, although some shows were cancelled and the outlook has become progressively tougher across geographies and most Reed Exhibitions had an exceptional year with successful industries.
Taking into account the budget pressures major shows and the net cycling in of biennial exhibitions, on exhibitors and visiting delegates, as well as the net demonstrating that, in an increasingly online world, cycling out of biennial shows and the sale of the defence face to face exhibitions continue to deliver significant shows, the 2009 outlook is for revenue decline and lower value for exhibitors and visitors alike.
adjusted operating margin against an exceptional year in 2008.
Whilst it is too early to judge the economic outlook Revenues were up 11% at constant currencies and and demand beyond, 2010 will see the cycling back in of adjusted operating profits up 20% before acquisitions major biennial shows with a positive boost to revenues and disposals.
The strong growth was driven by good and margin.
performances by annual shows and new events, together with the cycling in of non-annual shows.
Excluding cycling effects, underlying revenue growth was 5%.
com The adjusted operating margin showed underlying improvement of 180 basis points reflecting the good revenue growth, tight cost control and the effect of the significant net cycling in at the show contribution level.
When Reed Exhibitions launched the Pollutec exhibition in Lyon in 1986, its main focus was on pollution control products.
Two decades on and the shows profile is much broader.
Today, Pollutec is one of the worlds leading sustainable technology trade shows, covering every aspect of sustainability as well as waste management and pollution prevention.
An extensive conference programme and high quality online resources support the core offering.
Market show to industry leaders Meet key Showcase decision sustainable makers technologies Share and Grow exchange the exhibitor latest market sales developments
