Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elseviers most important resources are its 41 Reed Elsevier intangible publishing assets and its workforce of some Annual Reports and Financial Statements 35,000 employees 2008 Resources and Market leading brands Investment investments Reed Elseviers businesses own numerous Reed Elsevier maintains and enhances market leading brands, imprints, titles and the value of its intangible assets through technology platforms.
continuous investment in the brands and imprints, new publishing, innovative product Within Elsevier, ScienceDirect is the worlds and market development, and in the largest database of scientific, technical and technology platforms and publishing medical journal articles and delivers almost infrastructure on which they are based.
half a billion full text article downloads Increasingly, investment is being made annually.
Many of Elseviers journals are in developing digital workflow solutions.
the foremost publications in their field and a primary point of reference for new research.
Elsevier has made substantial investments The workflow tool Reaxys is the worlds in health information segments, including largest online compilation of chemical a wide range of electronic solutions that reactions.
Users of MDConsult, Elseviers improve clinical outcomes and reduce costs online clinical reference tool, conduct on for payers, physicians and hospitals: deliver average nearly 1.5 million searches per enriched learning experiences for nursing month and view more than nine million trainees and practitioners: and increase the pages of clinical content.
The Lancet has effectiveness of business development and been publishing medical research, news promotional activities for pharmaceutical and analysis since 1823.
Other significant investments in booklist contains numerous pre-eminent recent years have been in the ScienceDirect and long standing titles.
platform, digitisation of the archive of almost nine million research articles, e-books, Within LexisNexis, lexis.
com is recognised as the Scopus database, online editorial and one of the foremost online research tools for production systems, and industry-specific practising lawyers, providing subscribers with solutions for corporate R&D markets.
access to seven billion searchable documents.
The Shepards Citations Service is a well In LexisNexis, substantial investment has known and highly reputed reference resource been made in Total Solutions offerings Shepardizing is a common process for such as Total Litigator and Total Practice lawyers checking the authority of cases Advantage.
Alongside this, major investments or statutory references.
have been made in technology, in particular in online research functionalities and in the Many of the Reed Exhibitions shows, which development of the global online delivery include World Travel Market, Mipim, MIDEM, platform.
These investments are critical to Batimat and the JCK Jewellery shows, are providing integrated workflow solutions to acknowledged as the premier marketing our customers.
Significant investment has events in their field.
also been made in new content development and in expanded sales and marketing Reed Business Informations well known activities.
Investment in recent years in a magazine titles such as Variety, Estates major second data centre has expanded Gazette and Elsevier are widely read for operational capabilities and is providing their authoritative content and up to date greater flexibility in continuous delivery.
Reed Elsevier is a business with a rich and complex variety of activities across many different market segments and geographies.
Its friendly and collegiate atmosphere gives graduates a good opportunity for personal growth and development.
Max Khan Associate, Corporate Strategy Reed Elsevier 42 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Resources and A new investment programme now underway Workforce investments is aimed at transforming the productivity of Reed Elseviers workforce is highly skilled and continued US legal research with modernised technology a large proportion are graduates.
It includes and advanced algorithms and functionality some 3,000 IT specialists and developers, to provide much more powerful contextual 8,000 editorial staff, and some 11,000 specialist solutions for customers and at greater speed.
marketing, sales and customer service staff.
Combined with this is a major upgrade in back Reed Elsevier aims to be an employer office infrastructure and customer service and of choice, known for its best practices Workforce support platforms to provide an integrated and in recruiting and developing employees.
1 superior customer experience across our US legal research, client development and We seek to employ a workforce which solutions products.
reflects the diversity of our customers and communities.
Our labour and employment 2 4 Reed Exhibitions has continued to grow practices are consistent with the principles of 3 its portfolio through launching events and the United Nations Global Compact regarding through geographical expansion, with 24 fair and non-discriminatory labour practices.
show launches in 2008, primarily in the BRIC Every two years or so we conduct a global 1 Editorial 25% countries and the Middle East.
The business employee opinion survey to identify areas 2 Sales, marketing and customer continues to develop new online products, for improvement.
Every employee in the services 34% including online communities which company takes part in the annual Personal 3 IT 10% compliment and widen the footprint of existing Development Programme, which reviews 4 Admin and other 31% events and brands.
The latest such community skills and performance and identifies is INTERPHEX365.
com, which aims to become opportunities for recognition and advancement.
the Life Sciences industrys most in-depth and The Personal Development Programme comprehensive online resource for gaining is also the primary tool for assessing and insights on the news, companies and planning employee training.
technologies shaping the life science industries.
Reed Elseviers remuneration policies are designed to attract, retain and motivate Reed Business Information has continued employees of the highest calibre and to develop and expand its online advertising experience needed to shape and execute and paid data services.
The remuneration packages of the a strong mix of online products including directors and senior executives comprise a lead generation services, recruitment sites, balance between fixed remuneration and webzines and paid data tools and services.
variable performance related incentives, Recent online developments include the including a variable annual cash bonus based investment in BIM technology to enhance the on achievement of financial performance US construction data business, strengthening measures and individual key performance the core and specialist job boards of Totaljobs objectives, and longer term incentive Group, continued growth in online lead schemes.
Pension scheme membership is generation and business directory services offered to all employees in the United Kingdom, eMedia and Hotfrog, and ongoing enhancement the Netherlands, the United States and a of the online community webzines.
These investments are largely embedded within the cost base of the businesses as new product development and market initiatives are a continuous activity.
