1 Executive Directors 48 n 1 Sir Crispin Davis 59 British Chief Executive Officer since 1999.
Will Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and retire in March 2009.
Knighted in 2004 for services Financial Statements to the information industry.
Non-executive director 2008 of GlaxoSmithKline plc and a member of the International Advisory Board, Citigroup.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier was Chief Executive Officer Executive of Aegis Group plc.
From 1990 to 1993 was a member of the main board at Guinness plc and Group Directors 2 Managing Director of United Distillers.
Spent over 20 years at Procter and Gamble where he held senior positions in the UK and Germany, before heading up the North American Food Business.
2 Ian Smith 55 British Chief Executive Officer designate from 1 January 2009, and becomes Chief Executive Officer in March 2009 when Sir Crispin retires.
Non-executive director of Galiform plc.
Was Chief 3 Executive Officer of Taylor Woodrow plc from January 2007 until July 2007 when it merged with Wimpey plc.
Prior to that was Chief Executive Officer of the General Healthcare Group since 2004, having previously been CEO Europe for Exel, Group Commercial Director of Ocean Group plc and prior to that, Managing Director of Monitor Company Europe, a strategy consulting firm.
Began his career with Royal Dutch Shell Group of companies.
4 3 Mark Armour 54 British Chief Financial Officer since 1996.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in 1995, was a partner in Price Waterhouse.
4 Erik Engstrom 45 Swedish Chief Executive Officer of the Elsevier division since 2004.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier was a partner at General Atlantic Partners.
Before that was president and chief operating officer of 5 Random House.
Began his career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Served as a non-executive director of Eniro AB.
5 Andrew Prozes 63 Canadian Chief Executive Officer of the LexisNexis Board Committee Membership division since 2000.
Non-executive director of Cott Corporation.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier was s Audit Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc, an Executive Vice President with the West Group, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed part of Thomson Reuters and prior to that was Elsevier NV Group President of Southam Inc. n Nominations Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV l Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc u Corporate Governance Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV All of the executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC and, with the exception of Ian Smith, are members of the Executive Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Mr Smith will be proposed for election to the Executive Board of Reed Elsevier NV at the companys Annual General Meeting in April 2009.
Mrs Dien fide Boer-Kruyt is a member of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
All of the other non-executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
