54 Structure and corporate governance Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Structure and corporate governance Corporate structure support the principles and provisions of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued Reed Elsevier came into existence in January 1993, when Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV contributed their business by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the UK Code, including the Turnbull Guidance on internal control published to two jointly owned companies, Reed Elsevier Group plc, a UK registered company which owns the publishing and information in October 2005.
The boards also support the principles and best practice provisions set out in the Dutch Corporate Governance businesses, and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, a Dutch registered company which owns the financing activities.
Reed Elsevier PLC Code issued in December 2003 the Dutch Code, with due regard and Reed Elsevier NV have retained their separate legal and for the recommendations of the Monitoring Committee in its national identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLC, which has its primary listing PLCs securities are listed in London and New York, and Reed on the London Stock Exchange, and Reed Elsevier NV, which Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and New York.
has its primary listing on Euronext Amsterdam, have complied Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV entered into a Governing throughout the year with the UK Code and the Dutch Code, Agreement to regulate their relationship following the merger except as and to the extent explained below, and as described of their respective businesses.
The agreement regulates the in the corporate governance assessment documents available economic interests of the parties and the composition of their on the companys website, www.
boards and those of Reed Elsevier Group plc and of Elsevier Reed Finance BV as further referred to below.
Relations with shareholders Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in regular Equalisation arrangements dialogue with institutional shareholders, and presentations Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV each hold a 50% on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses are made after the interest in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds a announcement of the interim and full year results.
The boards 39% interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed Elsevier NV of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV commission periodic holding a 61% interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC additionally holds a reports on the attitudes and views of the companies institutional 5.8% indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV, reflecting the shareholders and the results are the subject of formal arrangements entered into between the two companies at the presentations to the respective boards.
A trading update is time of the merger, which determined the equalisation ratio provided at the respective Annual General Meetings of the two whereby one Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share is, in broad terms, companies and towards the end of the financial year through intended to confer equivalent economic interests to 1.538 Reed Interim Management Statements.
The Annual General Meetings Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
The equalisation ratio is subject to provide an opportunity for the boards to communicate with change to reflect share splits and similar events that affect the individual shareholders.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive number of outstanding ordinary shares of either Reed Elsevier Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the chairmen of the board PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
committees, other directors and a representative of the external auditors are available to answer questions from shareholders.
Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Elsevier PLC The interim and annual results announcements and presentations, shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in Reed Elsevier, together with the Interim Management Statements and other and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders other than Reed Elsevier important announcements and corporate governance documents PLC have a 47.1% economic interest in Reed Elsevier.
Holders concerning Reed Elsevier, are published on the Reed Elsevier of ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV website, www.
Reed Elsevier NV is a enjoy substantially equivalent dividend and capital rights with participant in the Dutch Shareholder Communication Channel respect to their ordinary shares.
nl which facilitates proxy voting.
The boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV The boards have agreed, other than in special circumstances, to recommend The board of Reed Elsevier PLC, the Combined Board of equivalent gross dividends including, with respect to the dividend Reed Elsevier NV and the board of Reed Elsevier Group plc are on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the associated UK tax harmonised.
All of the directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc are credit based on the equalisation ratio.
A Reed Elsevier PLC also members of the board of directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and, ordinary share pays dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax subject to the appointment of Ian Smith to the Executive Board law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed Elsevier NV of Reed Elsevier NV at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, will be ordinary share pays dividends in euros and is subject to a member of either the Executive Board or the Supervisory Board Dutch tax law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
Reed Elsevier NV may appoint two directors exchange rate used for each dividend calculation is the spot euro who are not appointed to the boards of either Reed Elsevier PLC sterling exchange rate, averaged over a period of five consecutive or Reed Elsevier Group plc, and has appointed one such director.
business days commencing with the tenth business day before The names, nationality and biographical details of each director the announcement of the proposed dividend.
Compliance with codes of best practice The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise a balance implemented standards of corporate governance and disclosure of executive and non-executive directors who bring a wide range policies applicable to companies listed on the stock exchanges of skills and experience to the deliberations of the boards.
of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the United States.
All non-executive directors are independent of management The effect of this is that a standard applying to one will, where and free from any business or other relationship which could practicable and not in conflict, also be observed by the other.
materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
A profile, which identifies the skills and experience The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Executive of the non-executive directors Supervisory Board members, Board and Supervisory Board, together the Combined Board is available on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
