Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Business Information Business-to-business magazines, 39 Reed Elsevier online lead generation services, community websites and online Annual Reports and Financial Statements data tools provide information to users and an effective marketing 2008 channel through which advertisers reach their target audiences and industry professionals can access valued information Description of business Reed Business Information in the Netherlands.
Online services continued Reed Business Information provides accounted for 34% of Reed Business information and marketing solutions to Information 2008 revenues.
These products business professionals in the United States, include totaljobs.
com, a major online the United Kingdom, continental Europe, recruitment site in the UK: ICIS-LOR, a Australia and Asia.
Total revenues for the global information and pricing service for year ended 31 December 2008 were 987m.
nl, a news and lifestyle service in the RBI revenue Business-to-business magazines, online lead Netherlands: BuyerZone.
com, an online by source generation services and community websites lead generation service in the US: and 1 provide an effective marketing channel Hotfrog, a global online business directory.
through which advertisers reach their target audiences and industry professionals can Reed Business Information aims to be the access valued information.
The business has first choice of business professionals for a number of leading brands in a range of information and decision support in its sectors and online data services which enable individual markets and for marketing 2 users to enhance productivity through quicker services.
Its key strategic areas of focus and easier access to more comprehensive are: to continue to develop existing and 1 User 45% and searchable data.
Business-to-business new online products and services in key 2 Advertiser 55% marketing spend has been driven historically markets: to develop print franchises by levels of corporate profitability, which itself through brand extensions and redesign: to has followed overall growth in GDP and upgrade the portfolio through investment, business investment.
Demand for online acquisition and divestment: to expand data services tends to be more resilient to geographically in fast growing markets: fluctuations in GDP growth.
and to improve organisational effectiveness RBI online revenue through investment in people, further % of total RBI revenue Reed Business Information publishes over development of online competencies, 400 trade magazines, directories, newsletters, and cost reduction programmes.
34 and over 200 online communities, jobsites, 30 lead generation, data and other online 24 services.
Important magazine titles include 19 Variety and Interior Design in the United 15 States: Flight International, Computer Weekly, Estates Gazette, and New Scientist in the 04 05 06 07 08 United Kingdom: and Elsevier and Boerderij Working for Reed Business Information for the past 14 years has given me the opportunity to work with the best people in online publishing in Europe, Asia and the US.
If you like publishing in a global environment, then Reed Business Information is the place to be.
Jeroen Kuerble Director, Business Leads Reed Business Information Reed Business Information continued 40 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Description of business In the US, business-to-business magazines Online products and services are generally continued are primarily distributed on a controlled sold through dedicated sales forces and circulation basis, whereby the product is intermediaries, including revenue sharing delivered without charge to qualified buyers arrangements with other online service within a targeted industry group based upon providers, and by direct promotion.
circulation lists developed and maintained by the publisher.
Magazines distributed on this Reed Business Informations titles compete basis only are wholly dependent on advertising with a number of publishers on a title by title ICIS for their revenues.
In the United Kingdom, basis in individual market sectors, the largest business magazines are distributed both competitors being: Advanstar, CMP Media on a controlled circulation basis and a United Business Media, Hanley Wood, Part of Reed paid circulation basis.
In the Netherlands, McGraw Hill, Penton and Nielsen in the Business a higher proportion of publications are sold by United States: Eden formerly EMAP, Information, ICIS is paid circulation.
Distribution of magazines VNU and CMP Media in the United Kingdom: one of the worlds is conducted primarily through national postal and Wolters Kluwer and Nielsen in the largest information services, supplemented by news-stand sales Netherlands.
Reed Business Information providers for the through unaffiliated wholesalers.
competes for online advertising with other chemical and business-to-business websites as well as energy industry.
Google and other search engines.
With a team of over 200 people based in London, Houston, Singapore, New York, Washington, Shanghai and Mumbai, ICIS provides price assessments, indices and market news that support transactions worth billions of dollars, plus events, business leads and brand positioning.
Full reports online The Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 are now available to view online.
The website contains up-to-date information and functionality for shareholders including: financial results: business overview and strategy: charting tools to compare key financial information: and PDF area to build your own report.
com annualreport08 The Reed Elsevier website at www.
com also provides news and details of activities with links to its business sites.
