Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 143 Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Directors report The directors present their report, together with the costs, disposals and other non operating items, related tax financial statements of the group and company, for the effects and movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities year ended 31 December 2008. not expected to crystallise in the near term.
As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses Consolidated income statement with those of Reed Elsevier NV in 1993, described on page 54, Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders 52.9% share of the adjusted the shareholders of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV profit before tax of the continuing operations of the Reed Elsevier can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic combined businesses was 637m, up from 528m in 2007. group.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Elsevier PLC represent the combined interests of both sets of shareholders shareholders share of the gain on disposal of Harcourt and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Assessment and significant restructuring costs, was 247m Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective subsidiaries, 2007: 643m, including the share of the gain on disposal associates and joint ventures, together with the parent of the Harcourt Education US K-12 Schools and International companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the businesses.
In scientific and medical markets, Elsevier had combined businesses or Reed Elsevier.
This directors report a successful year with good underlying growth driven by new and the financial statements of the group and company should publishing and continued expansion of online information and be read in conjunction with the combined financial statements workflow solutions as well as increasing cost efficiency.
In legal and other reports set out on pages 4 to 126.
A review of the markets, LexisNexis had a good year despite more challenging performance of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses is markets with continued growth in online information solutions in set out on pages 13 to 30, a description of the Reed Elsevier the US large law firm market and internationally and good growth combined businesses is set out on pages 32 to 42, the Reed in risk information and analytics markets.
Reed Exhibitions Elsevier statement on Corporate Responsibility is set out had an exceptional year with successful major shows and the on pages 50 to 53, and a summary of the principal risks net cycling in of biennial exhibitions.
In business to business facing Reed Elsevier is set out on pages 43 to 44. markets, Reed Business Information held up well despite the difficult economic conditions throughout most of the year due to Principal activities the successful development over the last few years of significant The company is a holding company and its principal investments online franchises.
are its direct 50% shareholding in Reed Elsevier Group plc and 39% shareholding in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, which are Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders share of the adjusted profit engaged in publishing and information activities and financing attributable of the total operations of the combined businesses activities respectively.
The remaining shareholdings in these was 486m, up from 451m in 2007.
The companys share of the two companies are held by Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier PLC post tax charge for amortisation of acquired intangible assets also has an indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed and goodwill impairment was 173m, up 36m from 2007, Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have retained their separate principally as a result of the acquisition of ChoicePoint legal identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier and currency translation effects.
The companys share of the PLCs securities are listed in London and New York and Reed post tax charge for exceptional restructuring costs was 59m Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and New York.
The reported net profit for the year was 241m down from 624m in 2007, which included the Reed Elsevier PLC Financial statement presentation shareholders share of the gain on disposal of the Harcourt The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC Education US K-12 Schools and International businesses.
include the 52.9% economic interest that shareholders have under the equalisation arrangements in the Reed Elsevier Adjusted earnings per share increased 24% to 44.6p 2007: 35.9p.
combined businesses, accounted for on an equity basis.
At constant rates of exchange, the increase was 15%.
Including the effect of the tax credit equalisation as well as amortisation of Under the terms of the merger agreement, dividends paid acquired intangible assets and goodwill impairment, exceptional to Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are, restructuring and acquisition related costs, non operating items, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the gross level the disposal of Harcourt Education and tax adjustments, the inclusive of the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier basic earnings per share was 22.1p 2007: 49.7p.
Because of the tax credit, Reed Elsevier PLC normally requires proportionately less cash to fund its net Consolidated balance sheet dividend than Reed Elsevier NV does to fund its gross dividend.
The consolidated balance sheet of Reed Elsevier PLC reflects An adjustment is therefore required in the consolidated income its 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of Reed Elsevier, statement of Reed Elsevier PLC to share this tax benefit which at 31 December 2008 amounted to 504m 2007: 1,568m.
between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with the The 1,064m decrease in net assets reflects the payment of the equalisation agreement.
The equalisation adjustment arises special distribution, dividends and share repurchases, partially on dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders offset by the companys share in the attributable profits of and it reduces the consolidated attributable earnings by 11m Reed Elsevier and currency translation effects.
2007: 11m, being 47.1% of the total amount of the tax credit.
Dividends In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures The boards of the company and Reed Elsevier NV have adopted are presented as additional performance measures.
progressive dividend policies in recent years in respect of their These exclude the tax credit equalisation adjustment and, equalised dividends that, subject to currency considerations, in relation to the results of joint ventures, the companys share more closely align dividend growth with growth in adjusted of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill earnings, consistent with the dividend normally being covered impairment, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related over the longer term at least two times by adjusted earnings.
144 Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Directors report continued Taking account of both the strong financial performance for Lloyds Banking Group plc 5.37% the year and the more challenging economic outlook, and the Fidelity International Limited 4.96% dividend equalisation arrangements, the Board is recommending Baillie Gifford & Co 4.75% a final dividend of 15.0p per ordinary share to be paid on 22 May Legal & General Group plc 4.10% 2009 to shareholders on the Register on 24 April 2009.
Significant agreements change of control The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial The governing agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and year was 1,245m 2007: 206m, including the special Reed Elsevier NV states that upon a change of control of distribution described below of 1,041m 2007: nil and other Reed Elsevier PLC for these purposes, the acquisition by a third dividends of 204m 2007: 206m.
party of 50% or more of the issued share capital having voting rights, should there not be a comparable offer from the offeror Special distribution and share consolidation for Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier NV may serve notice upon On 18 January 2008 the company paid a special distribution of Reed Elsevier PLC varying certain provisions of the governing 82.0p per ordinary share from the net proceeds of the disposal of agreement, including the governance and the standstill provisions.
The distribution of 1,041m was recognised when paid.
On the same day, Reed Elsevier NV paid a 972m There are a number of borrowing agreements including equalised special distribution of u1.767 per ordinary share.
credit facilities that in the event of a change of control of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and, in some cases, The special distribution was accompanied by a consolidation of a consequential credit rating downgrade to sub-investment ordinary share capital on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares of grade may, at the option of the lenders, require repayment 51 14 116p for every 67 existing ordinary shares of 12.5p, reflecting and or cancellation as appropriate.
the ratio of the special distribution including that paid by Reed Elsevier NV to the combined market capitalisation of Reed Directors Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV excluding the 5.8% indirect The following served as directors during the year: equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV held by Reed Elsevier PLC J Hommen Chairman as at the date of the announcement of the special distribution.
Sir Crispin Davis Chief Executive Officer M H Armour Chief Financial Officer Share repurchase programme G J A van fide Aast resigned 15 December 2008 The Board of Reed Elsevier PLC, together with the boards of M W Elliott Reed Elsevier NV, approved the introduction of an annual share E Engstrom repurchase programme in 2006 to further improve capital L Hook efficiency.
During 2008 a total of 3.2m of the companys ordinary R B Polet shares were repurchased under the programme at a cost of A Prozes 20m and are held in treasury.
D E Reid senior independent non-executive director Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Parent company financial statements R W H Stomberg retired 23 April 2008 The individual parent company financial statements of Reed P Tierney retired 30 January 2008 Elsevier PLC are presented on pages 158 and 159, and continue to be prepared under UK generally accepted accounting Subsequent to the year end, Mr I R Smith was appointed a principles UK GAAP.
Parent company shareholders funds director and CEO-designate on 1 January 2009. as at 31 December 2008 were 2,229m 2007: 2,945m.
Biographical details of the directors at the date of this report Share capital are given on pages 48 and 49.
During 2008, 6,451,449 ordinary shares in the company were issued in connection with share option schemes as follows: M W Elliott, D E Reid and Lord Sharman will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, 659,725 under a UK SAYE share option scheme at prices they will offer themselves for re-election.
Having been appointed between 377.6p and 543.2p per share.
a director since the last Annual General Meeting, I R Smith will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance 5,791,724 under executive share option schemes at prices with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers himself between 424.0p and 659.0p per share.
The notice period applicable to the service contract of I R Smith is 12 months.
M W Elliott, D E Reid and At the 2008 Annual General Meeting a resolution was passed to Lord Sharman do not have service contracts.
extend the authority given to the company to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares by market purchase.
At 31 December 2008, As previously announced, Sir Crispin Davis will retire in March 34,196,298 shares, representing 3.1% of issued ordinary shares, 2009 and J Hommen will step down as Chairman and as a had been purchased and are held in treasury.
A resolution to member of the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
further extend the authority is to be put to the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Details of directors remuneration and their interests in the share capital of the company are provided in the Directors Substantial shareholdings Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 80.
At 18 February 2009, the company had received notification, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Directors indemnity of the following interests in the voting rights of the issued In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, share capital of the company: the company has granted directors an indemnity, to the extent Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 145 Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Directors report continued permitted by law, in respect of liabilities incurred as a result Disclosure of information to auditors of their office.
The company also purchased and maintained As part of the process of approving the Reed Elsevier PLC 2008 throughout the year Directors and Officers liability insurance financial statements, the directors have taken steps pursuant in respect of itself and its directors.
to section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 to ensure that they are aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Conflict of interest the companys auditors are aware of that information.
In that As approved by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General context, so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant Meeting, the companys Articles of Association were amended audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
with effect from 1 October 2008 to permit the Board to approve situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may Corporate governance possibly conflict, with the interests of the company.
A formal The company has complied throughout the period under system is in place for the Nominations Committee to consider review with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate and decide whether to authorise any such conflict or potential Governance issued in June 2006 the UK Code.
conflict, and whether to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation.
In reaching its decision, the Committee Details of how the principles of the UK Code have been applied is required to act in a way it considers would be most likely and the directors statement on internal control are set out in the to promote the success of the company.
Structure and Corporate Governance report on pages 54 to 59.
Charitable and political donations Details of the role and responsibilities, membership and Reed Elsevier companies made donations during the year activities of the Reed Elsevier PLC Audit Committee are set for charitable purposes amounting to 2.1m 2007: 2.6m of out in the Report of the Audit Committees on pages 81 to 82. which 0.5m 2007: 0.7m was in the United Kingdom.
In the United States, Reed Elsevier companies contributed 39,000 Going concern 2007: 60,000 to political parties.
There were no donations The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider made in the European Union for political purposes.
that adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future Financial statements and accounting records and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern The directors are required by English company law to prepare basis in preparing the 2008 financial statements.
a directors report and financial statements for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the In reaching this conclusion, the directors have had due regard company and the group, and of the profit or loss for that period.
After taking account of available cash resources, In preparing those financial statements, the directors ensure committed bank facilities that back up short term borrowings that suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and and term debt issued in January 2009, none of Reed Elseviers supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, have been borrowings fall due within the next two years that require used, and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
refinancing from resources not already available.
The strong free cash flow of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses which The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting for the three years ended 31 December 2008 was 999m, 717m records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time and 756m respectively before exceptional restructuring and the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure acquisition related costs, resources and committed back up that the financial statements comply with applicable law.
facilities in place, and Reed Elseviers ability to access debt capital markets, taken together, provide confidence that Reed Elsevier The directors have general responsibility for taking reasonable will be able to meet its obligations as they become due.
Further steps to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and information on liquidity of the combined businesses can be detect fraud and other irregularities.
found on pages 24, 25 and 27 of the Chief Financial Officers report and in note 19 of the combined financial statements.
Directors responsibility statement The board confirms that to the best of its knowledge: Payments to suppliers Reed Elsevier companies agree terms and conditions for the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance business transactions with suppliers and payment is made with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by on these terms.
The average time taken to pay suppliers was the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted between 30 and 45 days 2007: between 30 and 45 days.
by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial position and profit or loss of the group: and Auditors the Directors Report includes a fair review of the Resolutions for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors development and performance of the business and of the company and authorising the directors to fix their the position of the group, together with a description remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming Annual of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Neither the company nor the directors accept any liability to By order of the Board Registered Office any person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, Stephen J Cowden 1-3 Strand any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any Secretary London untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined 18 February 2009 WC2N 5JR in accordance with Section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
