Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 61 Directors remuneration report Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Directors remuneration report continued Our remuneration philosophy Remuneration Committee Reed Elseviers guiding remuneration philosophy for senior executives is based on the following precepts: Constitution Throughout 2008, the Committee consisted of independent Performance-related compensation: this is underpinned non-executive directors, as defined by the Combined Code of by Reed Elseviers demanding performance standards.
the FSA Listing Rules and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, and the Chairman of Reed Elsevier.
Details of Committee members Creation of shareholder value: this is at the heart of our and meeting attendance are contained in the section on Structure corporate strategy and is vital to meeting our investors goals.
The Company Secretary, Stephen Competitive remuneration opportunity: this helps Reed Cowden, also attends the meetings in his capacity as secretary Elsevier attract and retain the best executive talent from to the Committee.
At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, anywhere in the world.
the Reed Elsevier CEO attends appropriate parts of the meetings.
A balanced mix of remuneration between fixed and variable Ian Fraser Group HR Director and Philip Wills Director, elements, and short and long term performance.
Compensation and Benefits provided material advice to the Committee during the year.
Aligning the interests of executive directors with shareholders.
Advisors Our remuneration policy Towers Perrin acted as external advisers to the Committee In line with this guiding philosophy our remuneration policy is throughout 2008 and also provided market data and data analysis.
Towers Perrin also provide actuarial and other human resources consultancy services directly to some Reed Elsevier companies.
Reed Elsevier aims to provide a total remuneration package that is able to attract and retain the best executive talent Terms of reference from anywhere in the world, at an appropriate level of cost.
The Committee is responsible for: In reaching decisions on executive remuneration, Setting the remuneration in all its forms, and the terms the Committee takes into account the remuneration of the service contracts and all other terms and conditions arrangements and levels of increase applicable to senior of employment of directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc management and Reed Elsevier employees generally.
appointed to any executive office of employment.
The Committee considers the social, governance, and environmental implications of its decisions, particularly when Advising the Chief Executive Officer on the remuneration of members of the Management Committee other than setting and measuring performance objectives and targets, and seeks to ensure that incentives are consistent with the executive directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and of the Company Secretary.
Total remuneration of senior executives will be competitive Providing advice to the Chief Executive Officer, as required, with that of executives in similar positions in comparable on major policy issues affecting the remuneration of companies, which includes global sector peers and executives at a senior level below the Board.
companies of similar scale and international complexity.
Establishing and amending the rules of all share-based Competitiveness is assessed in terms of total remuneration incentive plans for approval by shareholders.
ie salary, short and long term incentives and benefits.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be The intention is to provide total remuneration that reflects found on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
sustained individual and business performance: ie median performance will be rewarded by total remuneration that is positioned around the median of relevant market data and upper quartile performance by upper quartile total Executive directors remuneration.
Remuneration philosophy and policy The Committee will consider all available discretion to claw The context for Reed Elseviers remuneration policy and practices back any payouts made on the basis of materially misstated is set by the needs of a group of global business divisions, each of data.
With effect from 2009, the rules of all incentive plans which operates internationally by line of business.
Furthermore, have been amended to provide for specific provisions in Reed Elseviers market listings in London and Amsterdam this regard.
combined with the majority of its employees being based in the US provides a particular set of challenges in the design and operation of remuneration policy.
