Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 45 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Key performance The key financial performance measures Adjusted profit attributable to measures used by Reed Elsevier and the bases of shareholders reported profit attributable their calculation are as follows: to shareholders before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill Revenue as reported in the financial impairment, exceptional restructuring statements.
and acquisition related costs, disposals and other non operating items, related tax Adjusted operating profit reported effects and movements on deferred tax operating profit before amortisation of balances not expected to crystallise in the acquired intangible assets and goodwill near term.
impairment, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, and share Adjusted earnings per share adjusted of taxation of joint ventures.
profit attributable to shareholders of each parent company divided by the respective Adjusted operating margin adjusted average number of ordinary shares in operating profit expressed as a percentage issue in the period.
Adjusted operating cash flow cash Adjusted profit before tax reported profit generated from operations plus dividends before tax before amortisation of acquired from joint ventures less net capital intangible assets and goodwill impairment, expenditure on property, plant and exceptional restructuring and acquisition equipment and internally developed related costs, share of taxation of joint intangible assets, and excluding payments ventures, disposals and other in relation to exceptional restructuring non operating items.
Effective tax rate on adjusted profit Free cash flow adjusted operating cash before tax reflects the tax rate excluding flow less net interest and taxes paid and movements on deferred tax balances not excluding cash tax benefits of exceptional expected to crystallise in the near term, restructuring and acquisition related costs.
more closely aligning with cash taxes payable, and includes the benefit of Constant currency growth growth rates deductible tax amortisation on acquired calculated using the prior year average goodwill and intangible assets.
Adjusted profit after tax reported profit Underlying growth constant currency after tax before amortisation of acquired growth rates excluding acquisitions and intangible assets and goodwill impairment, disposals.
exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, disposals and other Total shareholder return TSR the non operating items, related tax effects aggregate of share price growth over a and movements on deferred tax balances specified period of time and the value of not expected to crystallise in the near term.
dividends paid during that time, assuming that such dividends are reinvested in the shares.
46 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Key performance Return on capital employed adjusted Performance in respect of the principal key measures operating profit less taxation at the performance measures for Reed Elsevier continued effective rate for the year expressed as is described in the Chief Executive Officers a percentage of average capital employed, Report and the Operating and Financial being the aggregate of gross goodwill Review above.
adjusted to exclude the gross up to goodwill in respect of deferred tax The derivations of adjusted operating profit, liabilities on acquisitions and acquired adjusted profit before tax, adjusted profit intangible assets, property, plant and attributable, and adjusted operating cash flow equipment, internally developed intangible are disclosed in the notes to the combined assets, working capital, net pension financial statements.
The derivation of the assets, less provisions.
adjusted earnings per share of the parent companies is shown in the notes to the The source data for calculating the key respective Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed performance measures is obtained from Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements.
the Reed Elsevier financial reporting system.
The adjusted figures are adopted as key performance measures since they measure performance without reference to non cash amortisation of intangible assets and impairment of goodwill, mostly acquired in prior periods, which has no operational relevance to current performance.
Exceptional restructuring costs are excluded as they are typically one-off in nature and directed at improving the ongoing operational performance measured through the adjusted figures.
Acquisition related expenses are excluded since they are a direct function of the relevant acquisition activity and not a reflection of ongoing operational performance.
Underlying growth, excluding acquisitions and disposals, is measured to provide an assessment of year-on-year organic growth without distortion for part year contributions.
Constant currency growth is measured to give a better reflection of year-on-year performance before translation and other currency effects in arriving at the reported figures in the reporting currencies of the parent companies.
