16 Operating and financial review continued Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 of the weaker economic environment on demand for pre-employment screening and for identity verification % change at products from the mortgage and financial services sector.
2008 2007 % constant The integration of ChoicePoint and the LexisNexis risk m m change currencies information and analytics group is progressing well, Revenue led by one management team drawn from both businesses United States 1,395 1,113 25% 16% headquartered in Atlanta, and is firmly on track to deliver International 545 481 13% 6% the targeted annual cost savings of $150 million by the third year of ownership.
Overall, the ChoicePoint Total 1,940 1,594 22% 13% acquisition is on track to hit our returns targets.
Adjusted operating profit 513 406 26% 18% Adjusted operating margin 26.4% 25.5% 0.9pts 1.1pts The LexisNexis International business saw good underlying revenue growth of 5%, driven by new LexisNexis has had a good year despite more challenging publishing and the growing penetration of online markets, with continued growth in online information information services across its markets.
Good growth solutions in the US large law firm market and was seen in UK legal markets, France and elsewhere internationally, and good growth in risk information in Europe, and in South Africa, although the growth rate and analytics markets.
Good revenue growth and the was behind the previous years reflecting the tougher cost actions taken to improve efficiency delivered economic environment.
Electronic products now account significant margin improvement.
for 46% of International revenues and the business has continued to expand its workflow solutions through Revenues were up 5% at constant currencies and organic development and selective acquisition.
In April, adjusted operating profits up 10% before acquisitions the Latin American business was sold as it did not offer and disposals.
Underlying margin improvement was sufficiently attractive strategic and financial returns.
130 basis points, driven by the good revenue growth Taking acquisitions and disposals into account, revenues and tight cost management.
were up 6% at constant currencies.
Including the ChoicePoint business acquired in During the year, LexisNexis has continued to invest September 2008 and after other acquisitions and significantly in developing and enhancing its workflow disposals, revenues were 13% higher at constant solutions, adding content and functionality and currencies and adjusted operating profits up 18%.
A particular focus has been in The overall adjusted operating margin was up practice management, litigation services and in client 95 basis points at reported exchange rates to 26.4%.
development which has seen the acceleration of Martindale-Hubbells evolution from a legal directory LexisNexis US saw underlying revenue growth of 4%.
business to a web marketing services provider for law In US legal markets, good growth in online information firms and online legal market place for consumers.
solutions in the large law firm market was tempered A new investment programme now underway is aimed by slower growth in smaller law firms and marginal at transforming the productivity of US legal research with declines in corporate and government markets reflecting modernised technology and advanced algorithms and an increasingly challenging economic environment.
The functionality to provide much more powerful contextual risk information and analytics group saw 8% underlying solutions for customers and at greater speed.
Combined growth, ie before taking into account the ChoicePoint with this is a major upgrade in back office infrastructure business, driven by the collections sector, government and customer service and support platforms to provide and growing demand from the insurance, healthcare an integrated and superior customer experience and energy sectors, whilst revenues from the financial across our US legal research, client development services sector were flat.
Including acquisitions and and solutions products.
disposals, revenues were up 16% at constant currencies.
LexisNexis saw significant further improvement in ChoicePoint, acquired in September 2008, saw strong adjusted operating margin through organisational proforma 2008 underlying revenue growth of 10% in consolidation and restructuring.
The US Legal business the insurance business, which contributes over 85% of and the Corporate and Public Markets business other ChoicePoints adjusted operating profits.
The insurance than Risk were combined into one organisation early business, which helps insurance carriers evaluate in the year and the US operations consolidated with underwriting risk, was driven by increased transaction significant streamlining of management and operational activity, reflecting insurance policy churn in the auto activities.
In addition to cost savings, this realignment and property insurance markets, and by the increasing positions the organisation better to support the adoption by carriers of more powerful analytics in development and marketing of Total Solutions.
The remaining ChoicePoint Outsourcing of non-core activities has also accelerated businesses saw revenues 6% lower reflecting the effect with the outsourcing of systems engineering and C. L. U. E. a service developed by ChoicePoint and acquired by LexisNexis in September 2008, has changed the dynamics of the US property and casualty insurance industry over the past two decades.
The nations most comprehensive personal loss history database is a vital tool for pricing insurance policies.
Automobile and property insurers use C. L. U. E. to assess risk and to mitigate fraud.
Search 200 million auto and 40 million property loss records Refine risk Generate assessment loss history using report of the analytical consumer tools Integrate with Insurer insurance assesses risk carrier and quotes in-house price to systems consumer
