Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 163 Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board which jointly Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Elsevier NV make up the Combined Board present their report, together shareholders 50% share of the gain on disposal of Harcourt with the financial statements of the group and of the company, Assessment and significant restructuring costs, was u313m for the year ended 31 December 2008.
As a consequence of the 2007: u873m, including the share of the gain on disposal of merger of the companys businesses with those of Reed Elsevier The Harcourt Education US K-12 Schools and International PLC in 1993, described on page 54, the shareholders of Reed businesses.
Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC can be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
The Reed Elsevier combined In scientific and medical markets, Elsevier had a successful financial statements represent the combined interests of both sets year with good underlying growth driven by new publishing of shareholders and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier and continued expansion of online information and workflow Group plc, Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective solutions as well as increasing cost efficiency.
In legal markets, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the parent LexisNexis had a good year despite more challenging markets companies, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC the with continued growth in online information solutions in the US combined businesses or Reed Elsevier.
This report of the large law firm market and internationally and good growth in Supervisory Board and the Executive Board and the consolidated risk information and analytics markets.
Reed Exhibitions had an and parent company financial statements should be read in exceptional year with successful major shows and the net conjunction with the Reed Elsevier combined financial statements cycling in of biennial exhibitions.
In business to business and other reports set out on pages 4 to 141, which are incorporated markets, Reed Business Information held up well despite the by reference herein.
Summary combined financial information difficult economic conditions throughout most of the year due to in euros is set out on pages 127 to 141.
The combined financial the successful development over the last few years of significant statements on pages 84 to 126 are to be considered as part of online franchises.
the notes to the statutory financial statements.
The annual report of Reed Elsevier NV within the meaning of article 2:391 of the Reed Elsevier NVs shareholders share of the adjusted profit Dutch Civil Code consists of pages 163 to 165, and incorporated attributable of the combined businesses was u580m, down from by reference, pages 4 to 141. u622m in 2007, principally due to currency translation effects.
The companys share of the post tax charge for amortisation of Principal activities acquired intangible assets and goodwill impairment was u206m, The company is a holding company and its principal investments up u17m from 2007, principally as a result of the acquisition of are its direct 50% shareholding in Reed Elsevier Group plc ChoicePoint less currency translation effects.
The companys and its direct 61% shareholding in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, share of the post tax charge for exceptional restructuring costs which are engaged in publishing and information activities and was u70m 2007: nil.
The reported net profit for the year was financing activities respectively.
The remaining shareholdings u294m down from u855m in 2007, which included the Reed Elsevier in these two companies are held by Reed Elsevier PLC.
NV shareholders share of the gain on disposal of the Harcourt Education US K-12 Schools and International businesses.
Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC have retained their separate legal identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed Adjusted earnings per share increased 9% to u0.87 2007: u0.80.
Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and New York and At constant rates of exchange, the increase was 15%.
Including Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London and New York.
the effect of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill impairment, exceptional restructuring and acquisition Financial statement presentation related costs, non operating items, the disposal of Harcourt The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV include Education and tax adjustments, the basic earnings per share the 50% economic interest that its shareholders including Reed was u0.44 2007: u1.10.
Elsevier PLC, which has an indirect 5.8% interest in the company have under the equalisation arrangements in the Reed Elsevier Consolidated balance sheet combined businesses, accounted for on an equity basis.
The consolidated balance sheet of Reed Elsevier NV reflects its 50% economic interest in the net assets of Reed Elsevier, which Under the terms of the merger agreement, dividends paid at 31 December 2008 amounted to u491m 2007: u2,016m.
The to Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders u1,525m decrease in net assets reflects the payment of the are, other than in special circumstances, equalised at the special distribution, dividends and share repurchases, partially gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit received by certain offset by the companys share in the attributable profits of Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures are Parent company financial statements presented as additional performance measures.
These exclude, In accordance with article 2:362 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, in relation to the results of joint ventures, the companys share the individual parent company financial statements of of amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill Reed Elsevier NV presented on pages 179 to 181 are prepared impairment, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related under UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
costs, disposals and other non operating items, related tax The profit attributable to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV effects and movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities was u1,255m 2007: u1,462m and net assets as at 31 December not expected to crystallise in the near term.
2008, principally representing the investments in Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV under the historical Consolidated income statement cost method and loans to their subsidiaries, were u3,823m Reed Elsevier NVs shareholders 50% share of the adjusted 2007: u4,105m.
Free reserves as at 31 December 2008 were profit before tax of the continuing operations of the Reed Elsevier u3,605m 2007: u2,232m, comprising reserves less shares held combined businesses was u759m, up from u729m in 2007. in treasury and including, at 31 December 2008, paid-in surplus.
164 Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board continued Dividends 2,497,344 under executive share option schemes at prices between u9.34 and u11.65 per share.
The boards of the company and Reed Elsevier PLC have adopted progressive dividend policies in recent years in respect of their 4,900 under convertible debentures at prices between equalised dividends that, subject to currency considerations, u10.35 and u12.21 per share.
more closely align dividend growth with growth in adjusted earnings, consistent with the dividend normally being covered Information regarding shares outstanding at 31 December 2008 over the longer term at least two times by adjusted earnings.
Taking account of both the strong financial performance for 35,130,213 of the ordinary shares were held in treasury including the year and the more challenging economic outlook, and the 11,177,422 held by the Reed Elsevier Group plc employee benefit dividend equalisation arrangements, the Combined Board is trust.
Additionally 135,179 R shares of u0.70 were held in treasury.
recommending a final dividend of u0.290 per ordinary share to be paid on 22 May 2009.
The level of equalised dividend includes Based on the public database of and on notification received the effect of the significant appreciation of the euro against from The Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets, the sterling since the prior year dividend proposal date.
company is aware of interests in the capital and voting rights of the issued share capital of the company of at least 5% by The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial Reed Elsevier PLC and Mondrian Investment Partners Limited.
year was u1,569m 2007: u310m, including the special distribution described below of u1,299m 2007: nil and other Significant agreements change of control dividends of u270m 2007: u310m.
The governing agreement between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC states that upon a change of control of Reed Elsevier Special distribution and share consolidation NV for these purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 50% or On 18 January 2008, the company paid a special distribution of more of the issued share capital having voting rights, should u1.767 per ordinary share from the net proceeds of the disposal of there not be a comparable offer from the offeror for Reed Elsevier Harcourt Education.
The distribution of u1,299m was recognised PLC, Reed Elsevier PLC may serve notice upon Reed Elsevier NV when paid.
On the same day, Reed Elsevier PLC paid a u1,391m varying certain provisions of the governing agreement, including equalised special distribution of 82.0p per ordinary share.
the governance and the standstill provisions.
The special distribution was accompanied by a consolidation of ordinary share capital on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares of There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit facilities that in the event of a change of control of both u0.07 for every 67 existing ordinary shares of u0.06, reflecting the ratio of the special distribution including that paid by Reed Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating downgrade to sub-investment Elsevier PLC to the combined market capitalisation of Reed Elsevier NV excluding the 5.8% indirect equity interest in Reed grade may, at the option of the lenders, require repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
Elsevier NV held by Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier PLC as at the date of the announcement of the special distribution.
Directors Share repurchase programme The following individuals served as members of the Supervisory The Combined Board, together with the board of Reed Elsevier Board and the Executive Board during the year: PLC, approved the introduction of an annual share repurchase The Supervisory Board The Executive Board programme in 2006 to further improve capital efficiency.
J Hommen Chairman Sir Crispin Davis During 2008 a total of 2.1m of the companys ordinary shares G J fide Boer-Kruyt Chairman and Chief were repurchased under the programme at a cost of u25m M W Elliott Executive Officer and are held in treasury.
L Hook M H Armour Chief In accordance with article 9 of the Articles of Association, at the R Polet Financial Officer 2008 Annual General Meeting a resolution was passed to extend D E Reid G J A van fide Aast resigned the authority given to the Executive Board to purchase up to 10% Lord Sharman of Redlynch 15 December 2008 of shares by market purchase.
At 31 December 2008, 23,952,791 OBE E Engstrom shares, representing 3.6% of issued ordinary shares, had been R W H Stomberg A Prozes purchased and are held in treasury.
A resolution to further extend retired 24 April 2008 P Tierney retired the authority is to be put to the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
30 January 2008 Issuance of shares Biographical details of the directors at the date of this report In accordance with article 6 and 7 of the Articles of Association, are given on pages 48 and 49.
Details of the remuneration of the at the 2008 Annual General Meeting the Combined Board was members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board authorised, until 30 September 2009, to issue shares and grant and their interests in the share capital of the company are provided rights to acquire shares representing up to 10% of the issued in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 80. and outstanding capital of the company, other than to meet obligations resulting from the rights to acquire shares under M W Elliott, D E Reid, G J fide Boer-Kruyt and Lord Sharman share option schemes and to restrict or cancel pre-emptive will retire by rotation as members of the Supervisory Board rights of existing shareholders in respect of such issuance.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, A resolution to renew such authority will be put to the 2009 they will offer themselves for reappointment.
As previously announced Sir Crispin Davis will retire in March Share capital 2009 and J Hommen will step down as Chairman and as a During 2008, 2,502,244 ordinary shares in the company were member of the Supervisory Board at the forthcoming Annual issued in connection with share option schemes as follows: General Meeting.
A resolution will be submitted to the Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information 165 Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board continued forthcoming Annual General Meeting to appoint I R Smith as a Corporate governance member of the Executive Board and to succeed Sir Crispin Davis.
Save as noted in this annual report particularly on pages 57 and 58, the company has complied throughout the period In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, under review with the provisions of The Dutch Corporate directors are granted an indemnity from the company to Governance Code issued in December 2003 the Dutch Code, the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred having regard for the recommendations of the Monitoring as a result of their office.
Details of Reed Elseviers corporate governance policies and practices and the statement Financial statements and accounting records on internal control are set out in the Structure and Corporate The financial statements provide a true and fair view of the state Governance report on pages 54 to 59.
Details of the role of affairs of the company and the group as of 31 December 2008, and responsibilities, membership and activities of the audit and of the profit or loss in 2008.
In preparing the financial committees are set out in the Report of the Audit Committees statements, the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board on pages 81 to 82.
During 2008 no significant changes were ensure that suitable accounting policies, consistently applied made to the companys or Reed Elseviers corporate governance.
and supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, have been used and applicable accounting standards have Going concern been followed.
The boards are responsible for keeping proper The Combined Board, having made appropriate enquiries, accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy considers that adequate resources exist for the combined at any time the financial position of the company and enable businesses to continue in operational existence for the them to ensure that the financial statements comply with foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate the law.
The boards have general responsibility for taking to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2008 reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and financial statements.
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
In reaching this conclusion, the Combined Board has had due Internal control regard to the following.
After taking account of available cash As required under section II.
1.4. of the Dutch Corporate resources, committed bank facilities that back up short term Governance Code, the Audit Committee and the Combined borrowings and term debt issued in January 2009, none of Board have reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal Reed Elseviers borrowings fall due within the next two years that control and risk management during the last financial year.
require refinancing from resources not already available.
The The outcome of this review has been discussed with the external strong free cash flow of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses auditors.
The Combined Board confirmed that the risk which for the three years ended 31 December 2008 was u1,259m, management and control systems provide reasonable u1,047m and u1,113m respectively before exceptional restructuring assurance against material inaccuracies or loss and have and acquisition related costs, resources and committed back up functioned properly during the financial year.
facilities in place, and Reed Elseviers ability to access debt capital markets, taken together, provide confidence that Reed Directors responsibility statement Elsevier will be able to meet its obligations as they become due.
The Combined Board confirms, to the best of its knowledge: Further information on liquidity of the combined businesses can be found on pages 24, 25 and 27 of the Chief Financial Officers the consolidated financial statements, prepared in report and in note 19 of the combined financial statements.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Auditors and as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view Resolutions for the re-appointment of Deloitte Accountants BV of the financial position and profit or loss of the group: and as auditors of the company and authorising the Supervisory Board to fix their remuneration will be submitted to the the Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business during the financial year and the position Signed by: of the group at 31 December 2008, and that the Report of The Supervisory Board The Executive Board the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board provides a J Hommen Chairman Sir Crispin Davis description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
G J fide Boer-Kruyt Chairman and M W Elliott Chief Executive Officer Neither the company nor the directors accept any liability to L Hook MH Armour any person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent R Polet Chief Financial Officer that such liability could arise under Dutch law.
D E Reid E Engstrom Disclosure of information to auditors Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE A Prozes As part of the process of approving the Reed Elsevier NV 2008 Registered office financial statements, the Supervisory and the Executive Boards Radarweg 29 and its members have taken steps to ensure that all relevant 1043 NX The Netherlands information was provided to the companys auditors and Chamber of Commerce Amsterdam so far as the boards are aware, there is no relevant audit Register file No: 33155037 information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
