22 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Chief Financial Officers report Reed Elsevier combined businesses Mark Armour % change at Chief Financial Officer 2008 2007 % constant Reported figures m m change currencies Revenue 5,334 4,584 16% 7% Operating profit 901 888 1% -6% Profit before tax 617 812 -24% -30% Net borrowings 5,726 492 Adjusted figures Operating profit 1,379 1,137 21% 12% Profit before tax 1,205 998 21% 11% Operating cash flow 1,407 1,108 27% 17% Operating margin 25.9% 24.8% Operating cash flow conversion 102% 97% Adjusted figures are presented as additional performance measures and are stated before amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill impairment, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, disposals and other non operating items, related tax effects and movements on deferred tax balances not expected to crystallise in the near term.
Reconciliations between the reported and adjusted figures are provided in note 11 to the combined financial statements.
Revenue m Currency The amortisation charge in respect of acquired 5,334 The average exchange rates in the year saw intangible assets, including the share of 16% 4,584 sterling weaken against both the US dollar amortisation in joint ventures, amounted at reported and the euro.
This gives a favourable effect to 281m, up 60m as a result of ChoicePoint currencies on translation of reported growth rates and other recent acquisitions and currency expressed in sterling.
Goodwill impairment 7% charges of 9m relate to minor exhibitions at constant 07 08 currencies Income statement businesses.
Revenue from continuing operations ie excluding Harcourt Education was 5,334m, Exceptional restructuring costs incurred up 16%.
At constant exchange rates, revenue to date in the restructuring programme was 7% higher, or 4% higher underlying, announced in February 2008 and in RBI ie before acquisitions and disposals.
amounted to 152m 2007: nil principally in Revenue by respect of severance, outsourcing migration geographical Reported figures costs and associated property costs.
market Continuing operations Acquisition related costs amounted 1 Reported operating profit from continuing to 27m 2007: 20m.
5 operations, after amortisation of acquired intangible assets and goodwill impairment, Disposals and other non operating items exceptional restructuring and acquisition of 92m comprise gains on disposals of related costs, was 901m, up 1%.
The businesses and investments of 15m, costs 4 movement reflects the strong underlying of the RBI divestment process terminated 3 operating performance and part year in December 2008 of 31m, a 70m write 2 contribution from ChoicePoint, offset by down to 14m in the carrying value of the 1 North America 49% the costs of the restructuring programme investment in Education Media and Publishing 2 UK 11% and currency translation effects.
Group that arose on the sale of the Harcourt 3 Netherlands 5% 4 Rest of Europe 21% US K-12 Schools business in 2007, and fair 5 Rest of world 14% value decreases in the portfolio of venture capital investments of 6m.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Net finance costs were higher at 192m Continuing operations 23 2007: 139m principally reflecting funding Adjusted operating profit for the continuing Reed Elsevier of ChoicePoint and other recent acquisitions operations, including a part year contribution Annual Reports and and currency translation effects, and include from ChoicePoint, was 1,379m, up 21%.
At Financial Statements 2008 18m of acquisition related costs with constant exchange rates, adjusted operating respect to fees incurred in connection profits were up 12%, or 9% underlying, with ChoicePoint acquisition financing.
ie before acquisitions and disposals.
Chief Financial The reported profit before tax, including The net pension expense excluding the amortisation of acquired intangible assets unallocated net pension financing credit was Officers and goodwill impairment, exceptional 75m 2007: 78m reflecting higher discount report restructuring and acquisition related rates and lower pension curtailment credits.
costs, and non operating items, was 617m, The net pension financing credit was continued down 24%.
The charge for share based payments was 46m 2007: 38m.
The reported tax charge of 155m compares Restructuring costs, other than in respect with a credit of 82m in the prior year, of the exceptional restructuring programmes which included the 223m credit in respect and acquisition integration, were 13m of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 2007: 16m.
and capital losses, arising in continuing operations, that were realisable as a result Overall adjusted operating margin for the of the disposal of Harcourt Education.
continuing businesses was up 1.1 percentage points at 25.9% reflecting the good revenue Discontinued operations growth and cost efficiency.
The gain on the disposal of discontinued operations was 67m relating to the disposal Net interest expense, before acquisition of Harcourt Assessment 2007: 611m on related financing fees, was higher at 174m disposals of the Harcourt International and 2007: 139m principally reflecting funding US K-12 Schools businesses, after 27m of ChoicePoint and other recent acquisitions of recycled cumulative currency translation and currency translation effects, less the losses since adoption of IFRS previously benefit of disposals and free cash flow.
Taxes on the disposals were 49m 2007: 380m excluding the tax credits Adjusted profit before tax from continuing Adjusted operating included in continuing operations described operations was 1,205m, up 21%.
Net profit from discontinued operations exchange rates, adjusted profit before tax 1,379 in 2007 also included the post-tax results of grew by 11%.
1,137 at reported The effective tax rate on adjusted profit before currencies Total operations tax for the continuing businesses, at 23.4%, The reported attributable profit of 476m was similar to the rate in 2007.
The effective 12% compares with 1,200m in 2007, which tax rate on adjusted profit before tax excludes at constant 07 08 included the tax credits, the results of movements in deferred taxation assets and currencies Harcourt Education and the gain on sale liabilities that are not expected to crystallise of businesses.
in the near term, and more closely aligns with cash tax costs.
Adjusted operating profits and Adjusted figures taxation are also grossed up for the equity Adjusted operating Adjusted figures are used by Reed Elsevier as share of taxes in joint ventures.
profit before tax additional performance measures and are m stated before amortisation of acquired The adjusted profit from continuing operations 1,205 intangible assets and goodwill impairment, attributable to shareholders of 919m was 21% 998 exceptional restructuring and acquisition up 20%.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted at reported currencies related costs, and, in respect of earnings, reflect profit attributable to shareholders was a tax rate that excludes the effect of movements up 11% for continuing operations.
in deferred taxation assets and liabilities that 11% are not expected to crystallise in the near term.
Discontinued operations at constant 07 08 currencies Exceptional restructuring costs relate to the Adjusted operating profit from discontinued major restructuring programme announced in operations was nil 2007: 121m following February 2008 and in RBI.
Acquisition related the sale of the Harcourt Education division.
costs relate to acquisition integration and fees incurred in connection with acquisition Total operations financing.
Profit and loss on disposals and other The adjusted profit attributable to shareholders, non operating items are also excluded from the including discontinued operations, was 919m, adjusted figures.
At constant exchange rates, adjusted exchange rates uses 2007 full year average and profit attributable to shareholders from total hedge exchange rates.
operations was down 1%, reflecting the sale of the Harcourt Education division.
The effective tax rate on the profit from Proceeds from disposals of businesses, other 24 total operations, at 23.4%, was similar than discontinued operations, and of other Reed Elsevier to the 23.6% effective rate for 2007. assets, less the cash costs of the terminated Annual Reports and RBI divestment process, amounted to 8m.
Financial Statements 2008 The adjusted profit before tax for total Payments made in respect of the exceptional operations, if stated including the adjusted restructuring costs totalled 72m.
operating profits of discontinued operations, Chief would have been 1,205m, compared to Net proceeds from the sale of discontinued Financial 1,119m in 2007. operations in the year were 270m and taxes paid on completed disposals were 320m.
Officers Cash flows report Adjusted operating cash flow from continuing Debt operations was 1,407m, up 27%, or up 17% Net borrowings at 31 December 2008 were continued at constant currencies.
The rate of conversion 5,726m, an increase of 5,234m since of adjusted operating profits into cash flow for 31 December 2007.
The increase principally continuing businesses was 102% 2007: 97% reflects the payment of the special distribution Adjusted operating reflecting the continuous focus on management to shareholders, the acquisition of ChoicePoint cash flow of working capital.
and currency translation effects, together with conversion % ordinary dividends paid, share repurchases Capital expenditure included within adjusted and acquisition and restructuring spend, partly 102 97 operating cash flow from continuing operations offset by the free cash flow from continuing was 172m 2007: 145m, including 115m operations, and proceeds from the exercise in respect of capitalised development costs of share options and disposals.
Currency included within intangible assets.
translation differences increased net borrowings by 1,281m, reflecting the impact of the Free cash flow from continuing operations strengthening of the US dollar against sterling 07 08 5% pts after interest and taxation was significantly on the largely US dollar denominated net debt.
higher at 999m 2007: 717m before exceptional restructuring and acquisition Gross borrowings after fair value adjustments related spend, principally reflecting the at 31 December 2008 amounted to 6,142m.
Free cash flow m stronger adjusted operating cash flow The fair value of related derivative assets performance and currency translation effects.
999 39% at reported Ordinary dividends paid to shareholders Net pension obligations, ie pension obligations 717 currencies in the year, relating to the 2007 final and less pension assets, at 31 December 2008 2008 interim dividends, amounted to 418m were 369m which compares with a net 28% 2007: 416m.
The special distribution paid surplus as at 31 December 2007 of 50m.
at constant 07 08 to shareholders in January 2008 from the net The movement principally reflects a decline currencies proceeds of the Harcourt Education disposal in asset values in the year.
amounted to 2,013m including 27m paid to the employee benefit trust.
As at 31 December 2008, after taking into account interest rate and currency derivatives, Share repurchases by the parent companies a total of 52% of Reed Elseviers gross amounted to 40m 2007: 199m.
Shares borrowings equivalent to 56% of net borrowings of the parent companies purchased by were at fixed rates and had a weighted average the employee benefit trust to meet future remaining life of 6.1 years and interest rate of obligations in respect of share based 5.3%.
After taking additional account of $1.6bn remuneration amounted to 54m 2007: of term debt issued in January 2009, a total of 74m.
Net proceeds from the exercise 69% of gross borrowings equivalent to 74% of of share options were 54m 2007: 177m.
net borrowings were at fixed rates and had a weighted average remaining life of 6.6 years Spend on acquisitions, after taking account and interest rate of 6.0%.
of 51m net cash acquired and excluding borrowings assumed, was 2,161m, including Liquidity 1,931m in respect of ChoicePoint.
Including At 31 December 2008, Reed Elsevier had deferred consideration payable, an amount access to $3.0bn of committed bank facilities of 1,579m was capitalised as acquired maturing in May 2010, providing back up for intangible assets and 1,279m as goodwill.
short term debt, of which $38m was drawn.
Payments made in respect of acquisition In February 2009, this facility was reduced to integration amounted to 27m and acquisition $2.5bn and, at the same time, a new $2.0bn related financing fees 18m.
committed bank facility, forward starting in May 2010 and maturing in May 2012, was put in place.
Together these two back up facilities provide security of funding for $2.5bn of short term debt to May 2010 and for $2.0bn from May 2010 to May 2012.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information After taking account of these committed bank Accounting policies 25 facilities, available cash resources and the Introduction Reed Elsevier $1.6bn of term debt issued in January 2009, The accounting policies of the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and no borrowings mature within the next two combined businesses are described in the Financial Statements 2008 years, 1,253m of borrowings mature in the combined financial statements.
The Reed third year and 4,528m beyond the third year.
Elsevier combined financial statements and The strong free cash flow of the business the consolidated financial statements of Chief 999m before exceptional restructuring and Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV are Financial acquisition related spend and dividends in presented in accordance with International 2008, the available resources and back up Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Officers facilities, and Reed Elseviers ability to access report debt capital markets are expected to provide The most significant accounting policies sufficient liquidity to refinance the loans in determining the financial condition and continued outstanding on the ChoicePoint acquisition results of the combined businesses, and facility, due in 2010 and 2011, and term debt those requiring the most subjective or as they mature.
complex judgement, relate to the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, share based The business is strongly cash generative with remuneration, pensions and taxation.
conversion of adjusted operating profit into cash at 102% in 2008.
The ratio of net debt to Revenue recognition policies, while an adjusted ebitda earnings before interest, tax, area of management focus, are generally depreciation and amortisation is 3.7x 3.5x straightforward in application as the timing on a pro forma basis including ChoicePoint: of product or service delivery and customer 2.8x using the same exchange rates for both acceptance for the various revenue types can net debt and ebitda.
Reed Elseviers target be readily determined.
Allowances for product remains a ratio of net debt to ebitda of returns are deducted from revenues based 2.0-3.0x over the longer term, consistent on historical return rates.
Where sales consist with a solid investment grade credit rating.
of two or more components that operate independently, revenue is recognised as each Capital employed and returns component is completed by performance, The capital employed in the continuing based on attribution of relative value.
businesses at 31 December 2008 was 13,125m 2007: 7,825m, after adding Pre-publication costs incurred in the creation back accumulated amortisation of acquired of content prior to production and publication intangible assets and goodwill.
The increase are deferred and expensed over their of 5,300m principally reflects the impact of estimated useful lives based on sales profiles.
acquisitions and currency translation effects Such costs typically comprise direct internal partially offset by disposals and increases in labour costs and externally commissioned pension deficits.
Estimated useful lives generally do not exceed five years.
The return on average capital employed for the Annual reviews are carried out to assess Return on capital continuing businesses in the year was 12.1% the recoverability of carrying amounts.
This return is based on adjusted 12.1 11.8 operating profits, less tax at the effective rate, Development spend embraces investment and the average capital employed, adjusted for in new product and other initiatives, ranging acquisition timing and to exclude the gross up from the building of new online delivery to goodwill in respect of deferred tax liabilities platforms, to launch costs of new services, on acquisitions, retranslated at average to building new infrastructure applications.
The 0.3% increase reflects Launch costs and other operating expenses 07 08 0.3% pts a 1.0% improvement from underlying profit of new products and services are expensed growth and low capital requirements, partly as incurred.
The costs of building product offset by the dilutive effect of the ChoicePoint applications and infrastructure are capitalised acquisition with its low initial returns.
as intangible assets and amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Impairment reviews Acquisitions typically dilute the overall return are carried out annually.
initially, but build quickly to deliver longer term returns well over Reed Elseviers average for the business.
The recent acquisitions made in the years 2006-2008 are delivering post tax returns in 2008 of 11%, 8% and proforma 4% respectively.
Goodwill and intangible assets expected to vest requires judgements to be 26 Reed Elseviers accounting policy is that, on made regarding forfeiture rates and the extent Reed Elsevier acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the to which performance conditions will be met.
Annual Reports and These assumptions are determined in purchase consideration is allocated between Financial Statements 2008 conjunction with independent actuaries the net tangible and intangible assets other based on historical data and trends.
than goodwill on a fair value basis, with any excess purchase consideration representing Chief Pensions goodwill.
The valuation of intangible assets Financial Pension costs are accounted for in accordance represents the estimated economic value in with IAS19 Employee Benefits.
use, using standard valuation methodologies, Officers including as appropriate, discounted cash flow, report Accounting for defined benefit pension relief from royalty and comparable market schemes involves judgement about uncertain transactions.
Acquired intangible assets are continued events, including the life expectancy of the capitalised and amortised systematically over members, salary and pension increases, their estimated useful lives, subject to annual inflation, the return on scheme assets and impairment review.
Appropriate amortisation the rate at which the future pension payments periods are selected based on assessments are discounted.
Estimates for these factors of the longevity of the brands and imprints, are used in determining the pension cost and the strength and stability of customer liabilities reported in the financial statements.
relationships, the market positions of the These best estimates of future developments acquired assets and the technological and are made in conjunction with independent competitive risks that they face.
Each scheme is subject to a periodic intangible assets in relation to acquired review by the independent actuaries.
science and medical publishing businesses have been determined to have indefinite lives.
For defined contribution schemes, the net cost The longevity of these assets is evidenced represents contributions payable.
by their long established and well regarded brands and imprints, and their characteristically Taxation stable market positions.
The Reed Elsevier combined businesses seek to organise their affairs in a tax efficient The carrying amounts of goodwill and indefinite manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in lived intangible assets in each business are which they operate.
A number of acquisitions regularly reviewed for impairment at least and disposals have been made in recent years annually.
The carrying amounts of all other giving rise to complex tax issues requiring intangible assets are reviewed where there management to use its judgement to make are indications of possible impairment.
Although Reed impairment review involves a comparison of Elsevier is confident that tax returns have the carrying value of the asset with estimated been appropriately compiled, the application values in use based on latest management and interpretation of tax legislation is subject cash flow projections.
Key areas of judgement to uncertainty and there are risks that further in estimating the values in use of businesses tax may be payable on certain transactions are the growth in cash flows over a five year or that the deductibility of certain expenditure forecast period, the long term growth rate assumed thereafter and the discount rate for tax purposes may be disallowed.
Reed applied to the forecast cash flows.
Sensitivity Elseviers policy is to make provision for tax analyses are performed based on changes uncertainties where it is considered probable in these key assumptions considered to be that tax payments may arise.
Where such a possible change in key assumption would Reed Elseviers policy in respect of deferred result in impairment, disclosure is made in taxation is to provide in full for all taxable the combined financial statements.
temporary differences using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax assets Share based remuneration are only recognised to the extent that they Share based remuneration is accounted for in are considered recoverable based on forecasts accordance with IFRS 2 Share Based Payment of available taxable profits against which and is determined based on the fair value of an they can be utilised over the near term.
award at the date of grant, and is spread over the vesting period on a straight line basis, Treasury policies taking into account the number of shares that The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed are expected to vest.
The fair value of awards is Elsevier NV have requested that Reed Elsevier determined at the date of grant by use of a Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV binomial or Monte Carlo simulation model as have due regard to the best interests of appropriate, which requires judgements to be Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV made regarding share price volatility, dividend shareholders in the formulation of treasury yield, risk free rates of return and expected policies.
The number of awards that are Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Financial instruments are used to finance the At 31 December 2008 gross borrowings after 27 Reed Elsevier businesses and to hedge fair value adjustments amounted to 6,142m Reed Elsevier transactions.
Reed Elseviers businesses do and the fair value of related derivative assets Annual Reports and not enter into speculative transactions.
Cash and cash equivalents totalled Financial Statements 2008 main treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier are 375m, of which 345m was held on deposit liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency with banks rated A or higher by Standard and risk and credit risk.
The boards of the parent Poors, Moodys, or Fitch.
Chief companies agree overall policy guidelines for Financial managing each of these risks and the boards At 31 December 2008, in addition to the fully of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier drawn ChoicePoint facility, Reed Elsevier had Officers Finance SA agree policies in conformity with access to $3.0bn 2007: $3.0bn of committed report parent company guidelines for their respective bank facilities, of which $38m was drawn.
These policies These facilities principally provide back up for continued are summarised below.
short term debt as well as security of funding for future acquisition spend.
These committed Liquidity facilities expire in May 2010.
Reed Elsevier maintains a range of borrowing facilities and debt programmes to fund During February 2009, Reed Elsevier its requirements, at short notice and at cancelled this $3.0bn facility down to $2.5bn competitive rates.
The significance of Reed and, at the same time, a new $2.0bn committed Elsevier Group plcs US operations means bank facility, forward starting in May 2010 that the majority of debt is denominated in US and maturing in May 2012, was put in place.
A mixture of short term and long term Together these two back up facilities provide debt is utilised and Reed Elsevier maintains a security of funding for $2.5bn of debt to maturity profile to facilitate refinancing.
Policy May 2010 and $2.0bn of debt from May 2010 was amended in 2008 to provide more flexibility to May 2012. to respond to investor demand and fund at attractive rates and requires that no more After taking account of the maturity of than $1.5bn formerly $1.0bn of term debt committed bank facilities that back short term issues should mature in any 12-month period.
borrowing and after utilising available cash In addition, minimum levels of borrowings resources at 31 December 2008, no borrowings with maturities over three and five years are mature in the next twelve months, 31% of specified, depending on the level of net debt.
borrowings mature in the second year, 33% of borrowings mature in the third year, 12% From time to time, Reed Elsevier may in the fourth and fifth years, 16% in the sixth repurchase outstanding debt in the open to tenth years, and 8% beyond the tenth year.
market depending on market conditions.
Allowing for the $1.6bn term debt issued in No such purchases were made in 2008.
January and the $2.0bn forward start facility, no borrowings mature in the next two years, In March 2008, Reed Elsevier signed a new 21% of borrowings mature in the third year, $4,350m committed loan facility with a 36% in the fourth and fifth years, 23% in the sixth syndicate of banks to finance its acquisition to tenth years, and 20% beyond the tenth year.
of ChoicePoint, Inc. subsequently cancelled down to $4,207m in July 2008, comprising Interest rate exposure management $2,032m maturing in March 2010 Tranche A Reed Elseviers interest rate exposure and $2,175m maturing in March 2011 management policy is aimed at reducing Tranche B.
The full $4,207m was drawn the exposure of the combined businesses down on completion of the acquisition in to changes in interest rates.
Following the successful of interest expense that is fixed on net debt issue of $1,500m of term debt in the is determined by reference to the level of US market and a u50m term debt issue net interest cover.
Reed Elsevier uses fixed in January 2009, Reed Elsevier used the rate term debt, interest rate swaps, forward proceeds to reduce Tranche A to $470m.
rate agreements and a range of interest rate options to manage the exposure.
Interest During October 2008, following the turbulence rate derivatives are used only to hedge an in the banking and credit markets, there was underlying risk and no net market positions uncertainty in demand for commercial paper.
Whilst Reed Elsevier continued to access the US commercial paper market throughout the period, the uncertainty in demand for euro commercial paper was mitigated by drawing down under existing bank back up facilities for one month in an amount of $461m in aggregate.
These back up facility borrowings were repaid in November as investor demand for euro commercial paper returned.
At 31 December 2008, after taking account As at 31 December 2008, the amount of 28 of interest rate and currency derivatives, outstanding foreign exchange cover designated Reed Elsevier US$7.0bn of Reed Elseviers net debt was against future transactions was US$1.6bn Annual Reports and denominated in US dollars and net interest 2007: US$1.4bn.
Financial Statements 2008 expense was fixed or capped on approximately US$4.2bn of forecast US dollar net debt for Credit risk the next 12 months.
In January 2009 a further Reed Elsevier seeks to limit interest rate and Chief US$1.5bn of fixed rate US dollar debt was foreign exchange risks described above by the Financial issued, replacing floating rate US dollar debt, use of financial instruments and as a result and increasing the amount of US dollar debt has a credit risk from the potential non Officers on which net interest expense is fixed or performance by the counterparties to these report capped to approximately US$5.7bn.
This fixed financial instruments, which are unsecured.
or capped net debt reduces to approximately The amount of this credit risk is normally continued US$3.8bn by the end of 2011 and reduces restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain further thereafter with all but US$0.7bn of fixed and not the principal amount being hedged.
rate term debt not swapped back to floating Reed Elsevier also has a credit exposure to Currency profile rate having matured by the end of 2019. counterparties for the full principal amount revenue of cash and cash equivalents.
Credit risks At 31 December 2008, fixed rate US dollar are controlled by monitoring the credit quality 1 4 term debt not swapped back to floating rate of these counterparties, principally licensed amounted to US$2.2bn 2007: US$1.2bn commercial banks and investment banks and had a weighted average life remaining with strong long term credit ratings, and the 3 of 9.5 years 2007: 8.1 years and a weighted amounts outstanding with each of them.
After the issuance of a further US$1.5bn of Reed Elsevier has treasury policies in place 2 US dollar term debt in January 2009, fixed rate which do not allow concentrations of risk 1 US Dollar 47% US dollar term debt not swapped back to with individual counterparties and do not 2 Euro 27% floating rate amounted to US$3.7bn and had allow significant treasury exposures with 3 Sterling 17% a weighted average life remaining of 9.0 years counterparties which are rated lower than A 4 Other 9% and a weighted average interest rate of by Standard and Poors, Moodys or Fitch.
Interest rate derivatives in place at 31 December 2008, which fix or cap the Capital management interest cost on an additional US$1.6bn The capital structure is managed to support Currency profile 2007: US$1.1bn of variable rate US dollar Reed Elseviers objective of maximising adjusted profit debt, have a weighted average maturity of long-term shareholder value through ready before tax 1.8 years 2007: 1.1 years and a weighted access to debt and capital markets, cost 1 4 average interest rate of 4.6% 2007: 4.8%.
effective borrowing and flexibility to fund business and acquisition opportunities whilst Foreign currency exposure management maintaining appropriate leverage to optimise 3 Translation exposures arise on the earnings the cost of capital.
and net assets of business operations in countries other than those of each parent Over the long term Reed Elsevier targets cash 2 company.
These exposures are hedged, to a flow conversion the proportion of adjusted significant extent, by a policy of denominating operating profits converted into cash and credit 1 US Dollar 39% borrowings in currencies where significant metrics to reflect this aim and that are 2 Euro 36% translation exposures exist, most notably consistent with a solid investment grade credit 3 Sterling 17% 4 Other 8% US dollars.
Levels of net debt should not exceed those consistent with such a rating other than Currency exposures on transactions for relatively short periods of time, for instance denominated in a foreign currency are following an acquisition.
The principal metrics required to be hedged using forward contracts.
utilised are free cash flow after interest, tax and In addition, recurring transactions and dividends to net debt, net debt to ebitda future investment exposures may be hedged, earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation within defined limits, in advance of becoming and amortisation and ebitda to net interest.
The precise policy differs Cash flow conversion of 90% or higher and a according to the specific circumstances of net debt to ebitda target, over the long term, in the individual businesses.
Expected future net the range of 2x to 3x are consistent with the cash flows may be covered for sales expected rating target.
for up to the next 12 months 50 months for Elsevier science and medical subscription businesses up to limits staggered by duration.
Cover takes the form of foreign exchange forward contracts.
Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elseviers use of cash over the longer EPSA is a centre of expertise within Reed 29 term reflects these objectives through Elsevier in terms of trademarks and other Reed Elsevier a progressive dividend policy, selective intangibles.
It has continued the acquisition of Annual Reports and acquisitions and, from time to time when titles, including the trademark Reed Elsevier Financial Statements 2008 conditions suggest, share repurchases whilst in 2008. retaining the balance sheet strength to maintain access to the most cost effective sources ERSA is responsible for insurance activities Chief of borrowing and to support Reed Elseviers relating to risk retention.
Financial strategic ambition in evolving publishing and information markets.
Over the next Major developments Officers 12-18 months the focus is on the repayment In 2008, EFSA issued a CHF150m bond in the report of debt out of cash flow and to restore Reed Swiss public market and negotiated several Elseviers credit ratios to more usual levels.
It was involved in continued the financing of the acquisition of ChoicePoint, The balance of long term debt, short term debt Inc. and treasury aspects related to the halted and committed bank facilities is managed to divestment of Reed Business Information.
provide security of funding, taking into account EFSA negotiated and advised on a number of the cash generation of the business and the banking and cash management arrangements uncertain size and timing of acquisition spend.
in Continental Europe, Asia and Latin America.
EFSA continued to advise Reed Elsevier Whilst the short term emphasis is on reducing Group plc companies on treasury matters, leverage, there were no changes to Reed including interest and foreign currency Elseviers long term approach to capital exposures.
The average balance of cash under Elsevier Reed Finance BV management by EFSA in 2008, on behalf Structure of Reed Elsevier Group plc and its parent Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Dutch parent companies, was approximately $0.5bn company of the Elsevier Reed Finance BV 2007: $0.9bn.
group ERF, is directly owned by Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
ERF Liabilities and assets provides treasury, finance, intellectual At the end of 2008, 91% 2007: 89% of ERFs property and insurance services to the Reed gross assets were held in US dollars and Elsevier Group plc businesses through its 8% 2007: 10% in euros, including $10.6bn subsidiaries in Switzerland: Elsevier Finance 2007: $8.5bn and u0.6bn 2007: u0.7bn in SA EFSA, Elsevier Properties SA EPSA loans to Reed Elsevier Group plc subsidiaries.
and Elsevier Risks SA ERSA.
These three Loans made to Reed Elsevier Group plc Swiss companies are organised under one businesses are funded from equity, long term Swiss holding company, which is in turn debt of $1.5bn, medium term debt of $1.4bn owned by Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
and short term debt of $0.5bn backed by medium term committed bank facilities.
Activities Medium and long term debt is derived from EFSA is the principal treasury centre for syndicated bank facilities, Swiss domestic the combined businesses.
It is responsible public bond issues, bilateral term loans for all aspects of treasury advice and support and private placements.
Short term debt for Reed Elsevier Group plcs businesses is primarily derived from euro and operating in Continental Europe, Latin America, US commercial paper programmes.
the Pacific Rim, India, China and certain other territories, and undertakes foreign exchange and derivatives dealing services for the whole of Reed Elsevier.
EFSA also arranges or directly provides Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses with financing for acquisitions and product development and manages cash pools, investments and debt programmes on their behalf.
