20 Operating and financial review continued Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 decline in print revenues despite market share gains.
The slowdown has affected most sectors, including % electronics, manufacturing, residential construction, change at 2008 2007 % constant furniture and home furnishings, jewellery and m m change currencies entertainment with Variety also impacted by the film and TV screenwriters strike earlier in the year.
Year-on-year Revenue revenues were down 11% in the fourth quarter, compared RBI UK 306 294 4% 3% to a 3% decline in the third quarter.
Reed Construction Data RBI US 288 278 4% -5% bucked the trend with good growth in data services to the RBI NL 202 181 12% -4% commercial construction industry following successful RBI International 191 153 25% 9% investment in online product development, research and Total 987 906 9% 1% sales.
Online services were further expanded with the acquisition in February 2008 of Tectonic, a provider of Adjusted operating profit 126 121 4% -4% building information modelling for the architectural, Adjusted operating margin 12.8% 13.4% -0.6pts -0.6pts engineering and construction industries.
Online revenues On 21 February 2008 Reed Elsevier announced a plan to divest Reed Business Information now represent nearly 30% of RBI US revenues.
RBI which was accordingly then classified as a discontinued operation in the 2008 interim results.
On 10 December 2008 Reed Elsevier announced the termination of discussions to sell RBI as it was judged not possible to structure a transaction on acceptable terms at In the Netherlands, underlying revenues were 1% lower, that time and RBI has therefore been presented as a continuing operation in the combined with online revenues up 11% against only a 3% decline in financial statements.
the print business which benefits from a higher proportion of subscription and circulation revenues than in other Reed Business Information held up well despite the RBI geographies.
Good growth was seen in the agriculture, difficult economic conditions throughout most of the construction and healthcare sectors and in tuition, although year due to the successful development over the last few most other sectors saw revenue declines from weaker years of significant online franchises.
This was, however, advertising markets.
Fourth quarter revenues were down not enough to counter the recent impact on advertising 6% against the prior year, with the third quarter down 1%.
markets of the downturn in global economic conditions, Online revenues now represent 17% of RBI NL revenues.
which was particularly felt in the last quarter.
The International business rest of Europe and Asia Revenues and adjusted operating profits were 1% and Pacific saw underlying revenue growth of 2% with online 5% lower respectively at constant currencies before revenues up 26%, including strong growth from the acquisitions and disposals, or 1% higher and 4% lower Hotfrog online directory search business, more than after portfolio effects.
Adjusted operating margin was offsetting a 4% decline in print.
In Europe, France saw 60 basis points lower at 12.8% reflecting the underlying growth from a recovery in training sales, whilst Spain and revenue decline partly mitigated by tight cost management.
Italy saw revenues decline with weaker advertising markets particularly in the construction and automotive sectors In the UK, underlying revenues were up 1% reflecting strong respectively.
Two small acquisitions were made in France growth in online sales, up 12%.
For most of the year, overall and Spain earlier in the year to build scale and expand revenue momentum was encouraging although weakness online tendering services.
Asia Pacific saw 9% underlying was seen in sectors such as property and technology.
revenue growth with strong Hotfrog sales and good growth However, towards the end of the year, the deteriorating in healthcare and construction in Australia.
Fourth quarter economic environment took its toll most particularly on revenues were flat against the prior year.
Online revenues recruitment advertising across most sectors, with overall now represent 25% of RBI International revenues.
underlying revenues year-on-year down 7% in the fourth quarter, compared with 3% growth in the third quarter.
The outlook for 2009 for Reed Business Information Online revenues continued to grow in the fourth quarter is challenging.
Advertising markets are significantly despite the weakness in advertising markets, with robust impacted by the global economic downturn, with slowing performances from online data products, such as XpertHR online revenue growth and accelerating print decline.
serving the HR community, Bankersalmanac.
com providing Adjusted operating margins will be adversely impacted information that facilitates interbank payments across the by the revenue decline, which can be mitigated only in world, and ICIS pricing serving the petrochemicals industry.
part by the significant cost savings from restructuring In addition to organic development of its online franchises, and other cost actions.
In this difficult environment, RBI UK made a number of small acquisitions to further the focus in RBI is on right sizing the cost base to develop its online services to the energy, aerospace and match reduced revenue expectations whilst maintaining personnel verticals as well as horizontal lead generation investments, particularly against our online franchises, services matching vendors and buyers.
Online revenues now to be strongly competitively positioned as markets recover.
represent over 50% of RBI UK revenues.
In the US, RBI underlying revenues were 5% lower, with 8 www.
com online revenue growth of 9% more than offset by the 9% Top-rated for its breadth of content and usability, XpertHR is a leading online resource for HR professionals, giving subscribers access to legal resources, public documents and Reed Elsevier content.
Compliance, best practice and benchmarking everything for the HR professional in one place.
Stay abreast of UK and EU employment law Increase Create model awareness policies and of HR issues documents Reduce Promote legal best costs practice
