14 Operating and financial review continued Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 During the year Elsevier continued to invest in developing the solutions product pipeline focusing on content integration and interoperability to deliver contextualised % answers instead of documents.
A good example of this change at continuous innovation is Illumin8, an online workflow 2008 2007 % constant m m change currencies solution designed to help corporate researchers answer complex research and development questions with Revenue greater speed and efficiency.
In Health, Mosbys Nursing Science & Technology 848 774 10% 2% Skills had a successful rollout: CPMRC, the provider of Health Sciences 852 733 16% 6% nursing care plans acquired in December 2007, was Total 1,700 1,507 13% 4% integrated within the clinical decision support business: and MEDai acquired in January 2008 was combined with Adjusted operating profit 568 477 19% 11% the payer solutions business to provide data and analytics Adjusted operating margin 33.4% 31.7% 1.7pts 2.2pts on healthcare outcomes.
Elsevier has had a successful year driven by new Significant progress was made during the year in publishing and continued expansion of our online improving cost efficiency through restructuring of information and workflow solutions as well as increasing operations and leveraging shared service functions.
The year saw good underlying revenue Journal and book production operations have increasingly growth, significant margin improvement, and further been outsourced in recent years and 2008 saw a step up major progress in the development of the business.
in production activities in Elseviers offshore facilities in India.
The year also saw significant outsourcing of Revenues were up 5% at constant currencies and software engineering and financial transaction adjusted operating profits up 10% before acquisitions and processing.
These ongoing programmes together with disposals.
Underlying margin improvement was 160 basis the increasing consolidation across Reed Elsevier of points, driven by the good revenue growth and tight cost technology operations, procurement and real estate management.
management are keeping costs under tight control.
Including the effect of acquisitions and disposals, most For 2009, subscription renewals are mostly completed notably the sale in 2007 of the MDL software business, and are encouraging.
We expect continued growth in revenues were 4% higher at constant currencies and scientific research and in demand for our online solutions adjusted operating profits up 11%.
The overall adjusted that make researchers more productive, although operating margin was up 170 basis points at reported increasing pressure on academic budgets is likely to exchange rates to 33.4%.
The health professions continue to grow and our products are integral to their The Science & Technology business saw underlying training, continuing education and practice.
We expect revenue growth of 6%.
ScienceDirect and journal however to see continued weakness in pharma promotion subscription renewals were at a record 98%.
markets and lower growth in Asian markets particularly ScienceDirect saw a continued widening of distribution in imported US medical books given the strengthening of in small academic and emerging markets, and usage the US dollar.
Whilst 2009 may not be quite as buoyant as again increased by over 20% measured by article 2008, we expect satisfactory revenue development and downloads.
Good growth in online databases, including further underlying margin improvement driven by our the Scopus scientific abstract and indexing database, cost efficiency programme.
and electronic book sales also contributed to the strong revenue growth.
Taking the MDL disposal into account, revenues were up 2% at constant currencies.
com The Health Sciences business saw underlying revenue growth of 4%, held back by the continued weakness in pharma promotion markets.
The Clinical Solutions business performed well with new publishing and strong demand for online workflow solutions that combine content with predictive analytical algorithms.
The Nursing and Health Professionals segment also saw strong growth with its successful publishing programme and online resources.
In the pharma market, advertising and other promotional revenues declined 5% reflecting fewer drug launches and a contraction of marketing budgets.
Excluding pharma, Health Sciences underlying revenues were up 6%.
American hospitals lacked 100,000 nurses in 2007: by 2016 a 500,000 shortfall is predicted.
Yet nursing schools still turn down 40,000 qualified applicants every year.
One reason is the lack of clinical training facilities.
Elseviers Simulation Learning System is addressing this by integrating simulation technology solutions into nursing curricula.
Assess virtual patient symptoms Incorporate Combine simulation with Elsevier scenarios course into nursing materials curricula Grade and Enhance clinical remediate training and students decision-making individually
