Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading events organiser, 37 Reed Elsevier with over 470 events in 37 countries Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Description of business Reed Exhibitions hospitality, gifts, healthcare, interior design, continued Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading IT & telecoms, jewellery, life sciences & events organiser, with over 470 events in pharmaceuticals, machinery, medical 37 countries.
Total revenues for the year education, printing & graphics, property & ended 31 December 2008 were 707m.
real estate, security & safety, sports & In 2008 Reed Exhibitions brought together recreation and travel.
over seven million event participants from around the world, generating billions of Many of Reed Exhibitions events are market Revenue by market dollars in business.
As some events are leaders in their field.
Working closely with 1 held other than annually, revenue in any professional bodies, trade associations and one single year is affected by the cycle of government departments Reed Exhibitions 3 2 non-annual exhibitions.
ensures that each and every event is targeted and relevant to industry needs.
The business Reed Exhibitions creates brand-leading is developing powerful online tools to facilitate events, highly targeted and where participants networking, and enhance the effectiveness from around the world come together to do and efficiency of its shows, as well as business, network and learn.
Its vision is broadening its event model to include 1 North America 19% to deliver contacts, content and communities continuing education and professional 2 Europe 58% 3 Asia emerging with the power to transform your business.
markets 23% Reed Exhibitions events are organised Growth of the exhibition industry is supported in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East by new industries and new markets, and Asia Pacific by staff in 24 offices.
particularly as the emerging markets of The portfolio of exhibitions and conferences Brazil, China, India, Russia and the Middle serves 44 industry sectors, including: East open up and develop.
Exhibitions are a aerospace & aviation, automobiles, key means for companies to enter these new broadcasting, building & construction, markets, enabling them to reach and target electronics, energy, oil & gas, engineering, new customers quickly and cost-effectively.
manufacturing, environment, food service & Reed Exhibitions growth has been achieved through acquisitions and launches in key growth industries, and by developing strategic partnerships and replicating its brand-leading events in the emerging markets.
Such partnerships will become an increasing feature of Reed Exhibitions presence in these markets, with the building of local businesses operating close to local markets, supported by Reed Exhibitions global networks and organisational expertise.
My job is different every day.
I have the opportunity to be creative and innovative, meet new people and continually stretch myself.
It is a constant learning curve, so work is always exciting and challenging.
Frdrique Barret Marketing Manager Reed Exhibitions, UK Reed Exhibitions continued 38 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Description of business Reed Exhibitions is expanding the scope The majority of Reed Exhibitions revenue continued of its business model beyond the physical is derived from exhibitor participation fees, event to create online communities such as with the balance coming from advertising in ISC365, PSI-online and INTERPHEX365.
These exhibition guides, sponsorship fees and paid communities provide tools allowing customers participation at conferences and exhibitions.
additional opportunities to interact with others Whilst the exhibitions business is more in their industry, share knowledge and do resilient to economic effects than many business 365 days a year, and they are opening marketing channels, demand for exhibition MIDEM up new revenue streams for Reed Exhibitions.
space and attendance is affected by pressures on the marketing budgets of customers.
Reed Exhibitions is particularly prominent in Every year a number of sectors, notably Travel, for which The exhibition industry has historically in Cannes, it organises some of the worlds leading been very fragmented.
Reed Exhibitions the MIDEM event events, including World Travel Market held is the leader holding no more than 7% of brings together annually in London, and Arabian Travel Market the market.
Other international exhibition some 9,000 music held in Dubai.
World Travel Market attracted organisers with which it competes include professionals from an unprecedented 49,963 participants in 2008.
United Business Media, DMG World Media, over 80 countries Nielsen Business Media, Informa IIR and and covering Reed Exhibitions is also deeply involved in the Messe Frankfurt.
Competition also comes every musical Environment sector.
Leading events include from industry focused trade associations and genre for four Pollutec, the international environment convention centre and exhibition hall owners.
days of intensive show held alternately in Lyon and Paris: deal-making, the World Future Energy Summit in Abu Dhabi: networking, and Offshore Europe, Aberdeen, which brings conferences, together the global oil and gas market to round-tables debate key issues and create common agendas and concerts, for the future of the upstream industry.
and to discover new musical styles and talent.
