56 Structure and corporate governance Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Structure and corporate governance continued Taking into account the assessment by the Corporate Governance A report of the Audit Committees, setting out the role of the Committee of the qualifications and performance of each Committees and their main activities during the year, appears individual director, the Nominations Committee has recommended on pages 81 and 82. to the boards the re-appointment of each director and in the Number of case of Mr Smith, also his proposed appointment to the Executive meetings Number of Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
held whilst a meetings Members Committee member attended Board induction and information Lisa Hook 5 5 On appointment and as required, directors receive training David Reid 5 5 appropriate to their level of previous experience.
This includes Lord Sharman 5 5 the provision of a tailored induction programme so as to provide newly appointed directors with information about the Reed Elsevier businesses and other relevant information to The functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing assist them in performing their duties.
Non-executive directors activities are carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier are encouraged to visit the Reed Elsevier businesses to meet Reed Finance BV.
Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc has All directors have full and timely access to the information established a Remuneration Committee, which is responsible required to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
for recommending to the boards the remuneration for the They have access to the services of the respective company executive directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC secretaries, other members of Reed Elseviers management and Reed Elsevier NV.
The Committee, which comprises only and staff, and external advisors.
Directors may take independent independent non-executive directors, is chaired by Mark Elliott.
professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been approved by relevant companys expense.
the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 60 to 80.
This report also In addition to scheduled board and board committee meetings serves as disclosure of the directors remuneration policy, and the held during the year, directors attend many other meetings remuneration and interests of the directors in the shares of the and site visits.
Where a director is unable to attend a board or two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
board committee meeting he or she is provided with all relevant papers and information relating to that meeting and is able Number of to discuss issues arising with the respective Chairman and meetings Date of held whilst a Number of other Board members.
cessation Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Elsevier Reed Finance BV has a two-tier board structure Mark Elliott 5 5 comprising a Supervisory Board and a Management Board.
The Supervisory Board consists of Rudolf van den Brink Jan Hommen 5 5 Chairman, Mark Armour and Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, with the Robert Polet 5 4 Management Board consisting of Jacques Billy and Gerben Rolf Stomberg April 2008 1 0 fide Jong.
Appointment to the Supervisory and Management Boards are made by Elsevier Reed Finance BVs shareholders, Following the retirement of Rolf Stomberg in April 2008, the in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
Committee has comprised three independent non-executive directors, including the Chairman of Reed Elsevier.
David Reid Number of was appointed an additional member of the Committee in meetings Number of held whilst meetings February 2009.
Members a director attended Nominations Committee: Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Mark Armour 3 3 NV have established a joint Nominations Committee, which Jacques Billy 3 3 provides a formal and transparent procedure for the selection Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 3 3 and appointment of new directors to the boards.
The Committee Rudolf van den Brink 3 3 comprises a majority of independent non-executive directors.
Gerben fide Jong 3 3 Although he is not independent, the boards believe that it has been appropriate for Sir Crispin Davis, as Chief Executive Officer, Board Committees to have been a member of the Committee, since he has provided In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, a perspective which assisted the Committee in nominating the following committees, all of which have written terms candidates to the boards who will be able to work as a team with of reference, have been established by the respective boards.
both the executive and non-executive directors.
Sir Crispin did Membership of each committee is set out on pages 48 and 49. not participate in the Committees deliberations concerning the The terms of reference of these committees are published on selection and appointment of his successor.
the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Jan Hommen relinquished chairmanship of the Committee Audit Committees: Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV in January 2009, following the announcement that he would and Reed Elsevier Group plc have established Audit Committees.
be stepping down as Chairman and as a member of the boards The Committees comprise only non-executive directors, all of in April 2009.
David Reid has chaired Committee meetings since whom are independent, and are chaired by Lord Sharman.
