Directors Report Corporate Governance Director statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect Statutory statement as to disclosure to auditors of the annual report and financial statements The directors who held ofce at the date of approval of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report this Directors Report confirm that: and the Group and parent company financial statements in so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit accordance with applicable law and regulations.
information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have parent company financial statements for each financial year.
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial relevant audit information and to establish that the statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Companys auditor is aware of that information.
applicable law and are required to prepare the parent company The annual accounts have been approved by the directors financial statements in accordance with Luxembourg Generally of Regus plc.
The directors confirm that the annual accounts Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law.
have been prepared in accordance with applicable law The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs and regulations and that they include a fair review of the as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and development and performance of the business and the position performance of the Group.
of the parent company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
statements, the directors are required to: By order of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Mark Dixon Stephen Gleadle for the Group financial statements, state whether they have Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 20 March 2009. the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the parent company and Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with applicable law and regulations.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Luxembourg governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions and the Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to communicate with shareholders in a similar way to that permitted by UK company law.
