Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of directors An international team The Board has a blend of experience demonstrating both depth and global perspective 12 4 56 c 1.
John Matthews worldwide expansion programme and the Chairman development of pioneering workplace solutions.
John 64, British was appointed Chairman of Prior to 2007, Mark was located in the USA Regus Group plc in July 2002 and had previously overseeing the integration of the HQ Global been an independent director since joining Regus Workplaces acquisition and has now re-located in 1995.
John was appointed Chairman of Regus to Europe.
Prior to Regus, he established plc on 27 August 2008.
He is currently an businesses in the retail and wholesale food independent director of Diploma plc, Minerva plc industry.
He was appointed as director of and SDL plc.
A Chartered Accountant, he was, until Regus plc on 18 August 2008.
2007, Chairman of Crest Nicholson plc, and prior to that had been a Managing Director of County 3.
Stephen Gleadle Natwest and Deputy Chairman of Beazer plc.
Chief Financial officer John is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Stephen 50, British joined the Regus Group as Chief Financial officer in October 2005.
Mark Dixon to Regus, he was Group Financial Controller of Chief Executive officer Tarmac plc and Finance Director at both Synstar Mark 49, British, resident in Monaco founded plc and lastminute.
Stephen is a the Regus Group in 1989 and has been Chief Chartered Accountant.
He was appointed Executive for over 19 years, leading the Groups director of Regus plc on 18 August 2008.
Lance Browne 3 Independent non-executive director Lance 59, British, resident in Shanghai was appointed a non-executive director of Regus plc on 27 August 2008.
Lance is Vice Chairman of Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, Chairman of China Goldmines plc, nonexecutive director of Earthport plc and Chairman of the IMI China Advisory Board.
He was previously China Senior Advisor to the City of London, non-executive director of IMI plc and Director of Business Development at Powergen International HK.
Ulrich Ogiermann 7 Independent non-executive director Ulrich 49, German, resident in Luxembourg was appointed a non-executive director of Regus plc on 27 August 2008.
Ulrich is President and Chief Executive of Cargolux Airlines International SA.
Ulrich previously held a senior position with Lufthansa.
Douglas Sutherland Independent non-executive director Douglas 52, United States citizen, resident in Luxembourg was appointed a non-executive director of Regus plc on 27 August 2008.
Douglas was previously Chief Financial officer a, b, c 4.
Martin Robinson of Skype during its acquisition by eBay in Independent senior non-executive director October 2005 and was also Chief Financial Martin 46, British was appointed independent officer at SecureWave during its acquisition senior non-executive director of Regus plc on by PatchLink in July 2007.
Prior to this, Douglas 27 August 2008 and has been a non-executive enjoyed a career of over 20 years with Arthur director of the Regus Group since August 2002.
Andersen as a partner for over a decade.
Martin is Chairman of Center Parcs UK, Chairman Douglas is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
of Alta Velocita, a director of Figaro LLP and a director of the Supervisory Board of EuroDisney SCA.
Until 2007, he was Chairman of Health Club Holdings and is a former CEO and Chairman of Center Parcs Europe.
He has previously held senior management positions with Scottish and Newcastle plc and Sara Lee Corporation and Notes worked as a Management Consultant for four a Member of the Audit Committee years with McKinsey & Co Inc. Martin is b Member of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
