Governance 27 Directors report Directors report Directors report Principal activities No.
of Nature of 27 Principal activities Substantial shareholding % ordinary shares holding 27 Business review The company is the holding company of a group which Schroders plc 13.041 236,680,935 Indirect through its operating businesses in some 50 countries 27 Results and dividend Invesco Ltd 10.040 182,368,729 Direct provides a range of, principally, business to business 27 Substantial interests Lloyds Banking Group plc 5.677 103,034,344 Indirect and share capital support services.
A summary description of the groups Aviva plc and subsidiaries 5.110 92,754,576 Direct 27 Electronic activities is given on pages 6 and 7 and a more detailed Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.003 90,790,221 Indirect communications description is contained within the business review on Silchester International 27 Board pages 8 to 21.
The principal subsidiary undertakings and Investors Ltd 3.998 72,556,947 Direct 28 Directors interests joint ventures of the company are shown on page 97.
Legal and General 28 Directors indemnity Group plc 3.990 72,494,739 Indirect and insurance Business review Orbis Holdings Ltd 3.100 56,278,825 Indirect 28 Interests of directors in contracts The business review, on pages 8 to 21 forms part of this report and reports on the groups activities during the 28 Related party i Ameriprise Financial includes Threadneedle Asset Management transactions Holdings Ltd. year and on likely future developments.
The business 28 Employees review describes the key performance indicators used ii Value Act Capital Management LLC, The Hermes UK Focus Fund, Hermes Asset Management and Britel Fund Trustees Ltd no longer 28 Post balance sheet by the board to monitor progress against strategy, hold disclosable interests in the Company.
events together with disclosures of the principal risks and 28 Policy in relation to uncertainties affecting the business.
payment of suppliers Electronic communications 28 Other performance Results and dividend areas With the consent of shareholders at the annual general 30 Charitable donations The consolidated profit before income tax for 2008 meeting in 2007, the company is authorised under was 22.8 million the tax on this was 6.4 million.
the Companies Act 2006 to communicate with 30 Research and development Dividends declared out of 2008 profits amount to shareholders or anyone with an indirect interest in 30 Financial instruments 11.8 million.
Net consolidated capital employed is shares by making such communication available on 30 Takeovers Directive 61.9 million compared to 58.3 million last year.
its website, in accordance with Schedule 5 of the Act.
Accordingly, the company will distribute its printed 31 Annual general An interim dividend of 0.65p per share, amounting meeting annual report only to shareholders who have indicated to 11.8 million, was paid on 17 October 2008.
As to the company that they wish to receive it in that form.
announced in the preliminary results for 2008 the The company will periodically canvas new shareholders company is not paying a final dividend on 2008 profits.
on the form in which they wish to receive their shareholder communications.
Further information on Substantial interests and share capital shareholder services is available on pages 107 and 108.
The company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by an individual Board and there are no arrangements in operation which Biographical information on the current directors may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the company, including their ages and their dates of the company.
As at 19 March 2009 the following of appointment, is shown on page 25. shareholders had indicated that they were interested in 3% or more of the companys issued share capital.
On 20 March 2008 the company announced the There were no movements in the companys ordinary resignations on 19 March 2008 of Doug Flynn as chief shares during the period.
executive and Brian McGowan as chairman, and the proposed appointments of John McAdam as chairman, Authority for the company to make purchases of its own Alan Brown as chief executive and Andy Ransom as shares of up to 181.5 million was obtained at the annual executive director, corporate development.
Alan Brown general meeting on 14 May 2008.
No purchases of its joined the board and was appointed chief executive shares were made by the company in 2008. on 1 April 2008 and Andy Ransom joined the board on The authority is normally renewable annually and 1 May 2008.
John McAdam was elected a director at the approval will be sought from shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and appointed chairman on 2009 annual general meeting to renew the authority 14 May 2008. for a further year.
Richard Burrows and William Rucker were appointed directors on 14 January 2008 and 15 February 2008, respectively.
Andrew Macfarlane resigned as a director on 31 December 2008.
Michael Murray was appointed a director and chief financial officer on 5 January 2009 and under the companys articles of association will offer himself for re-appointment as a director at the annual general meeting.
Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader: 28 Governance Directors report The directors retiring by rotation will be Alan Giles, In Europe the company meets its European Forum Peter Bamford and Peter Long who are eligible and offer European Works Council at least once a year to themselves for re-election at the 2009 annual general communicate with colleagues representatives from meeting.
None of the directors retiring by rotation has across the continent.
It maintains an open dialogue a service contract with the company.
with the Forum at times of business change.
Divisional communications use a wide range of channels such as Biographical information of the directors seeking e-mail, divisional intranets, electronic newsletters and election or re-appointment is set out in the notes quarterly magazines to communicate business issues accompanying the notice of the annual general meeting.
including financial and economic factors affecting the operations.
Great importance is placed on face-to-face Directors interests team meetings.
The interests of the directors and their families in the Applications for employment by disabled persons share capital of the company on 1 January 2008, or their are always fully considered, taking into account the date of appointment if later, and 31 December 2008 are aptitudes of the applicants.
In the event of members set out on pages 44 and 46.
Details of incentive awards of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to to directors are shown in the remuneration report on ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial page 46.
No director had any beneficial interest in the continues and that appropriate re-training is made shares of any of the companys subsidiaries on those available.
It is the policy of Rentokil Initial that the dates.
Any changes in the interests of the directors training, career development and promotion of disabled and their families in the company and its subsidiary persons should, as far as possible, be identical with companies during the period from the end of the those of other employees.
financial year to 20 March 2009 are described in the directors remuneration report.
Post balance sheet events Directors indemnity and insurance There have been no material post balance sheet events.
The company has granted indemnities in favour of its Policy in relation to payment of suppliers directors as is permitted by the Companies Audit Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004.
Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with It has also purchased insurance cover for the directors its suppliers in various countries.
These are either against liabilities arising in relation to the company, as negotiated along with other contract terms or conform permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
This insurance to standard terms applied either by the relevant group does not cover fraudulent activity.
company or by the supplier.
It is the companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated Interests of directors in contracts or standard terms, provided that the relevant invoice is properly presented in a timely manner and is not During 2008 no director had any material interest in the subject of dispute.
At 31 December 2008 the trade any significant contract to which the company or any creditors of the group represented 53 days of annual subsidiary was a party.
purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented 43 days of purchases: UK trade debtors Related party transactions represented 59 days of turnover.
During the year the Other than in respect of arrangements relating to parent company did not have any trade creditors.
employment of directors, details of which are provided in the remuneration report, or as set out in note 34 to Other performance areas the consolidated financial statements on page 96 there In order to help stakeholders measure the success of its is no material indebtedness owed to or by the company strategy, in addition to financial metrics available in this to any employee or any other person considered to be annual report, the company has begun to provide details a related party.
Employees Environment The company attaches considerable importance to The company has had a clear environment policy for communicating with colleagues.
The groups primary environmental impacts take place at a group, divisional, business and team are the use and reuse of water resources in its washroom level in order to ensure that colleagues receive and textiles and Ambius divisions: the use of fuels and accurate information in a timely manner and a variety related emissions across the group: and the stewardship of structures exist for two-way communications at all and effectiveness of materials used in the pest control levels.
At a corporate level the group intranet is used division.
Aside from laundries, the group has very to announce company news with the support of direct limited exposure to environment impacts from property.
e-mail communication from the executive team.
This is In line with our policies and in pursuit of good business supplemented by a periodic electronic magazine called practice, the companys operational businesses are Horizons which features interviews with senior executives about major initiatives and performance.
Governance 29 Directors report continually developing and putting into practice An important programme underway is to update the improvements in operating practices that lessen companys corporate policies and procedures and resource consumption and improve emissions impact.
ensure that they are properly communicated across Actual impacts will always be affected by the level the businesses.
As part of this process the company and mix of business activity.
The group is improving will re-launch its core business principles in a Code its monitoring of its environmental impacts but does of Conduct which colleagues will be expected to abide not set targets at a group level.
by in their daily dealing with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
For 2008 the total emissions data is based upon operations representing over 90% of the companys Since 2006 the company has carried out regular employee base.
Extended reporting now includes all colleague engagement surveys, mainly in the Rentokil fuel used by the companys worldwide fleet of vehicles.
This will be extended to all Throughout the group, 70% of the fuel used in vehicles divisions in 2009. is diesel, and almost 100% in UK service vehicle fleet.
In terms of employee engagement, there has been significant progress in improving over-arching Key data: perceptions of the company as a place to work.
Business In 2008, the companys total CO2 emissions were leaders are reported to be more visible to employees 273 million kilogrammes, equal to 3,463 kilogrammes and the rating of tools and equipment provided to for each employee.
The areas of year-on-year improvement In 2008, the water consumption, based on kilogrammes are shown below: of laundry washed in all of the companys plants, fell Question Trend by 4.6% to 13.74 litres 2007 14.40 litres.
No significant barriers in my job preventing Further details of the companys environment me doing my best 5 performance, initiatives and management Visibility of top management at the company 5 processes can be found in the companys Corporate Considering everything, I am satisfied with Responsibility Report 2008 and on the website the company at the present time 4 at www.
The trust and confidence you have in your company 4 Taking a genuine interest in the well-being of colleagues 4 People Being open and honest in communications to colleagues 4 The group is a very substantial employer, particularly Communication between teams departments 4 in the UK, with over 78,000 colleagues worldwide.
The operational businesses employ a large number of part-time or temporary workers, currently over 40,000 The 2008 survey had improved response rates and people on fortnightly, weekly or hourly contracts.
improved results in all key engagement areas.
In all, there were 9,225 responses a 94% response Geographic area continuing operations % of employees compared with 92% in 2007.
UK 62% Continental Europe 21% The company believes that safeguarding the health and North America 4% safety of employees, customers and others with whom Asia Pacific 11% it interacts is of paramount importance.
Rentokil Initial Other 2% has developed a group health and safety strategic plan, setting objectives for continual improvement of health and safety management and performance for the next Rentokil Initial has an all-encompassing Code of Ethics three years.
Part of this plan includes Lost Time Accident as well as a range of policies, which deal specifically with Rates as one of the KPIs with targets for all businesses.
employees and the people they come into contact with, The companys focus on skills training is exemplified such as customers and suppliers.
All these policies are by the companys signing of the UK Governments available to download from www.
including: Code of Ethics Key data: Since 2005 Rentokil Initial has delivered accredited Fundamental Rights of Employees training for over 1,500 UK-based employees across Equal Opportunities and Diversity a wide range of training requirements including numeracy and literacy skills, customer services and Job Security and Wealth Creation administration.
Code of Employee Remuneration In the 12 months between March 2008 and March Training and Employee Development 2009, over 600 UK employees took part in training which delivers a formal qualification.
Relationships with Customers and Suppliers.
Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader: 30 Governance Directors report Research and development Over 700 field-based pest control employees took part in workshops to improve their financial The company invests in an active programme of capability, delivered in 56 locations supported research and development in support of its major by 42 FSA presenters.
This programme Overall colleague engagement score increased includes the conception, design, testing and to 73% 2008 from 72% 2007. manufacture of new products to enhance the quality, effectiveness and safety of the companys As part of the strategic plan the company has set services and minimise their environmental impact.
new targets to reduce the groups Lost Time Accident Where appropriate, work may be sponsored at Rate from 1.78 in 2008.
The company will continue universities with expertise in relevant areas.
to report against these targets annually.
The companys total research and development expenditure in 2008 was 1.7 million 2007: 1.7 million.
Marketplace Each local business is responsible for developing Financial instruments responsible business relationships with their customers The companys financial risk management objectives and local suppliers, while working closely together and policies are set out within the financial review to develop a global procurement approach where on pages 19 to 21, which includes the policy for hedging appropriate.
The review Customer service and satisfaction is of great importance and notes 16, 21 and 22 to the accounts also detail the to Rentokil Initial therefore as part of its strategic companys exposure to price, credit and liquidity risks.
plan the company has introduced group-wide KPIs of The company is not materially exposed to foreign customer retention, customer service and customer exchange risks arising from cross-border trading satisfaction using the Net Promoter Score NPS transactions, although it is significantly exposed to measurement system.
This is being adopted across foreign exchange investment risks.
the company to provide a standard measurement of customer satisfaction.
Takeovers Directive Communities Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, As a predominately business to business organisation, which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the the companys community impact is relatively low.
company is required to disclose certain additional Rentokil Initials approach to community support and information.
Those further disclosures, which are not investment is delivered locally rather than centrally made elsewhere in this annual report, are as follows: driven.
The selection of which community schemes to The companys articles of association give power to the support is often identified by employees.
Their active board to appoint directors, but also require directors to participation rather than passive donation is particularly retire and submit themselves for re-election at the first important.
The company takes its responsibilities annual general meeting following the appointment and seriously and in 2008 its businesses participated in a for re-election by rotation.
The articles themselves may wide range of activities to support local communities be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The board is responsible for the management of Key contracts the business of the company and may exercise all the The group does not have any dominant customer powers of the company subject to the provisions of or supplier relationships.
relevant statutes and the companys memorandum and articles of association.
For example, the articles Further details of the companys non-financial contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding metrics and activities can be found in the companys the companys power to borrow money.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2008, available at www.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the articles of association and such Charitable donations authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
A copy of the articles of Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2008 amount association is available to view on the companys website.
to 57,000 and a further 85,000 was donated in other countries.
There were no payments to political The companys Euro Medium Term Note Programme organisations.
Payments are made to a wide range of contains conditions that in general terms allow the charitable organisations both in the UK and overseas.
Notes in issue by the company to be put back to the The company operates a matched giving scheme company in the event of a change of control of the whereby the company matches donations raised by company coupled with either a credit rating downgrade employees following employee fundraising.
below investment grade or where the companys credit rating is already below investment grade.
Governance 31 Directors report The companys main central committed bank facilities require mandatory prepayment and cancellation in the event of a change of control of the company.
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company, such as some commercial agreements, financing arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the group as a whole.
The remuneration and contractual arrangements for the executive directors and senior management do not contain any matters that are required to be disclosed under The Takeovers Directive.
Copies of executive directors service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the companys registered office and at the annual general meeting.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting of the company will be held at No.
4 Hamilton Place, London, W1J 7BQ on 13 May 2009 at 11 a. m. In addition to the adoption of the 2008 report and accounts, resolutions dealing with the appointment and re-election of directors and the resolution dealing with the approval of the directors remuneration report, there are resolutions on the following matters: the re-appointment and remuneration of the auditors, a routine authority to repurchase the companys shares, authorities to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights and a general authority to make donations to EU political organisations.
A separate letter to shareholders containing the notice of the annual general meeting and explanatory information on the resolutions to be proposed as special business accompanies this annual report.
This annual report and the notice of the annual general report can be found on the companys website, www.
By order of the board, Paul Griffiths Secretary 20 March 2009 Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader:
