Review of business 09 Business review an early indicator of market trends.
For example, in some of the European Textiles businesses, a general Divisional performance decline in the as used portion of garment contracts i. e. the actual number of garments we process for customers is a reflection of the shift in manufacturing jobs to lower cost countries.
For non-portfolio Initial Textiles and businesses such as City Link, the equivalent KPIs Washroom Services are numbers of consignments handled and Revenue Per Consignment RPC.
Other business and divisional KPIs include growth Market conditions in total and organic revenue and net margin, as a The textiles and washrooms market in Europe developed way to judge the success of performance and consistently in 2008 through to the summer.
Market productivity and improvement initiatives: improving conditions worsened in the second half, particularly in efficiency in a sustained way is fundamental to first the auto and heavy industrial sectors.
While customer stabilising and then expanding margin.
Our business terminations have not risen significantly, existing and divisional profit KPI is operating profit before customers have put reduced volumes through the amortisation of intangible assets.
We have only small exposure to these sectors.
operating profit both before and after one-off items, referring to the latter as adjusted operating profit.
Key performance indicators We believe that to look at underlying trends we need to strip out these items, as they principally relate to Change m vs 2007 one time restructuring rationalisation projects.
Revenue 612.3 1.1% Our activities have the capacity to generate significant Organic revenue growth 0.2% cash flow, although growth in revenues is likely to be Operating profit 86.0 19.2% to the detriment of working capital performance and Adjusted operating profit 85.9 20.8% spend on capital equipment for rental to customers.
Net adjusted margin 14.0% 3.9% We therefore monitor divisional operating cash flow Contract portfolio gain 22.1 10.0% and days sales outstanding which measures the amount New business wins 57.1 4.2% of working capital tied up in trade receivables.
For the Net additions reductions 19.6 32.4% overall group we look at all these KPIs plus some which Acquisitions disposals 0.8 are only relevant to the group as a whole free cash Terminations 53.8 6.3% flow which measures our ability to invest in our Retention rate 90.7% 0.7% businesses and to pay dividends and profit before income tax and amortisation of intangible assets PBTA.
As with operating profit in 2008 we have used adjusted 2008 review profit before income tax adjusted PBTA, which also 2008 has been a mixed year for the Textiles and excludes one-off items.
Washroom Services division, with marked differences between the performances of the UK and continental European businesses.
Overall revenue for 2008 rose by 1.1% 0.2% organic but adjusted operating profit of 85.9 million was down 20.8% on prior year.
Across Europe revenue grew 4.1% on prior year 2.0% organic with all major markets demonstrating growth with the exception of Spain, where falling hotel occupancy rates have created a difficult market for flat linen laundering services.
European adjusted operating profit declined 8.4%.
Revenue in the UK declined 17.9% reflecting in part the exit from the wipers business in 2007.
The UK Washroom business produced a loss of 5.2 million after adding a further 6 million to its bad debt provisions in Q3.
As in 2007 obtaining price increases has again proved challenging in most markets in 2008, with cost inflation leading to an erosion of margins in 2008.
Continental Europe Excluding the UK the division saw strong organic development of its contract portfolio, which grew 5.3% over the 2007 closing contract portfolio.
New business sales were up 9.0%, representing good performances in all markets except for the Netherlands and Austria.
Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader: 10 Review of business Business review Excellent growth was recorded in France and Germany.
a slowdown in hotel and restaurant linen usage, A consistent trend of month-on-month improvement caused by difficult market conditions in the in customer retention to the end of Q3 was marred by Spanish hospitality industry.
a dip in the last quarter and as a result the annual All of the divisions smaller continental European retention rate remained at 92.0% for the year.
Similarly, businesses recorded higher revenue in 2008 than in for the year as a whole the net of customers uptrades 2007.
However, for the majority of these businesses, and downtrades remained steady at a positive 4.1% of the full year cost impact of increased sales investment opening portfolio, although this dipped slightly in Q4.
implemented during the course of the year offset any Approximately 75% of the divisions revenue is growth in profit.
The full benefits of the growth in generated in France, Germany and Benelux.
2008 contract portfolio will not be fully reflected until 2009. revenue from these territories grew by over 4.3% A number of capital investment programmes continued year-on-year as a result of strong new business wins in continental Europe during 2008.
A new plant for in France and Germany, price indexation in Belgium Prague in the Czech Republic opened on schedule and excellent retention rates in France 93.9% and and to budget in November 2008 and a new laundry the Netherlands 87.7%.
However, higher service for our garment textile rental services opened at the expenses in the French and Belgian textiles operations beginning of the year in Lokeren in Belgium.
The total relating to rising labour costs, a back-dated property investment associated with these projects is estimated tax assessment and higher energy costs have impacted to be 15 million, of which 2.8 million was spent in 2008 financial performance for the year.
with a further 1 million to follow in 2009.
In France the industrial textiles portfolio grew strongly from key contract wins secured towards the end of 2007 UK Washrooms and further strengthening of the contract portfolio As the UK business strives to overcome legacy during 2008: the business exited the year having operational issues, performance during 2008 has secured significant contracts with SNCF, Sodexho been impacted by terminations and unacceptably and Rhodia.
However cost pressures, in particular those high levels of credits arising from poor service levels relating to fuel and energy costs in H1, together with delivered from H2 2007 through H1 2008.
Revenue competitive price pressures, have offset any benefit fell 17.9% to 67.6 million, of which 7.0% related to the from increased revenue, the full benefits of which closure of the wipers business in 2007 and 2.6% to will not be felt until 2009.
In the washrooms business credits.
A new management team put in place during investment in infrastructure to increase the rate of the first half of 2008 has made significant progress in market expansion has enabled the business to grow improving customer service levels consistently reaching profits.
Customer retention rates across both businesses 95% for the last three months of the year and the rate were excellent and have shown improvements on the of contract terminations has fallen from its Q2 peak.
The pressures outlined above, coupled with a back-dated property tax charge and some production However, because of the extent of service issues, inefficiencies during the early summer, have resulted accounts receivable has been a major problem for the in a year-on-year profit decline.
business and an additional 6.0 million was provided in Q3 2008.
Although we believe this will deal with the In Benelux, while the Netherlands struggled to grow legacy issues, it has resulted in the business posting the top line, Belgium, assisted by index driven pricing a loss of 5.2 million for the year.
benefits, grew respectably in both revenue and profit for the year.
In the Netherlands the sales team put The new management team has restructured in place in 2006 struggled to maintain the same levels the business, focusing on service and assigning of key account development as those achieved in 2007. responsibilities back to local service centres.
Cost Retention, however, was much improved on prior year.
reduction initiatives are in place alongside efficiency Overall the region grew revenue by 2.9% but profit initiatives which are expected to turn the business declined as a result of an inability to pass on cost around during 2009 and restore it to profitability.
2009 preview Our German Washrooms and Textiles business performed well during 2008, growing portfolio by In continental Europe we anticipate improvements in 7.8%, the result of a 15.5% improvement in new business productivity and capital efficiency.
However revenue sales and a half-point improvement in retention.
progression is uncertain given the very challenging Following the sale in Q4 2007 of the loss-making economic circumstances we are likely to face later hospitals business, management was able to focus in the year.
In the UK the washrooms business is on the profitable businesses, achieving sales growth expected to show improved profitability in 2009 of 1.6% and good profit growth.
due to the avoidance of one-off costs and productivity improvements.
However revenue growth is likely to While the Spanish business achieved good growth in be challenging.
its washrooms and garments activities, revenue was flat from linen services which were heavily impacted by
