14 Review of business Business review In the UK Cleaning revenue increased by 3.7%, largely Key performance indicators as a result of the Lancaster acquisition.
Excluding its Change contribution underlying revenue declined by 7.0%.
m vs 2007 Profit from our Catering business grew on flat revenue.
Revenue 179.9 13.9% This follows the decision taken in 2007 to exit a number Organic revenue growth 3.1% of unprofitable school contracts and this, along with Operating profit 19.7 37.3% procurement and other initiatives, has delivered Adjusted operating profit 22.1 29.6% substantially improved results.
A number of new Net adjusted margin 12.3% 7.7% contracts secured at the end of 2008 will commence Contract portfolio gain 7.5 74.2% in Q1 2009.
New business wins 19.6 31.5% Net additions reductions 4.4 22.2% Hospital Services, which provides cleaning, catering Acquisitions 1.4 86.9% and porterage services to NHS hospitals in the UK Terminations 17.9 24.3% and independent healthcare sector, increased revenue Retention rate 86.5% 0.4% by 3.5%.
This can be attributed to an ongoing focus on efficiency improvements particularly in relation to several contracts identified as being unprofitable 2008 review during the prior year.
A number of contracts that were Revenue in Asia Pacific increased by 13.9% during 2008 up for re-tender have been extended and the trend for but was held back by operational issues in the Australian hospitals to manage these services in-house appears washrooms and residential pest control businesses.
Q4 profit declined In our Specialist Hygiene business revenues were up by 45.6% on revenue down 1.4%.
One-off costs of 5.4% on 2007, with strong growth coming from the 2.4 million were incurred during 2008 as a result of UK and Benelux.
However, profit declined as a result management restructuring to dismantle the previous of integration and management issues in the French country structure and replace it with separate business acquired in 2007.
Management changes organisations for washrooms, pest control and Ambius effected in Q4 2008 are anticipated to significantly in the region.
Divisional costs increased by 2.2 million improve performance in 2009. as we strengthened the management infrastructure to improve control in the region and support its expansion In our Supplies business profit increased sharply into India and China.
as a consequence of increased third party activity, coupled with higher demand for products resulting Australia washrooms from the strong portfolio growth of the European Washrooms businesses.
In the Australian washrooms business revenue and profit has been behind plan during 2008 due to the 2009 preview legacy of poor customer service and badly executed integration of Pink Healthcare.
This has led to high We expect market conditions to be very difficult in 2009 levels of contract terminations, the issue of credits to but this business has a good track record of delivering customers for missed service and poor debt collection.
bottom line improvement as a result of productivity At the half year we reported that following the savings whilst offering excellent customer service.
appointment of new management a recovery plan was well under way.
Customer service has improved steadily from Q2, rising from 59% to 93% during Q3 and Q4, aided by the roll-out across the network of Rentokil Initial Asia Pacific new hand-held scanners.
Terminations, although still high, have shown a declining trend from July through December despite an aggressive debt clearance programme.
A number of terminations experienced Market conditions in Q4 resulted from company liquidations and we The Asian pest control and washroom hygiene market believe these losses to be the first tangible signs of showed modest growth in 2008 despite the tightening economic downturn.
Some softening of markets in Accountability for customers and service is being Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong and Indonesia were restored to branch level and additional supervisors offset by strong performances in China and India.
and technicians have been employed to address service Growth in the Australian and Pacific pest and washroom shortfalls.
Ten small, local technician and sales teams, hygiene markets slowed during 2008, especially in the called Pods have been introduced across Sydney, second half, due to tightening economic conditions.
Customer relationship management is also being strengthened by the creation of a new Customer Care Executive role.
Revenue and profit are on a rising trend.
Review of business 15 Business review 2008 2009 Australian pest control Colleagues At the half year we reported that Campbell Bros.
Colleague engagement our residential pest control business, was job-based Rentokil and Ambius 73.0% i. e. non-contract, had an inflexible cost structure, Sales colleague retention 63.0% was being impacted by poor revenue due in part Service colleague retention 66.0% to bad weather and had not been merged with our Health and safety H&S lost commercial business.
time through accidents LTA 1.8 We are now making good progress in merging Customers the residential and commercial branches.
The new Gross sales % of opening portfolio 18.9% structure will result in fewer locations, a reduction Customer retention % 80.9% in administrative costs and increases in service Net gain % of opening portfolio 2.9% productivity.
We now have a greater ability to flex Job revenue % of total revenue 26.0% resources according to demand and State of Service State of Service 96.0% has improved quarter on quarter.
Customer satisfaction Net Promoter Score n a Asia pest control and washrooms Shareholders Organic revenue growth 0.8% Revenue in Asia was 82.2 million, up 23.6% on the Total revenue growth prior year, but profit declined by 0.5 million.
In Asia inc. acquisitions 2.2% approximately 50% of 2008 revenues were derived APBITA margin % 6.3% from pest control, 45% from washrooms and 5% from Debtors days sales electronic security.
Revenue and profit performance outstanding DSO 65.0 59.0 was disappointing in both the main divisions, held back Cost savings delivered in year 50.0m by Malaysia and additionally in the case of pest control, Cash conversion targets as by Singapore.
In Malaysia we have experienced a higher % operating profit 85.0% 95.0% rate of washroom customer terminations and sales Gross capex as % of depreciation 115.0% credits associated with service issues earlier in the year.
In pest control there has been a slow down in government contracts and fumigation work generally.
Explanation of 2009 KPIs In Singapore pest control the issues have been similar: Colleague engagement Rentokil and Ambius Your we have won less government work and experienced Voice Counts is an employee engagement survey and lower fumigation sales.
The fall-off in fumigation represents the aggregate engagement rating from appears to be a reflection of slowing levels of these reports.
Sales colleague retention is the reciprocal of total sales 2009 preview heads leaving in the year as a percentage of the sales head count at the beginning of the year.
Service Market conditions in most of our Asian and Pacific colleague retention is the reciprocal of total service markets are expected to remain challenging in heads leaving in the year as a percentage of the 2009.
We would expect to achieve a modest overall service head count at the beginning of the year.
improvement across the region through focusing on delivering high levels of service whilst implementing H&S lost time through accidents LTA is defined as a a series of cost reduction measures.
work-related injury or illness to an employee which results in them being absent from work for one day shift Group goals and KPIs for 2009 or more this excludes the day shift in which the accident occurred.
We have identified a new set of 18 KPIs under the following categories, Colleagues, Customers and Gross sales percentage of opening portfolio are Shareholders.
While some previously used KPIs have additions to the portfolio new business and additions been retained others are new and being further to existing business but excluding price increases developed.
We will update shareholders on progress expressed as a percentage of the opening portfolio.
against them from time to time during the year and Customer retention percentage is the reciprocal of total in full at the end of each financial year.
In some terminations reductions and terminations expressed cases the operational KPI data is selective rather than as a percentage of opening portfolio.
Net gain representative of the whole group as we are still in the percentage of opening portfolio is the movement early stages of collecting this data.
Baseline data will in the portfolio expressed as a percentage of the therefore change over time.
With that caveat, group opening portfolio.
results for 2008 and selective targets for 2009 are shown below: Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader: 16 Review of business Business review Job revenue percentage is expressed as a percentage of total revenue.
State of Service is the total number of service visits performed divided by the total number of visits due.
Customer satisfaction Net Promoter Score is measured by the average net promoter score rating across all branches in the business.
Organic revenue growth is revenue growth excluding the effect of acquisitions.
Total revenue growth inc. acquisitions is the year-on-year increase in total revenue expressed as a percentage of the previous year revenue.
APBITA margin % is the adjusted profit before interest, tax and amortisation APBITA expressed as a percentage of total revenue.
Debtors days sales outstanding DSO are trade debtors gross of provisions calculated on the exhaust basis i. e. going back over the relevant number of preceding days invoicing until the debt balance is zero.
The number of days this takes is the debtor days.
Cost savings delivered in year is expressed as a percentage of the total cost base everything between revenue and APBITA gross of the identified savings prior to the savings being achieved.
Cash conversion targets as percentage operating profit is operating cash flow expressed as a percentage of APBITA.
Gross capex as percentage of depreciation means cash capital additions net of proceeds from disposals expressed as a percentage of depreciation.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties relating to our strategy are summarised below.
While some of these risks remain just that, others are more likely to manifest themselves.
The key operational risk to the company is further deterioration of the global economy.
Should our markets weaken it may become difficult for our operational businesses to maintain volumes and successfully pass on price increases to customers.
Cash collection could potentially prove more difficult and bad debts may arise as customers suffer from the recession.
The principal risks are: A continuing weakening of the economies in which we operate: The number, scope, complexity and interdependencies of many initiatives risk of management stretch, overlapping priorities: and Resolving the systems and infrastructure issues in City Link.
