Governance 25 Directors and Secretary Directors and Secretary Peter Long John McAdam Non-Executive Director Chairman Aged 60.
of United Utilities PLC and non-executive director of Appointed a director in October 2002.
Chief Executive Rolls Royce plc, J Sainsbury plc and Sara Lee Corporation of TUI Travel PLC.
Non-executive director of Debenhams USA and a member of the University of Cambridge PLC.
Formerly Chief Executive of Sunworld Limited.
Formerly Chief Executive The senior independent non-executive director.
of Imperial Chemical Industries plc ICI from 2003 to 2008 and prior to joining ICI, in 1997 Dr McAdam Michael Murray held a number of positions at Unilever, from 1974, within Chief Financial Officer its Birds Eye Walls, Quest International and Unichema Aged 42.
a director and Chief Financial Officer in January 2009.
Formerly Finance Director of GSL 2006-2008, prior Alan Brown to which he held various finance roles within the TNT Chief Executive group, including as Finance Director of TNT Asia Pacific and latterly as Chief Financial officer of TNT Express.
Barrister and Chartered Management Accountant.
Appointed Chief Executive in April 2008.
Andy Ransom Formerly Chief Financial Officer of ICI 2005-2008 prior Executive Director to which holding various corporate and operational roles in the Unilever group 1980-2005 including Senior Vice Aged 45.
Appointed Executive Director, President Finance, Unilever Food and Beverage Europe Corporate Development in May 2008.
Responsible and latterly as Executive Chairman, Unilever China.
for a number of group functions and the Ambius and from 2009 the Pacific and Asia businesses.
Formerly Peter Bamford a senior executive at ICI 1987-2008 where he was Non-Executive Director responsible for a number of group functions and Aged 55.
Appointed a director in July 2006. international businesses including ICIs regional Chairman of The Key Revolution and a director and industrial divisions.
The director responsible for of MCPC-PRS Alliance.
Formerly Chief Marketing corporate responsibility matters.
officer and director of Vodafone Group plc having held senior executive roles at Vodafone, including as William Rucker Chief Executive of Northern Europe, Middle East and Non-Executive Director Africa operations and Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
Appointed a director Formerly a non-executive director of Woolworths plc.
Chief Executive of Lazard & Co. Ltd in An independent non-executive director.
the UK, Deputy Chief Executive of European Investment Banking and a Deputy Chairman of Lazard LLC.
Joined Richard Burrows Lazard in 1987 from Arthur Andersen.
An independent Non-Executive Director non-executive director.
Appointed a director Duncan Tatton-Brown in January 2008.
Governor of the Bank of Ireland and Non-Executive Director a non-executive director of Carlsberg A S Denmark, CityJet Limited Ireland and Mey Iki Turkey.
joint Chief Executive and latterly a non-executive Appointed a director in July 2005.
Formerly group director of Pernod Ricard SA France and Chairman finance director of Kingfisher plc, having been and Chief Executive of Irish Distillers.
An independent previously Finance Director of B&Q plc and Chief non-executive director.
Financial Officer of Virgin Entertainment Group.
Alan Giles Non-Executive Director Paul Griffiths Aged 54.
Chairman Secretary of Fat Face World Ltd, a director of the Office of Fair Trading and of Book Tokens Limited.
Formerly Chief Executive of HMV Group plc, Managing Director of Waterstones, director of WH Smith PLC, non-executive director of Somerfield plc and Wilson Bowden plc.
Job No: 0934 Proof No: 9 Operator: PM JF BO JF SJL JF SJL JF PM Job Title: Rentokil AR 2008 Date: 23-03-2009 Spellchecked: Y Signature s : Client: SAS Software: InDesign Proof Reader:
