The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 16 Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and the Group Accounts for the year ended 28 December 2008.
Results and dividends The results for the year ended 28 December 2008 are presented under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The Report and Accounts are drawn up on a 52 week reporting basis ending on 28 December 2008.
The results for the year are set out in the Group consolidated income statement on page 37.
This shows a Group profit after taxation of 32.2m 2007: 29.2m.
An interim dividend of 1.40p per share was paid on 16 October 2008.
The Directors propose a final dividend of 6.30p per share to be paid on 8 July 2009 bringing the ordinary dividend payable in respect of 2008 to 7.70p 2007: 7.25p.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is the operation of restaurants and pub restaurants.
Further information relating to the business including a review of the years performance and planned developments is given in the Chief Executives review of operations on pages 6 to 10.
Directors Full details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 14 and 15.
The Directors who held office during 2008 were as follows: Alan Jackson Andrew Page Stephen Critoph Kevin Bacon until 5 November 2008 Trish Corzine John Jackson Tony Hughes David Richardson until 8 August 2008 Andrew Thomas until 6 February 2008 Tony Hughes was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 January 2008.
Kevin Bacon resigned from the Board on 5 November 2008, Andrew Thomas retired from the Board on 6 February 2008 and David Richardson resigned from the Board on 8 August 2008.
In respect of 2008, each of the non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman is considered by the Board to be independent.
John Jackson holds the role of senior non-executive Director.
Alan Jackson transitioned from executive Chairman to non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2006 and following his tenure as an executive Director, is not considered to be an independent non-executive Director.
No Director has a service contract with the Company requiring more than twelve months notice.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Director retiring by rotation is Alan Jackson who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
John Jackson has been a non-executive Director of the Company for more than nine years, and, in accordance with corporate governance best practice, also offers himself for re-election.
The Board considers John Jackson to remain independent and recommends his re-election as an independent non-executive Director.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: John Jackson Tony Hughes Andrew Thomas until 6 February 2008 David Richardson until 8 August 2008 John Jackson is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised the following non-executive Directors: John Jackson Tony Hughes Andrew Thomas until 6 February 2008 David Richardson until 8 August 2008 Tony Hughes is currently Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
During the year the Nominations Committee comprised the following Directors: John Jackson Chairman Alan Jackson Andrew Page Tony Hughes Andrew Thomas until 6 February 2008 David Richardson until 8 August 2008 The Directors remuneration report, which includes details of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares and options, together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 26 to 31.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 17 Directors shareholdings The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, all being beneficially owned, were as follows: At At At 3 March 28 December 30 December 2009 2008 2007 Executive Directors Andrew Page 417,485 417,485 270,166 Stephen Critoph 77,581 77,581 43,250 Kevin Bacon to 5 November 2008 n a n a 125,133 Trish Corzine 132,466 132,466 100,423 Non-executive Directors Alan Jackson 400,191 400,191 400,191 John Jackson 300,000 300,000 80,000 Tony Hughes 10,000 10,000 n a David Richardson to 8 August 2008 n a n a 13,000 Andrew Thomas to 6 February 2008 n a n a 52,388 Details of the Directors share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 30 and 31.
The closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares on 28 December 2008 was 114.5p and the range during the year was 99p to 191.25p.
Share capital structure 1 The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares of 28 8p.
The authorised share capital is 284,444,444 ordinary shares 1 of 28 8p.
As at 28 December 2008, the allotted, called up and fully paid number of shares in issue was 196,738,838 shares.
There are no preference shares or special rights pertaining to any of the shares in issue.
Following the 2008 Annual General Meeting the Directors have had the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 18,979,354 which represented approximately one third of the ordinary share capital of the Company at the time the authority was given by shareholders.
This authority expires at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 May 2009 and it will be proposed to extend this authority updated for the current number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
In addition, following the 2008 Annual General Meeting the Directors have the authority to make market purchases of shares in The Restaurant Group plc on behalf of the Company up to 19,662,684 ordinary shares which represented 10% of the Companys 1 issued ordinary share capital.
The minimum price that may be paid for such shares is 28 8p per share.
The maximum price is the higher of 5% above the average middle market quotation for the ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List at the time the purchase is carried out.
This authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and it will be proposed to extend this authority updated for the current number of shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Group has entered into various contracts including leases during the course of ordinary business which may be terminated in the event of a change of control of The Restaurant Group plc.
Substantial shareholdings At 17 February 2009 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number % of issued of shares share capital Lloyds Banking Group 11,951,429 6.07 Old Mutual Asset Managers 10,700,441 5.44 Legal & General Investment Management 10,066,802 5.12 Citigroup 8,660,580 4.40 F&C Asset Management 7,907,798 4.02 Rathbones 7,860,742 4.00 Standard Life 7,300,290 3.71 BAE Pension Fund Investment Management 6,716,984 3.41 JPMorgan Asset Management 6,460,588 3.28 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 18 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Companys compliance with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council and the Guidance on Audit Committees, together the Code.
The Company has been in full compliance throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Code except for provisions concerning the number of Directors considered to be independent, and the independence of the Chairman.
The Board The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company and Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board reviews the Groups strategic objectives and looks to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve these objectives, and to review management performance against these objectives.
The Board also sets the Companys values and standards and manages the business in a manner to meet its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Executive Director of the Concessions division and two non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on pages 14 and 15 and these demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital for the success of the Group.
John Jackson acts as senior independent non-executive Director and is available to shareholders if they have reasons for concern on which contact through the normal channels is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the strategic direction and operational management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular basis and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
This includes approval of the annual budget and the three year business plan, approval of the interim and year end Report and Accounts, review and approval of significant capital expenditure including development of new sites, significant disposals of assets and acquisitions or disposals of businesses.
Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day running of the Group and report on a regular basis on that performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible for reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction of the Group and monitoring operational performance.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and has access to the necessary information to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, except where they are appointed by shareholders, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of not more than three years.
There is significant involvement from the non-executive Directors.
This involves an on-going dialogue with the executive Directors including constructive challenge of performance and the Groups strategy.
The non-executive Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive management of the Group.
Comprehensive Board papers including financial information are circulated to all Directors prior to Board meetings and, on a weekly basis, they receive up-todate trading information.
The non-executive Directors have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors present, and this includes discussions of targets set and achieved by management.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed for the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense of the Company.
On joining the Board there is a process for Directors to receive training as to their role and its requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational management and to visit the Groups operations in order to enhance their understanding of the Groups business, its brands, employees and processes.
During 2008 there were nine Board meetings with full attendance by Board members apart from David Richardson who gave his apologies in respect of one meeting.
Executive Directors are included in the annual performance evaluation of all senior employees within the Group.
This involves a comprehensive review of performance against objectives and covers areas for future development through appraisal documentation and meetings.
The non-executive Directors also meet in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance in the light of his fee review.
The Company acknowledges the importance of developing the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant courses and seminars and to acquire skills and experience which may enhance their contribution to the on-going progress of the Group.
The Board and committees of the Board have been subject to a formal performance appraisal, through an internal questionnaire, and the performance of all members of the Board is considered as part of the annual remuneration review process.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 19 Communications with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review of operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages 4 to 13 include a detailed review of the business and the Chief Executives review of operations on pages 6 to 10 includes a review of planned future developments.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional investors including presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement of the year end results, and at the half year.
Feedback from major institutional shareholders is provided to the Board on a regular basis and, where appropriate, the Board will take steps to address their concerns and recommendations.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the chairmen of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions, and for all Directors to attend.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of two non-executive Directors.
There was 100% attendance of the four Remuneration Committee meetings during 2008.
The role of this Committee and details of how the Company complies with the principles of the Code are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 26 to 31.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive Directors, the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
It met once during 2008 with full attendance.
There are written terms of reference for the Nominations Committee.
It makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment or replacement of additional Directors.
It is also responsible for succession planning for the Group.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of two non-executive Directors.
During the year the Committee was chaired by John Jackson who is a qualified accountant.
It meets on a regular basis under its terms of reference, and meets with the Group Finance Director and the external auditors to review the financial statements and external financial announcements made by the Company.
It has responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity, and reviews supplies of all non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure that their independence and objectivity are not compromised.
The Audit Committee met twice during 2008 with full attendance at each meeting.
Shareholders of the Company have the opportunity to re-appoint Deloitte LLP at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 May 2009.
The Restaurant Group plc strategy The Restaurant Groups key objective is to grow shareholder value and the strategy deployed to achieve this is to build a business capable of generating long-term sustainable and growing cash flows.
In pursuit of this we have built a business which is focused on the growing casual eating-out market.
We have targeted segments of this market which offer distinct barriers to entry and where we can be confident of delivering good growth in profits and cash flows and where there is good potential for high returns on investment.
This has led the Group to focus our activities in two areas Leisure and Concessions.
This emphasis was underlined by the divesting of our high street businesses Caffe Uno and Est Est Est during 2005.
The Group operates in the expanding casual dining market, and our offerings continue to provide good value for money in comfortable surroundings and excellent service from our dedicated teams.
The Groups strategy is to deliver further organic growth through the roll-out of our brands Frankie & Bennys and Chiquito and our Pub Restaurant business.
We have a solid pipeline of sites for development, coupled with a strong focus on continuing to deliver like-for-like sales growth from our existing restaurants.
Our Concessions business operates in a dynamic and complicated market where our management teams have market-leading expertise and a track record of innovation and improving sales performance.
The Restaurant Group plc risk factors The Board of Directors regularly identify, monitor and manage potential risks and uncertainties to the Group.
The list below sets out what the Directors consider to be the current principal risks and uncertainties.
This list is not presumed to be exhaustive and is, by its very nature, subject to change.
Adverse economic conditions and a decline in consumer confidence and spend in the UK.
Increased supply of new restaurant concepts into the market.
Failure to provide customers with brand-standard value for money offerings and service levels.
Increase in prices of key raw materials including foreign currency fluctuations, wages and overheads and utilities.
Major failure of key suppliers to deliver products into restaurants.
Reversion of formerly sold or disposed leases following business failure of new occupiers.
Impact of terrorism in key locations including airports.
Increased regulation of the food and beverage industry leading to higher costs.
Damage to our brands images due to failures in environmental health compliance in the restaurants or from contamination of products.
Possible health pandemic that may cause customers to stay away or prevent restaurants being adequately staffed.
The loss of key personnel or failure to manage succession planning.
Breakdown in internal controls through fraud or error.
Further information on risk factors is also set out in the Chief Executives review of operations, the Group Finance Directors report and in the notes to the financial statements note 26 contains information on credit risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 20 Report of the Directors continued The Restaurant Group plc key performance indicators The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide range of management information delivered in a timely manner.
Listed below are the principal measures of progress that are reviewed on a regular basis to monitor the development of the Group.
Like-for-like sales This measure provides an indicator of the underlying performance of our existing restaurants, and highlights successful development of our offerings to best match changing consumer demands over time.
There is no accounting standard or consistent definition of like-for-like sales across the industry, although the Group has applied a consistent basis of calculation across years for reporting like-for-like performance.
During 2008, the Group like-for-like sales increased by 1.5%, which followed a 5.5% increase in 2007 and a 5% increase in 2006.
New sites opened The expansion of our brands is a key driver of the Groups profitability.
As noted in the Group Finance Directors report, potential new sites are subject to a rigorous appraisal process before they are presented to the Board for approval.
This process ensures we maintain the quality of openings as well as the quantity of sites opened.
During 2008 the Group opened 40 new sites and plans to open 15-20 new restaurants during 2009.
EBITDA The ability of the Group to finance its roll-out programme is aided by strong cash flows from the existing business.
The Group defines EBITDA as operating profit before depreciation, amortisation and non-trading items.
EBITDA serves as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and is closely monitored.
During 2008 the Group generated 77.5m EBITDA, an increase of 14% on the 2007 level of 67.8m.
Operating profit margin The Board and management closely monitor profit margins as an indicator of operating efficiency within restaurants and across the Group.
During 2008 the Group adjusted operating profit margin was 13.0% 2007: 13.1%.
In addition, the Group closely scrutinises the returns on invested capital from new site openings and the average EBITDA generated by restaurants.
Further information on these key metrics is provided in the Chief Executives review of operations and the Group Finance Directors report.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance with guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has ensured that there is an ongoing process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with business planning and is documented in a risk register that has been progressively enhanced during the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for the system of internal control, the Board is aware that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group has well-established procedures which have been developed over many years which meet the requirements of the Turnbull Guidance.
A key control procedure is the day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular management meetings at which performance against plan and business prospects are reviewed.
The Group has established a monthly executive management meeting where the three executive Directors, senior operational managers and head of functional departments review Group performance and issues affecting the Group.
Additionally, the Board seeks to continually strengthen the internal control system where this is consistent with improving the relationship between risk and reward.
The Groups associate company, Pimco 2637 Limited, does not fall under the same internal controls as the Group.
The internal controls within the associate are discussed with management of that company during shareholder meetings and are considered to be appropriate for an entity of its size.
Other key features and the processes for reviewing effectiveness of the internal control system are described below: Terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items for Board approval.
An established organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements.
Operational performance and operational matters are considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors with senior management.
Financial performance is monitored and action taken through weekly reporting to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the Board against annual budgets approved by the Board.
Capital investment is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels, with appraisals and post investment reviews.
Comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed standards and control procedures.
These include human resources related policies, information technology and health and safety.
The Group employs a firm of external auditors to monitor restaurants on a regular basis for compliance with statutory and internal health and safety requirements.
An internal audit function headed by an experienced internal auditor has access to all areas of the Company and Groups business and reports into the Board.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 21 Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Information provided to auditors Each of the current Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant information needed by the Companys auditors for the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of any relevant information of which the auditors are unaware.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Going concern As referred to in the Chief Executives review of operations there are significant economic uncertainties facing the United Kingdom and consumer-facing industries in particular.
Potential risk factors and uncertainties that could affect the business are listed above.
The Group has a debt facility of 120m which matures in December 2012 and net debt at 28 December 2008 of 79m.
Based on the Groups plans for 2009 and after making enquiries including preparation of reasonable trading forecasts, consideration of current financing arrangements and current headroom for liquidity and covenant compliance, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 22 Report of the Directors continued Corporate responsibility The Restaurant Group plc TRG acknowledges that it has a significant role to play with regard to the community and wider environment in which it operates.
This statement sets out the principal areas of focus and activity that the Group has undertaken to date, and what the Group is looking at for future development, in managing its impact on customers, employees, communities and the wider environment.
This is split into five sections: Our market the area of business that our strategy is focused on.
Our environment the impact of TRG on the wider environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
Our people the Groups policies and actions towards our 9,500 and more employees.
Our communities how TRG interacts with those communities from which our customers and employees are drawn from.
Our shareholders those that have invested capital in the development of The Restaurant Group plc, and to whom the Directors and management of the Group are reporting to.
Our market The Restaurant Group has a clearly defined strategic aim to grow shareholder value by operating in the expanding casual dining market, focusing on those areas of this market which can offer barriers to entry, high returns on investment and strong and growing cash flows.
Dining out continues to be enjoyed by the UK populace, but in recent years there has been an increased focus from customers and regulatory authorities on healthy dining issues including dietary habits, drinking and smoking.
Healthy eating Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but TRG acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have a role to play in providing appropriate options from which individuals may choose when they eat out.
TRG strongly believes that it should provide its guests with choice.
Whilst we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more indulgent options.
For many people dining out is a treat, and therefore the normal restrictions which may be applied to healthy eating on a day to-day basis are waived in favour of enjoyment and experience.
For example, whilst completing the weekly shop a consumer may choose chocolate fudge cake for their weekend dessert as opposed to a piece of fruit during the week.
Healthy dining is of particular concern when it affects young people, and all our brands offer vegetables or salad with every childs meal.
We also serve a wide range of alternatives to the traditional fried potato chip such as mashed potato, rice and jacket potatoes.
The Group is undertaking a process of monitoring nutritional content across its menus and, as part of our on-going menu review, will look to further the healthier options available to customers and to work with our suppliers to reduce salt content and calorific content.
Hydrogenated fats In light of UK government and consumer focus with regard to consumption of products containing high levels of fat, particularly saturated fats and artificial hydrogenated trans-fats, which have been linked to potential risks to cardiovascular health, we conducted a detailed review of our suppliers and our menu ingredients in conjunction with our external food safety consultants.
We have worked closely with all of our suppliers to identify the types and levels of fats and oils in our ingredients to facilitate a programme of removal, replacement or reduction, whilst maintaining our required quality standards.
The vast majority of our ingredients 99% are now free from hydrogenated fats and oils.
Since August 2007 we have prohibited the supply of new ingredients containing added hydrogenated fats and oils.
We continue to work closely with all of our suppliers to identify and progress opportunities for reducing overall levels of saturated fat wherever possible and to provide healthier choices.
Whilst some trans-fats occur naturally and are found in small amounts in meat and dairy products, concerns have been raised about artificial trans-fats, formed during a food manufacturing process called hydrogenation that turns oils into solid semi-solid fats.
These hydrogenated fats oils can be found in products such as biscuits, cakes, margarine, processed foods and cooking oils.
Genetically modified foods For many years the Group has had a policy of not sourcing genetically modified foods and new suppliers are required to confirm that they will not provide The Restaurant Group with such products.
Drink aware All our restaurants operate an Are You 21 policy, whereby we will ask for proof of identification to anyone who appears to be under 21.
We also do not permit the sale of alcohol to under 18s, even if the alcohol is for consumption with a meal.
All of our restaurants offer a wide range of non-alcoholic drinks including fruit juices, carbonates, minerals and non-alcoholic cocktails.
Smoking From 1 July 2007 we have complied fully with the legislation throughout the United Kingdom which has banned smoking in public areas.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 23 Our environment The Restaurant Group takes its commitment to the environment very seriously.
We are developing a number of initiatives to reduce our impact on the wider environment, which link in with improving our cost base.
Our initial focus is ensuring we have reliable and measurable data to monitor our impact: hence we have been upgrading our facilities to measure consumption of gas, electricity and water.
This will allow us to analyse inefficient use of these resources and then take steps to improve our usage.
This will reduce our impact on the environment and also save costs.
We are taking steps to recycle more packaging and waste within the Group.
We are working with suppliers to increase volumes of glass recycling and paper recycling it is surprising how few suppliers are able to offer assistance in this area but we continue to work with them to achieve this.
We have a number of initiatives and trials across the Group which have been instigated over the past couple of years.
We have been monitoring their progress during the 2008 and look forward to increasing these schemes.
For example: During 2007 we trialled glass recycling schemes in ten restaurants and during 2008 this was rolled out across our estate.
In 2008 we also trialled a system whereby we can economically recycle our cardboard waste and this will be rolled out during 2009.
In 2008 the Group consolidated the fresh foods supplier chain through a just in time delivery process for our Leisure businesses.
This has made a significant reduction of the number of deliveries into our restaurants.
In five sites we are currently trialling water reduction equipment in our washrooms that reduces water consumption.
All new units comply with the latest environmental regulations.
Our head office at Marshalsea Road has recycling facilities for waste paper throughout the building.
Our people It is often said that a companys most important asset is its people.
At TRG we endeavour to build great teams, in which individuals can develop their skills, contribute to a successful business and enjoy their time at work.
We employ over 9,500 people and this number continues to expand.
During 2008 we created in excess of 600 new full and part-time roles in the Group and the roll-out of our great brands means there are plenty of opportunities for individuals to develop with the Group in a variety of rewarding and challenging roles.
Our staff handbook clearly sets out that the Group offers equal employment rights regardless of age, colour, gender, sexual orientation, disability or religion.
This is reinforced across our teams from the recruitment process onwards.
We have clear and fair terms of employment within the Group.
All staff are provided with a contract of employment or service agreement and there are fully documented procedures in place for disciplinary issues and grievances raised by employees.
The Group has a defined termination policy, should this be required.
The Group pays all its employees at least the hourly national minimum wage.
The Group does not engage in the practice of using tips to make up minimum wage, with tips received by employees being an additional remuneration over and above their contracted hourly rates, which are all at a level at least equivalent to the minimum wage.
In the case of credit card tips a nominal deduction of no more than 10% is made for the handling, processing, allocating and paying out of such tips and for offsetting the charges levied by credit card companies.
The Group devotes considerable resource to training our teams.
Training commences on the first day of joining any of our brands and we have recently invested in a new HR system to enable continual monitoring of the development of individuals through their time with TRG.
Employees take part in performance reviews on at least an annual basis with training and development opportunities or requirements identified.
With an expanding portfolio of sites and a sizeable Group already in place, communications with all our teams are of vital importance.
All restaurants receive regular communication packs with updates of what is happening within their brands.
We also have processes in place for monthly meetings within restaurants to cascade information throughout the Group.
Most importantly, our more senior managers spend a considerable amount of time visiting the restaurants and discussing matters with the teams.
The health and safety of our customers and employees is of paramount importance.
The Group has extensive procedures to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and teams as far as possible.
We have very clear procedures and standards in place, and to enforce these we employ external auditors and carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
We have also significantly increased the level of training in health and safety matters across the Group in recent years to further enhance the clean, safe environment for our customers and staff.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 24 Report of the Directors continued Our communities The Restaurant Group has a history of involvement in the local communities around our restaurants and pub restaurants.
Whilst the Group has a broad nationwide portfolio of sites, it is vital that each site has its roots in its local community.
Whether it is a Blubeckers or Brunning & Price pub, often a building of local historical importance, that has been carefully developed retaining many of its original features and characteristics and so offering the warmth of a local in a small rural community, or a busy Frankie & Bennys on a large leisure scheme, we aim to ensure our restaurants are involved in their communities.
During 2008 our brands were involved with several charities and schemes to support local communities.
This theme is set to continue to grow in 2009.
In 2008 Frankie & Bennys sponsored over 80 local junior sports teams, with an average investment of 500 per team.
Funds are allocated to sponsor kit, equipment and transport.
As well as the direct sponsorship fund, teams and their supporters are encouraged to use our restaurants as venues for meetings, team dinners and awards ceremonies.
Frankie & Bennys also invested 50,000 into the development and purchase of schools packs.
Schools were then invited to bring classes to the restaurant, to show how children meals are made and served from customer order through to consumption.
The packs given to children to take away were developed in line with initiatives within the national curriculum focusing on healthy eating and exercise.
This is an ongoing initiative that will continue to run in 2009, along with supporting BBC Children in Need.
2008 saw Chiquito raising money for Childline, through a series of fundraising activities across the year including local events around the Mexican festival of Cinco fide Mayo the 5th of May.
Chiquito also works with schools, to deliver educational field trips that teach children about the history of Mexico and the foods that the country is famous for.
In 2009 Chiquito will work with Casa Alianza, a Mexican charity which raises money to help underprivileged children in Mexico.
Our new Chiquito menu will feature a typically Mexican dish, 1 of each sale will be donated to the charity throughout the year.
Cinco fide Mayo and many other events will also be run during 2009 to raise money for this charity.
In 2008 Blubeckers restaurants were encouraged to support local charities, fundraising for causes that are close to the hearts and minds of people within the local community.
Support of the local community will continue in Blubeckers in 2009.
Our shareholders The Group has had a clear strategy since 2001 to deliver value for shareholders by focusing on sectors within the eating out market that offer high barriers to entry, where we can generate sustainable and growing cash flows and which offer high returns on investment.
This has led the Group to focus investment into the Leisure division and our Concessions division, which operates principally on airports.
In 2005 the Group disposed of its high-street focussed brands, Est Est Est and Caffe Uno.
Garfunkels in Central London, Bath and Edinburgh continues to perform well for the Group.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review of operations and Group Finance Directors review provide further detail on the Groups strategy, performance during 2008 and prospects for the Group.
Donations No donations for political purposes have been directly made by the Company during the year.
Charitable events, fund raising and sponsorship are organised by restaurants for organisations in their locality as described above.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy is to agree the terms of payments with its suppliers as and when a trading relationship is established.
The Company ensures that the terms of payment are clear and its policy is to abide by the agreed terms, provided the supplier meets its obligations.
At 28 December 2008 the Company had no trade creditors.
The Group had an average of 63 days 2007: 56 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while looking to maximise returns to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group consists of equity comprising issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and cash equivalents.
The Group monitors its capital structure on a regular basis through cash flow projections and consideration of the cost of financing its capital.
In December 2007 the Group completed a refinancing exercise.
As part of this the Group has externally imposed banking covenant requirements.
The Group has a 120m revolving facility in place until December 2012 and a 10m overdraft facility.
Under the terms of the 120m revolving facility the Group is required to comply with its financing covenants whereby net interest charges must be covered by at least four times by EBITDA and net debt must not exceed three times EBITDA.
These covenants are tested twice annually and are monitored on a regular basis.
During 2008 the Group remained within its external limits throughout the year.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2008 25 Financial risk management The Board of The Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews the financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated therewith.
The Group does not use complex financial instruments, and where financial instruments are used it is for reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed from retained earnings and bank borrowings including an overdraft facility.
In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group also has other financial instruments such as debtors, prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly from the Groups operations.
Further information is provided in note 26 to the accounts.
Effective from 16 January 2006, the Group entered into a three year interest rate swap, for an initial notional amount of 20m rising to 50m from 18 April 2006 until 16 January 2008, when it reduced to 30m until 16 January 2009, at which date it terminated.
The fixed rate for the duration of the three years was 4.695% plus margin.
Effective from 18 January 2008, the Group entered into a further three year interest rate swap for a notional amount of 25m, from 18 January 2008 to 18 January 2011 at a fixed rate of 4.92% plus margin.
Effective from 16 January 2009, the Group entered into a further two interest rate swaps: a two year interest rate swap for a notional amount of 20m at a rate of 2.70% plus margin and a three year interest rate swap for a notional amount of 20m at a rate of 2.975% plus margin.
After the impact of the interest rate swap, the average rate of interest charged during the year on the Groups debt was 5.64% 2007: 6.02%, and the average year end rate was 2.10% 2007: 6.40%.
On 2008 results, net interest was covered 10.2 times 2007: 12.1 times by profit before tax, interest and non-trading items.
Based on year end debt and profits for 2008, a 1% rise in interest rates would reduce profits before tax and non-trading items by 0.6% 2007: 0.7% and interest cover would reduce to 9.7 times 2007: 11.3 times.
At 28 December 2008 the Group had gross borrowings attracting interest including overdraft of 85.0m 2007: 79.0m and cash balances of 5.5m 2007: 1.7m.
Annual General Meeting A separate Circular is included with the mailing of the Annual Report to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to take place at 11am on 6 May 2009 at the offices of College Hill, The Registry, Royal Mint Court, London EC3N 4QN.
The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the Company.
Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors, and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for their reappointment.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: 1 The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Group: and 2 The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review of operations, Group Finance Directors report and report of the Directors include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced.
By order of the Board, Robert Morgan Company Secretary 4 March 2009
