Directors and Of cers Peter Ellwood Michael Buzzacott Noreen Doyle John Langston Wolfgang Meusburger Jean-Pierre Rodier Carl Symon Leslie Van fide Walle Graham Chipchase David Robbie David Gibson The Board considers that all the non executive directors are independent.
38 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Chairman Jean-Pierre Rodier 61 Appointed to the Board on 7 June 2006.
Jean-Pierre is currently an Peter Ellwood 65 associate with Mediobanca Banca di Credito Finanziario.
He is also Appointed to the Board as a non executive director on 1 February Chairman of Enterprises et Personnel and an advisor to Corporate 2008 and as Chairman on 1 May 2008.
Peter was Chairman Value Associates.
He was Chief Executive of Union Minire and of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC ICI until ICI was acquired by Chairman and Chief Executive of MetalEurop France prior to his Akzo Nobel NV at the beginning of 2008.
Prior to that, he was appointment as Chairman and Chief Executive of Pechiney until Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
He is a member 2003 when Pechiney merged with Alcan.
of the Supervisory Board of Akzo Nobel NV.
Carl Symon 62 Non Executive Directors Appointed to the Board on 17 July 2003 and as senior independent Michael Buzzacott 61 director on 8 February 2006.
He is a non executive director of Appointed to the Board on 17 May 2000 and will retire from office BT Group plc and BAE Systems plc and Chairman of Clearswift at the conclusion of the AGM on 7 May 2009.
Michael is currently Systems Limited.
He was previously a non executive director of a non executive director of Croda International Plc and Scapa Group Rolls-Royce Group plc and Chairman of HMV Group plc.
He held various senior international positions in BP p. l. c. until his senior executive positions with IBM Corp. in Canada, the US, Latin retirement as Group Vice President, Petrochemicals in 2004.
America, Asia and Europe and retired in 2001.
Noreen Doyle 59 Executive Directors Appointed to the Board on 22 March 2006.
Noreen is currently Leslie Van fide Walle 52 a non executive director of Credit Suisse Group, Newmont Mining Chief Executive Of cer Corporation and QinetiQ Group PLC, and a member of the Advisory Appointed to the Board on 17 January 2007 and as Chief Executive Panel for the Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund II.
She held Officer on 1 February 2007.
In January 2009 he assumed direct various senior operational positions at Bankers Trust Company and responsibility for the global Beverage Cans business.
Until December at the European Bank for Reconstruction & Development EBRD until 2006, Leslie was Executive Vice President of Global Retail of Royal her retirement as First Vice President of the EBRD in 2005.
Prior to joining Shell he held a number of senior international management positions with Cadbury Schweppes plc John Langston 59 and was Chief Executive of United Biscuits plc.
He is a non executive Appointed to the Board on 30 October 2008.
John, a chartered director of Aegis Group plc.
accountant, is currently Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
He joined the Board of Smiths Group in 2000 holding operational Graham Chipchase 46 roles until he became Finance Director in 2006.
Prior to its Group Director Plastic Packaging acquisition by Smiths Group, he was a Board member of Appointed to the Board on 10 February 2003 as Group Finance TI Group plc.
Director and became Group Director Plastic Packaging with overall responsibility for the Plastic Packaging business on 14 July 2005.
Wolfgang Meusburger 55 Before joining Rexam, Graham was Finance Director of GKN plcs Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2006.
Wolfgang currently Aerospace Services business and, before that, held various positions sits on the board of a number of international consumer goods within the BOC Group plcs US and European subsidiaries.
companies in Europe and an educational facility in Switzerland.
He is Chairman of the non executive board of Schoellershammer and a David Robbie 45 non executive director of BS Group, CCT Reig Group, Chiquita Fruit Finance Director Bar and Leysin American School.
He has held various senior Appointed to the Board on 3 October 2005.
Before joining Rexam, David was Chief Financial Officer of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV international positions in the consumer goods industry and was Chief and, before that, Chief Financial Officer of CMG plc.
He is a non Executive of Tchibo GmbH until 2001.
He now acts as an advisor executive director of the BBC and a trustee of Aldeburgh Music.
on management issues and business development.
Company Secretary David Gibson 46 Changes to the Board Senior Management Tomas Sjlin, Beverage Can Jonathan Thornton, Rolf Brjesson retired as Together with the executive Europe & Asia Communications Chairman of the Company directors, the following are Harry Barto, Beverage Can Roger Bellis, Human on 1 May 2008.
Bill Barker, part of Rexams senior North America Resources Group Director Beverage management team.
In Cans, resigned as an addition to his Group Director Andr Balbi, Beverage Can Paul Martin, Information executive director on role, Graham Chipchase has South America Management 7 January 2009. responsibility for the Plastic Simon Chiu, Plastic David Gibson, Legal Packaging Healthcare Packaging Asia division.
David Beckmann, Plastic Packaging Closures Misha Riveros-Jacobson, Plastic Packaging Personal Care Rexam Annual Report 2008 39
