Directors Report The directors present their Report, the audited Group consolidated Directors financial statements and the audited Company financial statements The Board of directors for the year ended 31 December 2008 and for the year ended 31 December 2008. at the date of this Report are set out on page 39.
The Business Review, and all other sections of the Annual Report to Peter Ellwood was appointed as a non executive director and which cross reference is made, are incorporated into this Directors Chairman Designate on 1 February 2008 and succeeded Rolf Report by reference.
Brjesson as Chairman on 1 May 2008.
Rolf Brjesson retired from the Board on 1 May 2008. Business Review A review of the development and performance of the Group, John Langston was appointed as a non executive director on including the financial performance during the year, can be found in 30 October 2008 and will become Audit Committee Chairman the Business Review on pages 10 to 37.
The principal activities and following Michael Buzzacotts retirement at the Annual General financial summary relating to the Group are set out on pages 1 to 3 Meeting AGM 2009. with the key performance indicators on page 11.
A description of Bill Barker, an executive director and the Group Director Beverage the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is discussed Cans, resigned from the Board on 7 January 2009. on pages 22 to 25.
During 2008 and up to the date of this Report there have been no The Annual Report 2008 has been prepared for, and only for, further changes to the Board.
the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not As John Langston has been appointed to the Board since the date of accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this the last AGM he is required to stand for election at the AGM 2009. document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such In addition, Graham Chipchase and David Robbie, executive responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report directors, and Noreen Doyle, a non executive director, will retire by 2008 contains statements which are not based on current or rotation from the Board at the AGM 2009 and, being eligible, will historical fact and which are forward looking in nature.
These offer themselves for re-election.
forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information The Boards reasons for, and recommendations of, the election of available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report 2008 John Langston and re-elections of Graham Chipchase, David Robbie and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward and Noreen Doyle can be found on page 45 of the Corporate looking statements.
Such forward looking statements are subject to Governance Report and in the Notice of AGM 2009. known and unknown risks and uncertainties facing the Group including, without limitation, those risks described in this Annual In accordance with section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, Report 2008, and other unknown future events and circumstances the directors disclose that the Companys Articles of Association which can cause results and developments to differ materially from Articles govern the appointment and replacement of directors.
Nothing in this Annual Report 2008 should be The powers given to the directors are contained in the Companys construed as a profit forecast.
Memorandum of Association and Articles.
The Articles give the directors powers, subject to relevant legislation, to authorise the issue Dividends and buy back of the Companys shares by the Company, subject Subject to shareholder approval, the directors have proposed a to authority being given to the directors by shareholders in general 2008 final dividend of 12.3p per ordinary share.
The Company annually seeks the authority of shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2008 is 21.0p per ordinary share for the exercise by the directors of these powers.
current Articles, which may only be amended with shareholders Dividends on ordinary shares approval in accordance with relevant legislation, can be found at www.
Dividend Ex dividend Record Payment per share p date date date The service contracts of the executive directors and the letters 2008 interim 8.7 08.10.08 10.10.08 04.11.08 of appointment for the non executive directors are available for 2008 proposed final 12.3 03.06.09 05.06.09 02.07.09 inspection at the registered office of the Company, and will be available at the AGM 2009, as specified in the Notice of Principal acquisitions and disposals AGM 2009.
As reported in the Annual Report 2007, Rexam completed the acquisition of Rostar, a Russian beverage can maker, on 31 January Directors interests 2008 for a total cash consideration of 142m which includes None of the directors had any interest during or at the end of borrowings assumed and as adjusted for net assets acquired.
the year in any contract of significance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
There have been no significant disposals of Group businesses.
Full details of the share interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company and other interests of those directors holding office on 31 December 2008, including any interest of a connected person, are set out in the Remuneration Report.
40 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Substantial shareholdings Qualifying pension scheme indemnity At the date of this Report, the Company had received notification The Company has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity from the following financial institutions of their and their clients in the form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors interests in the voting rights of the Company, in accordance with of Rexam Pension Trustees Limited, the Trustee to the Rexam Pension the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial Services Plan.
The indemnity is in force at the date of this Report.
Authority, and which are required to be disclosed under section 992 Financial risk management of the Companies Act 2006.
The number of shares and percentage The financial risk management and objectives of the Group and the interests stated are as disclosed at the date on which the interests exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk were notified.
are set out in the Business Review and note 23 to the consolidated Interests of 3% or more in issued ordinary share capital financial statements.
Shares % Research and development INVESCO Limited 70,705,962 10.99 The Group aims to keep in the forefront of all relevant product, Wellington Management Co LLP 31,313,624 4.88 process and system developments in the markets in which it operates.
Legal & General Group Plc 26,509,144 4.12 Rexam has internal and customer innovation programmes focused on creative packaging solutions and their successful implementation.
Information provided to Rexam pursuant to the DTR is publicly These programmes have resulted in a number of new consumer available via the Regulatory Information Services and on the packaging products which include Rexams aluminium bottle, Fusion, Companys website, www.
which is fully recyclable and manufactured using the drawn wall ironed technology, liquid prescription oval containers made with Share capital 100% post-consumer recycled PET resin, and eco-friendly instant 2 The Company had ordinary shares of 64 7p each in issue at foam dispensing systems.
Together with one of its customers, Rexam 31 December 2008.
Full details of the Companys authorised and has also produced a new insulin injection pen.
The Groups issued share capital, together with details of the rights and restrictions expenditure on research and development during the year amounted attaching to the ordinary shares can be found in note 26 to the to 19m 2007: 14m.
Corporate responsibility Signi cant agreements Information relating to the Companys policies towards environmental, Rexam has a number of relationships with suppliers and customers social and governance areas of corporate responsibility CR can be which are essential to the Groups business, as discussed in the found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review.
Business Review on pages 22 to 25.
Rexam has agreements with Rexam has a CR section on its website, where policy documents, such suppliers and customers and arrangements are in place to facts and figures underlining Rexams involvement in and commitment secure the Groups business in the event of the unexpected to the environment, our people, the community, our suppliers, termination of such agreements.
emerging markets and governance can be found.
The Company is also required to disclose any significant agreements Payments to suppliers that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the The Groups operating businesses are responsible for the terms and Company.
The Company has committed debt facilities all of which conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their are directly or indirectly subject to change of control provisions, suppliers.
It is Group policy to agree the terms of payment and make albeit the facilities do not require mandatory prepayment on payments to suppliers in accordance with those terms, provided that a change of control.
At 31 December 2008 the facilities subject suppliers have complied with all relevant terms and conditions.
to these provisions are: The Company had 17 days 2007: 10 days purchases outstanding Debt facilities at 31 December 2008 based on the average daily amount invoiced Notes Amount Maturity by suppliers.
Medium term notes i 370m March 2009 Donations 700m March 2013 Charitable donations made by the Group in 2008 amounted to Subordinated bond 750m June 2067 597,000 as shown in the table.
No donations were made for US bond $550m June 2013 political purposes.
US private placement $225m June 2013 Charitable donations Committed bank ii 35m August 2009 facilities $80m November 2010 2008 2007 913m Between September 2010 UK 61,000 48,000 and December 2012 Rest of world excluding UK 536,000 272,000 i Medium term notes will be repaid through drawings from the committed bank facilities.
The UK businesses made donations in support of natural disasters ii Since the balance sheet date, 480m of new committed bank facilities have been signed programmes and charity sporting events.
with maturities ranging between February 2011 and April 2011.
Rest of world donations included sponsorship of local cultural Details of the service contracts of the executive directors and the initiatives and medical equipment for local hospitals in Russia, letters of appointment for the non executive directors together with the a donation to Camp Coca-Cola Foundation in the US and Companys policy on how a change of control will affect the service contributions to support charity sporting events around the world.
contracts are summarised in the Remuneration Report.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 41 Directors Report Employees The Company has well established employee share schemes to promote share ownership, as described in the Remuneration Report.
The Rexam Way culture continues as a fundamental characteristic Competitive retirement and benefit packages are offered and, of the Companys day to day activities and distinguishes the subject to the culture, market practices and regulations in the Company as a market leader and an employer of choice.
Trust, countries where we carry out our business, benefits may be provided Teamwork, Continuous Improvement, and Recognition are the core in whole or in part by the government, private or supplementary values that the Group has chosen and which involve, inform and Rexam sponsored programmes.
Financial details of the Groups motivate employees to work towards the vision of making Rexam worldwide retirement benefit arrangements can be found in the the leading global consumer packaging company.
In 2008 the Business Review and note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Company introduced the Rexam Academy to facilitate performance and development management throughout the Group and also to Annual General Meeting 2009 strengthen succession planning.
Other key programmes include the The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on 7 May Talent Management and Horizon Programs whose aims are to raise 2009 at Church House, Deans Yard, London SW1, details of which overall employee performance and identify and systematically can be found in the Notice of AGM 2009. develop employee talent.
Additionally, the Company launched an online integrated Performance Development System during 2008 Purchase of own shares which measures leadership practices and business objectives, At the AGM 2008, shareholders passed a special resolution as well as personal development and individual potential.
Rexam renewing the authority to the Company, in accordance with the people are regarded as one of the cornerstones in helping to deliver Articles, to purchase the maximum number of its own ordinary shares the Groups vision of profitable growth, operational excellence and in the market.
No ordinary shares have been purchased in the market, nor has any Further information on the Groups training and development contract been made to purchase ordinary shares under the previous programmes can be found in the Business Review on page 29. or existing authorities from 1 January 2008 to the date of this Report.
The directors are seeking to renew the authority at the AGM 2009.
The Group has active policies of equal opportunity ranging from Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM 2009. selection and recruitment to training and development which meet the needs of its operations around the world.
Disabled people are given Share purchase authority full consideration for employment and subsequent training including, AGM 2009 AGM 2008 Number of shares Proposed Approved if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have 10% of issued ordinary share capital 64.29m 64.26m become disabled, career development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
Directors statement Communication with employees has an important focus through Each person who is a director of the Company at the date team briefings where employees can participate and give their views of approval of this Report confirms that: on any aspect of the Groups business.
The Chief Executive Officer so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit issues online updates to employees through the Groups intranet and information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and answers questions asked by employees through his weblog.
The Groups annual and interim results announcements are also presented each director individually has taken all the steps that they ought to on video made available via the intranet.
At the subsequent team have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant briefings employees are given the opportunity to comment on the audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
The Groups global intranet is an immediate source of information Auditor and knowledge.
At regular intervals an electronic newsletter, In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, Group News, is produced and distributed globally to employees, a resolution for the re-appointment of  LLP supplementing the monthly communications produced by the will be proposed at the AGM 2009. businesses to keep their employees informed of what is happening in and around their sector.
The Rexam European Forum REF is a joint employee representative On behalf of the Board and management body created for the exchange of information and David Gibson dialogue concerning issues which may impact Rexams employees Company Secretary within the European Economic Area.
The REF holds an annual 19 February 2009 meeting attended by the Chief Executive Officer and other senior management.
A smaller coordinating committee drawn from within the REF meets quarterly to discuss organisational issues as well as any exceptional business issues which may arise and which may have an impact on Rexams European employees.
