Innovation is the driving force behind the vast majority of our customers brands.
Which is why it must also fuel the development of our products and processes.
Our own insight programme helps us understand consumer needs better.
It enables us to offer creative packaging solutions that are in line with the trends and buying habits of consumers.
Were working with research organisations to investigate emerging materials and new technologies.
Using new knowledge management and innovation processes we can share more easily global best practices and know how.
Rigorous review and testing processes allow a faster market launch for the right products.
All of this puts Rexam in a good position to Creating a difference create innovative products and processes Rexams position as the worlds number one beverage can maker enables us to offer a that offer exceptional value to our customers.
broad range of value added products.
We used This section shows examples of how our our revolutionary 360 embossing technique to create this unique can for Finnish brewery Olvi.
expertise is helping to shape the future of Their Fizz Cooler brand the first cider brand consumer packaging.
to use 360 embossing has a completely new look that really stands out on the shelves.
Since Rexam launched this technique in Europe in 2007 it has proved popular with drinks companies across a variety of categories.
Embossing enhances the look and feel, giving consumers a whole new drinking experience.
Rexam innovates for its customers 6 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Intensifying the impact of cost saving and included eliminating quality issues with our ef ciency activities can ends, reducing gas and aluminium usage, Rexams long standing commitment to the Six improving spoilage rates and cutting the costs Sigma manufacturing quality standard is one of of repairs in the Beverage Can business.
The the main reasons behind our ability to achieve success of this new approach depends on savings and ef ciencies of around 30m year scoping strategically important projects, sharing on year.
In 2008 we took this even further by prior knowledge and working in a team with deploying the Six Sigma kaizen continuous Six Sigma experience, says Dr Lisa Carroll, improvement approach throughout the Group.
Director of Group Lean Enterprise pictured This innovative development combines the above left.
With this innovative approach rigour of Six Sigma with the quick win mentality we can positively affect our manufacturing of kaizen to complete breakthrough projects processes and, therefore, customer satisfaction within days rather than months.
These projects and our bottom line.
Reinforcing the culture of innovation Thermochromic inks change colour as temperatures rise or fall.
They are useful for indicating, for example, when a packaged food has reached the correct temperature in an oven.
Or, in our case, for showing when the contents are at the recommended drinking temperature.
Thermochromic inks help to differentiate products by providing an innovative way of interacting with consumers.
One of our customers in South America had seen how the inks worked on paper labels for glass bottles and Rexam was the regions only beverage can maker capable of producing cans with this technology.
It is now being applied to specialty and standard 12oz cans, reinforcing our reputation for innovation.
Rexam Annual Report 2008 7 Creating an industry first Italian fashion house Pucci wanted to mark its 60th anniversary with a bold and unique make over for its Vivara fragrance bottle.
Rexam responded by using its advanced expertise in materials and printing in plastics to faithfully reproduce the colours and design of one of Puccis iconic signature scarf patterns on the dome shaped closure of the fragrance bottle.
The stylish product combines the fashion heritage of Pucci and the technical innovation of Rexam to create an industry first in what was an incredibly complex commission.
Coloured ends How a product looks often in uences a consumers decision to buy.
Research shows that if the look is suf ciently innovative and compelling it will at least encourage consumers to take a second look.
This is an important objective in any brand communication.
Our printed ends are a world first for two-piece cans.
They can be used on any size can, providing an opportunity for our customers to make their packaging more visually appealing.
These printed ends were manufactured at Rexams plant in Recklinghausen, Germany.
8 Rexam Annual Report 2008 Opening opportunities with innovative closure Rexam is a leading global manufacturer of compression moulded tamper evident closures for juices and beverages.
When Unilever needed a new cost effective closure for their successful Hellmanns mayonnaise product line, we were the only supplier able to meet their requirements.
This innovative, compression moulded, tamper evident, wide mouth closure is an industry first, with a high level of intellectual property protection.
And it opens up countless opportunities for customers to switch their food packaging from glass and metal to plastic.
