senior management team Miles Shipside Peter Brooks-Johnson Peter Armstrong Alan Gearing Commercial Director Agency Director New Homes Director Managing Director Miles joined Rightmove Peter joined Rightmove in Peter joined Rightmove in Rightmove AVM as a founding director in 2006 and is responsible for 2003 as one of the first Alan joined Rightmove in 2001 bringing 20 years of the Estate Agency business handful of people developing 2006 developing new sources experience at senior levels in and the development of the the New Homes business, of revenue separate from independent estate agency Rightmove proposition to a business which he has run property advertising.
He was and with Halifax Estate customers, including the since May 2006.
He is now appointed as Managing Agency.
He has responsibility development of the Rightmove responsible for 50 people in Director of Rightmoves for estate agency and media Choice products and the Rightmoves fastest growing Automated Valuation Model relations, specialising in website.
Peter was formerly a business unit and is part of division in July 2008.
Prior advising the industry on how management consultant with the new homes industry to Rightmove he was a the internet is transforming Accenture and The Berkeley community.
Prior to Rightmove, founder of both The Asset home moving and the state Partnership working with Peter worked in sales and Management Group property of the housing market.
clients such as BP, Marks & sales management, latterly in disposal and maintenance He qualified as a Chartered Spencer and Woolwich.
services and The Inventory Surveyor in 1982.
Exchange online inventory and property inspection.
Kathryn Harris Scott Marshall Simon Hickie Robyn Perriss Marketing Director Finance Director Human Resources Director Financial Controller Kath joined Rightmove in 2008 Rightmove.
co. uk Simon joined Rightmove in Robyn joined Rightmove in as Marketing Director following Scott joined Rightmove in 2007 following seven years at 2007 and has day-to-day almost eight years at Unilever 2001 as Finance Director and Bloomberg LP where he was responsibility for the financial where she was responsible was Company Secretary until responsible for HR operations operations, based out of for developing global brands the IPO in 2006.
Scott led the across Europe, the Middle Milton Keynes, as well as such as Dove, Persil and Sure.
preparations for the float on East and Africa.
Prior to statutory reporting and the Kath is now focusing on the London Stock Exchange moving into HR, he had treasury function.
She was strengthening Rightmove's in 2006 and led the recent managed part of Bloombergs formerly Group Financial marketing and PR efforts to Scheme of Arrangement to financial research operation Controller at the online media both home hunters and trade introduce and list a new covering new debt and equity business Auto Trader.
She member audiences, helping holding company for the security issuance and M&A qualified as a chartered to maintain Rightmove's Group.
Scott is a director activity in Europe.
accountant in South Africa leadership position.
Scott qualified as a Chartered Accountant in Australia with Ernst & Young.
18 18 rightmove plc annual report 2008 corporate social responsibility people are at the heart of our business our employees are our largest resource and our most highly valued asset 19 19
