board of directors Scott Forbes at Cendant Corporation.
various residential Ed Williams operational management Chairman Cendant was formerly property and travel Managing Director of the Group.
He is Scott Forbes was the largest provider of industry businesses Ed Williams was Chairman of Holiday appointed Chairman of residential property during his tenure at appointed to the Board Lettings Limited in which Rightmove plc in July services worldwide.
Cendant and held of Rightmove plc in Rightmove has a two- 2005.
He is also the Scott established similar roles for other December 2000, shortly thirds ownership stake.
Chief Executive of Bridge the international companies in other after joining the newly His prior experience is Capital Advisors Ltd headquarters in London sectors, including founded business as the in business strategy which he founded in in 1999 and led this National Car Parks and then Group Managing and IT consulting with 2007.
Scott has nearly division as Group Green Flag.
Ed formed the McKinsey & Co, 30 years experience in Managing Director until time at Cendant, Scott senior management Accenture and operations, finance and he joined Rightmove.
was a certified public team that continues to JPMorgan.
Appointed mergers & acquisitions He was Chairman or accountant.
Appointed run Rightmove and leads 19 December 2000. which includes 15 years Chief Executive of 13 July 2005. the day-to-day Jonathan Agnew Chief Executive of Nigel Cooper company where he Colin Kemp included running the Non-executive Director Kleinwort Benson.
Non-executive Director also chairs the Audit Non-executive Director HBOS Retail Contact Jonathan joined the He has been Chairman Nigel joined Rightmove Committee.
Nigel was Colin Kemp was Centres, one of the Board in January 2006 of Nationwide Building plc in January 2006 as a formerly a senior partner appointed to the Board largest call centre as Senior Independent Society, Limit and non-executive director at KPMG LLP and was in July 2007.
He is operations in Europe, Director.
He is Chairman Gerrard Group and and also as Chairman of Lead Audit and Advisory Managing Director of and heading up the of Beazley Group, LMS has served on the the Audit Committee, Partner for KPMGs Halifax Bank of Scotland Halifax Employee Share Capital, The Cayenne Council of Lloyds.
where he provides Information, HBOS Retail Network, Services business Trust and Ashmore Appointed 16 January oversight of the financial Communications and North Division covering administering employee Global Opportunities.
Chairman of reporting practices, Entertainment Group bank branches across share plans to over 400 Jonathan was an the Remuneration internal control based in London.
Scotland, Northern UK companies, including investment banker for Committee, member environment and Appointed 16 January Ireland and the North of 27 of the FTSE 100. over 25 years, including of the Audit and compliance with the 2006.
With over 25 Colin is a Cranfield MBA being a Managing Nomination various listed company his three year term, Nigel years experience in high and an Associate of the Director of Morgan Committees.
He is also will retire from the Board street retail banking, Chartered Institute of Stanley and Group a member of the in March 2009.
Colin has worked for Marketing.
Appointed Remuneration Chairman of the Audit HBOS companies since 3 July 2007.
Nigel is a Committee and member 1979.
His roles have non-executive director of of the Remuneration Metro International S. A.
a Nordix OMX listed 16 16 rightmove plc annual report 2008 Nick McKittrick Nick became the retirement of Graham Graham Zacharias FCA working in Spain for BTRs Aerospace Group.
Chief Operating Officer Managing Director of the Zacharias who retires Finance Director several years before Graham was formerly Nick McKittrick joined main Rightmove.
co. uk from the Board in April Graham Zacharias was joining Schlumberger Group Finance Director Rightmove plc in 2000. operating subsidiary 2009.
Before joining appointed Finance where he held a number for over nine years at He led the development overseeing a trebling of the Company he worked Director of Rightmove of finance roles in Dubai Spectris plc, a process of the Companys revenue in three years.
in Accenture for eight plc in January 2006. and London.
He then and control and original website and then In January 2009, he was years in the technology He is also a nonmoved to Singapore instrumentation went on to build the new promoted to the role of consulting division.
executive director as Managing Director of company in the FTSE homes, lettings and Chief Operating Officer Appointed to the Board of Umeco plc.
and Finance Director in on 5 March 2004. qualified as a chartered company before 17 January 2006.
At the start of 2005 preparation for the accountant with returning to the UK as Graham will retire from Coopers and Lybrand, Finance Director of the Board in April 2009.
Stephen Shipperley grown to become the Judy Vezmar law enforcement, Liz Taylor Non-executive Director second largest estate Non-executive Director accounting and Company Secretary Stephen Shipperley agency business in the Judy is Chief Executive academic markets.
Liz Taylor was appointed joined the Board on its UK with interests in Officer of LexisNexis Judy is responsible for Company Secretary of formation in 2000. residential estate agency, International.
the International group Rightmove plc on 4 July Stephen has over 30 surveying, financial LexisNexis, part of and their expansion of 2006.
She is a Fellow of years of experience in services, relocations the global media group the range of successful the Institute of Chartered the property industry.
Reed Elsevier PLC, is online services to over Secretaries and He is Group Executive Appointed 30 June a leading worldwide 100 countries.
She is Administrators and has Chairman of Connells 2000. provider of contentbased in London.
20 years company Limited, which has enabled workflow Appointed 16 January secretarial experience solutions designed 2006.
Member of the across a variety of public specifically for Audit, Remuneration companies.
Prior to professionals in the legal, and Nomination joining Rightmove, she risk management, Committees.
was Company Secretary corporate, government, of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc.
