Markets and strategy Key performance indicators THE GROUP KPIs Rio Tintos core objective and long term All injury frequency rate AIFR Underlying earnings strategy dictate key performance Rio Tintos continuous focus on safety in the Underlying earnings is the key financial indicators KPIs that the Group monitors, workplace means that the AIFR is one of the performance indicator used across the Group.
These KPIs fulfil Groups most important non financial KPIs.
It is a measure of earnings that provides three roles: It is calculated based on the number of insight into the underlying business injuries per 200,000 man hours worked.
This performance of the Groups operations.
To give senior management a means to includes medical treatment cases, restricted Items excluded from net earnings to arrive at evaluate the Groups overall performance work day and lost day injuries for employees underlying earnings are explained in note 2 of from an operational, growth and and contractors.
To provide managers and their teams with clarity and focus on the areas that are critical for the successful achievement of the Groups goals.
See page 84 See page 34 To give guidance to the Remuneration committee for short term incentive plan calculation purposes.
Total shareholder return TSR Net debt TSR measures the Groups performance against In December 2008, Rio Tinto announced its KPI trend data its peers in terms of shareholder wealth commitment to reduce net debt by US$10 The Groups performance against each KPI is generation through dividends and the share billion in 2009, including US$8.9 billion in covered in detail in later sections of the price.
Rio Tintos TSR is calculated by an October 2009.
Supporting the data is an independent third party.
The Groups TSR Net debt is calculated as: the net total explanation of the actions taken by performance compared to the FTSE 100 index, of borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, management to maintain and improve the the ASX All Ordinaries index and the HSBC other liquid resources and derivatives related performance of each KPI.
Global Mining index, as well as the relationship to net debt.
between TSR and executive remuneration, are shown on page 146 of the Remuneration report.
See page 34 See page 93 Employee engagement Capital expenditure The employee engagement score measures Capital expenditure tracks new and continuing how connected and committed our employees investment in value added sustaining and are to Rio Tinto.
The first global employee growth projects.
The Groups capital projects engagement survey was completed in 2008 are listed on pages 29 and 30 in the Capital and this is the first year that the engagement projects section.
Employee responses to six questions in the survey combine to become the engagement score.
See page 85 See pages 29 and 30 Total greenhouse gas emissions efficiency Rio Tinto accepts the urgent need for climate change action.
Broadly consistent with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, calculate total greenhouse gas emissions as direct emissions Scope 1 plus emissions from imports of electricity Scope 2, minus electricity and steam exports.
Efficiency is a measure of changes in emissions per tonne of product resulting from operational performance improvement.
See page 81 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 23
