Group overview Rio Tintos organisational structure is designed to facilitate a clear focus on the Groups objective.
The structure comprises, primarily, four product groups and two business support groups.
Product groups Underlying earnings The Aluminium product group, Rio Tinto Alcan, is one of the worlds largest Number of employees Aluminium producers of bauxite, alumina and aluminium, benefiting from a sustainable, low contribution % 39,326 Products: Bauxite, cost energy supply.
It operates mainly in Canada and Australia, with interests in Operating assets alumina, aluminium Europe, New Zealand, Africa, South America and the US.
The group is organised US$35,730 million metal into four business units, Bauxite & Alumina, Primary Metal, Engineered Products and Packaging, the latter two of which are to be divested.
Gross sales revenue 12% 12% US$23,839 million Underlying earnings US$1,184 million The Copper group is a world leader in copper production, comprising Kennecott Underlying earnings Number of employees Copper & pp Utah Copper in the US, and interests in some of the worlds largest copper mines contribution % 8,976 and development projects, including Escondida in Chile, Grasberg in Indonesia, Diamonds Operating assets the Resolution and Pebble projects in the US, the Oyu Tolgoi project in Mongolia US$5,536 million Products: Copper in and the La Granja project in Peru.
concentrate, refined The Diamonds group is a leading supplier of rough diamonds, comprising Gross sales revenue copper, gold, silver, interests in the Diavik mine in Canada, the Argyle mine in Australia, and the 17% US$6,669 million 17% molybdenum, magnetite, Murowa mine in Zimbabwe, served by a diamond sales office in Belgium.
vermiculite, diamonds Underlying earnings US$1,758 million The Energy group is one of the biggest suppliers in its markets, represented in Underlying earnings Number of employees Energy & coal by Rio Tinto Coal Australia and Coal & Allied in Australia, and by Rio Tinto contribution % 14,278 Energy America in the US.
It also includes uranium interests in Energy Minerals Operating assets Resources of Australia and the Rssing Uranium mine in Namibia, both among US$5,639 million Products: Coking and the worlds largest uranium operations.
thermal coal, uranium, The industrial minerals businesses are global leaders in the supply and Gross sales revenue titanium dioxide science of their products, comprising Rio Tinto Minerals, made up of borates 28% US$10,998 million 28% feedstock, borates, talc and talc operations in the US, South America, Europe and Australia, as well as Underlying earnings Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium which has interests in North America, South Africa US$2,887 million and Madagascar.
The Iron Ore group is the second largest contributor to the worlds seaborne Underlying earnings Number of employees Iron Ore iron ore trade with interests that comprise Hamersley Iron and Robe River in contribution % 11,109 Products: Iron ore, Australia, Iron Ore Company of Canada, Corumb in Brazil, and the Simandou, Operating assets pig iron, salt, gypsum Guinea, and Orissa, India, projects.
The group includes the HIsmelt direct iron US$7,632 million making plant in Australia, employing a new, cleaner iron making process developed largely by Rio Tinto.
It also includes the Dampier Salt operations at Gross sales revenue three sites in Western Australia.
US$16,527 million 5 58 8% % Underlying earnings US$6,017 million Business support groups The Exploration group is organised into five teams based in North America, Number of employees Exploration South America, Australia, Asia and Africa Europe and a sixth project generation 694 team that searches the world for new opportunities and provides specialised geological, geophysical and commercial expertise to the regional teams.
Technology & Innovation has bases in Australia, Canada, the UK and the US.
Its Number of employees Technology role is to identify and promote operational technology best practice across the 351 Group and to pursue step change innovation of strategic importance to the & Innovation development of orebodies of the future.
Aggregate product group underlying earnings contribution of 115 per cent is reduced to 100 per cent by negative amounts for Other operations, Other items, Exploration and Net interest.
Note: The data for Aluminium includes Engineered Products and excludes Packaging.
4 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Overview Rio Tinto omitted from Group company names, Corporation and The Rio Tinto Company.
The Rio Tinto Group combines Rio Tinto except to distinguish between Rio Tinto plc Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and plc, which is listed on the London Stock and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in CRA discovered important mineral Exchange and headquartered in London, United States dollars US$ is derived from, deposits, developed major mining projects and Rio Tinto Limited, which is listed on and should be read in conjunction with, and also grew through acquisition.
the Australian Securities Exchange and has the 2008 Full financial statements.
In RTZ and CRA were unified in 1995 executive offices in Melbourne.
general, financial data in pounds sterling through a dual listed companies structure.
Businesses include open pit and and Australian dollars A$ have been This means the Group, with its common underground mines, mills, refineries and translated from the consolidated financial board of directors, is designed to place the smelters as well as a number of research statements and have been provided solely shareholders of both Companies in and service facilities.
The Group consists of for convenience: exceptions arise where substantially the same position as if they wholly and partly owned subsidiaries, data can be extracted directly from source held shares in a single enterprise owning jointly controlled assets, jointly controlled records.
Certain key information has been all of the assets of both Companies.
entities and associated companies, the provided in all three currencies in the 2008 In 1997, the RTZ Corporation became principal entities being listed in notes 37 to Full financial statements.
Rio Tinto plc and CRA Limited became 40 of the 2008 Full financial statements.
Rio Tinto Group sales revenue, profit Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the On 31 December 2008, Rio Tinto plc before finance items and tax, net earnings Rio Tinto Group.
Over the past decade, the had a market capitalisation of 14.87 and operating assets for 2007 and 2008 Group has continued to invest in billion US$21.72 billion and Rio Tinto attributable to the product groups and developments and acquisitions in keeping Limited had a market capitalisation of geographical areas are shown in notes 31 with its strategy.
The and 32 to the 2008 Full financial statements.
In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed Groups combined market capitalisation in In the Performance section, operating takeover of the Canadian aluminium publicly held shares at the end of 2008 was assets and sales revenue for 2007 and 2008 producer Alcan Inc. in a US$38 billion US$29.38 billion.
are consistent with the financial transaction that transformed the Groups information by business unit in the 2008 aluminium product group into the global Operational structure Full financial statements.
With copper and iron Rio Tintos operational structure is The tables on pages 108 to 120 show ore, this gave the Group a leading role in designed to facilitate a clear focus on the production for 2006, 2007 and 2008 and the production of the three key metals Groups objective.
This structure, reflected include estimates of proved and probable associated with the growth and in this report, is based on the following ore reserves and mineral resources.
Words urbanisation of China and other primary product and business support and phrases, often technical, have been developing countries.
groups: used which have particular meanings: definitions of these terms are in the Aluminium Glossary on pages 176 to 178.
The weights Copper & Diamonds and measures used are mainly metric units: Energy & Minerals conversions into other units are shown on Iron Ore page 178.
Exploration Technology & Innovation History Rio Tintos predecessor companies were The chief executive of each product group formed in 1873 and 1905.
The Rio Tinto and the global head of each business Company was formed by investors in 1873 support group report to the chief executive to mine ancient copper workings at of Rio Tinto.
Rio Tinto, near Seville in southern Spain.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation was Nomenclature and financial data incorporated in 1905 to treat zinc bearing Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate mine waste at Broken Hill, New South as one business organisation, referred to in Wales, Australia.
this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto The RTZ Corporation formerly The Group or, more simply, the Group.
These Rio Tinto-Zinc Corporation was formed in collective expressions are used for 1962 by the merger of The Rio Tinto convenience only, since both Companies, Company and The Consolidated Zinc and the individual companies in which Corporation.
they directly or indirectly own investments, CRA Limited formerly Conzinc Riotinto are separate and distinct legal entities.
of Australia Limited was formed at the Limited, plc, Pty, Inc, Limitada, same time by a merger of the Australian L. L. C. A. S. or SA have generally been interests of The Consolidated Zinc Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 5
