Recent developments Chinalco strategic partnership On 12 February 2009 the Rio Tinto board shareholding to 19.0 per cent in Rio Tinto continue to be the main driver of commodity announced they are unanimously plc and 14.9 per cent in Rio Tinto Limited, market growth over the longer term.
recommending to shareholders a transaction equivalent to an 18.0 per cent interest in The strategic alliance creates the with Aluminum Corporation of China the Group.
opportunity for joint ventures and project Chinalco, a leading Chinese diversified development in emerging economies.
Rio Tinto intends to use the proceeds of the two groups bring complementary skills The transaction will forge a pioneering transaction primarily to strengthen its including Chinalcos capabilities to deliver strategic partnership through the creation of balance sheet, to repay debt and to provide infrastructure projects, and Rio Tintos joint ventures in aluminium, copper, and flexibility to continue to invest in value leadership in operational excellence and iron ore as well as the issue of convertible creating growth opportunities.
bonds to Chinalco, which would, if transaction will allow Rio Tinto to raise Rio Tinto will enter into a landmark joint converted, allow Chinalco to increase its funds at a time when financial markets are venture for exploration in China in existing shareholding in Rio Tinto.
distressed, thereby significantly reducing its partnership with Chinalco.
The transaction is intended to position debt levels, strengthening its balance sheet, The Chinalco relationship will facilitate Rio Tinto to lead the resources industry into and increasing its flexibility to pursue access for Rio Tinto to funding from the next decade and beyond by ensuring the attractive investment opportunities Chinese financial institutions for project continuity of its strategy with the benefit of throughout the cycle.
Chinalco's relationships, resources and Following the transaction, Rio Tinto will capabilities.
maintain operational control of the In recognition of its significant investment The Rio Tinto boardhas extensively businesses that are the subject of the and consistent with the strategic alliance, considered a range of strategic options, and strategic partnerships.
The current Rio Tinto Chinalco will be entitled to nominate two has concluded that the opportunity offered Group senior executive team will continue to new non executive board members one by the strategic partnership with Chinalco, manage each business, with continuity of independent under applicable corporate together with the value on offer for the Rio Tintos existing strategy and business governance criteria to add to the 15 current investments by Chinalco in certain of principles.
Governance arrangements will be board members of Rio Tinto.
Independent Rio Tinto's mineral assets and in the implemented to regulate the continuing non executive directors will continue to convertible bonds, is superior to other relationship between the parties on the comprise a majority of the Rio Tinto board, identified options and offers greater medium basis that Rio Tinto retains responsibility for consistent with corporate governance best term certainty and long term value for carrying on the day to day management and practice.
Rio Tinto will comply fully with the Rio Tinto's shareholders.
operation of the businesses independently UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance of Chinalco.
following completion of the transaction.
Transaction overview The Rio Tinto board believes the These appointments will be on the same The transaction will deliver substantial strategic alliance with Chinalco will terms as the other non executive directors of aggregate cash proceeds of US$19.5 billion strengthen Rio Tintos ability to deliver its Rio Tinto.
Further details on the relationship through: strategy of maximising shareholder value agreement are set out on page 15.
An investment by Chinalco in certain through the development and operation of The transaction is conditional upon aluminium, copper and iron ore joint low cost, long life assets.
approval of Rio Tinto shareholders and is ventures totalling US$12.3 billion: and In addition to significantly subject to government and regulatory The issue of subordinated convertible strengthening Rio Tintos balance sheet and approvals.
The initial completion of the bonds in two tranches with conversion ensuring financial flexibility over the transaction is scheduled to occur prior to prices of US$45 and US$60 in each of medium term, the pioneering partnership is 31 July 2009.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited for a expected to offer the following benefits to total consideration of US$7.2 billion.
If Rio Tinto: Strategic partnership investments converted, the subordinated convertible A link to Chinalcos strong relationships Chinalco will invest US$12.3 billion in bonds would increase Chinalco's current within China, which Rio Tinto believes will aluminium, copper and iron ore strategic Business Strategic Rio Tintos Chinalcos Rio Tintos partnership existing proposed share resulting economic of Rio Tintos economic interest economic interest interest Weipa Aluminium 100% 30% 70% Yarwun Aluminium 100% 50% 50% Boyne Aluminium 59.4% 49% 30% Gladstone Power Station Aluminium 42.1% 49% 21.5% Escondida Copper 30% 49.75% 15% Grasberg Copper 40% 30% 28% La Granja Copper 100% 30% 70% Kennecott Utah Copper Copper 100% 25% 75% Hamersley Iron Iron Ore 100% 15% 85% 1 Development Fund 50% 1 The Development Fund will be jointly owned by Rio Tinto and Chinalco.
The US$500 million included in the transaction is for the acquisition of project developments, including from Rio Tinto.
14 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Overview alliances in the form of strategic alliance managed by Rio Tinto.
As part of the Rio Tinto is capable of carrying on its notes or equity.
The strategic alliance notes agreement, Chinalco will also receive a business independently of Chinalco as a are synthetic instruments which track the 25 year commitment for bauxite supply from significant shareholder.
cash generated by the assets and give a Weipa on arms length terms.
Transactions and relationships between return based on the cash generated, taking In relation to the iron ore alliance, Chinalco or any of its associates and into account Chinalcos level of investment.
Rio Tinto and Chinalco will establish a Rio Tinto are at an arms length and on The businesses and assets, and Rio Tinto jointly owned sales company which will normal commercial terms.
and Chinalcos resulting economic interests, market 30 per cent of Hamersley Irons iron Chinalco shall be entitled to nominate up are set out in the table above.
Further details ore output in China.
This sales company will to two directors one of whom shall be an on the Groups businesses and assets are set contract the marketing with Rio Tinto.
All independent director to the Rio Tinto out on pages 122 to 129. other marketing of iron ore will be carried board as long as it continues to have the Chinalcos investments will be made out by Rio Tinto.
right to hold at least 14.9 per cent of the through participation in the relevant Rio aggregate publicly held share capital of Tinto entities which own these assets, and Exploration Rio Tinto assuming conversion of the the form of that investment will vary As part of the strategic partnership, and in convertible bond.
Should Chinalcos between each entity.
If the transactions addition to the product group strategic shareholding entitlement in Rio Tinto fall involving certain assets do not complete on alliances, Chinalco and Rio Tinto intend to below 14.9 per cent, but remain above the date on which the transactions involving pursue additional cooperative arrangements 9.9 per cent Chinalco shall be entitled to Hamersley Iron, Weipa, Yarwun and and new business opportunities, including nominate one director to the Rio Tinto Escondida in certain circumstances and the sharing of operational and capital project board.
convertible bonds complete, Chinalco will best practices.
As a demonstration of this Directors of Rio Tinto nominated by pay certain sums into escrow which will then project development initiative, Rio Tinto and Chinalco shall not be permitted to vote on be paid to Rio Tinto on completion of the Chinalco are already negotiating a possible any board resolution on any matter transactions involving those particular assets.
agreement in relation to the joint involving Chinalco or where the board development of Rio Tintos Simandou iron determines in accordance with the boards Product group strategic alliances ore project in Guinea and have entered into policy that there is a conflict of interest.
Strategic alliance committees will be a memorandum of understanding to established for each of the aluminium, establish a strategic alliance to explore The relationship agreement will terminate copper and iron ore strategic alliances with opportunities in mainland China that will in the event that Chinalco ceases to hold a Chinalcos voting rights generally in line allow Rio Tinto to take an interest in right to 9.9 per cent of the aggregate publicly with its level of investment.
held share capital of Rio Tinto or if Rio Tinto The committees will provide a forum for plc ceases to be listed on the Official List in discussion of matters relating to the Project development fund the United Kingdom and traded on the particular assets that constitute that Rio Tinto and Chinalco will establish a London Stock Exchange and Rio Tinto strategic alliance.
Rio Tinto will chair the project development fund, using the initial Limited ceases to be admitted on the official strategic alliance committees and will hold a capital contribution from Chinalco described list of, and its securities quoted on, the casting vote.
Rio Tinto will retain day to day above, to exploit project opportunities in Australian Securities Exchange.
management and operational control of the aluminium, copper and iron ore, to be held underlying assets that Rio Tinto manages.
within the framework of the relevant Convertible bonds Chinalco is entitled to appoint two out strategic alliance.
Potential investments Chinalco will invest a total of US$7.2 billion of six members of the iron ore strategic include exploration projects in China, in subordinated convertible bonds issued by alliance committee, and three out of six opportunities within the parties aluminium Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited or members of each of the aluminium and the businesses in Australia and China, and companies within the Rio Tinto Group with copper strategic alliance committees.
Rio Tintos existing development projects.
If converted, the Chinalco will have the right to be bonds would increase Chinalcos current represented on the board of the holding Secondment policy shareholdings to 19.0 per cent in Rio Tinto company of each particular asset.
In order for Rio Tinto and Chinalco to plc and 14.9 per cent in Rio Tinto Limited, Appropriate governance arrangements will capture and transfer the best practice and equivalent to an 18.0 per cent interest in the be in place to ensure continued independent experience that each company has Rio Tinto Group.
The Rio Tinto plc bonds and commercial decision making.
established over time, Rio Tinto and Chinalco will pay an annual coupon of 9.0 per cent In addition to the investments outlined, have agreed a secondment policy under and the Rio Tinto Limited Bonds will pay an in relation to aluminium, Rio Tinto and which Chinalco may second executive, senior annual coupon of 9.5 per cent.
Chinalco have also identified future areas of management or junior personnel, as Each of the Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto cooperation, all of which will be subject to appropriate, into roles within each asset Limited bonds will be split into two formal agreement by the strategic alliance and or into each strategic alliance.
Tranche A of the bonds will committee and board of Rio Tinto.
may second appropriate management and convert into Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio The aluminium strategic alliance technical personnel to Chinalco.
Tinto Limited shares at an initial conversion committee will establish a pro-rata jointly price equivalent to US$45 per share.
Tranche owned bauxite marketing venture.
The Relationship agreement B of the bonds will convert into Rio Tinto plc strategic alliance would market a proportion On completion of the transaction, Chinalco shares and Rio Tinto Limited shares at an of Weipa produced bauxite outside and Rio Tinto will enter into a relationship initial conversion price equivalent to Australia, after satisfying Rio Tintos internal agreement to regulate the continuing US$60 per share.
However, these conversion requirements and existing customers, with relationship between the parties.
In prices are subject to adjustment in certain the remaining bauxite marketing to be particular, the agreement will ensure that: circumstances such as, inter alia, share Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 15 Recent developments Chinalco strategic partnership continued consolidations, share splits and share resolutions necessary for the transaction.
bonds, Hamersley Iron, Weipa, Yarwun and distributions.
Tranche A represents The Rio Tinto board recommendsa subject to certain conditions Escondida, US$3.1 billion of the total issue size, and competing proposal.
Tranche B represents US$4.1 billion of the total issue size.
The break fee is not payable where: Liquidated damages The respective conversion premium to Despite a triggering event as defined in the Rio Tinto has agreed to a liquidated damages be paid by Chinalco on Tranche A and agreement, Rio Tinto shareholders approve regime in the case of its wilful breach of Tranche B of the Bonds is: the resolutions necessary for the obligations to establish the joint ventures for 107 per cent for Tranche A and 176 per transaction.
Escondida, Grasberg and Kennecott Utah cent for Tranche B to the Rio Tinto plc The Rio Tinto boardhas not withdrawn or Copper.
This is designed to protect Chinalco closing price on 30 January 2009. adversely changed their recommendation against the risk that it completes the first 68 per cent for Tranche A and 124 per cent and Rio Tinto shareholders do not approve tranche of the transaction, and Rio Tinto for Tranche B to the Rio Tinto Limited the resolutions necessary for the subsequently breaches the obligations to closing price on 30 January 2009. transaction, or all or part of the transaction deliver the balance of the assets.
Total does not complete because a condition liquidated damages payable are US$850 The bonds will be convertible into ordinary precedent is not satisfied.
The liquidated damages would not shares of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited An independent expert determines that the be payable unless the shareholders approved at any time from 41 days after the closing transaction is not fair and reasonable.
the transaction, as the regime only applies date up to a certain number of days prior to The implementation agreement has been once initial completion has occurred.
the earlier of the maturity date of the bonds terminated or Rio Tinto is unilaterally and the date of redemption of the bonds.
entitled to terminate the implementation Shareholder approvals The bonds will be redeemable by Rio Tinto agreement.
The transaction will be on the terms and after seven years.
If so redeemed for cash, subject to the conditions set out in the Rio Tinto presently intends to replace the The break fee is payable only once and will transaction documents, and to be set out in bonds with instruments that achieve similar constitute Chinalcos sole and exclusive a circular to be sent to Rio Tinto rating agency equity credit.
remedy in connection with the events and shareholders.
The circular will contain The bonds have been structured with the circumstances triggering the obligation to pay.
further financial and other information, aim of achieving 50 per cent equity credit together with the Rio Tinto boards from the rating agencies.
Standard & Poors Exclusivity arrangements recommendation and will be sent to has indicated, subject to satisfactory final The implementation agreement contains Rio Tinto shareholders shortly.
documents and the amount to be issued customary terms and conditions for an relative to the capital of the Group, that the agreement of this nature which restrict bonds would be eligible for intermediate Rio Tinto from soliciting a competing 50 per cent equity credit.
The amount of proposal from any third party, or entering equity credit is subject to final confirmation into negotiations or discussions in relation to by the agencies.
a competing proposal with any third party.
The restriction on negotiations or Financial impact discussions with third parties does not The value of the gross assets, and the pro prevent Rio Tinto from engaging in such forma net underlying business unit earnings negotiations and discussions in the event that of the assets, that are the subject of the the Rio Tinto board after having considered strategic alliances are US$14,021 million advice from its legal and, if appropriate, and US$5,841 million respectively.
The data financial advisers, acting in good faith and in is extracted from the Groups accounting order to satisfy what they reasonably consider records for the year ended 31 December to be their fiduciary or statutory duties, 2008 and represents Rio Tintos interest determine that there is a superior proposal prior to completion of the transaction.
available to Rio Tinto, or one or more proposals may reasonably be expected to lead Implementation agreement to a superior proposal.
Where the Rio Tinto The transaction is governed by an boardhas made such a determination, Rio implementation agreement entered into by Tinto is required to notify Chinalco of the the parties that includes the following in general nature of that superior proposal.
If relation to break fees, exclusivity and the Rio Tinto board intends to recommend a liquidated damages arrangements.
superior proposal, then prior to the publication of that recommendation Rio Tinto Break fee obligations shall provide Chinalco with the material Subject to certain exceptions, the terms of the proposal and an opportunity to implementation agreement provides for a respond.
break fee of US$195 million to become The above exclusivity arrangements payable by Rio Tinto to Chinalco in the apply from the period commencing on 12 following circumstances: February 2009 and end on the earlier of the The Rio Tinto board withdraws or date of termination of the implementation adversely changes its recommendation that agreement, or the date on which the Rio Tinto shareholders approve the transactions in respect of the convertible 16 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report
