Markets and strategy Core objective and strategy constant delivery of business improvement Customers and markets Rio Tintos core objective is to maximise programmes and investment in the asset By understanding what our customers value, the long term return to shareholders by throughout its lifecycle.
we develop offerings which meet their needs finding, mining and processing metal and and generate superior returns for Rio Tinto.
mineral resources across the globe.
Growth and innovation Competitively positioning our businesses in The Groups ability to maintain production their markets is based on a robust, fact To deliver this objective the Group follows a growth over long periods in line with based five year marketing strategy supported long term strategy that concentrates on: demand is underpinned by a strong reserve by rigorous tactical execution.
Effective The discovery of Tier 1, large, low cost and resource position in its key supply chain integration with our operations orebodies that will safeguard our future commodities.
Consistent commitment to and Rio Tinto Marine ensures that we meet cash flow.
greenfield and brownfield exploration customer needs and create value for The development of Group assets into safe activity ensures that the Groups mineral ourselves by supplying the right products and efficient large scale, long life and low cost operations to ensure the Group can inventory is continually replenished, and and services at the right time to the right operate profitably at every stage of the creates a strong pipeline of future place.
While market conditions in 2009 are commodity cycle.
The current some of the most challenging we have seen, Operating in an ethical and socially weak global market has had a significant our investment in sales and marketing responsible manner that maintains impact both on commodity prices and capability will ensure that we meet the Rio Tintos reputation and ensures ongoing customer demand, leading the Group to revenue challenge of the down-cycle while access to people, capital and mineral re-evaluate and cut back on its near term retaining the flexibility to take advantage of resources.
capital expenditure on growth projects.
Putting long term sustainable development near term focus is to reduce capital spending at the heart of everything the Group does.
yet maintain strategic growth options.
RIO TINTOS STRATEGIC PILLARS People To support and deliver its long term strategy, Rio Tintos workforce consists of both staff Rio Tinto structures its medium term and contractors and their safety is the activities around the six core strategic pillars organisations first priority.
These pillars are used by each believes that attracting, developing and product group and support group to develop retaining a skilled and engaged workforce is their medium and short term strategic and critical to business performance.
Using this consistent workforce planning, an integrated talent framework, represented by the Rio Tinto sourcing and development model, the total strategy map on page 22, ensures that the rewards architecture and efficient, effective Group is aligned in the delivery of the long development are examples of the Group term strategy.
wide initiatives that Rio Tinto uses to optimise the value of its workforce.
As the Health and safety Company strives to deliver shareholder value We believe that all incidents and injuries are under challenging market conditions, the preventable.
Rio Tintos aim is to create an Human Resources function will enable the environment where all employees and organisation to engage its employees, contractors have the knowledge, skills and support the development of critical desires to work safely, so that everyone goes leadership competencies during periods of home safe and healthy at the end of each change and extend the overall agility of the day.
In 2009 there will be a renewed focus workforce while sustaining business on implementing the safety programmes performance.
currently being rolled out across the Group, with a particular focus on contractor Communities and environment management.
Rio Tinto has a strong commitment to all aspects of sustainable development.
This is Operational and financial delivery an integral part of the way Rio Tinto conducts The mineral and metal extraction industry is its business activities.
By focusing on cyclical, but to deliver the maximum value to delivering economic prosperity, social shareholders the Group must earn positive wellbeing and environmental stewardship, financial returns at the lowest points of the within strong governance systems, we ensure economic cycle with exceptional returns sustainable development remains at the delivered at times of strong commodity forefront.
While this approach helps us to prices.
The majority of Rio Tintos assets aim manage risk, our strong reputation as a to operate in the lower half of the cost curve socially responsible miner also continues to for their respective industries.
Rio Tinto win us customer preference, giving us achieves this through the promotion of improved access to land, people and capital management excellence, the application of the three critical resources upon which our the latest mining technologies, the business success is built.
Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 21 Core objectives and long term strategy continued RIO TINTOS STRATEGY MAP Core objective Maximise the companys value and the long term return delivered to shareholders by nding, mining and processing metal and mineral resources across the globe Long term strategy Operating in an ethical Putting long term Discovering Tier 1 Developing new and existing and socially responsible sustainable development orebodies assets into safe and efcient, manner at the heart of all we do large scale, long life and low cost operations Strategic pillars Health & safety Operational Growth People Communities Customers & !financial & innovation & environment & markets delivery Our aspiration An Consistent Entrepreneurial Employer Developer Supplier of choice uncompromising delivery of developer and of choice of choice approach to production acquirer of value Entry and growth safety targets creating assets High performing, Well positioned in emerging engaged and for a carbon-priced markets A zero harm Value based Ability to capitalise !exible workforce world environment decision making on changes in Positioned to the markets Durable workforce Respect for the deliver products Healthy Cash generative that is well environment that underpin employees, assets at all points Leader in developed for and local global economic contractors in commodity developing and future needs communities growth and local cycle utilising new communities mining and Global needs Fact based processing met with local marketing technologies employees strategy and relevant to tactics Rio Tintos orebodies 22 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report
