Product overview Bauxite, alumina, aluminium The mineral bauxite is refined into alumina which is smelted into aluminium metal.
Aluminium is one of the most widely used metals from tennis racquets to aircraft.
Rio Tinto is a leading global supplier of bauxite, alumina and primary aluminium, with an annual production capacity of 35 million tonnes of bauxite, nine million tonnes Gross revenue by commodity 2008 of alumina and 4.1 million tonnes of aluminium.
No one can spend a day without using a US$bn metal or mineral.
In the production and Aluminium 23.8 41.0% Coal 7.0 12.0% supply of metals and minerals, Rio Tinto is Copper 4.5 7.7% one of the worlds most diversified Diamonds 0.8 1.4% companies.
Major products are aluminium, Gold 0.4 0.7% Industrial minerals 3.0 5.2% iron ore, copper, molybdenum, coal, Iron ore 16.2 27.9% uranium, diamonds, gold, borates, titanium Molybdenum 0.7 1.2% dioxide, salt and talc.
Uranium 1.0 1.7% Other 0.7 1.2% Products integral to our way of life Silver Molybdenum Gold Coal Uranium Silver is a good Molybdenum is a Gold has enjoyed a mystique and value unrivalled Coal is plentiful, Uranium is one of the conductor of electricity metallic element by other metals.
Most gold that is not stored as relatively inexpensive, most powerful natural and does not corrode.
frequently used in bullion for investment purposes goes into jewellery.
and safe and easy to energy sources known, It is used in many alloys with stainless Golds conductivity and non corrosive properties transport.
We are one used in the production electrical and electronic steel and other metals.
make it a vital fabrication material in technology, of the worlds largest of clean, stable, base applications and is the It enhances the metals electronics, space exploration and dentistry.
We producers of thermal load electricity.
After principal ingredient of toughness, high produce gold as a by-product from our copper coal, used for electricity uranium ore is mined, photographic and x-ray temperature strength mines.
generation in power it is milled into uranium film.
Silver is also a and corrosion stations.
We also oxide, the mine product metal of beauty, used resistance.
We produce produce higher value that is sent away for to make lasting molybdenum as a coking, or metallurgical, further processing into products for the home by-product from the coal which, when fuel rods for nuclear and person.
Rio Tinto Kennecott Utah Copper treated into coke, is power stations.
used in furnaces with by-product of its copper iron ore to produce production.
6 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Overview Iron ore Copper Salt Talc Gypsum Iron is the key About two thirds of copper production is used in Dampier Salt is the Talc is hydrated Gypsum is a key ingredient in the electrical applications due to its high conductivity.
worlds largest salt magnesium silicate ingredient in production of steel, It helps power our lives, in homes and factories, exporter.
Salt is one of and is the softest rock wallboard, plaster, one of the most cars, computers, phones and equipment.
Further the basic raw in the world.
It is an cement and is used in fundamental and major uses are in air conditioning and materials for the important ingredient agriculture markets.
durable products for refrigeration, plumbing and roofing.
Rio Tinto chemicals industry in the manufacture of Rio Tintos Dampier modern day living, produces about five per cent of world mined copper.
and is indispensable paper, paints, moulded Salt operations at Lake from railways to to a wide array of plastics for cars and MacLeod, Australia, paperclips.
Our mines automotive, other familiar provide high quality are located in construction and products.
Our talc natural gypsum to the Australia and Canada.
electronic products, as subsidiary Rio Tinto markets in Africa, Asia well as for water Minerals serves more and Australia.
treatment, food and than 1,000 customers healthcare.
Borates Diamonds Titanium dioxide Sulphuric acid Mineral borates are used in hundreds of products Gem diamonds share The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with Sulphuric acid is one of and processes.
They are a vital ingredient of many the role with gold as a titanium slag, can be transformed into a white the most important home, garden and beauty care products, and have luxury commodity in titanium dioxide pigment or titanium metal.
The industrial chemicals many automotive applications.
Rio Tinto white pigment is a key component in paints, with a wide range of used in vitreous applications such as fibreglass offers diamond plastics, paper, inks, textiles, food, sunscreen and uses.
It is produced as a products and high temperature glasses and products across a wide cosmetics.
Titanium metal's key properties of light by-product of enamels.
About half of the worlds borates come range, from the pink, weight, chemical inertness and high strength make Rio Tintos copper from Rio Tintos Boron mine in California.
champagne and cognac it ideal for use in medical applications and in the smelting operations at stones from Argyle in aerospace industry.
Australia, to the spectacular whites of Diavik in Canada and Murowa in Zimbabwe.
