Mari Kvalsund Construction assistant, A track record of Ship Technology Oshore developing businesses Marine is now the second largest Rolls-Royce business in revenue terms.
Transformed by the acquisition ofVickers in 1999, it has become a world leader in specialist ship design and the provision and integration of high technology systems.
Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 1 Principal risks and uncertainties The Group continues to be exposed to a number of risks and has an established, structured approach to identifying, assessing and managing those risks.
The risk committee has accountability for the system of risk management and reports regularly to the Board on the key risks facing the business and the mitigating actions put in place to deal with them.
The Groups consistent strategy and long-term programmes require that key sources of risk are identied in advance and are maintained under continuous review.
The risks described below are among those that the Group considers might have an impact on the Groups performance.
This is notwithstanding other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to the Group or which the Group does not presently consider to be material.
The principal risks reect the global growth of the business, and the competitive and challenging business environment in which it operates.
Risks, including those to the Groups reputation, are considered under four broad headings: Business environment risks Strategic risks Financial risks Operational risks The Groups broadly balanced power systems Business environment risks activities, access to global markets with Cyclical downturn global recession greater diversication by sector, customer and The current challenging economic environment geography and an improved balance between is a source of some uncertainty for the Group.
original equipment and services revenues are The length and depth of the current recession expected to help mitigate the eects of the and constraints caused by reduced liquidity slowing global economy.
from global capital markets may hinder the The Group has a robust balance sheet with ability of customers and suppliers to make positive net cash.
The changes made to the planned investments in all sectors.
The Groups UK dened benefit pension schemes should largest market, civil aerospace, is cyclical by ensure a less volatile, more predictable funding nature, although services activity and revenues, requirement in the future.
now representing more than 60 per cent of the civil aerospace business annual revenue, External events or factors aecting air travel have historically been less volatile in economic The civil aerospace business remains an slowdowns and are considered more predictable important contributor to the Groups revenues and robust than the sales of engines for and profits.
The willingness of passengers to new aircraft.
travel by air is influenced by a range of factors, including economic conditions, health and The contribution from the Groups global security issues.
Any prolonged reduction in activity in other non-civil aerospace markets air travel would impact airlinesrevenues and is becoming more significant.
It now cash ows, and potentially reduce their need represents around 50 per cent of Group for new engines, spare parts or aftermarket revenues, and these markets are also less support services.
Business review continued Our business continued Exposure to this risk is mitigated by the Groups Strategic risks business strategy, which has driven it to become Delivery of aftermarket a global operation with a broader business base, The Groups revenues are balanced between with 50 per cent of revenues and 40 per cent original equipment delivery and aftermarket of earnings now generated outside the civil services.
The growth in product sales provides aerospace business from its defence aerospace, a large installed base, of which a high proportion marine and energy businesses.
has successfully been contracted under longThe Groups crisis management plan and term post-sale support arrangements, so that framework would be instrumental in responding aftermarket revenues now constitute a majority to, and recovering from, wider external events of forecast revenue.
A significant failure to deliver such as the impact of terrorist activity or an the aftermarket commitments made to its inuenza pandemic.
customers and meet anticipated contractual profitability could have an adverse impact on Environmental impact of products the Groups financial results and reputation.
and operations The Group recognises that its products and The Group places great importance on working business operations have an impact on the closely in partnership with its customers to environment, particularly related to climate understand their operations and align the change.
Rolls-Royce is determined to be Groups service capability to meet their needs.
part of the solution to these environmental Within the dedicated services organisation, challenges and continues to make significant management initiatives have developed robust investment in innovative solutions for processes, structures and networks to ensure the aviation, marine and energy markets.
required support levels can be delivered The challenge is being addressed through the eectively and economically.
Nevertheless, enhancement of current product ranges and economic pressures on commercial aviation, aordable research and development into as well as changes in regulations, could lead complementary technologies such as nuclear to reductions in utilisation rates and operational power, fuel cells and tidal energy.
The Group budgets, representing a continuing threat to continues to work closely with its customers, the realisation of future revenues.
industry partners and other stakeholders to Competitive pressures implement these development opportunities.
The markets in which Rolls-Royce operates A robust governance structure headed are highly competitive.
The majority of its by the Environment Council directs and programmes are long term in nature and access monitors improvements in the environmental to key platforms is critical to the success of the performance of the Groups products, and the business.
This requires sustained investment Environmental Advisory Board reviews and in technology, capability and infrastructure, makes recommendations on the environmental all creating high barriers to entry.
However, aspects of the Groups products and business these factors alone do not protect the Group operations see pages 42 to 53. from competition, including pricing and technical advances made by competitors.
The Group has developed a balanced business portfolio and maintained a steady focus on improvement in operational performance, for example through the modernisation of its facilities.
This, together with the establishment of long-term customer relationships and sustained investment in technology acquisition, allows the Group to respond to competitive pressures.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Export controls Operational risks Rolls-Royce designs and supplies a number Performance of supply chain of gas turbine products and services for the The Groups products and services are delivered defence aerospace market.
Many countries in through the eective operation of its facilities which the Group conducts its business operate and key capabilities, including its supply chain.
legislation controlling the export of specified The Groups success in strengthening its market goods and technology intended or adaptable position places increased reliance on the for military application.
The Group is committed performance of the supply chain.
The Group to complying with the requirements from manufactures approximately 30 per cent by national governments in all jurisdictions value of its gas turbine products, the remainder when exporting goods, parts, technologies being provided through external suppliers, or information, although globalisation of the including risk and revenue sharing partners.
Groups operations brings with it complexities Meeting delivery commitments on schedule, of concurrent but diering national export cost and quality are critical to the achievement control legislation.
Non-compliance with of business goals.
The Group has a consistent export controls is recognised as a principal focus on cost reduction and performance risk to both programme performance and improvement and it continues to modernise the Groups reputation.
its production facilities to improve productivity The exports committee, chaired by the Chief and reduce costs.
Investment in developing Operating Ocer, directs the Groups strategy world-class manufacturing processes is and policy on exports.
Export control managers continuing in Asia, North America and Europe.
are embedded throughout the business and This also drives development of the external the Group will continue to implement any supply chain through sourcing of parts from necessary changes to ensure that it maintains many new countries.
the capability necessary to monitor and comply Global supply chains are inevitably complex with requirements.
with numerous inter-relationships with a wide variety of organisations.
While the Groups Financial risks strategy is to improve integration and simplify the internal and external elements of its supply These are risks that arise as a result of chain by building strategic links with fewer, movements in financial markets.
Principal stronger suppliers, it is still prone to disruption risks are: from financial or physical causes.
A major movements in foreign currency disruption in any of these elements would exchange rates: adversely aect the Groups ability to deliver its operational commitments and would have interest rates: the potential to aect financial returns.
commodity prices: and The planning for, and management of, counterparty credit risk.
any such interruption is addressed through the Groups business continuity management A description of these risks and details of the process.
Substantial progress has been made Groups risk mitigation actions in this area are in the deployment of business continuity provided in the Finance Directors review.
management systems and structures to assess the likelihood and potential impacts of a catastrophic disruption to the Groups key facilities.
In addition to the Groups comprehensive programme of business interruption insurance, significant investment is being undertaken to establish, where possible, dual sourcing of key components.
Increased focus is also being applied to understanding and addressing sources of risk arising in the external supply chain, particularly those associated with financial instability.
Procedures are in place to monitor, assess and respond in such circumstances.
Business review continued Our business continued 4 IT security Programme risk The continuing globalisation of the business The Group manages complex product and advances in technology have resulted programmes with demanding technical in more data being transmitted across requirements against stringent, and sometimes international communication links, uctuating, customer schedules.
This requires posing an increased security risk.
There is the co-ordination of the engineering function, also the possibility of unintentional loss of manufacturing operations, the external supply controlled data by authorised users.
In either chain and other partners.
Failure to achieve case, adverse impacts upon operational programme goals would have significant eectiveness, the value of intellectual property, financial and reputational implications for legislative compliance or the reputation of the Group.
The active sharing of The Group seeks continuous improvement information through industry and government of all its processes and employs project forums and the continual upgrading of security management controls on a routine basis.
equipment and software mitigate these risks.
All major programmes are subject to Board Ethics approval and are reviewed regularly by the The Group recognises the benefit that is derived Board with a particular focus on the nature from conducting business in an ethical and and potential impact of emerging risks socially responsible manner.
This approach and the eective mitigation of previously extends from the sourcing of raw materials and identied threats.
components to the manufacture and delivery of products and services.
It applies to the provision of a safe and healthy place of work and investment in technologies to reduce the environmental impact of the Groups products and operations.
Shortcomings in any of these areas could damage the Groups reputation and disrupt its business.
The Group is committed to maintaining high ethical standards.
A global code of business Ethics has been issued to employees and a face-to-face training and engagement programme is in place in order to strengthen employee awareness of the Groups values.
The Groups ethical standards are also communicated to the Groups first-tier supply base through a supplier code of conduct.
Concerns regarding potentially unethical behaviours can be reported in confidence via dedicated global telephone and internet channels.
All such reports are followed up and will be monitored by the recently formed ethics committee.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Pete Jackson Engine tter A long-term business We power over 0 types of commercial aircraft, from business jets to the largest widebody airliners.
OurTrent engine family is enjoying particular success.
TheTrent 900 has now been chosen by ten of the 1 operators that have ordered engines for the Airbus A 80, theTrent 1000 for the Boeing 787 has been selected by around 50 per cent of operators and theTrent 700 has won 70 per cent of new orders for the Airbus A 0.
The Trent XWB remains the only engine on oer for the Airbus A 50 XWB.
