Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 39 Services Service revenues increased by 11 per cent to 4.8 billion 57 per cent of the civil aerospace fleet now under TotalCare support More than 8,000 engines and auxiliary power units covered by in-service monitoring Expansion of joint ventures in Hong Kong and Singapore Global repair services created, increasing focus on repair technology Expanded capability of global Operation Centres, including satellite sites with two major customers Key performance indicators 008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Underlying services revenue m 4,755 4,265 3,901 3,457 3,251 Underlying services as percentage of Group revenue 5 55 53 54 55 The Groups services business includes eld This capacity will come on stream in 2009 and services, the sale of spare parts, equipment 2011 respectively and is being funded without overhaul services, parts repair, data management, recourse to the joint venture shareholders.
equipment leasing and inventory management In its first full year of operation, the overhaul services.
These services are typically sold as a facility we have established with Lufthansa, package under our TotalCare banner.
N3, has made steady progress, successfully introducing Trent 700 capability and expanding Group service revenues increased by 11 per cent its customer base.
Our eld support capability in 2008, driven by good progress across all sectors.
has also been enhanced with the opening Services represented 52 per cent of Group of our eighth On-Wing Care centre, in Brazil, revenues.
The strongest growth was recorded and we are developing capability in the UAE in marine, demonstrating the value of expanding in conjunction with Mubadala Development our service network in this sector.
On-Wing Care services were service centre in Mumbai was opened in provided for over 3,000 engines across the year.
May and later in the year we entered into an agreement with Abu Dhabi Shipbuilders We have continued to expand our services to provide waterjet services in the Middle East.
provision with the successful deployment of our Electronic Flight Bag EFB, now in its third During 2008, we continued to invest in our year.
The EFB provides, among other applications, civil aerospace service network, with extensions a key data acquisition capability to optimise to both Singapore Aero Engine Services Limited overall aircraft and fleet fuel usage.
SAESL and Hong Kong Aero Engine Services Limited HAESL under construction.
Technology creating global opportunities: Technology creating global opportunities: Joint ventures Long term service agreements HAESL is a joint venture company and part of the global A Rolls-Royce service representative with a customer at an Rolls-Royce repair and overhaul network.
The Group is increasingly signing long term service agreements with energy customers.
Business review continued Review of operations continued 40 The TotalCare model encourages an integrated The upgrade and standardisation of our approach, which means we work closely IT systems to support the services business with our customers to optimise the operation continued and underpinned our expandedof their assets while carefully managing costs.
capability Operations Centre, opened in the We conduct in-service monitoring for over UK during 2008.
We have also dened a suite 8,300 engines worldwide, providing engine of integrated Service Life Cycle Management health monitoring and data analysis services processes and supporting IT tools that we in conjunction with our expanded Operations are rolling out Group-wide in a multi-year Centres.
This enables real-time data acquisition programme.
The highlight for the year was and analysis to maximise operational a awless implementation of SAP at HAESL performance for our customers in parallel where the site achieved near record output with optimising support costs.
in the month the system went live.
We are also increasing the focus on overhaul We remain confident that our service model costs, reorganising our component repair is aligned with our customersinterests, activities during the year to establish Global encouraging us to focus on maximising the Repair Services.
This organisation takes a strategic eectiveness of their assets.
This alignment approach to repair development and is investing and focus drive the investment in capability in advanced repair processes.
and improved delivery that is the hallmark of our services business.
Contract highlights for the year included agreements with US Airways to support its RB211-535 fleet with a TotalCare package and a similar contract with IAE for its V2500 fleet.
TotalCare support arrangements now cover 57 per cent of the civil aerospace fleet.
In defence aerospace we competed for and successfully retained the F405 US Navy contract, which we have been executing for the past five years, the new contract being for a further year with four one year extension options.
Also notable were a number of helicopter contracts including a 258 million award from the UK MoD to support Gnome engines.
In the energy business, ten long-term service agreements were won with a total value of 160 million.
We expect to agree a further ten energy contracts covering 50 new gas turbine units that will be installed during 2009, taking the number of packages under long-term service agreements to over 250, or around 20 per cent of the fleet.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Tracy Graylish Help Desk Manager Supporting customers Operations Centre with innovative services We have developed a global network of service centres to support our customers.
Increasingly, we are adopting long-term service agreements with customers in all our market sectors, allowing us to work in partnership to maximise the eectiveness of their assets.
