Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 35 Engineering and Technology Global research network expanded Further research work in US secured Europrop International TP400 ew for the first time WR-21, the worlds most ecient marine gas turbine, entered service Trent 60 WLE dual fuel started service operation Key performance indicators 008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Gross research and development expenditure m 885 824 747 663 601 Net research and development expenditure m 490 454 395 339 282 Net research and development charge m 403 381 370 282 288 Net research and development expenditure % of underlying revenue 5.4 5.8 5.4 5.2 4.7 The Groups engineering and technology activity In 2008, we have continued to invest in a includes our research and technology, product broad range of technology development development and product upgrade operations and demonstration programmes.
Research and across our four customer-facing businesses.
development expenditure was 885 million, of which 490 million was funded from Group We have 9,600 people in our worldwide resources.
The net charge to the income engineering network, with major centres in statement was 403 million.
A significant the UK, USA, Canada, Germany, Scandinavia, proportion of this technology provides the India and Singapore.
In addition, the Group foundation for products with reduced leverages resources through its global network environmental impact while delivering of 29 University Technology Centres UTC in increased value to our customers.
seven countries, which develop and acquire technologies for tomorrows Rolls-Royce Building on our past research successes we products.
This network further expanded in led 425 patent applications in 2008, a record 2008 with the opening of a UTC in Pusan, Korea, year for the Group.
to develop high eciency heat exchangers.
Technology creating global opportunities: Technology creating global opportunities: WR- 1 Factory of the Future HMSDaring has entered service, powered by the Rolls-Royce has opened itsFactory of the Futurenear Sheeld, worlds most ecient marine gas turbine, the WR-21.
It will demonstrate what can be achieved in the eld of advanced manufacturing.
Business review continued Review of operations continued 3 We have made good progress on two In civil aerospace, the Trent 900 demonstrated US Air Force premier technology programmes, excellent reliability during its first full year in ADVENT and HEETE, and won a further award service with Singapore Airlines and is also for the Integrated Vehicle Energy Technology in operation with Qantas.
continues to build its maturity on the test bench, awaiting first ight of the Boeing 787.
The first In Europe, we successfully ran the Power BR725 for the Gulfstream G650 ran on time and Optimised Aircraft POA engine demonstrator, the engine is making good progress towards integrating electrically driven engine components certication.
The Trent XWB for the Airbus A350 which traditionally are powered mechanically.
XWB has now largely completed its preliminary We also achieved encouraging noise level results design stage.
from a rig test demonstrating the open rotor aero engine, which has the potential to deliver a step Our drive for improved in-service engine reduction in fuel consumption.
reliability continues, with engine health monitoring data and analysis techniques We continued, with partners, to develop delivering globally competitive and improving two low-carbon energy technologies.
The construction of the 500kW underwater tidal power turbine prototype has started and HMSDaring, the first of the WR-21 powered we also began system testing our solid oxide Royal Navy Type 45 destroyers, was handed fuel cells.
However, we have taken the decision over to the Royal Navy in 2008.
The engine, to focus future fuel cells activity on the with its intercooled and recuperated cycle, development of the technology rather than is the worlds most ecient marine gas turbine.
production and manufacturing verication The Littoral Combat Ship USSFreedom in order to match product readiness with was commissioned for US Navy service, market demand.
demonstrating successful integration of two Our focus on modern manufacturing continues MT30s, the most powerful marine gas turbine with the opening of the Factory of the Future, in the world, derived from the Trent 800 aero the latest development of the Advanced engine.
The MT30s together with four Manufacturing Research Centre in Sheeld, Rolls-Royce Kamewa 153 S11 waterjets drive UK.
We are also making good progress on this 3,000 tonne ship at speeds in excess of the Advanced Forming Research Centre 40 knots.
in Glasgow, UK, and three other manufacturing The long life nuclear core was successfully research centres globally.
installed in the first Astute class submarine In defence aerospace, the Rolls-Royce LiftFan for the Royal Navy.
With this reactor core the ew on the Joint Strike Fighter in conventional submarine can operate for its whole lifespan mode, ahead of full system testing in 2009. without refuelling.
The TP400, developed by the Europrop International consortium, for the A400M military transport aircraft, ew for the first time on the ying testbed.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008
