Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Board of directors 65 At February 11, 2009 Simon Robertson John Neill CBE Non-executive Chairman Non-executive director Chairman of the nominations committee A member of the audit and nominations committee Appointed to the Board in 2004, he is the founder member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP Appointed to the Board in November 2008, he is the Chief Executive of the Unipart Group of and a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, Berry Bros & Rudd Ltd, and The Economist Companies.
He is a member of the Council and Board of Business in the Community and is a Newspaper Limited.
He is a director of The Royal Opera House Covent Garden Limited and a non-executive director of Charter plc.
He is Vice President of the Society of Motor Manufacturers Trustee of The Eden Project and the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund.
He is the former and Traders, BEN, the automotive industry charity and The Institute of the Motor Industry.
President of Goldman Sachs Europe Limited.
John Rishton Sir John Rose Non-executive director Chief Executive Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the ethics and nominations committees A member of the nominations committee Appointed to the Board in March 2007, he is Chief Executive Officer of Royal Ahold.
He began his Appointed to the Board in 1992, having joined Rolls-Royce in 1984, and has been Chief Executive career in 1979 at Ford Motor Company and held a variety of positions both in the UK and in Europe.
He is a Trustee of The Eden Project.
In 1994 he joined British Airways Plc where he was Chief Financial Officer from 2001 to 2005.
He is a former non-executive director of Allied Domecq.
Helen Alexander CBE Andrew B Shilston MA, ACA, MCT Non-executive director Finance Director Chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the ethics and nominations committees Appointed to the Board in 2003 having joined Rolls-Royce in 2002, he was a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC until May 2008 and he was Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 Appointed to the Board in September 2007, she is a Senior Adviser of Bain Capital and a until 2002.
Age 53. non-executive director of Centrica plc.
She is Chair of the Advisory Board, Said Business School, Oxford University, a Trustee of the Tate Gallery and a governor of St Pauls GirlsSchool.
Former CEO of the Economist Group from 1997 to 2008, she was awarded a CBE for services to publishing in 2004.
Colin P Smith BSc Hons, FREng, FRAeS, FIMechE She was Chairman of PPA, the magazine industry trade association, from 2006 to 2008.
Director Engineering and Technology Appointed to the Board in 2005 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1974, he has held a variety of key Peter J Byrom BSc, FCA positions within Engineering, including Director Research and Technology and Director of Non-executive director Engineering and Technology Civil Aerospace.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, A member of the remuneration, ethics and nominations committees the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Appointed to the Board in 1997, he is Chairman of Domino Printing Sciences plc and a Ian C Strachan non-executive director of AMEC plc.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He was a director of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited from 1977 to 1996.
Non-executive director Chairman of the ethics committee and a member of the audit and nominations committees Iain C Conn Appointed to the Board in 2003, he is a non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc, Xstrata plc, Non-executive director, Senior Independent Director Transocean Inc and Caithness Petroleum Limited.
He is the former Chief Executive of BTR plc, former A member of the audit and nominations committees Deputy Chief Executive 1991 to 1995 and Chief Financial Officer 1987 to 1991 of Rio Tinto plc, former non-executive Chairman of Instinet Group Inc and former non-executive director of Appointed to the Board in 2005, he is an executive director of BP p. l. c. having held a range of Commercial Union and Reuters Group plc.
Age 65. executive positions within the BP Group worldwide.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Board of The Imperial College Business School.
Mike J Terrett Professor Peter Gregson Chief Operating Officer Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 2007, having joined Rolls-Royce in 1978, he has held a variety of senior positions in the development of new aero-engine programmes, including Managing Director of A member of the remuneration and nominations committees Airlines and President and Chief Executive Officer of International Aero Engines IAE based in the Appointed to the Board in March 2007, he is President and Vice-Chancellor of Queens University United States.
Prior to his appointment as Chief Operating Officer he was President Civil Belfast and serves on the Northern Ireland Economic Development Forum, the Council of CBI Aerospace.
He is a member of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Northern Ireland and the Steering Group of the US Ireland Research and Development Aeronautical Society.
He is a Fellow and Council Member of the Royal Academy of Engineering, a Member of the Royal Irish Academy, and Deputy Lieutenant of Belfast.
He was formerly Professor of Aerospace Tim Rayner Materials and Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University of Southampton and has served on the General Counsel and Company Secretary Council for the Central Laboratory of the Research Councils.
He joined Rolls-Royce in 2007 having previously been General Counsel and Company Secretary at James M Guyette BSc United Utilities PLC.
President and Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc.
Appointed to the Board in 1998 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1997, he is a director of the PrivateBank and Trust Company of Chicago, Illinois and of priceline.
com Inc. Until 1995 he was Executive Vice President, Marketing and Planning of United Airlines.
Dr John McAdam Non-executive director A member of the remuneration and nominations committees Appointed to the Board in February 2008, he is Chairman of United Utilities PLC and Rentokil Initial plc, the Senior Independent Director of J Sainsbury plc and a non-executive director of Sara Lee Corporation.
He was the Chief Executive of ICI plc until ICIs acquisition by Akzo Nobel.
66 The Group Executive The Group Executive is responsible for the management of the Group within the strategy determined by the Board.
It is chaired by Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, and its other members are: Axel Arendt President Defence Aerospace Dr Mike Lloyd Director Manufacturing Charles Blundell Director Public Affairs Alain Michaelis President, Gas Turbine Supply Chain & Deputy Chief Operating Officer Tom Brown Director Human Resources Dr Mike Orris Chief Procurement Officer Miles Cowdry Director Global Corporate Development John Paterson President Marine Tom Curley President Energy Tim Rayner General Counsel and Company Secretary James Guyette President and Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc. Andrew Shilston Finance Director Dr Michael Haidinger President Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG Colin Smith Director Engineering and Technology Lawrie Haynes President Nuclear Mike Terrett Chief Operating Officer Mark King President Civil Aerospace Tony Wood President Services International Advisory Board The International Advisory Board IAB, formed in 2006, advises the Group on emerging political, business and economic trends.
Membership of the IAB is as follows: Lord Powell of Bayswater Chairman of IAB, former Foreign Aairs and Defence Mustafa Ko Chairman of Ko Holding AS Adviser to Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher and Taizo Nishimuro Chairman of Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. John Major and former Chairman of Toshiba Corporation Bernard Duc Senior Partner, HMI Ltd Hong Kong, Chairman of the Lubna Olayan CEO of the Olayan Financing Company Rolls-Royce South East Asia Advisory Board, former Deputy Chairman of the Eduardo Serra Former Spanish Defence Minister Rolls-Royce European Advisory Board Ratan Tata Chairman of Tata Sons Ltd Sir Rod Eddington Non-executive Chairman, Australia & New Zealand Matthias Wissmann Former Minister for Transport and Research in JPMorgan Chase Bank NA and former Chief Executive, Germany, President of the Association of the British Airways Plc German Automotive Industry VDA, Dr Fan Gang Professor at Chinas Academy of Social Sciences and Vice-Chairman of the Federation of German Head of National Economic Research Institute Industries BDI and Senior International Counsellor at WilmerHale Carla Hills Chair and CEO, Hills & Company, International Consultants, former US Trade Representative, Lee Hsien Yang Chairman, Fraser & Neave Limited former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Ernesto Zedillo Former President of Mexico, Director, Yale Center former Assistant Attorney General for the Study of Globalization General Sir Mike Jackson Former Chief of the General Sta, UK Ministry of Defence South East Asia Advisory Board The South East Asia Advisory Board SEAAB, formed in 1987, advises the Group on political, economic and business trends in Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and the Philippines.
Membership of the SEAAB is as follows: Bernard Duc Chairman of the SEAAB, Edward W Rubin Chairman of a Hong Kong-based private investment Senior Partner, HMI Ltd Hong Kong company, Non-Executive Director of Singapore-listed former Deputy Chairman of the Noble Group Ltd Rolls-Royce European Advisory Board Soedibyo Brigadier-General retired Chatrachai Bunya-Ananta Member of the National Legislative Council of Thailand Senior Fellow, Institute for Strategic Studies of Former Senator of Thailand Indonesia.
Former Vice-Assistant to the Former President of Thai Airways International plc Commander-in-Chief Indonesian Air Force for Policy & Planning DatoJaar Indot Independent Non-Executive Director, Shell Refining Company FO Berhad Prof Mrs Tan Sook Yee Member of the Panel of the Strata Titles Board Chairman, Malaysian Dutch Business Council ex-Professor of Law, National University of Singapore President, Federation of Family Planning Associations Dr Bernardo M Villegas University Professor, University of Asia and the Pacific, Malaysia Manila, Philippines, Visiting Professor in Economics, H E Ambassador Chairman President, Philippine Council for Foreign IESE Business School, Barcelona, Spain Jose V Romero, Jr Relations, Former Philippines Ambassador to Italy Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 67 Composition of the Board Independence of the non-executive directors Simon Robertson chairs the Board of directors and Sir John Rose is the Chief The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive Executive.
The division of responsibilities between them is set down in writing and directors remain independent.
The Combined Code does not regard the Chairman agreed by the Board.
Iain Conn is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
as being independent in view of his unique role in corporate governance.
There are currently 14 directors on the Board comprising the non-executive However, on his appointment as Chairman on January 1, 2005, Simon Robertson Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and eight met the criteria for independence contained in the Combined Code.
significant commitments are described on page 65.
The Board reviews the The quality and broad experience of the directors, the balance of the Boards independence of the non-executive directors every year, based on the criteria in composition and the dynamics of the Board as a group, ensure the Boards the Combined Code.
This review was undertaken in 2008, and the Board effectiveness and also prevent any individual or small group dominating the concluded that all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman were Boards decision making.
independent in character and judgement.
The Board determined that Peter Byrom Each executive director receives a service contract on appointment see remains independent in character and judgement notwithstanding that he has page 72 for further information and each non-executive director receives a letter served on the Board for more than nine years, that there are no relationships or setting out the conditions of his or her appointment.
circumstances which are likely to affect his independent judgement and that he is Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, in no way dependent on the remuneration he receives from the Company.
which may be extended subsequently with the agreement of the Board, although reappointment is not automatic.
Executive directors are employees who have Role of the Board executive responsibilities in addition to their duties as directors.
Non-executive The Board is responsible to all the Companys stakeholders for its conduct and for directors are not employees and do not participate in the daily business the performance of the Company.
The day-to-day running of the Company is delegated by the Board to the During the year, there were a number of Board changes: Dr John McAdam executive team under the leadership of Sir John Rose, the Chief Executive.
was appointed as a non-executive director on February 19, 2008: Carl Symon The Board retains responsibility for the approval of certain matters which retired as a non-executive director at the Annual General Meeting AGM on affect the shape and risk profile of the Company, as well as such items as the May 7, 2008 and was succeeded by Helen Alexander CBE as chairman of the annual budget and performance targets, the published accounts, payments to remuneration committee: and John Neill CBE joined the Board as a non-executive shareholders, major capital investments and any substantial change to balance director on November 13, 2008. sheet management policy.
This division of responsibilities between the Board and Under the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the directors are the executive team is set out in detail in a schedule approved annually by the subject to re-election every year, with each director also being subject to Board, which defines those decisions which can only be taken by the Board itself.
re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
Any director appointed during The Board has approved the following statement summarising its core the year is separately required to retire and seek election by the shareholders at the responsibilities: next AGM.
The Board also requires any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years to be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
Primary goal John Neill CBE, having been appointed to the Board during the year, will The primary goal of the Board is to ensure that the Companys strategy creates seek election by shareholders at the AGM.
The directors retiring under the annual value for the long-term investor within an acceptable risk profile.
re-election provisions contained in the Articles of Association are Iain Conn, James Guyette, John Rishton and Simon Robertson.
They all offer themselves The Boards tasks for re-election.
In line with its primary goal, the Board's principal tasks are to: Peter Byrom, having served more than nine years on the Board, is subject to ensure the development of the Companys strategy and keep it under annual re-election by shareholders.
No other non-executive director has served for rigorous review: more than nine years on the Board.
In recommending Peter Byrom for re-election, monitor the implementation of the strategy, ensuring that the necessary the Board took account of the desirability of retaining a non-executive director with financial and human resources are in place to deliver it and that effective long experience on the Rolls-Royce Board.
The Board believes strongly that in a controls exist to manage risk: long-term, complex and technologically advanced business it is essential that safeguard the values of the Company, including its brand and corporate non-executive directors have the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, reputation and the safety of its products: the experience and knowledge of the business and the sectors within which the oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure through Group operates.
effective succession planning and remuneration policies that it is maintained The Articles of Association also provide that no person may be appointed to at world-class standards: and the office of chairman in an executive capacity or to the office of chief executive, maintain an effective corporate governance framework that aspires to deliver managing director or joint managing director of the Company, unless the long-term value to shareholders.
No person may be appointed to the office of director of the Company if, immediately following such appointment, the number of Directorsinduction, training and information directors of the Company who are not British citizens would exceed one half of the Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction programme and total number of directors of the Company for the time being.
receive a comprehensive data pack providing detailed information on the Group.
Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum An existing executive director acts as a mentor to each newly appointed and Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the non-executive director, giving guidance and advice as required.
As part of their directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
briefing, non-executive directors visit key sites and meet a cross-section of managers and employees to gain a better understanding of the Group and its operations.
Ongoing training is available for all the directors, including presentations by the executive team on particular aspects of the business.
There is a procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access every director has to the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Board of directors continued 68 Board effectiveness The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least once a year without the executive directors present, in order to review the operation of the Board.
The Chairman has an annual meeting with each non-executive director to review his or her contribution to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director chairs an annual meeting with the non-executive directors to review the performance of the Chairman, the outcome of which is reported back to him.
Each year, the Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive as part of the annual salary review process overseen by the remuneration committee.
The Chief Executive reviews the performance of the other executive directors in the same way.
In 2008, the annual process to enable the Board to evaluate the effectiveness of its performance involved the completion of a written questionnaire by the directors and a series of meetings between the Chairman and each individual director.
The Board reviewed the results of this exercise in February 2009.
The review covered all aspects of corporate governance, including board and committee structure, board dynamics, the conduct and frequency of board meetings, the consideration of strategic issues by the Board and the information provided to directors.
The Board considered that it was operating effectively.
The review identified the need for improvements in some areas, including revising the format of the Board strategy sessions and improving the consistency of Board papers.
The Board agreed to encourage greater interaction between the Board and management, for example, by arranging Board visits to Company facilities.
The Board has also asked to receive more regular reports on succession planning for executives.
These improvements will be implemented in 2009.
The audit, remuneration and nominations committees have separately undertaken reviews of their terms of reference and effectiveness during 2008.
Conflicts of interest Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company unless that situational conflict has been authorised by the Board.
The Board has reviewed and authorised all directorssituational conflicts and has agreed that while directors are required to keep confidential all Company information, they shall not be required to share with the Company confidential information received by them from a third party which is the subject of the situational conflict.
The Board has also agreed that the authorisation of situational conflicts will be reviewed annually.
Indemnity The Company has entered into separate deeds of indemnity in favour of its directors.
The deeds provide substantially the same protection as that already provided to directors under the indemnity in Article 170 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for any legal action taken against its directors and officers.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008
