Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Shareholders and share capital 81 Share capital and voting rights Holders of not less than ten per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of At December 31, 2008, the Companys authorised share capital was the Company may requisition a general meeting of the Company.
Holders of 3,500,050,000.60 and comprised: 2,499,999,998 ordinary shares of 20p: not less than five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company or 100 2,000,000,000,000 C Shares of 0.1p: 1,000,000,000,000 B Shares of 0.1p: one Special holders holding shares with an average of not less than 100 per member Share of 1: and 50,000 preference shares of 1. paid up on such shares which reflects the nominal value not the market On December 31, 2008, there were 1,843,740,136 ordinary shares and one value of the relevant shares may requisition the Company to give Special Share in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
shareholders notice of any resolution which may properly be moved at an The first issue of C Shares took place on January 2, 2009.
The C Shares are not listed.
AGM or may require the Company to circulate a statement of not more than 1,000 words with respect to a matter referred to in a proposed resolution or Payments to shareholders other business to be dealt with at a general meeting.
At the AGM on April 30, 2009, the directors will recommend an issue of 85.8 C Shares with a total nominal value of 8.58p for each ordinary share.
Together with 2 C Shares Since January 2009 the Company has issued non-cumulative the interim issue on January 2, 2009 of 57.2 C Shares for each ordinary share with a redeemable preference shares C Shares as an alternative to paying a cash total nominal value of 5.72p, this is the equivalent of a total annual payment to dividend.
Shareholders can choose to: ordinary shareholders of 14.30p for each ordinary share.
redeem all C Shares for cash: redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in additional Communication with shareholders ordinary shares using the C Share Reinvestment Plan CRIP operated by The Company attaches importance to the effectiveness of its communications Computershare Investor Services PLC the Registrar : or with shareholders.
It publishes an Annual review and summary financial statement keep the C Shares.
as well as a full Annual report.
There are also separate reports covering the Any C Shares retained attract a dividend of 75 per cent of LIBOR on the 0.1p environment and community relations.
nominal value of each share, paid on a twice-yearly basis, and have limited The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders voting rights.
In certain circumstances the Company has the option to and the financial community.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and compulsorily redeem the C Shares, at any time, if the aggregate number of interim results, regular meetings with major shareholders, participation in C Shares in issue is less than ten per cent of the aggregate number of all stockbrokersseminars and site visits.
C Shares issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of the Company.
Each year the Group holds an investorsseminar, in order to improve the On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of C Shares shall be financial communitys understanding of the Group and to introduce investors to a entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, to the broader range of management.
All shareholders can gain access to these and repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited as paid-up on the other presentations, as well as to the Annual report and other information about C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal to the outstanding the Group, on the Groups website at www.
preferential dividend which will have been accrued but not been paid until Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the the date of return of capital.
Company highlights key business developments during the year and at which The holders of C Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the audit, general meeting only if a resolution to wind up the Company is to be remuneration, ethics, and nominations committees are available to answer any considered, in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
questions from shareholders on the work of their committees.
The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant 3 B Shares Up to July 2008, the Company had issued B Shares as an alternative documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the to paying a cash dividend.
Following a strategic financial review, the directors AGM.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications concluded that the dilution caused by the conversion of B Shares to ordinary electronically, notice is given by email of the availability of documents on the shares was inconsistent with the Groups strategy.
The only material difference Groups website.
Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with between B Shares and C Shares is that C Shares do not carry the option to shareholders rests with the executive management team led by the Chief convert directly into ordinary shares.
C Shares can only be redeemed for cash.
However, the Board is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder All remaining B Shares were redeemed on September 22, 2008 and the issues, including share price performance, the composition of the shareholder Company has no intention of issuing further B Shares.
Independent research is commissioned annually into institutional shareholder perceptions of the Group.
The Chairman, the Senior 4 Special Share Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Independent Director and the non-executive directors make themselves available Special Share issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
Subject to to meet with shareholders as required.
the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the Special Share may be redeemed by the Treasury Solicitor at par at any time.
The Special Share Share class rights confers no rights to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it shall be The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares are set out in the repaid at its nominal value in priority to any other shares.
Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign shareholding 1 Ordinary shares Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the limit, disposals and the nationality of directors that relate to the rights Companys Annual report.
They are also entitled to attend and speak at attached to the Special Share may only be altered with the consent of the general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if they Special Shareholder.
are corporations, corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights.
The Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting Holders of ordinary shares may receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a or any other meeting of any class of shareholders.
dividend and on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
5 Preference shares The 50,000 preference shares were issued pursuant to the Companys incorporation and were subsequently redeemed.
Shareholders and share capital continued 82 Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings Voting rights There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles of Association as described Deadlines for exercising voting rights below, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation for example, insider Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received trading laws or pursuant to the Companys share dealing code.
by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
The Articles of Association provide that the Company should be and remain under United Kingdom control.
As such, an individual foreign shareholding limit is Voting rights for employee share plan shares set at 15 per cent of the aggregate votes attaching to the share capital of all classes Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose of satisfying taken as a whole and capable of being cast on a poll and to all other shares that awards made under the various employee share plans.
For shares held in a the directors determine are to be included in the calculation of such holding.
nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide the participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically allocated shares, the trustee votes in line with the Shareholder agreements and consent requirements .
For shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of There are no known arrangements under which financial rights carried by any of specific individuals, the general policy of the trustees, in accordance with investor the shares in the Company are held by a person other than the holder of the shares protection guidelines, is to abstain from voting in respect of those shares.
and no known agreements between the holders of shares with restrictions on the transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
Major shareholdings No disposal may be made to a non-Group member which, alone or when At February 11, 2009, the following companies had notified an interest in the aggregated with, the same or a connected transaction, constitutes a disposal of issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with the Financial the whole or a material part of either the nuclear business or the assets of the Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Group as a whole, without consent of the Special Shareholder.
% of issued Company Date notied ordinary share capital Authority to issue shares Invesco Limited February 4, 2008 6.91 At the AGM in 2008, authority was given to the directors to allot new ordinary Legal and General Group Plc December 4, 2008 4.99 shares up to a nominal value of 128,748,950, equivalent to one third of the issued share capital of the Company at February 6, 2008.
Such authority is valid until the AGM in 2009 or 18 months from May 7, 2008, whichever is the earlier.
A further special resolution was passed to effect a disapplication of pre-emption rights for a maximum of five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company at February 6, 2008.
The directors propose to renew these authorities at the AGM in 2009.
At the AGM in 2008, authority was given to the directors to allot new B Shares up to a nominal value of 350 million as an alternative to a cash dividend.
The directors do not propose to renew this authority at the AGM in 2009.
At the AGM in 2008, authority was given to the directors to allot new C Shares up to a nominal value of 350 million as an alternative to a cash dividend.
The directors propose to renew this authority at the AGM in 2009.
Authority to purchase own shares At the AGM in 2008, the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 182,161,998 of its own ordinary shares representing ten per cent of its issued ordinary share capital as at February 6, 2008.
The Company did not make use of this authority during 2008.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2009 and a resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008
