Business review continued 1 Our strategy As a power systems company, Rolls-Royce focuses on supplying its customers with integrated systems to meet their power and propulsion needs.
Our consistent strategy has five elements: Address four global markets We are a leading integrated power systems company operating in the civil and defence aerospace, marine and energy markets.
Invest in technology, infrastructure and capability Over the past five years, we have invested 3.7 billion in research and development.
We invest approximately 30 million annually in training and over 300 million a year on capital projects.
Develop a competitive portfolio of products and services We have more than 50 current product programmes and we are involved in many of the future projects in the markets we serve.
These key projects will define the power systems market for many years.
Grow market share and installed product base Across the Group, the installed base of engines in service is expected to generate attractive returns over many decades.
Add value for our customers through the provision of product-related services We seek to add value for our customers with aftermarket services that will enhance the performance and reliability of our products.
The core characteristics which define our Technological superiority business and underpin the delivery of this Our investments in technology and capability strategy are: provide Rolls-Royce and our customers with competitive advantage.
Closeness to our customers We develop close relationships with our Operational excellence customers over many years.
This allows us to We aim to operate at the highest standards, oer solutions, often in partnership with our to ensure that we continue to meet our customers, to meet their specic requirements.
 in the quality, performance, durability and delivery of Domain knowledge our products, systems and services.
Underpinning our sales of equipment and related services is a deep knowledge of the Organisational capability overall environment in which our equipment Because we are a global company we have is used.
This allows us to provide the optimum the ability to recruit and retain capable people level of service and focus our activities to meet in many locations.
Our investment in training our customersneeds and grow our business.
and the varied career opportunities are key to our success in retaining high-quality people.
Integrated systems We supply our customers with products, Brand related services and whole systems.
Our ability We have an exceptionally strong brand which to integrate and optimise systems enables is recognised globally and embodies qualities us to create value for customers in all our that create a common focus for all our people, main markets.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008
