Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008 Board committees 69 The Board is assisted by its committees.
Details of their membership and principal The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the published terms of reference are set out below.
Their full terms of reference are available on accounts and for reviewing the Groups financial reporting and accounting policies, the Groups website at www.
including major announcements made to a regulatory information service.
It is also responsible for the relationship with the external auditors and for assessing the role Attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees in 2008 and effectiveness of the internal audit function, which in Rolls-Royce is termed Business Assurance.
In addition, the committee reviews the Groups procedures for Board Remuneration Nominations Audit Ethics detecting, monitoring and managing the risk of fraud.
Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the Helen Alexander CBE8 7 55 22 2 2 appointment of the external auditors and for reviewing the nature, scope and Peter Byrom 8 7 55 22 2 2 results of the annual external audit.
It also approves the audit fee and, on an annual Iain Conn 8 7 21 54 basis, assesses the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
A Prof Peter Gregson 8 6 54 21 resolution to reappoint the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the directors James Guyette 88 to determine the auditorsremuneration, will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
Dr John McAdam 7 6 44 22 It keeps under review the Groups internal controls and systems for assessing John Neill CBE 21 1 0 00 and mitigating financial and non-financial risk.
It also reviews and approves the John Rishton 8 8 22 55 2 2 Business Assurance work programmes and ensures that this function is adequately Simon Robertson 88 2 2 resourced and co-ordinated with the work of the external auditors.
Twice a year the Sir John Rose 87 2 2 committee receives a written report on the reviews conducted throughout the Andrew Shilston 88 Group by Business Assurance, and a report from senior executives on the key Colin Smith 87 business risks and risk systems in selected sectors.
Ian Strachan 8 8 22 55 2 2 In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the following Carl Symon 3 3 22 00 policy is applied in relation to services provided by the auditors: Mike Terrett 88 Audit related services these services are undertaken by the auditors as it is work that they must, or are best suited to, perform.
It includes formalities relating to The number of meetings held during the period a director was in office or a member of a committee.
borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, risk management services, various regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: Remuneration committee Tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions the auditors are used for this The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on work where they are best suited to undertake it.
All other significant consulting the Groups policy regarding executive remuneration.
The committee determines, work in these areas is put out to tender: and on the Boards behalf, the specific remuneration packages of the Chairman, the All other advisory services consulting the auditors are generally prohibited executive directors and a number of senior executives.
The committee met five from providing these services.
The committees membership and principal terms of Throughout the year the committee monitors the cost of non-audit work reference are set out in the  report on page 70. undertaken by the auditors and is, therefore, in a position to take action if at any time it believes that there is a risk of the auditors' independence being Nominations committee undermined through the award of this work.
In 2008, the nominations committee was chaired by Simon Robertson.
Its other members were Helen Alexander CBE, Peter Byrom, Iain Conn, Professor Peter Ethics committee Gregson, Dr John McAdam from February 19, 2008, John Neill CBE from In September 2008, the Board approved the formation of an ethics committee.
November 13, 2008, John Rishton, Sir John Rose, Ian Strachan and Carl Symon The ethics committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
The committee met twice during the year.
Ian Strachan chairs the committee and its other members during 2008 were The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment Helen Alexander CBE, Peter Byrom and John Rishton.
The committee met twice of executive and non-executive directors and on the membership of Board during 2008.
The Director of Risk, who has executive responsibility for ethics, committees.
It is assisted in the former task by external recruitment consultants.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and other It reviews succession planning generally and also reviews specific appointments executives of the Company may be invited to attend meetings of the committee.
to the Board and to other senior positions within the Group.
The committee also The committee is responsible for reviewing compliance with the Groups oversees the annual review of Board effectiveness.
Global Code of Business Ethics the Global Code and will make recommendations In carrying out these tasks, the committee gives careful consideration to the to the Board as appropriate for changes to the Global Code.
The Global Code sets balance of skills required on the Board, including the need to reflect diversity, out the principles to be followed by employees when conducting business.
international experience and strong managerial and business skills.
Before The committee will review recommendations on ethical matters made by recommending the appointment of a non-executive director to the Board, the external regulatory authorities or other bodies, such as the Woolf Committee, and committee satisfies itself that the candidate will have sufficient time available to will make recommendations to the Board about whether, and if so, to what extent, discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
these should be applied to the Company.
It also has responsibility for receiving reports on issues raised through the Groups confidential reporting lines and for Audit committee reviewing the results of subsequent investigations.
The audit committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive directors.
The committee will ensure that ethical policies and practice are subject to an During 2008, the committee was chaired by John Rishton who has recent and appropriate level of independent internal audit and, where necessary, will appoint relevant financial experience.
In 2008, its other members were Iain Conn, Ian auditors to conduct an external review.
Strachan and John Neill CBE from November 13, 2008.
The committee met five times during the year.
The Director of Risk, Head of Business Assurance and a Risk committee representative of the external auditors normally attend the meetings.
Additionally, The Board has a risk committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, with specific the Head of Business Assurance has direct access to the committee.
The Chairman accountability for the system of risk management and for reporting key risks and of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and any other Board their associated mitigating actions to the Board.
In 2008, its other members were member or senior executive may attend the meetings as necessary, at the James Guyette, Andrew Shilston, Colin Smith and Mike Terrett.
invitation of the audit committee chairman.
