REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors submit their report and the SHARE CAPITAL NOTIFICATION OF MAJOR INTEREST IN SHARES Details of the ordinary shares issued during Since the 2007 Directors Report the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008 as set out on pages 2008 are given in note 16.
Details of the Company has been notied of major Companys share capital including rights interests and voting rights held directly 46 to 81. and obligations attaching to each class of and or indirectly by the following: PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES share are set out in note 16 of the financial Rotork p. l. c. is a holding company.
The % OF VOTING RIGHTS statements.
5p ordinary shares represent principal activities of the Rotork Group are AXA 5 over 99.9% of the Companys total share Blackrock 5 the design, manufacture and support of capital.
1 preference shares represent less Lion Trust 5 actuators, systems and related products than 0.1% of the Companys total share Legal & General 4 worldwide.
Prudential 3 The Rotork Group provides a range of The Companys Articles of Association products, systems and services for the RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT contain customary restrictions on the motorisation and manual operation of and Total Group expenditure on research & transfer of shares as applicable only in adaption to industrial valves and dampers development in the year was 4,017,000 certain limited circumstances e. g. in for isolation duty and process control 2007: 3,375,000 further details of which relation to transfers to a minor.
It does this through its are contained in the Business Review on for those provision there are no restrictions Controls, Gears and Fluid Systems divisions.
pages 15 to 16. on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Actuated valves are major control elements capital of the Company other than certain CHARITABLE DONATIONS in reneries, pipelines, power stations, restrictions which may be required from During the year the Group made charitable water distribution systems and efuent time to time by law, for example, insider donations of 71,000 2007: 48,000. treatment plants and in all industries in trading law.
In accordance with the Model which liquids or gases are transported There were no political donations made in Code which forms part of the Listing through pipes.
the year or the prior year.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority The Business Review of the Group is as adopted by the Company certain DIRECTORS set out on pages 14 to 28.
It provides a directors and employees are required to The names of the directors in ofce at the balanced and comprehensive analysis seek the prior approval of the Company year end and their biographical and other of the development and performance of to deal in its shares.
details including the other significant the business during the year under review commitments of the Chairman are as The Company is not aware of any and the position at the end of the year, shown on pages 30 to 31.
The interests agreements between shareholders that including future development of the of the directors in ofce at the end of the may result in restrictions on the transfer business and information about financial year in the shares of the Company of securities and or voting rights.
The environmental matters, the Companys are as shown in the Remuneration Report Companys Articles of Association contain employees and social and community on pages 37 to 42. limited restrictions on the exercise of voting issues.
The review contains analysis rights e. g. in relation to disenfranchised On 28 February 2008 JE Nicholas was using financial and non-financial key shares following the issue of a notice to appointed as a non-executive director.
shareholders under Section 793 Companies WH Whiteley and JW Matthews both In January 2008 the Group acquired Act 2006. retired from the Board on 2 May 2008.
Remote Control Sweden AB: details of the The Companys Articles of Association may transaction are provided in note 3 to the RE Slater, RH Arnold, GM Ogden and only be amended by special resolution at a financial statements.
PI France have service agreements and general meeting of shareholders.
details of these are contained in the The principal risks and uncertainties facing The Company is not aware of any Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42. the Group and the Groups approach significant agreements to which it is party to mitigating those risks are set out on The Companys procedure with regard to that take effect, alter or terminate upon a page 24. the appointment and replacement of change of control of the Company directors and those powers reserved for DIVIDENDS following a takeover.
the Board is described in the Corporate The directors recommend a final dividend EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES Governance Report on pages 32 to 36. of 14,490,000 for the year, payable on Shares in the Companys share schemes all 8 May 2009 to shareholders on the register At the Annual General Meeting AGM, in contain provisions providing voting rights to on 14 April 2009.
This represents 16.75p accordance with the Articles of Association, the scheme Trustee.
An RC Lockwood and RH Arnold will retire by interim dividend of 9.25p per ordinary share rotation and, being eligible, will offer 2007: 7.7p was paid on 26 September themselves for re-election.
2008, an additional dividend of 11.5p per ordinary share was paid on 11 July 2008 2007: 9.3p.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS For the Company financial statements, DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INDEMNITY An explanation of the Group policies on the INSURANCE state whether applicable UK Accounting use of financial instruments and financial Standards have been followed, subject to Subject to the provisions of the Companies risk management objectives are contained Acts, the Companys Articles of Association any material departures disclosed and in note 23 of these financial statements.
explained in the Company financial provide for the directors and ofcers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified.
statements: STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY The Company purchases and maintains FOR PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Prepare the financial statements on the insurance for the directors and ofcers of The following statement, which should going concern basis unless it is the Company, in undertaking their duties, be read in conjunction with the Auditors inappropriate to presume that the Group in accordance with section 233 of the Statement of respective responsibilities and the Company will continue in Companies Act 2006. of Directors and Auditors included in business.
the audit report, is made with a view DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The directors are responsible for keeping to distinguishing for shareholders the The directors who held ofce at the date of proper accounting records that disclose respective responsibilities of the directors approval of this Directors Report confirm with reasonable accuracy at any time the and of the auditors in relation to the that, so far as they are each aware, there is financial position of the Company and financial statements.
no relevant audit information of which the enable them to ensure that its financial Companys Auditors are unaware: and each STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY statements comply with the Companies Act director has taken all the steps that he FOR PREPARING THE ANNUAL REPORT & 1985.
They have general responsibility for ought to have taken as a director to make ACCOUNTS taking such steps as are reasonably open to himself aware of any relevant audit The directors are responsible for preparing them to safeguard the assets of the Group information and to establish that the the Annual Report and the Group and and to prevent and detect fraud and other Companys Auditors are aware of that Company financial statements in irregularities.
accordance with applicable law and Under applicable law and regulations, the regulations.
AUDITORS directors are also responsible for preparing Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc Company law requires the directors to a Directors Report, Remuneration Report as Auditors and to authorise the directors prepare Group and Company financial and Corporate Governance Statement that to determine their remuneration are to be statements for each financial year.
Under comply with that law and those regulations.
proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
that law they are required to prepare the The directors are responsible for the Group financial statements in accordance ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING maintenance and integrity of the corporate with IFRS as adopted by the EU and The AGM of the Company will be held at and financial information included in applicable law and have elected to prepare the Companys ofces at Rotork House, the Companys website.
Legislation in the Company financial statements in Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Friday, the UK governing the preparation and accordance with UK Accounting Standards 24 April 2009 at 12 noon.
A separate dissemination of financial statements may and applicable law UK Generally Accepted circular containing the Notice of the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Meeting is sent to shareholders with this Annual Report & Accounts.
After making enquiries, the directors have The Group financial statements are required a reasonable expectation that the Company by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to and the Group have adequate resources present fairly the financial position and to continue in operational existence for performance of the Group: the Companies the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they Act 1985 provides in relation to such continue to adopt the going concern basis financial statements that references in in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
the relevant part of that Act to financial ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD statements giving a true and fair view CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY are references to their achieving a fair While there is no formal code or standard, STEPHEN RHYS JONES SECRETARY presentation.
it is Company and Group policy to settle terms of payment with creditors when 2 MARCH 2009 The Company financial statements are agreeing the terms of each transaction and required by law to give a true and fair view to abide by creditors terms of payment of the state of affairs of the Company.
In provided that the supplier is also complying preparing each of the Group and Company with all relevant terms and conditions.
financial statements, the directors are There are no creditors subject to special required to: arrangements outside suppliers terms and Select suitable accounting policies and conditions.
The Company does not have then apply them consistently: any trade suppliers so that a creditor day payment period is not appropriate.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 44
