BUSINESS REVIEW: INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION control the movement of products in the In 2008 Rotork saw a change in leadership process, and on the worlds largest natural for only the 4th time in its history of over gas pipeline where they control the ow of CONTENTS 50 years.
From its beginnings in 1957, hydrocarbons in their system.
Rotork has been associated with quality BUSINESS STRATEGY and innovative solutions to customer Rotork aims to increase shareholder value requirements, and from the very early each year by focusing on valve actuation days has been a truly international business and associated activities, principally with products that are used in a wide wherever there is a need to control the variety of industries and applications.
movement of uids or gases.
As world Technological leadership has also been 14 INTRODUCTION market leader, our aim is to provide high instrumental in the growth of its products 17 ROTORK CONTROLS quality, advanced, innovative products in the safety critical emergency shut-down 18 ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS and services that constitute superior market with customers looking for Rotork 19 ROTORK GEARS solutions to customers requirements 20 FINANCIAL REVIEW to provide them with high quality solutions.
in these focused technical areas.
We 22 KPIs Rotork is often trusted solely in introducing support these operations around the 24 RISKS significant technology change into what are world through our extensive and 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY often quite conservative market areas.
continually expanding network of Rotork today is a truly global business ofces and manufacturing plants.
with direct operations in 29 countries, We operate an asset-light business model 14 manufacturing plants and over 1,700 which is highly cash generative.
Add to these facilities over 300 also seek to deliver quality margins, sales outlets in a further 47 countries and consistent year on year growth in revenues, Rotorks extensive international coverage profit and core dividends through organic within the business becomes clear.
operations have grown, so has the range of products within the Groups portfolio.
With The Group provides products and a the addition of new locations this has working environment where health & safety enabled Rotork to supply into increasingly is paramount for the benefit and protection diverse applications and industries.
Rotork of our employees and customers.
We supplies actuators, systems and associated develop and train our people to deliver products wherever there is a need to our strategy and satisfy our customers control the ow of liquids or gases through requirements while maintaining high pipes or channels, as well as into other ethical and safety standards across the specialist applications.
Rotork actuators are Group and acting as a responsible used for example in a sugar factory to international corporate entity.
BUSINESS STRUCTURE ROTORK P. L. C. ROTORK MANAGEMENT BOARD ROTORK CONTROLS ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS ROTORK GEARS ROTORK SITE SERVICES ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 14 BUSINESS REVIEW: INTRODUCTION YEAR UNDER REVIEW ROTORK CONTROLS Management Board was created at the The year has seen Rotork achieve strong Rotork Controls is still our largest division, start of the year to improve our level of improvement in performance, setting supplying electric actuator products across a co-ordination and control of the three new records across the business.
Here we saw investment divisions and this, supported by the experienced growth in each of our three across the business and we believe that we executive management teams of the divisions, and all of our markets and continued to take market share even when divisions, gives us a more responsive and territories.
A number of our facilities have currency rates were not in our favour.
The dynamic management structure able to received infrastructure investment in the current market makes our products more take advantage of the substantial year, and this process of development and competitive and this, combined with a opportunities that we believe are still improvement is continuing into 2009. strong underlying demand for Rotork available to us.
This investment is impacting each of our quality and technology, is an important QUALITY operating divisions across our global reach.
fundamental as we go into 2009.
Commitment to product excellence and In addition we have extended our initiatives ROTORK FLUID SYSTEMS customer satisfaction is fundamental to on cross-divisional co-operation and joint Rotork Fluid Systems RFS is our fastestRotork and we ensure that it is embedded development in specic market areas.
growing division supplying pneumatic, into our systems and procedures for both Overall, order intake was 344.2m up hydraulic and electrohydraulic actuators and vendor assurance and production.
36.8% and revenue increased to 320.2m, systems.
We are undoubtedly now seen as Rotork manufacturing sites are required to up 35.9%.
The order book increased to an a major force in this eld and we have the be registered to the international Quality impressive 162.0m which is 66.0% up on widest range of products in the market.
We Management System Standard ISO 9001 the start of 2008.
However this included also provide a tailored response to customer and also adopt Rotork systems and working the impact of currency movements during application issues and a real focus on practices that are proven and used across the year, and the inclusion of the opening delivery of a sound commissioned solution the Group.
This process is planned and order book of Remote Control RC the with support at all levels of the process.
managed from the main production site acquisition we made in the early part of the ROTORK GEARS and Group headquarters in Bath.
If these are excluded then the order Rotork Gears, a supplier of gearboxes, book at the end of 2008 would have been Our research and development function has adaptors and ancillaries for the valve up 30.7% on the prior year position.
a robust design review process for all new industry, has been a consolidator of products which ensures that our quality Sales revenue growth was strong across all businesses in this area and is now the world ethos is built in.
For example the recently three divisions, with Controls up 24.5%, leader in terms of product portfolio and launched Control Valve Actuator CVA has Fluid Systems up 84.8% and Gears up geographic reach.
This is a slower growing been subject to rigorous review at every 15.3%.
profit before tax and before business than the other divisions, but is stage in its development and can now rely amortisation of acquired intangibles, was involved in closer partnering with its on the robust quality assurance systems in 76.9m, an increase of 34.1% over the customers and provides high quality place at our own and our suppliers facilities.
Each of the divisions performed outsourcing, giving the customer base real well with operating profits in Controls up product improvements and cost savings in Our business model requires exact control 32.0%, Fluid Systems up 68.6% and Gears a long-term relationship.
of component procurement processes and up 18.8%.
Currency had some impact through our global supply chains we have ROTORK SITE SERVICES on this as sterling weakened through the created a mutually supportive network of Rotork Site Services operates through each latter part of the year, but the underlying Rotork supplier quality assurance SQA of the three divisions with dedicated teams performance of the businesses at constant and procurement teams to ensure that our providing on-site and workshop support to currency was strong.
our customers for the complete range of Overall 60% of our companies achieved products.
This is an important feature in our R&D sales revenue growth of more than 20% in business strategy going forward as we Investment in our product portfolio is an the year and two thirds achieved profit become the only actuator business to be important part of Rotorks success, and a growth of over 20%.
able to genuinely support our customers major differentiating factor in our across this range of products and the competitive landscape.
Each of the three Return on sales continues to be a key driver applications that they cover.
We are making divisions has an active programme of of the business and this has slightly reduced improvements and structural changes in research and development aimed at from 24.3% to 23.7%.
This was partly as this business to better enable it to respond rening the product offering, widening its a result of currency affecting sales more to our customers increasing demands for market appeal across sectors, and bringing than profit and the increased proportion an outsourcing business model in the elds technical developments into the product of operating profits produced by the Fluid of site service and plant repair and range where they would provide value for Systems division.
At constant currency the maintenance.
If the impact of currency was removed by BUSINESS STRUCTURE The main event of the year was the release restating the 2008 gures at 2007 rates, The growth and success of the business of the initial size of the control valve then sales would have shown an increase in recent times has required that the actuator.
This had been showcased prior to of 22.1%, and profit before tax an increase management structure be strengthened launch at a number of trade exhibitions, and of 17.0%.
to support the ongoing opportunities of had generated considerable enthusiasm the markets that we serve.
The Rotork amongst both our sales force and end-users.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2008 15 BUSINESS REVIEW: INTRODUCTION This product extends the range of Rotorks Last year we reported on our work with We believe that our reward system is electric actuators to cover the demanding high integrity pressure protection systems appropriate and fair, and employees in the process control market.
This specialist solution which UK and many overseas subsidiary companies will be augmented with additional sizes and can assist customers in applications where enjoy participation in long-standing Rotork further options during 2009. safety integrity is an important issue, and profit sharing and share schemes.
At the in certain applications the enhanced design Bath plant, an Employee Committee sits 2008 also saw the introduction of a new can be used to prolong the design life of the regularly to discuss employee issues and controller family for the ROM series of valve.
The challenging demands of these suggests improvements in working actuators.
This development enables users systems also provide an opportunity for conditions and practices, with all issues of small quarter-turn valves to benefit from the unique benets of the SVM technology.
being reviewed by directors and acted on Rotorks experience in networking and valve as appropriate.
diagnostics with the actuator sharing the Sub-sea actuator development has been Bluetooth capability of the CVA.
First an important feature of our product An Equal Opportunities policy is applied shipments of this product were despatched development across the divisional throughout the Group and in almost all to a Turkish customer for shipboard use.
In a joint development cases, it is nationals from countries in between the Fluid Systems and Gears which the Company operates who manage The first eld trial of our wireless network divisions, we have brought some innovative those companies locally.
Financial support was successfully commissioned in the last products to the market.
for training and learning programmes quarter of the year and this is now providing directly related to employees working useful feedback.
Further site trials are to be Value engineering and development roles are provided.
We have permanent installed during 2009.
It is expected that has continued across the RFS high pressure full-time training ofcers in many of our take-up of this technology will occur in gas pipeline actuator range with the high facilities who co-ordinate product training 2010 and beyond as standardisation pressure gas block being optimised for for employees and customers.
Our activities are completed and user confidence size and assembly, reducing cost and commitment to employee development in wireless technology increases.
providing a more competitive product over the long-term is evidenced by whilst maintaining the features The Smart Valve Monitor SVM partial initiatives on four-year apprenticeship differentiating it in the market place.
stroking product acquired from Drallim programmes, our extended graduate Industries Ltd has now been fully integrated In the Gears division, the focus for 2009 recruitment programme and other into Rotorks manufacturing system in a is to launch a new range of quarter-turn training initiatives across the Group.
joint development between engineers gearboxes focused on water industry CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY within the Controls and Fluid Power specications in the USA.
Following the Rotork values its good relationships with divisions.
In addition to ensuring that the international growth of this business, a its employees and the wider community, product meets Rotorks stringent quality number of smaller projects will look at the and is addressed in part, in the strategy requirements, the opportunity was taken to strengths of each manufacturing site to statement on page 14.
We adopt an ethical include additional features such as the create a more comprehensive and effective approach to all areas of our business and ability to gain credit from unscheduled complete gearbox range.
we strive to be responsible in our dealings plant shut-downs.
OUR PEOPLE with our own people and third parties Maintaining technological leadership within Rotork has a good relationship with its across the globe.
More information on the valve actuation industry continues to be employees, with a number of initiatives in environmental matters and social and our goal and we have further increased our place across the world to ensure regular community issues can be found on resources in Bath to assist in focusing on and effective communication of objectives pages 25 to 28. the many opportunities available to us.
In and targets, and to enable feedback from addition to major developments we people on issues that really matter to them.
continue to focus on reducing material During the year we undertook an employee costs through design optimisation and the satisfaction survey for the first time, across use of alternate materials such as the worldwide operations of the business.
We also work with This was aimed at obtaining input from our external partners to bring both specialised people on a wide range of issues including skills and cost savings to the design process.
conditions, the reward system, and the During 2008 Process Control, which is part sense of fullment that people get from of the Controls division, has undertaken their involvement with Rotork.
We were some important projects aimed at widening pleased with the level of response that we their products market appeal in terms of received from our employees and the level ruggedness and style, bringing some of involvement and reward that people commonality with the IQ actuator and generally felt from being a part of the further developing a common image.
We have a number of residual tasks emanating from the results of the survey and we intend to repeat the process again in the next year.
