The Board 32 Board Responsibilities RPS offers and the sectors in which and adequate funding in place to it operates.
As indicated in the Corporate Governance report the Board has defined 9.
Keep under review opportunities to Composition and Operations responsibilities which are as follows: extend the geographic areas in which The Board currently comprises five RPS operates.
Ensure that the Group has in place at Executive and five Non-Executive all times a strategy that is capable of 10.
Ensure that the Board has available Directors including the Chairman.
The delivering realistic returns an appropriate and effective advisory Executive Directors are responsible for to shareholders.
team including brokers, financial the management of all the Groups advisers, auditors, lawyers and financial 2.
Continue to organise and monitor the business activities.
The Non-Executive public relations professionals.
performance of Groups operations Directors are all independent of through the Divisional structure.
Together with our brokers, maintain judgement and extensive knowledge and an active Investor Relations 3.
Keep that structure under review and programme designed to ensure full experience to the proceedings of the be prepared to change the number Board.
The Chairman was independent exposure of the RPS investment case and nature of the Divisions in order on appointment.
to appropriate fund managers in the both to take account of market UK, Europe and USA.
opportunities and also to deal with The Board generally meets on a monthly management issues.
Maintain contact with a wide range of basis other than during holiday periods analysts and brokers to ensure current and more frequently when business needs 4.
Clarify any ambiguities in the authority, require.
The Board has a schedule of independent research is available to responsibilities and obligations of the the market.
matters referred to it for decision and the various parts of the Divisions both in requirement for Board approval on these terms of managing their businesses 13.
Maintain systems of corporate matters is communicated widely and reporting upon those businesses.
governance compliant with the throughout the senior management of the Combined Code and appropriate for 5.
Keep under review the composition Group.
Its principal tasks are to formulate a company of RPS type and size.
of the Divisional Management teams strategy and to monitor and control Discuss these matters with major and monitor their performance, being operating and financial performance in shareholders on a regular basis.
prepared to make changes in order to pursuit of the Groups strategic objectives.
maintain or improve performance in 14.
Ensure that the Group operates The Executive Directors meet at least terms of both delivery to clients and appropriate risk management systems once a month.
The Executive Committee financial results.
in respect of all aspects of its business.
is responsible for all operational matters 6.
Ensure the Group and Divisional 15.
Ensure that the Group has in place within the Group except in respect of any Boards have policies in place to attract IT systems appropriate for the proper decision, or group of decisions, which and retain high quality staff.
operation of the business and its likely could not be executed within the limit of expansion.
Manage and promote the RPS brand funds available to the Group or which are likely to have a material effect upon the vigorously and vigilantly, by ensuring it 16.
Ensure that the Group has in place has an adequate profile amongst the both a web-site and an intranet that trading prospects of the Group.
The client base that it is respected and provides an effective communication minutes of the meeting are circulated to strengthened.
medium for staff, clients and others the Non-Executive Directors for review.
Keep under review opportunities Operational matters do not include the to extend the range of products 17.
Ensure that the Group has sufficient setting of the Group Strategy or budgets Report and Accounts 2008
