Report of the Directors continued Directors responsibility statement pursuant New Articles are being proposed at this Additional information to DTR 4 years Annual General Meeting which have The following additional information is some impact on the rights attaching to the The Directors confirm that to the best of provided for shareholders as a result of the Companys shares.
Explanatory notes their knowledge: implementation of the Takeover Directive relating to these changes are included in into UK Law.
n the financial statements, prepared in the notice of this meeting which accordance with International Financial As at 31 December 2008 the Companys accompanies this report.
Reporting standards as adopted by the issued share capital consisted of Directors interests in the share capital of EU, give a true and fair view of the 213,286,497 ordinary shares of 3p each.
the Company are shown in the table on assets, liabilities, financial position and On a show of hands at a general meeting page 58.
Substantial shareholder interests of profit or loss of the Company and the of the Company every holder of ordinary which the Company is aware are shown on undertakings included in the shares present in person is entitled to vote 62 page 58. consolidation taken as a whole: and on a show of hands and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and The Company is party to a number of n the 'Business Review' includes a fair entitled to vote has one vote for every commercial agreements which, in line with review of the development and ordinary share held.
There are no shares in normal practice in the industry, may be performance of the business and the issue which carry special rights with regard affected by a change of control following a position of the Company and the to control of the Company.
There are no takeover bid.
None of these agreements undertakings included in the restrictions on the transfer of ordinary are, however, considered to be of material consolidation taken as a whole, and shares in the Company other than those significance.
There are no agreements that the 'Risk Management' report that may be imposed by law or regulation between the Company and its directors or includes a description of the principal from time to time.
employees providing for compensation for risks and uncertainties that they face.
loss of office of employment that occurs The Companys Articles of Association may Financial instruments because of a takeover bid.
be amended by special resolution at a Information about the Groups management general meeting of the shareholders.
Annual General Meeting of financial risk can be found in notes 28 to Directors are appointed by ordinary The Annual General Meeting will be held 31 of the consolidated financial statements.
resolution at a general meeting of the on 1 May 2009.
The Notice of Annual shareholders.
The Board can appoint a Capital management General Meeting circulated with this Director but anyone so appointed must be Report and Accounts contains a full The Group manages its capital to ensure elected by an ordinary resolution at the explanation of the business to be that entities in the Group will be able to next general meeting.
Any Director who conducted at that meeting.
This includes a continue as going concerns while has held office for more than three years resolution to re-appoint BDO Stoy maximising the return to stakeholders since their last appointment must offer Hayward LLP as the Company's Auditors.
through the optimisation of the debt and themselves for re-election at the next equity balance.
The capital structure of the annual general meeting.
Group consists of debt, which includes the By order of the Board The Directors have power to manage the borrowings disclosed in note 14 to the Companys business subject to the consolidated financial statements, cash and provision of the Companys Articles of Nicholas Rowe cash equivalents and equity attributable to Association, law and applicable regulations.
Secretary equity holders of the parent, comprising The Directors have power to issue and issued capital, reserves and retained 4 March 2009 buyback shares in the Company pursuant earnings as disclosed in notes 19 to 21. to the terms and limitations of resolutions passed by shareholders at each annual Post balance sheet events general meeting of the Company.
There are no significant post balance sheet events to report.
