Corporate Governance continued Communication Financial reporting: A detailed formal 1 The Company places a great deal of budgeting process for all Group businesses importance on communication with its culminates in an annual Group budget Alan Hearne shareholders.
The full report and accounts which is approved by the Board.
The 1 Fixed 34.4% are made available to all shareholders and results for the Group are reported 2 Variable 65.6% to other parties who have an interest in monthly against this budget to the Board.
2 the Groups performance on the Groups Financial and accounting principles and website.
The Company responds to internal financial controls assurance: numerous letters from shareholders and 1 Compliance with these is reviewed as customers when these are received.
A detailed financial and Companys website also provides up-toPeter Dowen accounting controls manual sets out the 1 Fixed 42.7% date information about its organisation, the 48 2 Variable 57.3% principles of and minimum standards services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
required by the Board for effective 2 There is regular dialogue with individual financial control.
institutional shareholders as well as Capital investment:The Company has 1 presentations after the interim and clearly defined guidelines for capital preliminary results and at other events.
These include annual budgets, Andrew Troup All shareholders have the opportunity to detailed appraisal and review procedures, 1 Fixed 42.9% put questions at the Companys Annual 2 Variable 57.1% levels of authority and due diligence General Meeting.
requirements where businesses are 2 being acquired.
Audit and internal controls The respective responsibilities of the Remuneration Report 1 Directors and the independent auditors in The Directors who were members of connection with the accounts are the Remuneration Committee throughout Gary Y oung explained on pages 61-63 and the 1 Fixed 39.6% the year were: Karen McPherson and 2 Variable 60.4% statement of the Directors in respect of John Bennett.
Roger Devlin has joined the going concern appears on page 61.
Committee since the year end.
2 The Board has procedures in place The Chairman and Chief Executive have as recommended in the guidance in assisted the Remuneration Committee in 1 The Combined Code on Corporate their deliberations on other Directors Governance and Turnbull: Guidance on remuneration.
The Company Secretary is in Phil Williams Internal Controls and these have been in 1 Fixed 40.7% attendance at the meeting to provide the 2 Variable 59.3% place for the whole year and up to the committee with any additional advice that date of approval of the financial statements.
The risk management policies are Remuneration Committee - described on pages 21-25.
Analysis of fixed versus performance Terms of Reference related pay for Executive Directors 2008 The Board is responsible for the Groups n the Committee has been delegated system of internal control which is Notes: responsibility by the Board to designed to provide reasonable but not Fixed compensation comprises: determine and agree with the Board absolute assurance against material Basic salary the framework or broad policy for misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews Benefits the remuneration of the Executive from time to time the effectiveness of the Directors and Senior Employees of Variable compensation comprises: system of internal control from the Company: the remuneration of Maximum Bonus Potential information provided by management Non-Executive Directors is a matter Face Value of LTIP Awards page 55 and the Groups external for the executive members of the auditors.
The key procedures that the n within the terms of the agreed Board who take advice from the Directors have established to provide policy, determine the total individual independent consultants.
No Director effective internal financial controls are remuneration package of each or manager is involved in any decisions as follows: Executive Director including, where as to their own remuneration: appropriate, bonuses, benefits, and long-term incentive allocations: Report and Accounts 2008 n the quorum necessary for the Remuneration policy Base salary transaction of business is two The Remuneration Committees policy When determining the salary of the members.
A duly convened meeting is to set the main elements of the Executive Directors the Remuneration of the Committee at which a quorum remuneration package in order to reflect: Committee has taken into consideration: is present shall be competent to n the performance of the individual n the performance of the Group as exercise all or any of the authorities, concerned: a whole: powers and discretions vested in or n the performance of the business n the performance of the individual exercisable by the Committee: unit s for which he she is responsible: Executive Director both for the n determine the policy for and scope of Group and the businesses under n in the case of Group directors, the pension arrangements for each his control: performance of the Group as a whole: Executive Director: and n pay and conditions throughout the 49 n determine targets for any Company: and n the relevant market s for executives performance-related pay and share and the terms and conditions n the market conditions in the sector schemes operated by the Company: prevailing in those markets.
n in determining such packages and The Committee recognises that the main The results of this exercise were then arrangements, give due regard to the competitors of the Group and, therefore, benchmarked against an independently comments and recommendations of comparators for remuneration are found established group of listed companies.
the Combined Code as well as the outside the group of companies that are Listing Rules of the Financial Services This group was identified independently listed.
In consequence, the Committee Authority and associated guidance: by Halliwell Consulting.
needs to reflect that in its deliberations n ensure that contractual terms on The basis of selection of the group was: including RPS market leading position in a termination, and any payments made, number of those markets.
n companies within the same sector as are fair to the individual and the the Company: and The Committee is, in addition, mindful of Company, that failure is not rewarded trends and best practice amongst listed n companies with a range of market and that the duty to mitigate loss is companies of a similar size in the Support capitalisations such that the Company fully recognised, in line with the Services sector.
sits within the middle of the statement of best practice in the comparator group.
This group is ABI Guidelines: The policy is designed to attract, retain and reviewed on an annual basis.
motivate individuals by providing the n ensure that provisions regarding opportunity to earn competitive levels of disclosure of remuneration, including The companies comprising the comparator compensation provided performance pensions, as set out in the Directors group used in the 2008 Review were is delivered, whilst remaining within the Remuneration Report Regulations as follows: range of compensation offered by 2002 and the Code, are fulfilled: Aggreko Plc Intertek Group PLC similar companies.
Alfred Mcalpine Plc John Menzies Plc n be aware of and advise on any Amec Plc Lavendon Group Plc Directors remuneration is the subject of major changes in employee benefit Ashtead Group Plc Michael Page annual review in accordance with this structures throughout the Company Atkins WS PLC International Plc policy.
Davis Service Group PLC Scott Wilson Group Plc the terms of reference for any fide La Rue Plc Serco Group Plc The charts on page 50 demonstrate the remuneration consultants who Diploma Plc Shanks Group Plc proportion of the maximum potential advise the Committee: Electrocomponents Plc SIG PLC compensation which is performance Filtrona PLC Speedy Hire PLC n meet as required during the year: and related for each Executive Director.
com Corporate Governance continued The Remuneration Committee accepted a The table below shows the maximum bonus potential that applied for Executive Directors recommendation from the Executive in 2008: % Maximum Bonus Potential % of Maximum Bonus subject to each Target 2008 Directors that base salaries of the latter Executive 2008 EPS Target Divisional & Individual Targets would not be increased as at 1 January 2009.
2008 2008 Chief Executive 100 100 Performance bonus Finance Director 80 50 50 The tables set out: Executive Directors 80 50 50 n maximum Bonus Potential for Executive In view of the exceptional financial principles are appropriate throughout the Directors for 2008. circumstances which currently prevail and Group.
The Committee will, as it has done n bonus targets which applied which seem likely to affect economic in previous years, provide an explanation for 2008. prospects for some time, all divisional bonus of the 2009 bonus targets, their level of 50 schemes in the Group are currently being satisfaction and the resulting bonus The earnings per share growth targets that reviewed.
The Remuneration Committee payments if any in the 2009 Remuneration applied in 2008 are set out below: believes it is essential that any scheme for Committee Report.
The maximum bonus % Earnings per Share % Bonus Payable the Group executives is compatible with potential for 2009 will not exceed the Growth Inclusive of RPI for EPS Element and reflects the schemes for other current maximum of 100% of salary 5 14.00 employees and so will not finalise the 2009 per annum.
6 23.10 7 28.70 scheme for executives until it is clear what 8 34.30 9 39.90 Long-term Incentives 10 45.50 The following table and paragraphs summarise the operation of the Companys LTIP: 11 47.95 2005 Grant 2006 Grant 2007 Grant 2008 Grant 12 50.40 % of Salary % of Salary % of Salary % of Salary Executive Condition Condition Condition Condition 13 52.85 14 55.30 Maximum Annual Grant 100 100 100 100 15 57.75 Chief Executive 80 80 100 100 16 60.20 Finance Director 60 60 80 80 17 62.65 Executive Directors 60 60 80 60-80 18 65.10 Performance Condition EPS Growth EPS Growth EPS Growth EPS Growth 19 67.55 see table below see table below see table below see table below 20 70.00 21 72.45 Status Released on Based on current Release Date Release Date 22 74.90 18 May 2008 in performance it is 14 March 2010 8 April 2011 23 77.35 full as the EPS anticipated that performance the grant will be 24 79.80 condition was released in full on 25 82.25 satisfied see 30 March 2009 26 84.70 table below 27 87.15 28 89.60 100% of the shares subject to the second n the performance criteria 29 92.05 grant were released on 18 May 2008.
The 30 94.50 in order to ensure that what has been 31 96.95 following shares were awarded at the grant approved by shareholders remain 32 99.40 price of 1.39: appropriate to the Companys current 32.2 100.00 Name Number of ordinary shares circumstances and prospects.
Alan Hearne 178,417 In this context it should be noted that the EPS figures are based upon the Companys Gary Young 66,906 current shareholder approval for the adjusted figures under IFRS.
In respect of Andrew Troup 75,540 Company LTIP will expire at the 2009 2008 the EPS growth shown in the audited Peter Dowen 86,331 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee is accounts was 25% giving rise to Executives reviewing the future provision of equitybeing entitled to 82.25% of the maximum The market price of the shares on release based incentives for Executive Directors potential bonus subject to the target.
was 3.4175. and may make proposals to shareholders in due course.
The Remuneration Committee reviews on The performance conditions attached to an annual basis the current share incentives the release of LTIP shares related to EPS in respect of: growth is as follows: n their operation: n the grant levels: and Report and Accounts 2008 n Ordinary Options may only be Benefits % Average Basic EPS % of LTIP Growth p. a. above RPI Award Released exercised if, over any three year The Executive Directors participate in measurement period of the Company, 3 12.5 a Company money purchase defined beginning no earlier than the financial 425 contribution scheme for which the year during which the option is granted, 5 37.5 Employer Contribution is 15%.
650 the percentage growth in earnings per Executive Directors can also participate in 7 62.5 share exceeds the growth in the Retail the all-employee Inland Revenue Share 8 75 Prices Index over the same period by Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP gives 9 87.5 at least 3% per annum, being 9% for employees the opportunity to purchase up 10 100 the three year period: and to 1,500 of shares a year with the There will be straight line release n Super Options may only be exercised Company providing one additional between these points.
51 if, over any five year measurement matching share for every employee period of the Company, beginning no purchased share.
The total participation in The Remuneration Committee will earlier than the financial year during the SIP scheme is 33% of eligible determine the satisfaction of the which the option is granted, the employees.
performance conditions in respect of both percentage growth in earnings per the LTIP and historic options.
The EPS The Executive Directors also receive the share exceeds the growth in the Retail figure used by the Company will be the following additional benefits: Price Index over the same period by at audited basic EPS figure disclosed in the n healthcare: least 6% per annum, being 30% for the Companys Financial Statements.
n life assurance and dependants pensions: five year period.
It is also necessary for The performance condition comparing the share price to rise over both the n disability schemes: and increases in earnings per share against three and five year periods to make the n company car or car allowance.
inflation was chosen in order to ensure that exercise worthwhile.
LTIP awards and options would only be Shareholding guideline Options are not able to be exercised if received against a background of a Shareholdings across the Executive performance is below target, and there is sustained real increase in the financial Directors and Senior Executives are not no reward for below target performance.
The Remuneration Committee has, The performance conditions are measured The grant of awards for 2008 is set out in therefore, introduced two years ago at the end of the three and five year the following table: shareholding guidelines to encourage longholding periods applying to the relevant Shares Market value term share ownership by the Executives.
There is no re-testing of Name Grantedof shares the performance conditions.
The Directors The guidelines encourage Executive Alan Hearne 127,419 3.10 are required to refund to the Company all Directors to build up and retain a holding of Gary Young 51,612 3.10 National Insurance contributions payable shares.
The Remuneration Committee Andrew Troup 38,709 3.10 at exercise.
believes this forms a stable incentive pay Peter Dowen 44,129 3.10 platform on which to build a responsible During the year the Directors exercised Phil Williams 61,935 3.10 relationship between shareholders, the share options as follows: Executives and the Company.
Name Options exercised Full details of the Directors LTIP awards are It is intended that the Executives set out on page 60.
Andrew Troup 118,246 will be able to build up the necessary Gary Young 27,500 For 2003 and earlier years long-term shareholding by their participation in the incentives comprised of annual grants of LTIP.
If the shareholding requirement is not At date of exercise market price was options.
The Remuneration Committee set proportionately satisfied the Remuneration 305.5p in respect of Mr Troup and 336.75p out the level of the option grant to the Committee may take this into account in respect of Mr Young.
The total gain at Executive Directors of the Company at the when determining the levels of future dates of exercise was 236,764. median level.
The Directors individual share options Recommended Shareholding The maximum annual grant under the are detailed in the Directors report on Name Requirement as Percentage of Salary Executive Share Option Scheme was 75% page 59.
No further options have been Alan Hearne 150% of salary.
Options were not issued at a granted to the Executive Directors following Gary Young 100% discount.
The Performance Conditions the adoption of the LTIP.
Andrew Troup 100% attached to the Share Options granted to Peter Dowen 100% the Directors under the Executive Share Phil Williams 100% Option Schemes are that: rpsgroup.
com Corporate Governance continued Service contracts is liable to make a payment to Executive Executive Director are detailed on page 34 Directors is on cessation of employment.
The Companys policy on the duration of Potential service contracts is that: Details of the terms of appointment of payment in event of Company the serving Non-Executive Directors are n Executive Directors should have rolling Potential takeover Name termination payment or liquidation service contracts terminable on no set out in the table below: more than one years notice served by Unexpired term Alan Hearne 12 months notice Nil of contract as the Company or the Director: and Peter Dowen 12 months notice Nil at 31 Dec Name Initial Contract date 2008 months Andrew Troup 12 months notice Nil n Non-Executive Directors are appointed Gary Young 12 months notice Nil for fixed terms of three years, Brook Land September 1997 Annual Phil Williams 12 months notice Nil renewable on agreement of both the Review Company and the Director.
Roger Devlin April 2002 28 The Companys articles state that a Director The policy on termination payments is that 52 Karen McPherson June 2005 29 shall retire at the first Annual General the Company does not make payments John Bennett June 2006 6 Meeting after the date of his seventieth beyond its contractual obligations, including Louise Charlton May 2008 29 birthday, and then must face annual election any payment in respect of notice to which a thereafter.
All Directors face election at least Director is entitled after mitigation is Since the year end John Bennett's contract every three years.
None of the Directors has been extended for a further three contracts provide for automatic payments in year term.
Non-Executive Directors excess of one year.
None of the Directors The fees paid to the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to contracts provide for liquidated damages.
In Directors are determined by the Board and participate in the pension plan or the the year ended 31 December 2008, no aim to be competitive with other fully listed performance based pay schemes including compensation was paid to any Director companies of equivalent size and annual bonus and share schemes.
Terms and resigning from the Board.
The Chairman of the Company conditions of appointment of Nonreceives a higher fee than the other NonDetails of the Directors service contracts Executive Directors are available for Executive Directors and Committee are included in the table below.
inspection by any person at the Companys Chairmen and the Senior Independent registered office and at the AGM.
The table below shows that the only event Director receive an additional payment.
The on the occurrence of which the Company fees paid to the Chairman and each NonPerformance Graph Total shareholder return from 1st January 2004 The graph shows a comparison of the total shareholder return from the Companys 260 shares for each of the last five financial 240 years against the total shareholder return 220 for the companies comprising the FTSE All 200 Share, the FTSE All Share Support Services sector and the comparator group.
The 180 Remuneration Committee has selected 160 these benchmarks as they provide a good 140 indication of the Companys general performance.
Directors emoluments Pensions and compensation The Executive Directors of the Company The following disclosures on Directors earned pensions benefits in a company remuneration and share incentives have money purchase defined contribution been audited as required by part 3 of scheme apart from Phil Williams whose Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985. pension benefits are in a Group Personal The table above sets out details of the Pension plan defined contribution during emoluments and compensation received the year.
during the year by each Director.
An Ordinary Resolution to approve this Share awards report will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2009.
The tables on pages 59 and 60 set out details of the audited share options and This report was approved by LTIPs held by each Director during the year.
A description of the terms and conditions of the scheme are held on pages 50-51.
Signed on behalf of the Board The Company operates its share schemes Karen McPherson within the dilution limits specified by the ABI.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 March 2009 rpsgroup.
