The global beer market A view from an independent consultant While the current economic conditions present real challenges that must be managed, several underlying dynamics still favour global brewers.
Within that environment, the companies that can best balance great day-to-day execution with disciplined investment in brands and capability will create important longterm competitive advantages for themselves.
Five dynamics are asserting strong influence over the The intensification of retail consolidation global beer market While consumer preference continues to fragment, the retail environment continues to consolidate.
Some of that is driven The inherent challenges of slowing economies by actual structural consolidation among retailers, as major Economic conditions vary greatly from market to market.
But most is driven simply by The relative tailwinds of recent years have faded in some key large retailers capturing a larger percentage of consumer markets.
Other markets are just now beginning to show the transactions, as increasingly wealthy consumers continue strain of increased commodity costs.
At the consumer level, to gravitate to more advanced retail outlets.
this has tempered, but not derailed, the well-established trend of consumers trading up to higher-end products.
At a structural Consequently, three critical implications exist for level, this has significantly tightened the access to capital, global brewers providing meaningful advantage to players with strong balance sheets.
Efficiency and execution will be more important than ever The rise of a global middle class While beer has always been an asset-intensive business According to a World Bank report published in late in which scale advantages are critical, the strong surge in 2006, approximately 800 million people around the world commodity costs in recent years is forcing brewers to become are expected to join the middle class by the year 2030. even more efficient.
Marketplace execution will be challenged These people are not only gaining the resources needed by the increased complexity inherently associated with managing to purchase world-class consumer products, but they also more diverse brand portfolios, as well as by the demand from view those products, such as professionally produced and the large retailers for increasingly sophisticated service.
marketed beer, as important benefits and indicators of their improved lifestyle.
The key variable will be the development of strong brands and marketing capability The accelerated evolution of emerging markets Strong efficiency and execution will increasingly function as Emerging economies that previously featured traditional simply table stakes in the global beer industry.
As developed beer markets are now quickly developing many commercial markets fragment and emerging markets evolve, the key characteristics once associated exclusively with developed competitive differentiators will be the ability to create brands economies.
In addition to the rise of the global middle class, with strong consumer pull, and the ability to manage diverse emerging markets are also being reshaped by ongoing local portfolios that fully address the new desires of consumers.
The United Nations predicts that more than 650 million people will migrate to urban centres over the Discipline will be rewarded next decade.
Urbanisation enables global brewers and other While effective cost-management will be critical in achieving fast moving consumer goods companies to reach additional short-term targets, long-term advantage will go to those consumers more effectively and efficiently.
companies that also continue to invest with discipline.
Such discipline will be particularly important in building brands and The intensification of consumer fragmentation customer-service capability, both of which typically require The growing consumer demand for variety has prompted sustained, consistent investment over time to deliver brewers and other alcoholic beverage players to expand meaningful competitive advantage.
their portfolios with new offerings.
That, in turn, has stimulated additional consumer interest in new choices, creating a reinforcing loop that shows no signs of slowing.
That growing interest in choice has also made it far more Charlie Frenette is an independent consultant with extensive attractive than ever before for competitors to expand into experience in the global beverage industry.
He served as a new local markets, exerting growing pressure on established, non-executive director of the Miller Brewing Company from massive brands.
6 The global beer market SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
