Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to Also in July, the company announced that it would make shareholders, together with the audited annual financial statements simultaneous tender offers for all the voting shares which it for the year ended 31 March 2008. did not already own in its Panamanian subsidiaries Cervecera Nacional, S. A. and Refrescos Nacionales S. A. for a consideration Principal activities and business review of approximately US$21.8 million.
At year end the companys SABMiller plc is a holding company which has brewing and effective economic interest in Cervecera Nacional, S. A. and beverage interests across six continents.
The principal subsidiaries Refrescos Nacionales S. A. increased to approximately 96.3% and associates of the company are listed on pages 131 to 133 of and 95.2% respectively.
The principal activities of the group are the manufacture, distribution and sale of beverages.
In August 2007 the companys Polish subsidiary, Kompania Piwowarska S. A. announced the acquisition of 99.96% of Browar The company is required by the Companies Act 1985 to produce Belgia from Palm Breweries N. V. The acquisition was subject to a fair review of the business of the group including a description clearance from the Polish Office of Competition and Consumer of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, its development Protection, which was received in January 2008 following which and performance during the year and the position of the group the acquisition completed.
The value of gross assets acquired at the end of the year.
The business review, including a review of was approximately US$91 million.
the development and performance of the group during the financial year, its position at the end of the year, likely future developments Also in August, CR Snow announced it had agreed to acquire four in the business of the group, key performance indicators and breweries in separate transactions.
Two breweries are in Liaoning a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the province, one brewery is in Anhui and one is in Hunan province.
group, is set out on pages 4 to 5 and 7 to 29 of this annual The total investment cost for the four acquisitions was US$79 report.
Other key performance indicators and matters relating million, including a cash consideration of US$57 million.
to environmental and employee matters required by the business In October 2007, the company and Molson Coors Brewing review are set out in the sustainable development review on pages Company announced that they had signed a letter of intent to 30 to 33 of this annual report.
combine the US and Puerto Rican businesses of their subsidiaries, Significant acquisitions, disposals, financing transactions, Miller and Coors.
The companies signed a definitive agreement investments and material developments during the year.
to form MillerCoors LLC in December 2007.
Closing of the In April 2007 the company announced that it had completed the transaction is subject to obtaining clearances from the US sale of its Pepsi Bottling operations in Costa Rica to Cervecera competition authorities and certain other regulatory clearances Costa Rica S. A. a subsidiary of Florida Ice and Farm Company and third-party consents, as required, and is expected to S. A. together with its 42.5% investment in a hotel complex in complete in the middle of 2008.
Costa Rica for a total of US$116 million.
In October 2007, following the launch of a delisting tender offer on Also in April, China Resources Snow Breweries Limited the Colombian Stock Exchange, the companys effective interest in CR Snow, an associate of the company and subsidiary of Bavaria increased to 98.78% and Bavarias shares were delisted.
China Resources Enterprise, Limited, completed the acquisition In November 2007, the company announced that it had of the 38% equity interest that it did not already own in the reached agreement on the terms of a recommended offer for 14 Blue Sword breweries based in the Sichuan province in Royal Grolsch N. V. Grolsch.
The offer was made in January South West China at a cost of US$320 million.
2008, and was declared unconditional in February 2008.
By year In May 2007 CR Snow announced it had agreed to sell its end, the company had acquired approximately 99.65% of the non core Southern region water business, Cest Bon, to China shares of Grolsch for a total consideration of approximately Resources Enterprise, Limited for a cash consideration of US$1,190 million.
In December 2007 the company announced that its joint venture In the same month, following receipt of the required merger with Coca-Cola Amatil Limited, Pacific Beverages Pty Limited had clearance, the companys Colombian subsidiary, Bavaria S. A. acquired the premium Australian brewer Bluetongue Brewery Pty completed the disposal of its fruit juice business to the Colombian Limited.
The value of the gross assets acquired was approximately beverage company Postobn S. A. for US$55.3 million.
In July 2007 the company announced that its wholly owned In February 2008 the company announced that Pacific Beverages subsidiary SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd had raised R1,600 million Pty Limited would invest in the construction of a new brewery in approximately US$230 million in 5-year notes.
The notes, issued the Central Coast region of New South Wales.
The brewery will under a R4,000 million Domestic Medium Term Note Programme, have a capacity of 500,000 hectolitres and is expected to be are guaranteed by the company and are listed on BESA, the South completed in 2010.
The net proceeds of the bond issue have Post Balance Sheet events been used to repay part of existing loan facilities that were utilised In May 2008 the company announced that it had agreed to by The South African Breweries Ltd. acquire a 99.84% interest in the Ukrainian brewer CJSC Sarmat, acquiring gross assets of approximately US$130 million.
The transaction is subject to approval by the Ukrainian competition authorities and other customary pre-closing conditions.
Also in May the group put in place a new committed borrowing facility of US$1,000 million with a final maturity date of 30 June 2009 and a new three-year committed borrowing facility totalling US$600 million.
Directorsreport 45 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Directors report continued Dividends Corporate governance An interim dividend of 16 US cents per share was paid to The directors are committed to maintaining high standards shareholders on 21 December 2007, in respect of the year of corporate governance, which they see as fundamental to ended 31 March 2008.
Details of the final dividend proposed by discharging their stewardship responsibilities.
The board strives the board for the year ended 31 March 2008 are set out below: to provide the right leadership, strategic oversight and control environment to produce and sustain the delivery of value to all of Amount of final dividend 42 US cents per share the companys shareholders.
The board applies integrity, principles proposed by the board: of good governance and accountability throughout its activities and each director brings independence of character and judgment Total proposed dividend for the 58 US cents per share to the role.
All of the members of the board are individually and year ended 31 March 2008: collectively aware of their responsibilities to the companys stakeholders.
Statements of our application of the Combined If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on Code on Corporate Governance are set out in the corporate either section of the register at 11 July 2008 in the following way: governance report on pages 34 to 41 and the directors remuneration report on pages 49 to 59. Dividend payable on: 7 August 2008 Share capital Currency of payment: South African rands to During the year, the issued ordinary share capital of the company shareholders on the RSA increased from 1,502,187,446 shares of 10 US cents each to section of the register, 1,505,779,276 shares of 10 US cents each.
3,591,830 new US dollars to shareholders ordinary shares were issued to satisfy the exercise of options shown as having an address granted under the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase in the USA and recorded on Scheme, the SABMiller plc Approved Executive Share Option the UK section of the register Scheme, the SABMiller plc Executive Share Option No.
2 unless mandated otherwise, Scheme and the SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme.
Pounds sterling to all other shareholders on the UK In addition, the company has 77,368,338 non-voting convertible section of the register.
participating shares of 10 US cents each and 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each in issue.
No non-voting convertible participating Ex-dividend dates: 7 July 2008 for shares shares, convertible participating shares or deferred shares were traded on the JSE Limited, issued during the year.
In light of changes in the tax regime in the United Kingdom, 9 July 2008 for shares the board has determined that the company should acquire the traded on the London Stock 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares held by Safari Limited, Exchange LSE, a company incorporated in Jersey which is owned by a charitable Dates on which the rate of exchange for conversion from trust not connected with the company, and hold those shares as US dollars will be calculated and will be published on the RNS treasury shares.
In order for the shares to be held as treasury of the LSE and the SENS of the JSE Limited.
shares, it is necessary that they convert into ordinary shares before being acquired by the company.
The board is therefore Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses seeking shareholder approval of an amendment to the articles of dividends waived.
association and a contingent purchase contract in relation to this transaction at the companys forthcoming annual general meeting.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current directors are Purchase of own shares set out on pages 42 and 43.
With the exception of Mr Devitre At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was who was appointed to the board on 16 May 2007 and obtained for the company to purchase its own shares up to a Ms Ramos and Mr Pieterse who were appointed to the board maximum of 10% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on on 15 May 2008 all directors served throughout the period.
This authority is due to expire at the earlier of the In addition Ms fide Lisi, Altria Group Inc. s Altria nominee prior next annual general meeting or 31 October 2008, and remains to the appointment of Mr Devitre, served as a director of the exercisable provided that certain conditions relating to the company until her retirement on 30 April 2007.
Details of the purchase are met.
interests in shares and or options of the directors who held The notice of annual general meeting proposes that shareholders office at the end of the period and any persons connected approve a resolution updating and renewing the authority allowing to such directors are set out in the remuneration report on the company to purchase its own shares.
Shares in the company were purchased during the year by the trustee of the companys employee benefit trust, details of which are provided in the directors remuneration report.
The company did not repurchase any of its shares during the year for the purpose of cancellation, holding in treasury or for any other purpose.
46 Directors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information As noted above the board has determined that, subject Going concern and audit to shareholder approval, the company should acquire the Page 60 details the directors responsibilities for preparing the 77,368,338 non-voting convertible shares, following their consolidated financial statements.
As set out in that statement conversion into ordinary shares, and hold those shares as the directors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit Annual general meeting information of which the groups auditors are unaware, and each The companys annual general meeting for 2008 will be held at the director has taken all the steps necessary that he or she ought to InterContinental London Park Lane, One Hamilton Place, London, have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware W1V 7QY, UK at 11:00 am on Thursday 31 July 2008.
Notice of of the relevant audit information and to establish that the groups this meeting may be obtained from the companys website.
auditors are aware of that information.
Donations  LLP have expressed their willingness During the year the group invested US$30 million in corporate to continue in office as auditors and resolutions proposing their resocial investment programmes, of which US$10,855,000 appointment and authorising the board to set their remuneration represented charitable donations.
Of this amount US$99,410 were will be submitted to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
charitable donations made by the company and Miller Brands Directors indemnities UK Limited for the benefit of various causes, both in the UK The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, and overseas, comprising donations in respect of community uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities development, health and education, the environment and which they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the other causes.
company or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
The Company It remains the groups policy that political donations are only Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary have also been granted made by exception, and where permitted by local laws, and indemnities, on similar terms, covering their roles as Company must be consistent with building multi-party democracy.
Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary respectively of the company and as directors or as company secretary of one or Miller Brewing Company made contributions to individual more of the companys subsidiaries.
The board believes that it is candidates for political office and to party committees in the in the best interests of the group to attract and retain the services USA, where permitted by applicable campaign finance laws.
of the most able and experienced directors and officers by offering Political donations in the USA are an accepted part of the local competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of socio-political environment.
These contributions amounted to such indemnities.
The indemnities are categorised as qualifying third-party The board has reaffirmed the groups policy not to make indemnities for the purposes of the Companies Act and will donations to political organisations in the European Union.
continue in force for the benefit of directors and officers for as long Employment policies as they remain in their positions.
The aim of the group is to be the employer of choice in each Substantial shareholdings country in which it operates.
In order to achieve this, each Details of notifications received by the company in accordance operating company designs employment policies which attract, with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 14 May 2008 retain and motivate the highest quality of staff.
and of persons with significant direct or indirect holdings known to The group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy the company at year end are set out in the ordinary shareholding from recruitment and selection, through training and development, analyses on page 149 of this annual report.
appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Within the constraints of Financial instruments local law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is treated equally, Information on the financial risk management objectives and regardless of gender, colour, national origin, race, disability, marital policies of the group and details of the groups exposure to price status, sexual orientation, religion or trade union affiliation.
risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are contained in Research and development Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
The group continues to invest in research and development Other Companies Act disclosures leading to new products, packages and processes, as well as Following the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK new manufacturing technologies to improve overall operational law, the directors report is required to disclose certain additional effectiveness.
The groups upstream scientific research continues information, irrespective of whether the company is involved in a to yield solid progress in brewing, raw materials, flavour stability, takeover situation.
packaging materials and environmental performances.
During the year under review, the aggregate amount spent by the group on The structure of the companys share capital, including the rights research and development was US$9 million 2007: US$6 million.
and obligations attaching to each class of share and the percentage of the share capital that each class of share comprises, is set out Payment of suppliers in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
There are no The groups policy is to pay invoices in accordance with the terms securities of the company that grant the holder special control rights.
of payment agreed in advance.
At the year end, the amount owed by the group to trade creditors was equivalent to 56.7 days 2007: At year end the companys employee benefit trust held 60.9 days of purchases from suppliers.
4,644,176 ordinary shares in the company.
By agreement with the company, the trustees do not exercise the voting rights Overseas branches attached to these shares.
The company does not have any branches registered overseas.
Directorsreport 47 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Directors report continued The directors are responsible for the management of the In addition, subject to the Regulations, and each Act and statutory business of the company and may exercise all the powers of instrument concerning and affecting companies for the time being the company subject to the companys memorandum and articles in force, and in exceptional circumstances approved by the FSA, of association and relevant statutes.
Powers of the directors the board may refuse to register a transfer of a share including a relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are set out in fully paid share if the refusal does not disturb the market in the the articles of association.
Such powers are subject to renewal companys shares.
by the shareholders of the company each year at the annual Pursuant to the companys code for securities transactions, general meeting.
directors require, and employees may in certain circumstances The companys articles of association give the board of require, approval to deal in the companys shares.
directors power to appoint directors.
The articles of association No shareholder shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to vote appointment of directors by the board is subject to re-appointment either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to by the shareholders at the next annual general meeting of the exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to company.
Additionally, as disclosed in the corporate governance shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently payable report on pages 34 to 41, Altria and BevCo have power under their by him her to the company in respect of that share remains respective relationship agreements with the company to nominate unpaid.
In addition, no shareholder shall be entitled to vote if directors for appointment to the board and certain committees.
he she has been served with a notice after failing to provide the These relationship agreements also regulate processes applicable in company with information concerning interests in those shares relation to the acquisition or disposal of shares by Altria and BevCo.
required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Restrictions The companys articles of association allow directors, in their on the rights of the holders of convertible shares, non-voting absolute discretion, to refuse to register the transfer of a share convertible shares and deferred shares are set out in Note 25. in certificated form which is not fully paid or the transfer of a share Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to in certificated form on which the company has a lien.
If that share corporate members by a corporate representative.
The deadline has been admitted to Official List, the board may not refuse to for delivering proxy forms is 48 hours before the time for holding register the transfer if this would prevent dealings in the companys the meeting.
shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
They may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form The company is also required to disclose any significant unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change stampable, at the address at which the register of the company of control following a takeover bid.
The company has a number is held or at such other place as the directors may appoint, and of facility agreements with banks which contain provisions giving except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where rights to the banks upon a change of control of the company.
a certificate has not been issued in respect of the share is A change of control of the company would also give The Cocaaccompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates Cola Company certain rights under its bottling agreements and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require with various subsidiaries of the company.
Similarly, in certain to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer, is in circumstances a change of control may give the companys joint respect of only one class of share and is in favour of not more venture partner, China Resources Enterprise, Limited the ability than four transferees jointly.
to exercise certain rights under a shareholder agreement in relation to the companys associate CR Snow.
Transfers of shares in uncertificated form must be made in accordance with and subject to the Uncertificated Securities The company does not have any agreements with any director Regulations the Regulations, the facilities and requirements of or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or the relevant CREST system and such arrangements as the board employment resulting from a takeover.
may determine in relation to the transfer of certicated shares subject to the Regulations.
John Davidson Transfers of shares listed on the JSE Limited JSE in General Counsel and Group Company Secretary uncertificated form must be made in accordance with, and subject For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc to, the Securities Services Act 2004, the Rules and Directives of 2 June 2008 the JSE and STRATE Ltd. Certificated shares may be transferred prior to dematerialisation, but share certificates must be dematerialised prior to trading in the STRATE environment.
48 Directors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
