Strategic priority four Leveraging our global scale As a global organisation, were constantly seeking to We take a similar approach to innovation.
This, again, is essential harness the benefits of our scale.
At the same time, we to our business, especially in a fragmenting marketplace where have to recognise that beer is essentially a local business consumers are increasingly looking for novelty and difference.
and that local managers are in the best position to identify While the right innovation can generate enormous value Miller and exploit local opportunities.
The question is how to Chill is a case in point, the process costs money and not every generate maximum value and advantage from our size innovation succeeds.
Effective innovation must be technically without becoming over-centralised and losing our feasible, be an answer to known needs and be rooted in a relevance and responsiveness in each market.
thorough analysis of the marketplace.
One example of how were tackling the issue is through the Clearly, the more we can do to pool the relevant knowledge, SABMiller Ways.
These address eight aspects of the business the better our chances of succeeding.
Rather than centralise essential to our success manufacturing, corporate affairs, the innovation process, were creating a virtual network to cooperational finance and others and provide tools, procedures ordinate efforts around the group and harness the best new and processes that encapsulate best practice in the group.
A tool known as SmartGate helps Without being prescriptive, they set out how things are expected to standardise our approach to innovation, to manage the to be done and make it easier for essential knowledge to be risks and to make the results widely available.
retained, transferred and made available to others.
Each Way In all these Ways, were seeking to develop a collaborative, is put together collaboratively.
Local businesses contribute their learning organisation that enables local businesses to compete experience and insights and are then responsible for applying the more effectively while at the same time extracting full value Ways in their own marketplace.
A number of the Ways are up and from our global scale.
running and the latest, the enhanced Marketing Way, will be rolled out during 2008.
16 Strategic priority four SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A pipeline of innovative brands As Miller focuses increasingly on top-end premium brands, it faces a greater need to innovate and to offer the distinctiveness that consumers demand.
One recent response is the creation of Miller Chill, a unique-tasting, chelada-style, light beer with a touch of lime and salt.
This innovative brand exploits the growth in the light beer segment as well as the growing Latin influence on mainstream American culture and a greater willingness by consumers to pay a premium for distinctive brands.
Launched in the USA in 2007, Miller Chill has beaten expectations in its home market and has now been successfully introduced in Australia.
Millers innovative skills are further demonstrated in the Miller Lite Brewers Collection, now being tested under the tagline, Craft beer.
Combining the refreshment of a light beer with the flavour and interest of a craft brew, the collection potentially creates a new category in the competitive US market.
A tasting panel from Modern Brewery Age Weekly described two of the beers in the collection as superb in every respect and the blonde ale as arguably one of the best light beers ever made.
Other businesses, too, are successfully innovating.
Of the many examples, South Africa recently introduced a new, uniquely flavoured premium beer, Hansa Marzen Gold.
This has been followed by the highly successful Sarita apple-flavoured ale, its new variant Sarita Ruby Dry, and the flavoured alcoholic beverage, Skelters Straight.
Leveraging our local value chain Wherever possible, we try to incorporate local suppliers into our value chain with a view to benefiting both the business and the communities in which we operate.
The SABMiller Marketing Way In recent years weve created opportunities for small-scale The SABMiller Ways are at various stages of development.
farmers in Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Tanzania to The enhanced Marketing Way, relaunched at the start of 2008, supply us with barley and sorghum.
In 2005 we began testing is a toolkit for helping businesses to own the growth by a similar model in Rajasthan in India.
The aims were to create sharpening their skills in analysing and segmenting their a high-quality, domestic source of malted barley for the markets, identifying the profitable opportunities and deciding business and enable farmers to get better prices for their where and how to concentrate their efforts.
produce by becoming part of SABMillers supply chain.
The process of compiling the Marketing Way showed the kind Under the scheme, 6,000 small-scale farmers supply of collaborative learning that the group as a whole is working SABMiller India and have access to good quality barley towards.
Instead of the corporate centre laying down the rules seeds and relevant agricultural training.
Since 2005, the or trying to manage the local marketing process, we took the yield and quality of the local crop have shown improvements best ideas and expertise from around the world and distilled and farmers income from their crop has improved.
The them into clear principles, an end-to-end process framework programme is expected to grow to meet 50% of the barley and a set of tools for businesses to apply as appropriate.
needs of SABMiller India over the next five years.
In this way, each local team retains its autonomy but can benefit from the learning and insight of SABMiller as a whole.
We also involve small-scale entrepreneurs in our downstream activities.
In Zambia, for example, weve created over 1,800 jobs As the Marketing Way is rolled out, well provide by setting up local people with their own kiosks and wholesale comprehensive training and support to help our teams to outlets to distribute and sell our soft drinks.
work with it effectively and embed it into their operations.
Strategic priority four 17 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
