Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In Panama lager volumes were up by productivity improvements, has more achieved in marketing and distribution 13% driven by the relaunch and upsizing than offset higher input costs and by leveraging scale and rationalising of our mainstream brands Balboa and EBITA margin was up 10 basis points.
Atlas, implemented with a simultaneous Marketing expenditure has increased In Russia, beer industry volumes grew price increase during October 2007.
Share but has benefited from scale economies.
10% and share of the total alcohol market gains were strong and share of the beer Reported EBITA growth of 30% was increased 3% to 32%.
Rapid growth in market increased by 120 basis points impacted by currency translation gains real incomes is driving share gains for the on a full year basis to 85%.
The positive and also included Royal Grolsch from mid premium beer segment and our volumes impact of volume growth and price and mix February 2008.
On an organic constant were up 14% as we increased market benefits boosted revenue and were partially currency basis, EBITA growth was 15%.
We expanded national retail offset by increases in raw material costs.
In Poland, strong economic fundamentals coverage with an increase of 300 staff El Salvador was impacted by tough underpinned growth of all alcoholic in the sales force, and installed over economic conditions but total volumes beverages.
Our organic domestic lager 75,000 coolers.
We achieved average grew by 1% with market share gains in volumes increased 11% with inorganic price increases of 11% across our portfolio both beer and soft drinks despite high growth of 12% against industry growth over the year.
Our biggest brand Zolotaya levels of competition and high comparatives.
of 7% and market share for the year was Bochka grew 16% with strong marketing The operation has also seen success in its up 220 basis points to 40.8%.
Miller Genuine Draft was up 9%, premiumisation efforts with premium lager Zubr, Polands two leading beer brands, to almost 1 million hl, driven by expanding volumes up 9%, driven by Golden Light.
grew volumes by 9% and 17% respectively, distribution of the new half litre bottle, and assisted by national consumer promotions, Kozel grew 13%.
Redds has new primary leveraging sponsorships and increasing and secondary packaging, including a on-premise distribution.
Lech grew 12% new can, and grew by 22%.
The second Europe supported by strong trade activation, production site at Ulyanovsk is on track for Europe Europe utilising music and leisure associations.
commissioning in May 2009 and its initial Financial summary 2008 2007 % Premium brand Redds, with its three capacity has been increased to 4 million hl.
1 Group revenue flavour variants, grew 21% including Until then, with existing operations at full US$m 5,248 4,078 29 sales of a new sleek can.
We increased capacity, contract brewing arrangements 2 EBITA US$m 952 733 30 prices by an average of 3% across the have been put in place over the EBITA margin % 18.1 18.0 portfolio, with a similar increase in constant summer period.
Sales volumes currency revenue per hectolitre being hl 000 : achieved, continuing the trend started in Lager 43,904 40,113 9 the previous year.
Trade marketing support Lager organic 43,401 40,113 8 was enhanced by new automated data 15% Other beverages 57 27 111 interchange with our main distributors and EBITA growth on an organic the placement of additional coolers in the 1 including share of associates, US$6 million 2007: nil.
Further capacity expansion brought 2 In 2007 before net exceptional costs of US$24 million being profit on disposal of land in Italy of US$14 million less total capacity to over 17 million hl, while restructuring costs of US$7 million primarily in Slovakia and current year sales volume was 14.4 million an adjustment to goodwill on acquisition of US$31 million for In Italy, Birra Peroni was the fastest Birra Peroni.
In January 2008, we completed the growing brewer in 2007 with a share acquisition of Browar Belgia.
gain of 100 basis points in a flat domestic Key focus areas market.
Our branded volumes grew 5% In Czech, our strategy is to pursue value Build value-enhancing, full brand with Peroni and Nastro Azzurro up 7% rather than volume in this mature market.
portfolios in growth segments and 8% respectively.
This growth has come Beer industry volumes were up less than Further develop growing positions from success in the on-premise channel 1% and within this our domestic volumes in high value export markets in the North particularly with Peroni were marginally ahead.
Focused channel Innovate in product, pack draught and the 330ml Nastro Azzurro segmentation, expansion in on-premise, and dispense systems bottle.
Both brands have leveraged increased pricing and premiumisation national sponsorships in sport, music Improve our in-store marketing led to an increase in constant currency and film festivals, while premiumisation revenue per hectolitre of 5% and an Leverage our scale has been supported by international EBITA increase despite significantly design events.
Growth was achieved in all higher commodity prices.
In the premium channels, assisted by our own distribution, segment our national flagship brand Europe delivered another excellent and two price increases were successfully Pilsner Urquell grew 3%, supported by result with total lager volume growth of implemented, the latest being 8% in exclusively branded on-premise outlets 9% organic 8% within which premium January 2008.
The Rome and Bari and Beer Theatre concepts in the modern volumes grew 11%.
Volumes were breweries are both being expanded to off-premise channel.
In the specialty particularly strong in Poland, Romania satisfy ongoing export demand and total segment, we introduced the Master and Russia and were assisted by warm capacity in Italy will be 6.3 million hl.
brand with super-premium pricing, weather in the earlier months, but cycled and the Frisco brand continued to In Romania, industry volumes grew an exceptionally mild winter in the second grow, by 23%.
In mainstream, Kozels 9% supported by increased real wages half of the prior year.
Brewing raw material 19% domestic volume growth offset and disposable income, and our new and packaging costs increased significantly.
Gambrinuss 5% decline as our average mainstream PET offerings.
Our volumes However, the pricing environment has 6% price increase prompted some were up 28% following capacity increases, shown some signs of improvement and switching.
Kozel continued developing and our share grew by 3.5% to 25.4%.
with positive brand mix has resulted in as a successful regional brand with annual Average price increases of 5% were constant currency revenue per hectolitre volumes of 2.8 million hl, up 12% regionally.
achieved and all brands enjoyed significant growing by 4%.
This, together with Significant cost productivity has been Operations review 25 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
