Operations review continued In the premium segment, we have EBITA grew but increases in commodity launched Peroni Nastro Azzurro in five prices and the acquisition of a number South Africa African markets with good initial results of breweries, which typically depresses South South and plan to roll out the brand to other profits in the initial years, reduced margins.
Africa Africa Beverages Beverages countries in due course.
Grolsch will Capacity was further increased with the Financial summary 2008 2007 % be launched in certain key markets.
construction of greenfield breweries and 1 Group revenue upgrades to existing plants.
The non-core Traditional sorghum-based beer returned US$m 4,446 4,274 4 water business was disposed of in May to growth excluding Zimbabwe this year, EBITA US$m 1,026 1,102 7 2007 impacting total soft drink volumes.
with excellent results from both Malawi EBITA margin % 23.1 25.8 and Botswana.
The category continues India grew strongly with lager volume Sales volumes to play an important part in our African growth of 23% organic increase of hl 000 : portfolio and is less vulnerable than 19% following strong growth in the prior Lager 26,526 26,543 lager to international commodity cost year.
Total volumes of 4.4 million hl were Soft drinks 16,657 15,986 4 increases given the extensive use of achieved, with national market share 1 Including share of associates, US$490 million local raw materials.
gain of 1% despite having no meaningful 2007: US$ 447 million.
presence in the key Southern state of Tamil Nadu.
The Fosters business has Key focus areas been fully integrated and the brand led Continue to develop a strong and our growth as it was rolled out more 63% differentiated portfolio of brands widely.
The strong beer segment continues increase in volumes of the Expand our direct distribution to grow ahead of mild beer, with our Snow brand reach and capability brands continuing to do well.
Continuously improve the supply Our new Asia joint ventures are building chain and manufacturing Castel enjoyed another strong year with momentum, with Australia ahead of Lead and support local economic total volumes up 11% lager 16% and soft expectation due to strong performances development drinks 6%.
Ethiopia and Angola continued from Peroni Nastro Azzurro, MGD and the to provide above average growth for the recent successful launch of Miller Chill.
group, while further growth was captured We recently announced our intention to South Africa in its key markets of Cameroon, Gabon Hotels and Gaming build a greenfield brewery in New South 2008 2007 % and Morocco.
The growth in Angola is Wales and we are integrating the recently 1 Revenue US$m 396 340 16 linked to underlying economic prosperity, acquired Bluetongue brewery.
In Vietnam, EBITA US$m 141 100 41 while in Ethiopia the growth has come volumes are improving with the addition EBITA margin % 35.6 29.3 largely from market place activities of Redds to the portfolio, and we have 2 RevPAR US$ 76.10 62.21 including portfolio segmentation and pack commissioned a can line to expand our innovations.
Cameroon volumes advanced pack range.
in double digits in a competitive market.
While underlying EBITA growth was strong, the strength of the Euro further assisted reported performance in US dollars.
Beverages EBITA margin for our Africa business Economic growth in South Africa slowed advanced despite the impact of rising in the second half of the year as the effects commodity costs.
These impacts on of higher fuel and food costs as well as the business are limited due to significant increased levels of household debt in a volume growth in soft drinks, which are higher interest rate environment slowed less dependent on agricultural inputs, consumer spending.
Gross domestic and our sorghum beer, which is based product growth for calendar year 2007 on local supply.
of 3.9% was down on the 5% growth rate for 2006.
Asia In China, our associate CR Snow Volume performance was satisfactory continued to outperform the industry with lager volumes in line with those of with full year lager volume growth of 25%, the prior year, notwithstanding the loss representing organic growth of 15%, and of our licence for the Amstel brand in full year market share improving to 18%.
March 2007 9% of volumes in the year Momentum for the first half where CR to March 2007.
Soft drinks were 4% up Snows organic lager volume growth of despite cycling tough comparatives in the 30% was well above the industry and peer prior year, when volumes grew by 7%, group slowed in the second half due to and the carbon dioxide shortages the combined effect of a severe winter, experienced in the country over the fourth reduced discretionary spend and price quarter of this year, and despite a decline increases in this period.
The Snow brand in volumes in the lower margin alternative is now Chinas largest lager brand and beverage category, primarily due to the it enjoyed exceptional growth again this discontinuation of the Bibo fruit cordial year of 63%.
28 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Volumes grew in both the mainstream financial year.
EBITA benefited from some Appletiser continued to show strong lager and flavoured alcoholic beverage foreign currency gains on contracts related volume growth of 18%, arising mainly FAB categories.
Robust growth in to procurement.
Overall EBITA margin from its international markets Hansa Pilsener and Castle Milk Stout decreased by 270 basis points to 23.1%.
Distells results benefited from underpinned mid single digit growth in Good progress was made in the phased improvements in both domestic and the mainstream category and strong replacement of the 750ml returnable bottle international volumes.
Domestic sales growth across the Brutal Fruit range population for our mainstream brands volume increases have been driven by contributed to the double digit increase and by March 2008 all but two of our cider brands and the ready-to-drink in FAB volumes.
In the premium segment, breweries were producing product in categories, despite shortages in the we successfully launched our new brand, the new bottle.
The market has reacted supply of packaging materials and Hansa Marzen Gold, Castle Lite grew positively to the modernised new bottle, carbon dioxide.
Margins were also strongly and Peroni Nastro Azzurro contributing to a resurgence in growth of improved through operating efficiencies.
volumes more than doubled, but this the mainstream category.
This renovation did not fully offset the anticipated loss Hotels and Gaming programme is scheduled to be complete of premium volumes as the competing SABMiller is a 49% shareholder in by September 2008.
The phased product re-entered the market.
The financial introduction of 430 million new bottles performance of Tsogo Sun continues Revenue grew by 6% on a constant has added complexity to the supply to be strong.
The gaming industry in currency basis.
Price increases were at grid which has resulted in increased South Africa has grown steadily, with real a level somewhat below inflation for both transport expenditure.
growth in casino win being experienced lager and soft drinks, and revenue growth There were a number of new product by all participants.
However, economic was constrained by adverse mix effects launches and pack renovations in the circumstances in recent months indicate in lager, driven by the swing out of higher year.
The May 2007 launch of Hansa a slowdown in activity.
priced premium brands into mainstream.
Marzen Gold proved to be very successful The South African hotel industry has again Higher raw material input costs in the beer and contributed over 23% of total premium enjoyed strong Revpar growth as a result business placed margins under pressure.
Innovation in the FAB of a robust local economy and growth in Increasing international commodity prices category saw two new brands being international arrivals.
Increased demand led to a large increase in key brewing raw launched in the last quarter of the coupled with limited capacity growth, has materials, and packaging costs rose on the financial year.
Sarita Ruby, a dry, red, assisted Tsogo Sun in achieving a year back of higher energy and oil prices.
Glass apple-flavoured FAB and Skelters on year increase in Revpar of 24% in costs were also up significantly following the Straight, a citrus flavoured offering, constant currency.
importation of glass in the current year at a were launched in February 2008 and premium to local supply, due to capacity March 2008 respectively.
Both the Hansa The improved level of trading, assisted by constraints at local glass manufacturers.
Pilsener and Castle brands received label control of costs, resulted in strong growth redesigns in the year to coincide with the in EBITA and margins.
Distribution costs rose by over 30% in introduction of the new 750ml returnable the current year.
In the premium segment, the Peroni crude oil prices together with the Nastro Azzurro range was extended to depreciation of the rand drove South include draught, 330ml cans and a new African diesel costs up by some 47% 660ml returnable bulk pack.
This was exacerbated by incremental distribution Despite the slow progress by local costs associated with servicing the 16% authorities in the granting of retail increase in main market outlets totalling liquor licences, our Mahlasedi taverner 23,400 outlets in the full year which is in programme trained some 3,400 taverners line with our direct distribution initiative.
during the year, bringing the total number to date to over 13,400.
This is in line with our commitment to invest US$14 million in this initiative over five years.
Administrative delays at local government level continue 23% to hamper the progress of liquor licensing of total premium volumes across the country.
contributed by Hanza Marzen Gold The Department of Trade and Industry issued the final Broad Based Black EBITA on a constant currency basis for Economic Empowerment BBBEE Codes the year was 6% lower than the prior year, of Good Practice in early February 2007. driven primarily by higher raw material input The liquor industrys formulation of a Sector and distribution cost increases.
In addition, Code had been suspended pending the the EBITA impact of the loss of the Amstel publication of the BBBEE Codes, but licence is estimated at approximately resumed in mid 2007 with the active US$50 million for the year driven by involvement of the Department of Trade and adverse mix, incremental investments Industry DTI.
The DTI has required that in marketing and new products and the industry involve a very broad group of packaging development.
The competitor stakeholders in the process.
It is anticipated product re-entered the South African that the Sector Code will be finalised market in the second quarter of the towards the end of calendar year 2008.
Operations review 29 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
