Strategic priority one Creating a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses Our acquisitions in recent years have given us a wide happening elsewhere.
In a young market like India with its low geographic spread with good exposure to emerging per-capita consumption of beer, the key is to increase our markets.
We now span six continents with a portfolio of volumes by switching consumers to beer from other, stronger, businesses that captures opportunities around the world alcoholic beverages.
In India, last years acquisition of Fosters without being over-reliant on any single region.
According is now contributing strongly to our growth.
In China, part of the to some sources, weve recently become the worlds biggest strategy is to acquire new breweries four purchased in the past brewer by volume not something we deliberately set out year or to build from scratch where doing so adds value.
to achieve, rather a by-product of creating a widespread, In other markets it may be more advantageous to acquire a value-generating portfolio.
Thats what we did with Belgia in Poland a move While geographic expansion remains part of the strategy, that gave us another brewery and an economy brand that were looking increasingly to identify and exploit the opportunities fills a gap in the local portfolio.
Another acquisition was that for growth within the existing business portfolio.
This can involve of Bluetongue in Australia, providing a local premium brand a range of activities from entering into local joint ventures or to put alongside our imported brands.
Australia, like the UK, partnerships, to buying or building breweries, to acquiring is an example of owning the local growth by importing local brands to help shape a full, local, brand portfolio.
All are attractive and interesting brands into a mature market.
potential means of owning the growth in individual markets.
Owning the growth is a complex process and one that requires The headline transactions of the year the proposed MillerCoors clever, innovative thinking to address the varied opportunities joint venture and the acquisition of Grolsch, both detailed in any given market.
The case studies in this section are a few alongside have contributed to this process.
But much has been examples of how weve gone about it during the year.
Bluetongue: another route into Australia Pacific Beverages, our 50-50 joint venture with Coca-Cola Amatil, was formed in 2006, initially to import SABMillers international premium beers into Australia, where the premium sector has been growing by 15% per annum over the past five years.
Already handling Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Genuine Draft, Pilsner Urquell and Miller Chill, the business has been looking for a local premium brand to complement the portfolio.
In 2007 it found the answer in Bluetongue, a characteristically Australian brand that started life in 2003, was named New Product of the Year at the 2004 Australian Liquor Awards and saw a 70% increase in sales during 2007.
Its acquisition adds a successful, fast-growing, local brand to Pacific Beverages existing portfolio sales of which more than doubled in 2007 and will expand the joint ventures share of Australias highly profitable premium beer market.
A further advantage is that the acquisition of Bluetongue creates sufficient critical mass in terms of local sales for Pacific Beverages to invest in a new brewery near Sydney.
Due to be completed in 2010, this will provide extra capacity both for Bluetongue and for our other premium brands.
With its advanced environmental technology, the new plant is planned to be one of the most water-efficient breweries in the world.
10 Strategic priority one SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Grolsch: a strong addition to the premium portfolio The acquisition of Royal Grolsch N. V. in February 2008 adds a prestigious brand to the portfolio and strengthens our hand strategically.
With its 400 years of Dutch brewing tradition, Grolsch brings a long record of innovation and excellence and exciting opportunities to share best practice.
It also contributes a large, state-of-the-art brewery that gives SABMiller the opportunity both to expand production of Grolsch and to brew its own international brands for sale in the Netherlands and for export to markets such as the UK.
Grolsch complements the existing premium brand portfolio and adds another powerful name in the fastest growing segment of the global beer market.
Grolsch, in turn, will benefit from SABMillers global distribution network.
Northern European brands have been among the most successful global premium brands, accounting for nearly half the growth within the segment.
Importantly for our purposes, theyre highly regarded in developing markets and have proved to be an excellent way of establishing the premium sector in parts of the world where the top end of the market has yet to be occupied.
We therefore see strong potential for Grolsch, particularly in Africa where the premium segment is in its infancy.
Further opportunities exist in the more developed markets of Central and Eastern Europe.
Grolsch will also help us develop the premium sector in South Africa.
MillerCoors will benefit from the largely complementary geographic strengths MillerCoors: a leading US brewer for the 21st century The agreement to combine Miller Brewing Company with Coors Brewing Company, the US subsidiary of Molson Coors, is a major advance for the business.
The joint venture will have the scale, resources and distribution to compete more effectively as cost pressures mount, competition intensifies, consumers look for greater differentiation and retailers and distributors consolidate.
The combined business, MillerCoors, will benefit from the largely complementary brand portfolios and geographic coverage of the two companies and from synergies and productivity improvements worth an estimated US$500 million a year.
The gains will be felt not just by the business, but by consumers, retailers, distributors and the industry at large.
With its wider portfolio of brands and improved ability to innovate, MillerCoors will be able to offer greater choice and availability to US consumers.
Streamlined processes and systems will provide the more sophisticated service that retailers increasingly demand, helping them, in turn, to compete more effectively.
Distributors, for their part, will benefit from a stronger portfolio of brands along with lower costs and simpler logistics.
All these together will make for greater efficiency and ensure strong, healthy competition in the industry.
We hope to close the transaction in mid-2008.
Srategic priority one 11 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
