Strategic priority two Developing strong, relevant brand portfolios in the local market As the global beer market overview on page 6 explains, Managing full portfolios of brands in this way is more complicated most of our markets exhibit at least three major trends.
A premium beer with an unusual One is premiumisation as consumers move up the scale heritage will need different marketing to a mainstream brand from economy to mainstream and mainstream to premium something more akin to viral marketing that gives consumers beers in search of brands that offer prestige and differentiation.
a sense of having discovered it for themselves.
Brands targeted Another is fragmentation.
Contrary to expectations a few years at the clubbing generation, of legal age drinkers, might be best ago, consumers at the top end are varying their choices and communicated through new media such as the internet, as becoming more interested in speciality brands, craft beers, were doing with Miller Genuine Draft in Russia.
Among the foreign imports and other sub-divisions of the premium skills we need, were learning the best ways to communicate segment.
And a third trend is the growing importance of with multiple target audiences.
Around the group, businesses such as Miller in the USA and Our central strategy is to identify the trends and dynamics in Kompania Piwowarska in Poland have continued to evolve their each market, then to create the right mix of brands to capture portfolios to match the opportunities in their respective markets.
the opportunities in each location.
Were helped in this respect Panama and Botswana are two examples of businesses that have by having a huge and varied global portfolio of brands on which renovated mainstream brands successfully.
The case of Miller any of our businesses can draw not to mention our ability to Chill shows how an innovative premium product can fill useful gaps innovate as consumers demand new tastes, new presentations in more than one market its success in the USA followed by an and new drinking experiences.
The key is to deploy our brands equally successful launch in Australia.
In Poland and Russia, the so that each adds value through its own distinct positioning.
strategy of marketing the Redds brand to women is generating good results.
Other successes are detailed in this section.
12 Strategic priority two SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A full portfolio in Botswana Panama: a historic brand relaunched St Louis is Botswanas only local beer brand, SABMillers move into South America in 2005 with a market share of around 50%.
By 2006, was followed by a systematic analysis of the however, it had become jaded and its sales were marketplace and a strategy aimed at raising declining.
The decision was made to renovate the perception of the beer category.
One result the brand and review the portfolio as a whole.
in 2007 was the renovation of Panamas oldest brand, Balboa, which dates back to 1910.
In a country proud of its status as one of Africas success stories, the first step was to create Under the theme of getting more flavour and new packaging and associations to link passion out of life, the relaunched product St Louis with the taste and style of todays is directed at premium drinkers in their midBotswana.
In a break with local tradition, 20s.
The 330ml bottle and modern, stylish the revitalised brand was introduced in label support the theme with an image new returnable bottles instead of cans.
of the swashbuckling Spanish explorer, As well as being more affordable, glass Vasco Nez fide Balboa.
The launch bottles are better environmentally.
took the form of a beach party with live bands and the distinctive red sofas used The 2007 relaunch quickly reversed the in the advertising to symbolise the tribe decline of the previous few years.
St Louis successfully addressing the mainstream market, the business has filled Buoyed by the relaunch, Balboas sales out the portfolio top and bottom by adding rose 65% in the year to March 2008.
Peroni Nastro Azzurro at the premium end The brand-building continues and includes and introducing Barons from Mozambique further special events to consolidate Balboas in the economy segment.
The sorghum strong connection with its consumers.
beer, Chibuku, retains its 97% share of the traditional beer market.
Peroni: winning in the UK market Miller Brands UK was established in 2005 to handle SABMillers international premium brands Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Genuine Draft and Pilsner Urquell in the mature UK market.
Its formation came as many of the UKs existing premium brands were declining and consumers were turning to more distinctive beers.
With competitors reducing their prices to maintain market share, Miller Brands chose to occupy the top end of the market and maintain its premium price positions.
In the case of Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Brands strategy has been to work closely with key UK retailers, developing exciting and innovative marketing and distributing only to outlets that attract the discerning target consumer.
In a premium lager market that declined by 5%, Peroni Nastro Azzurro has both expanded its sales volumes, growing 39%, and maintained its premium price.
Miller Brands portfolio has now been enhanced with the addition of Tyskie and Lech, respectively the number one and two Polish beer brands in the UK.
Reshaping the portfolio in the USA The main strength of the Miller portfolio in recent years of Leinenkugels, exploits the trend towards craft beers.
has been the low-calorie flagship brand, Miller Lite.
Its The newly created Miller Chill trades on the growth in weakness has been its heavy exposure to two declining light beers and the fashion for all things Latin.
sectors, full-calorie and economy beers, and its underThe third aspect of the strategy seeks to slow the decline representation in the premium segment where most of of the full-calorie Miller Genuine Draft and the economy the growth is happening.
In late 2006, Miller developed brands, Miller High Life and Milwaukees Best, recognising a strategy to rebalance the portfolio and position the both their heritage value and their contribution to cash flow.
Miller High Life has now returned to growth on the strength The first part of the strategy was to renovate Miller Lite of its successful Take Back the High Life campaign.
with new packaging and advertising.
Sales have responded Todays portfolio makes a much better fit with consumers with a 1.1% rise during the year.
demands and the strategy has played a large part in The second part was to capitalise on current trends in the Millers resurgence.
premium sector with brands drawn from a variety of sources.
Peroni, for example, is now the seventh-fastest growing European import into the USA.
The Leinenkugels brand, still brewed in the Wisconsin woods by the fifth generation Strategic priority two 13 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
