Executive committee The executive committee excom is appointed by the Chief Executive.
It comprises the Chief Financial Officer, divisional managing directors and directors of group functions.
Its purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
In that context, excom co-ordinates brand and operational execution and delivers strategic plans and budgets for the boards consideration.
It also ensures that regular financial reports are presented to the board, that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
Mark Bowman 41 Alan Clark 48 Sue Clark 44 John Davidson 49 Nick Fell 54 BCom, MBA MA, DLitt et Phil BSc hons, MBA MA, BCL Oxon BA hons Managing Director, Managing Director, Corporate Affairs Director, General Counsel and Marketing Director, SABMiller Africa SABMiller Europe SABMiller plc Group Company SABMiller plc Secretary, SABMiller plc Mark Bowman was appointed Dr Clark was appointed Sue Clark was appointed John Davidson joined the group Nick Fell was appointed Managing Director of SABMiller Managing Director, SABMiller Corporate Affairs Director, as General Counsel and Group Marketing Director, SABMiller plc Africa in October 2007.
He joined The SABMiller plc in 2003.
Prior to Company Secretary in 2006. in 2006.
Prior to this, he worked joined SABMillers beer division South African Breweries Limited this, she held a number of senior Before joining the group, he for Cadbury Schweppes Plc, as in 1993 and has held various SAB Ltd in 1990 as Training roles in UK companies, including spent his entire legal career at President, Global Commercial senior positions in the company.
He Director of Corporate Affairs, Lovells, a leading international Strategy and also as Director These include Managing Director has since held a number of senior Railtrack Group from 2000 to law firm, where he had been of Marketing, Cadbury Trebor of SABMillers Polish subsidiary positions in the group, including 2003 and Director of Corporate a partner since 1991.
He previously worked Kompania Piwowarska, Managing Marketing Director, SAB Ltd, Affairs, Scottish Power plc from worked on numerous projects for Diageo plc for 15 years in a Director of ABI now the Soft Managing Director, Amalgamated 1996 to 2000. for SABMiller since Lovells was number of senior roles including Drinks Division of SAB Ltd and Beverage Industries Ltd and first appointed as the groups Global Brands Director, Johnnie Chairman of Appletiser.
Chairman, Appletiser South principal UK legal adviser in Walker, and Group Marketing Africa Pty Ltd. Before joining 1998, including the London Director, Guinness Brewing.
He has also held various the group, he practised as a listing in 1999, the Miller, positions in logistics, sales, clinical psychologist and lectured Peroni and Bavaria Group distribution, IT and corporate in psychology at Vista University transactions, and various strategy within the group.
Tony van Kralingen 50 Tom Long 49 Ari Mervis 43 Johann Nel 51 Barry Smith 57 BA hons BA, MBA BCom BA hons BSc, MBA Managing Director, President and Managing Director, Human Resources President, SABMiller The South African Chief Executive Officer, SABMiller Asia Director, SABMiller plc Latin America Breweries Limited Miller Brewing Company Tony van Kralingen was Tom Long was appointed Ari Mervis was appointed Johann Nel was appointed Barry Smith was appointed appointed Managing Director, President and Chief Executive Managing Director of SABMiller Human Resources Director, President, SABMiller Latin America SAB Ltd in 2003.
He is also Officer, Miller Brewing Company Asia in October 2007.
He joined SABMiller plc in 2002.
He joined in 2007 and prior to this he was responsible for the Global in 2006 after joining the company ABI now the Soft Drinks Division SAB Ltd in 1997 and was President, SABMiller South Technical function and Chairman in 2005 as Chief Marketing Officer.
of SAB Ltd in 1989 and has held appointed Human Resources America from 2005.
He joined of the Global Sourcing Council.
Prior to this he was President, a number of senior positions in Director in 1998.
He previously SAB Ltd in 1984 and has held He joined SAB Ltd in 1982 and Northwest Europe Division, the organisation.
These include owned a consulting organisation, a number of senior positions has held a number of senior The Coca-Cola Company and he Managing Director of Appletiser and had worked with SAB Ltd in the group.
These include positions in the group.
These previously held senior positions at and Managing Director of on various major strategy, Marketing Director, SAB Ltd, include Managing Director, the companys US headquarters, SABMillers operations in Russia organisational development and Managing Director, Kompania Plzensk Prazdroj A. S. Marketing including Vice President National and Australia.
human resources projects since Piwowarska S. A. and Senior Director, SAB Ltd and Operations Sales, Vice President and Director 1988.
He has co-authored a Vice President, Market Director Northern Region, Research & Trends, and Vice book on managing productive Development and Strategy, SAB Ltd. President and Director Global change in organisations and Miller Brewing Company.
Should the was involved in initiatives to MillerCoors Joint Venture receive encourage business involvement regulatory approval it is proposed in the democratisation of South that he will become President Africa in the 1980s and 1990s.
and Chief Commercial Officer of the company.
44 Executive committee SABMiller plc Annual Report 2008
