36 Our businesses in Rest of World enjoyed another excellent year, with total revenues growing by 16% to 91.1m 2007: 78.5m and organic revenue growth of 14%.
Our businesses in Rest of World cover a diverse geographic area with diering market conditions.
Rest of World Asia and Southern Hemisphere CEO Asia: Guy Berruyer pictured left, including: Bahrain, CEO Southern Hemisphere: Ivan Epstein pictured right, China, Dubai, India, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, including: Australia, Botswana, Namibia, and South Africa.
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of intangible fixed assets EBITA.
37 Regional results Our business Total revenues in Rest of World grew by 16% to 91.1m Over the year, we added 59,000 new customers, an 2007: 78.5m.
South Africas Pastel Accounting and South Africa had another impressive year, with a strong VIP Payroll continues to expand through migration and finish to the year and excellent growth in support, strong customer support offerings.
Through innovation payroll and international products.
Australia experienced and a close customer relationship, Australia has good revenue growth in the first half, with only a slight maintained its market leadership and developed new moderation to growth in the second half.
India, China solutions in construction.
We have well-established and and the Middle East all grew strongly, successfully fast-growing businesses in newer markets such as China, leveraging our existing solutions such as Sage ERP X3, India, Malaysia, Singapore, Dubai and Saudi Arabia.
CRM products and Sage Accpac ERP to build their SMEs in these emerging markets are increasingly market positions.
automating their business process using financial accounting software.
Our products and services are The EBITA margin was maintained at 26% 2007: 26%.
particularly well suited to these types of markets with large numbers of emerging SMEs.
Marketplace Our businesses in Rest of World cover a diverse The market for CRM solutions is less developed in geographic area with differing market conditions.
Our CRM products are enjoying South Africa is one of our fastest growing businesses, rapid growth off a still nascent base, providing a platform driven by the rapid development of the SME community for future growth.
automating their business processes and implementing Pastel Accounting, the market leader in South Africa.
Through South Africa, we are expanding into other businesses in African countries.
In Australia, we are the leading supplier of payroll solutions to SMEs.
We also have a strong position in the Far East, South Africa hadanother impressiveyear, where we are the market leader in Malaysia and with strong growth in support, payroll and Singapore, and have small, rapidly growing businesses international products.
Australiaexperienced in China, India and the Middle East which are supplying the emerging SME community.
Ivan Epstein Many of our solutions in Rest of World are mid-market products and services.
Consequently, 34% of our sales are through our business partner network.
Direct sales through our own sales teams comprise 64% and retail contributes 2%.
Sage in the community The Pastel Schools Programme aims to introduce computerised accounting to every Grade 10, 11 and 12 pupil in South Africa to better educate young people in financial management skills that can increase job opportunities and benefit industry and commerce as more financially skilled young people enter the workforce.
The programme requires an investment of R1m per year to support the 200 educators and 100 schools involved across the country.
Pastel developed a computerised training programme which fits India, China, Malaysia, Singapore with the schooling curriculum and is approved by the South African Government.
and the Middle East all successfully leveraging our existing solutions such as Sage ERP X3, CRM products and Sage Accpac ERP to build their market positions.
