10 Our principles of Simplicity, Trust, Integrity, Innovation and Agility drive everything we do howwe think, how we plan, how we make decisions.
11 Whatwe do, whowe are, how wework Sage provides a choice of high quality business software, At Sage we nurture a unique culture and regardless of services and support to small and medium-sized where we are in the world, our people are guided by five businesses.
Whilst our heritage is in the small business key principles of simplicity, trust, integrity, innovation and market and most of our customers employ less than agility.
These attributes will enable us to serve all our 500 employees, we also have the experience and customers well and continue to deliver our success.
expertise to meet the needs of specific industries Our corporate principles underpin everything we do how and larger organisations.
we think, how we plan and how we make decisions.
The majority of our products and services are developed, Whether it is software which is easy to use or support sold and supported locally to meet local customer needs that is easy to access, simplicity is a key driver in and comply with local legislation and regulations.
ensures our products and services are relevant to our Our customers place important, confidential information customers and makes it easier for them to manage their in our hands so it is imperative they fully trust us to deliver.
Whether it is our financial software Whether providing reliable, high quality products or giving enabling better cash flow management, our CRM software advice on business critical topics, integrity is critical to helping to build profitable customer relationships or our us when building long-term customer relationships.
HR and payroll offerings being used to improve employee We need to think ahead, to anticipate our customers performance and ensure legislative compliance, our needs and be creative in how we develop our software software and services equip our customers to run their and services, continually innovating to improve the businesses more effectively and manage the challenges customer experience we deliver.
We have to be responsive to customer needs and market changes and ensure we are agile enough to What makes Sage different is our people, our dedication to adapt our products and services to meet these demands.
doing the right thing by the customer and our commitment to support them to the very best of our ability.
Simplicity Trust Integrity Innovation Agility
