22 Business review | Our business and markets Acquisition strategy Acquisitions have always been an important component An important step in improving margins and driving in our growth strategy and are an effective method of revenue growth in new acquisitions is to develop the entering new geographic markets through an established Sage customer support concept which offers high quality customer base and proven product distribution.
We have business support to our customers.
We also share best successfully entered many new geographic territories over practice from around our global businesses which we time, including North America in 1991, Mainland Europe in apply as appropriate, such as combined software support 1992, South Africa and Australia in 2004 and the Far East contracts, which are growing well in most of our markets.
Acquisitions will remain an important part of our corporate In markets where we have established businesses, we strategy, particularly in the newer economies of China, look for acquisitions that add new products and services India, Eastern Europe and South America where large to our portfolio that we can offer our customers.
This numbers of SMEs are beginning to automate their includes industry-specific solutions such as our acquisitions business processes.
Our acquisition valuation model is of Timberline in North America and Tekton in the UK which financially robust, based on conservative assumptions and offered solutions for construction companies and XRT a discounted cash flow model.
We remain committed to in Europe which complemented our existing solution in financial prudence in our acquisitions.
Over the past year, treasury management.
The acquisition of Verus Sage this has led to a decline in the number of acquisitions we Payment Solutions Division in the US and Protx in the have completed, as asset prices have remained inflated.
UK brought us new capability in payment processing to We remain active in evaluating potential acquisitions and offer SMEs as they increasingly sell to remote customers are well placed to benefit from future opportunities when through the internet and telesales.
We also use acquisitions asset prices approach realistic valuations.
to enter new industry segments, such as healthcare, which The common denominator linking all our acquisitions we entered in 2006 with Emdeon Sage Healthcare Division.
is our focus on the SME market, where our corporate We integrate new acquisitions into our corporate structure expertise lies.
at a local level under the supervision of our regional management teams.
This allows us to preserve local market expertise, whilst overlaying the synergies of a larger global company.
Early on, we apply the Sage business model by developing effective migration strategies from entry-level solutions to mid-market and industry-specific solutions and from legacy systems to more efficient, integrated solutions.
Softline South Africa, acquired in 2004 opens new oces in Johannesburg in 2008.
23 Significant acquisition history Year Company Industry specialism Country Value 2007 XRT Treasury France 53m 2006 Emdeon Healthcare vertical US 315m Verus Payment processing US 174m Adonix Accounting: Mid-market France 98m Elit Transport and food distribution vertical France 31m UBS Accounting: Entry-level new territory Malaysia 12m 2005 Logic Control Accounting: Mid-market Spain 56m Symfonia Accounting: Entry-level new territory Poland 10m 2004 Softline Accounting: Entry-level new territory South Africa 53m { Payroll, Accountants vertical new territory Australia Grupo SP Accounting: Entry-level new territory Spain 55m ACCPAC Accounting, CRM: Mid-market US & Canada 76m 2003 Timberline Construction vertical US 54m 2001 Interact CRM US 227m 2000 Best Fixed Asset, Payroll, HR US 270m 1999 Peachtree Accounting: Entry-level US 88m Tetra Accounting: Mid-market UK 81m Sesam Accounting: Mid-market new territory Switzerland 11m 1998 State of the Art Accounting: Mid-market US 131m 1997 KHK Accounting: Mid-market new territory Germany 46m 1994 1995 Saari & Sybel Accounting: Mid-market, becoming Sage France France 46m 1992 Ciel Accounting: Entry-level new territory France 5m 1991 DacEasy Accounting: Entry-level new territory US 15m Acquisitions of a value more than 25m other than the entry into a new territory.
