46 Directors report For the year ended 30 September 2008 The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Directors and their interests the year ended 30 September 2008.
A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company and details of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration report on pages 54 to 65.
Principal activities The Groups principal activities during the year continued to be the No director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than development, distribution and support of business management a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any software and related products and services for medium-sized and of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors of the Company and Business review the former directors of the Company who held office during the year The Group achieved a profit before taxation of 241.0m on revenue ended 30 September 2008, to the extent permitted by law and by the of 1,295.0m.
Companys articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in The Business review, including key performance indicators, can be found connection with the performance of their duties as a director of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities are available on pages 6 to 43 and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
for review at the registered office of the Company.
Disclaimer The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to the Employment policy members of the Company.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their respective persons.
The Company, its directors and employees, agents or advisers aptitudes and abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this continued employment of those who may become disabled during their document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such employment and the provision of training and career development and responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report promotion, where appropriate.
The Group has continued its policy of contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the employee involvement by making information available to employees on operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their matters of concern to them.
Many employees are stakeholders in the nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and business through participation in share option schemes.
Further details circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially of employment policies are given on pages 24 and 25. from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report Creditor payment policy and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forwardGiven the international nature of its operations, the Group does looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
Subsidiary operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are Results and dividends conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is the Groups policy that The results for the year and the amount transferred to reserves are set payments to suppliers are made promptly in accordance with these out on page 66.
Dividends paid and proposed are set out on page 78. terms.
Creditor days for the Group have been calculated at 40 days The Board proposes a final dividend of 4.78p per share 2007: 5.73p 2007: 40 days.
per share taking the proposed full year dividend to 7.21p per share 2007: 7.00p per share.
Substantial shareholdings At 17 December 2008, the Company had been notified, in accordance Research and development with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in During the year, the Group invested 139.7m 2007: 111.4m in the ordinary share capital of the Company: research and development.
This has resulted in the release of a number of new and updated products and features as referred to in the Business Direct Indirect Total Name shares % shares % shares % review on pages 6 to 43.
Invesco plc 129,837,372 9.92 129,837,372 9.92 Charitable contributions and political donations Baillie During the year, within the UK, charitable contributions totalling Gifford & Co 124,221,242 9.52 124,221,242 9.52 148,000 were made, which included 60,000 to The Tyne and Wear Aviva plc 65,471,319 5.00 25,990,149 1.98 91,461,468 6.98 Community Foundation, 20,000 to The Community Foundation for Greater Manchester, 20,000 to The Berkshire Community Foundation, and a total of 48,000 smaller contributions to numerous charities.
The rest of the Group made charitable contributions totalling 137,000.
No political donations were made in the year.
47 Future developments Transfer of shares The Groups future developments are described in the Business review Subject to the Current Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual on pages 6 to 43. form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may, Additional information for shareholders in its absolute discretion, decline to register any instrument of transfer Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share or on which the law, the following description provides the required information for Company has a lien.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, This summary is based on the Companys current articles of association or at such other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and the Current Articles, but please note that it is proposed that the ii accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and Company will adopt new articles of association the New Articles with such other evidence if any as the Board may reasonably require to prove effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on Tuesday the title of the intending transferor or his or her right to transfer the shares.
3 March 2009, brief details of which are set out in the circular containing The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Current Articles, title to Share capital uncertificated shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused where permitted by the Statutes ordinary shares of 1p each.
as defined in the Current Articles.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Voting In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of Repurchase of shares the Current Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual General Meeting held on 28 February 2008 to buy-back up to 130,416,015 attached to any class of shares in the Company of which there are none : ordinary shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual who next Annual General Meeting on 3 March 2009.
The minimum price is a member of the Company, a person authorised to act as the which must be paid for such shares is 1p and the maximum price representative of a corporation or a person appointed as a proxy payable is the higher of 5% above the average of the mid-market price of a member shall have one vote: and of the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any call or other of expenses.
sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Amendment of the Companys articles of association Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be made Deadlines for voting rights Full details of the deadlines for exercising in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 by way of voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual special resolution.
General Meeting to be held on 3 March 2009 are set out in the Notice of Appointment and replacement of directors Annual General Meeting.
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006 the Companies the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until the Acts, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend next following Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by to be paid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount the shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject recommended by the Board.
to the Companies Acts and on such terms as they may determine and The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any director in office who a has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
General Meeting or b at the start of business on the date which is Liquidation If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the 30 clear days prior to the date of the notice convening the Annual General authority of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority Meeting had held office for more than 30 months since he or she was required by the Statutes as defined in the Current Articles : elected or last re-elected shall in either case retire from office but shall be Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the eligible for election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may assets of the Company: or by special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts been given remove and the Board by unanimous decision may remove for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like authority, any director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns ii he or she is or may shall think fit.
be suffering from a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from office pursuant to the Current Articles.
48 Powers of the directors The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association, the Current Articles, the Companies Acts and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust The trustee of the Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT has agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general meeting.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their shares the trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting awards, but will have regard to the interests of the award holders and will have power to consult them to obtain their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee may take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: Under a 200,000,000 bilateral credit facility agreement dated 18 January 2006 between, amongst others, the Company and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as facility agent, on a change of control, if the majority lenders so require and after having consulted with the Company in good faith for not less than 30 days following the change of control, the facility agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued under the finance documents immediately due and payable: and Under a 650,000,000 multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement dated 4 August 2006 between, amongst others, the Company and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as facility agent, on a change of control, if the majority lenders so require and after having consulted with the Company in good faith for not less than 20 days following the change of control, the facility agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the facility and declare all outstanding loans, together with the accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued under the finance documents immediately due and payable.
Under the terms of both credit facility agreements, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
The Business review does not contain any information about persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company as, in the directors view, there are no such arrangements.
By Order of the Board M J Robinson Secretary 17 December 2008
