34 This has been a transitional year for our North American business and a period of organisational change.
In March 2008 we appointed Sue Swenson as President and CEO to lead our North American business.
Over the year she has assembled a strong and experienced executive management team and is focusing on driving operational improvements and earnings growth.
North America Including: Canada and United States.
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of intangible fixed assets EBITA.
35 Regional results MAS 90 200 500 and Accpac products are amongst This has been a transitional year for our North American some of the most popular solutions for companies business and a period of organisational change.
In March requiring deeper functionality and customisation to 2008, we appointed Sue Swenson as President and CEO manage their business processes.
North America has to lead our North American business.
She was joined in always been our largest market for CRM solutions.
June 2008 by Marc Loup as Chief Financial Officer of We have three CRM solutions in our product portfolio, North America.
Lindy Benton, who brings extensive ACT!, SageCRM and SalesLogix, which all enjoy high experience in healthcare industry management, joined market awareness and strong customer satisfaction.
in September 2008 as Chief Operating Officer of Sage Healthcare Division.
Greg Hammermaster joined in Our business November 2008, after the end of the financial year, as Over the year, we added 124,000 new customers, an President of Sage Payment Solutions Division.
Our strong portfolio of products and long-term experience of the payments industry.
The new services offers our customers a wide range of solutions executive management team is focusing on driving to meet their specific requirements, such as Peachtree operational improvements and earnings growth.
and Peachtree Quantum which offer flexibility and good functionality to smaller and medium-sized businesses.
Excluding Sage Healthcare Division, total revenues in MAS 90 200 500 are our mid-market products offering North America grew by 1% to 361.8m 2007: 358.9m, larger companies a high degree of customisation and which also represented organic revenue growth of 1%.
We also have a number of specialised Including Sage Healthcare Division organic revenues solutions to manage fixed asset registers FAS and human contracted by 3%.
The Business Management Division resources functions ABRA as well as products for BMD reported flat revenues for the year, as did its key specialised industries, including not-for-profit, construction products, Peachtree and the MAS range.
Simply, the and real estate Timberline Master Builder and doctors market leader in Canada recorded good growth, as did practices Sage Healthcare Division.
Sage Payment specialist solutions such as FAS and the accountants Solutions is one of our newer services, which is being club.
Organic revenue growth in the Industry & Specialised integrated into our Peachtree and MAS product ranges to Solutions Division ISSD was 3%.
Sage Timberline offer our customers a payment system that feeds directly Office Master Builder reported modest growth despite into the sales and finance functions.
challenging conditions in the US construction industry.
Non Profit Solutions continued to show good growth.
North America is also collaborating with our UK and Sage Payment Solutions Division PSD grew by 5% Mainland Europe businesses on introducing a number for the full year, reflecting the slowing US economy and of best practice initiatives.
Combined software support turmoil in the credit markets towards the end of the year.
contracts were introduced last year as Peachtree Business Care and Simply Care and have experienced strong Revenues at Sage Healthcare Division contracted 11%, customer demand.
These programmes will gradually as, over the course of the year, management concentrated be extended and are expected to drive future growth.
on improving operational efficiency within the business and North America has also adopted the integrated product increasing margins, after a significant restructuring of the suite concept, called Extended Enterprise Suites.
Good progress is being made in stabilising the Both Peachtree and MAS can now be fully integrated support operations and network services.
with CRM, FAS and Payment Solutions in Extended Similar to the UK, our North American business Enterprise Suites.
experienced an economic slowdown as the year progressed.
This affected the second half performance Sage in the community of PSD, whilst BMD and ISSD both saw softening late Our North American employees have always in the second half of the year.
strongly supported charitable activities at a local level.
This year they introduced payroll The EBITA margin decreased, in line with our guidance giving with a matching employer contribution, last year, to 18% 2007: 20% as a result of investment initiated a charitable Volunteer Day allowing employees a paid day off to volunteer at a made in our support operations in BMD.
charity and volunteered in local health centres as part of a week-long focus on community Marketplace health.
As part of Sage Day 2008, in which North America is our largest business with over 70% of over 50 charities benefited, our people our solutions sold direct to our customers, 2% of revenues distributed environmentally friendly shopping bags, promoted car pool programmes, through retail and 28% through our large network of planted trees and removed waste from business partners.
We entered the American market in parks and beaches.
1991, and over time have established a strong market position in both the United States and Canada.
We are the market leader in Canada with our Simply brand, and in the United States, our Peachtree brand is the second largest brand at the entry-level.
