32 Our businesses in Mainland Europe had a good year.
Total revenues grew by 15% overall to 457.3m 2007: 395.9m with strong organic revenue growth of 9%.
France reported 7% organic revenue growth for the full year.
Germany, as forecast, recovered in the second half of the year and Spain recorded another year of excellent organic revenue growth of 25%, with growth across most of its product range, stimulated by changes in accounting legislation.
Poland enjoyed strong organic revenue growth of 18% driven by its midmarket solutions and the continued extension of customer support.
Mainland Europe Including: Austria, Belgium, France including subsidiaries in Brazil and Morocco, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Spain and Switzerland.
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of intangible fixed assets EBITA.
33 Regional results Poland, Portugal and Belgium are smaller markets which Our businesses in Mainland Europe experienced strong also enjoyed good growth as SMEs automate their growth throughout the year.
Total revenues in Mainland business processes.
Europe grew by 15% overall to 457.3m 2007: In Mainland Europe, direct sales to our customers account 395.9m with strong organic revenue growth of 9%.
Retail sales, primarily at the entryFrance reported 7% organic revenue growth for the full level, account for 1% of total sales.
Excellent performances from our entry-level business, who provide installation and integration of our mid-market Ciel!
and mid-market solutions contributed to Frances solutions, account for 28% of sales.
Germany, as forecast, recovered in the second half of the year, although a muted performance in Our business Switzerland held back combined organic revenue growth Our businesses in Mainland Europe cover a wide range of in Germany Switzerland to 1%.
Office Line, CRM and markets, from established SME markets in Germany and mid-market solutions all performed well.
Spain recorded France to the dynamic newer markets of Spain, Poland another year of excellent organic revenue growth of 25%, and Portugal where SMEs are rapidly using technology with growth across most of its product range, stimulated to enhance business efficiency.
All have grown steadily by changes in accounting legislation.
Poland enjoyed through the application of the Sage business model to strong organic revenue growth of 18% driven by its our various markets, including strong migration strategies, mid-market solutions and the continued extension of good distribution coverage and extension of our customer customer support.
We continue to develop our customer The EBITA margin reduced to 22% 2007: 23%, primarily support model in all our markets in Mainland Europe, as a result of restructuring charges associated with our adding new tiers of support and added features.
As in the French logistics business and the integration of a lower UK, customer demand for high quality customer support margin Swiss acquisition completed in the prior year.
remains strong and is driving growth across our markets.
Over the year, we added 127,000 new customers in Acquisitions Mainland Europe 37,000 through acquisitions, an In Spain this year we acquired Eurowin for an enterprise increase of 8%.
Eurowin supplies software to Spanish We are also expanding our portfolio of products and small businesses through a dedicated partner channel.
services into newer areas such as CRM, HR and payroll The acquisition extends our leading market position at the and customer support.
We have also developed industryentry-level and adds to our business partner distribution specific solutions in treasury management, distribution network in Spain.
and logistics in France and Spain and international products in France, Spain and Germany and for SMEs Marketplace working across national borders but still demanding We entered the European market in 1992 and are now the local customisation and flexibility of traditional one of the leading suppliers of business software to Sage solutions.
brand is a well-established market leader at the entry-level.
Sage 100 and industry-specific solutions for manufacturing, services and financial institutions also lead their respective markets in France for medium and larger enterprises.
Our French business has also been a fast-growing division supplying Sage products and services to French-speaking African Sage in the community countries where small businesses are rapidly automating At Sage France the team invited customers their business processes.
to participate in a survey about their business and for each completed survey Sage made a In Germany, we enjoy a strong position with our entry-level donation to Ashoka, a charity which supports and mid-market solutions, Office Line as well as Barer social entrepreneurship.
More than 5,000 surveys were completed generating in excess and Sage ERP X3 supplying the upper mid-market.
Sages donation Spain has enjoyed rapid growth and established a marketwill be used to help the organisation Signes fide Sens, a social enterprise which works on leading position through application of the Sage business awareness of inclusiveness for the hard-ofmodel, including customer support and migration hearing non-hearing in France.
Signes fide strategies from SP products at the entry-level to Logic Sens is also a Sage customer, so Sage offered Class in the mid-market.
them an updated version of their software along with support and strategic advice to aid business planning.
