18 Business review | Our business and markets Customerexperience We differentiate ourselves through the superior experience Our partnerships are built on the on-going dialogue we we deliver to our customers.
Customers and their needs have with our customers, the provision of high quality and expectations lead our strategy.
We aim to provide support and advice and the loyalty and trust that results our customers with an outstanding experience at every from it.
We have 1.7 million support contracts with average level and in all their dealings with Sage.
Understanding renewal rates of over 80%.
Our emphasis on support is their needs and the provision of specific and relevant reinforced by the resources we put behind it.
More than solutions are two key factors in providing a positive 40% of our people work in technical support, customer customer experience.
Building secure customer service or customer training roles and we receive over relationships for the long-term is absolutely essential 36,000 calls a day from customers working in all sizes for us to provide this outstanding experience.
We develop these relationships by providing customers We will continue to provide support locally because we not only with support and advice on how to get the most believe that outstanding service has to be provided by out of their software to enable better business highly trained individuals who understand their customers, performance but also with guidance on business critical their products, the local legislation and other local market topics.
Many of our customers have limited sources issues that affect them.
By supporting, connecting and of advice and, very often, limited IT support.
As such, building relationships with our customers in this way, we believe we are not just a software supplier but a partner we aim to deliver an extraordinary experience which in our customers businesses, helping them to manage is unmatched in our industry.
Our emphasis on support is reinforced by the resources we put behind it.
Across the business as a whole, more than 40% of our people work in technical support, customer service or customer training roles.
