30 The UK business delivered solid revenue growth for the year.
Total revenues grew by 10% overall to 245.7m 2007: 224.1m with organic revenue growth of 3% for the year.
Sage 50, our agship UK product, grew by 8%, despite a dicult market.
Our fully integrated product suite solutions, Sage 200 and Sage 1000, launched last year, continue to be well received by our customers and business partners alike.
31 Regional results our product offering to include CRM, HR and payroll, Total UK & Ireland revenues grew by 10% to 245.7m business intelligence, payment solutions and industry- 2007: 224.1m.
Organic revenue growth was 3% for specific solutions for construction, manufacturing and retail the year, as the deteriorating macroeconomic environment industries.
Our product offering has also extended into in the second half of the year affected growth in software solutions for start-up businesses, such as TAS and and software-related services.
Sage 50, our flagship Instant, and solutions for larger enterprise customers, UK product, grew by 8%, driven by our combined including Sage 200 and Sage 1000. software support contract, SageCover Extra.
Our fully Our product development has more recently been focused integrated product suite solutions, Sage 200 and Sage on helping our customers run their businesses more 1000, launched last year, continue to be well received by efficiently through easier integration and implementation our customers and business partners alike.
Sage 200 of new product modules.
Sage 200 and Sage 1000, performed strongly over the year, although Sage 1000, launched in spring 2007, are the UK & Irelands first fully in the upper mid-market, was more affected by the integrated product suites, offering financial accounting, challenging market conditions.
Protx, the payment CRM, payroll and business intelligence all in one package.
services solution, also performed strongly.
HR and Customers can choose which modules they wish to payroll reported modest growth in the absence integrate, allowing them a fully customised solution with of legislative stimulus.
This year we have also The EBITA margin decreased to 36% 2007: 37%, launched tailored solutions for specific business functions, due to the dilutive effects of acquisitions.
such as financial controller and human resources, which include specialist modules.
These packaged solutions have proven to be very popular with our customers.
Acquisitions Two acquisitions were made in the UK over the year.
KCS, We continue to innovate our products and improve the a leading supplier of HR and payroll services in the UK, quality of our customers experience.
Combined software was completed in October 2007 for an enterprise value support contracts, which offer customers an update to of 20.2m.
KCS extended our payroll offering into the their software each year as part of their support contract, mid-market and complemented our prior year acquisition remain one of our most popular packages.
Demand for in this area, Snowdrop.
The acquisition of Tekton, a leading high quality support continues to grow, and we have supplier to mid-market construction companies, was extended and broadened our range of support offerings completed in March 2008 for an enterprise value of from basic support to new services, such as HR and 19.8m.
Tekton complements our existing construction payroll and Sage Accountants Club Priority Link, solution, Sage 50 CIS, which targets smaller construction a combined software support contract designed for companies.
Both acquisitions are important strategic steps multi-seat professional practices.
in broadening our UK product offering.
We also offer various tiers of support for each product so Marketplace that customers can select the level of support they need.
The UK & Ireland are our original markets where Sage was Our objective is to offer our customers an exceptional founded in 1981.
We have, over time, established a strong customer experience and to become a true partner in market position to become one of the leading suppliers of running their businesses more efficiently.
software solutions in the UK and the Sage brand enjoys high customer awareness.
We sell over two thirds of our products and services direct to our customers through our own telesales and direct marketing teams.
We also have a strong distribution Sage in the community network of business partners who resell our products Our people in Sages Newcastle office donated and services, along with banks and accountancy practices their time and energy by volunteering for Sport recommending our products and services, to mid-market Relief, a UK wide initiative to raise money for customers.
Our business partners offer additional services charity through encouraging people to participate in sport.
such as integration, training and specialist industry knowledge, helping us build a long-term relationship with Part of the North Park headquarters became our customers.
Our customer support model also fosters a charity call centre for the evening of the 14 March 2008 and over 100 volunteers from strong customer loyalty, which is one of our key Sage gave up their time to receive telephone competitive advantages.
donations from members of the public on behalf of Sport Relief.
Sport Relief took place over the Our business whole weekend, starting with a live televised Over the past year, we added 31,000 new customers in entertainment show on the Friday night and the UK & Ireland, an increase of 4% over the prior year.
culminating in a series of charity runs across Sage 50 remains the market leading product since its the country on the Sunday.
launch in 1986, and it remains our UK & Ireland businesss most popular product.
Over the years, we have expanded
