04 Globalpresence Sage is a global company with 5.8 million customers, over 14,500 revenues arising from combined software support contracts, employees and more than 25 years experience working with small and maintenance and support, hosted products and other recurring medium-sized businesses.
We have direct operations in 26 countries services revenues.
and a presence in many more countries through our indirect network To capitalise on our local expertise we operate through a decentralised of 30,000 business partners and 40,000 accountancy practices.
business structure whereby each country has substantial autonomy in Despite our global reach, we have built our success on understanding terms of local business strategy.
and meeting the needs of customers in their local markets.
Our local management teams report into the CEO of their region We are the third largest provider of business management solutions UK & Ireland, Mainland Europe, North America and Rest of World.
1 in the world with a 7% market share.
Software and software-related For more information about our regional businesses and our business structure services revenues account for 39% of our total revenues.
Subscription please go to page 17 revenues account for 61% of our total revenues and include recurring Direct presence Revenue by region Revenue by sector 1 E A 4 D C 2 B 3 % % 1 UK & Ireland 19 A Accounting 55 2 Mainland Europe 35 B Industry-specific 25 3 North America 39 C HR and payroll 11 4 Rest of World 7 D Customer Relationship Management CRM 5 Total 100 E Payment processing 4 Total 100 1 Source: Gartner, August 2007, Worldwide ERP licence and maintenance revenue by vendor.
05 Corporate responsibility Ourstrengths Sage is committed to acting as a responsible Brand leadership Business structure corporate citizen.
We have chosen to focus our We have built our business around our marketOur decentralised business means Sage has an corporate responsibility efforts on four areas that leading brands which are widely recognised and unrivalled understanding of local customer needs, are meaningful to our organisations strategy and trusted in their local markets.
Combined with the provides a choice of locally developed and locally where we believe we can make a difference.
global Sage brand, our local brands give us a key supported solutions and the agility to respond These are: our people: the environment: point of competitive differentiation.
quickly to changes in local market conditions.
supporting industry: and working with our local communities and charities.
We aim to achieve For more information on our brand leadership For more information on our business structure best practice in the local context of every country please go to page 12 please go to page 16 in which we operate with standards established by local legislation applying as a minimum.
We also Customer experience Distribution channels aim to share best practice across the Group so We set ourselves apart through the superior Sage has strong routes to market, including retail that we implement continuous improvement.
experience we deliver to customers.
We help stores, web retailers, direct from Sage or indirect them run their businesses more efficiently through through our worldwide network of over 40,000 For more information on our corporate the provision of high quality software, services accountants and 30,000 business partners who responsibility please go to page 24 and support.
This has enabled us to build a provide additional support, implementation, large, loyal and diverse customer base.
Many of customisation and specialist sector knowledge.
our customers have support contracts through which we provide not only advice on how to get For more information on our distribution channels the most from their software but also guidance please go to page 20 on business critical topics.
For more information on our customer experience please go to page 18 Ourregional businesses UK& Ireland Mainland Europe North America Rest of World Including: United Kingdom and Including: Austria, Belgium, France Including: Canada and United States.
Including: Australia, Bahrain, Botswana, Republic of Ireland.
including subsidiaries in Brazil and China, Dubai, India, Malaysia, Namibia, Morocco, Germany, Poland, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Singapore Spain and Switzerland.
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of intangible fixed assets EBITA.
