06 The continued growth in subscription revenues   software and software-related services.
Innovation is at the heart ofourstrategy.
We continue to adapt and evolve ourproducts and services oering to meet the changing needs ofour 5.8 million customers.
07 Overview of Group results Over the year we successfully extended our support This has been a challenging year with volatile market offerings with Sage Accountants Club Priority Link conditions in two of our key geographic regions.
After in the UK, Contrat Platine for Ciel!
customers in France a good performance in the first half of the year, the Group and the Premier and Avanzado support contracts saw softening customer demand in the UK and North in Spain.
Customer support continues to drive growth America, although Mainland Europe and Rest of World in Spain, South Africa, Poland and Portugal, while our continued to perform strongly.
This resulted in organic newer markets in China, India, Malaysia and Singapore revenue growth excluding Sage Healthcare Division for successfully leveraged their existing solutions, adapting the Group of 6% 3% organic revenue growth overall.
best practice solutions from our more established regions.
The growth in customer demand for quality support Subscription revenues, representing the 61% of our confirms that customers want to improve their business revenues which are recurring in nature, grew by 10% performance through the innovative and well-designed and were less affected by market conditions in the UK products and services that Sage offers.
The continued growth in subscription revenues compensated for the more challenging market We are also seeing a growing trend for larger companies conditions we experienced in software and softwarein the SME sector to extend their businesses beyond their related services.
Combined software support contracts, home territories.
Our mid-market customers increasingly the largest component of subscription revenues, need solutions that are robust enough to cope with represented 39% of our total revenues and grew by 14% multiple government legislation, multiple currencies and over the year.
This demonstrates the resilience of our multiple languages, yet can offer rapid integration and business model, with our customers continuing to use local customisation.
Our international products such as our products and services to increase their operational CRM ACT!, SalesLogix, SageCRM, Sage ERP X3 and efficiency in difficult markets.
Software and softwareSage Accpac ERP broaden our portfolio of localised related services revenues grew by 2%, reflecting solutions and are growing well in our emerging markets, the market slowdown in North America and the UK, helping us expand into new territories.
We anticipate that beginning in the second half of the year.
the trends in the SME sector will increasingly facilitate the development of new products and services aimed at the Product and service strategy emerging international SME sector that will complement Innovation is at the heart of our strategy.
We continue our current portfolio of locally focused solutions.
With to adapt and evolve our products and services offering our long experience with SMEs, we understand these to meet the changing needs of our 5.8 million customers, emerging challenges and are developing solutions that with an increasing range of customer support contracts, meet the international demands of medium-sized as well as tiered subscription offerings tailored to the companies, yet still offer the flexibility and localisation varying requirements of our customer base.
Our integrated that is our competitive advantage.
product suites, launched last year, have been well received by our customers and business partners and are beginning to contribute to organic growth.
Software as a Service SaaS and hosted products such as Sage 50 Accounts Professional Online, SageCRM.
com, Sage Accpac ERP and Billing Boss continue to show strong demand, although they remain a modest contributor to Group revenues overall.
Subscription revenue Softwa S re and software-related services revenue 785.7m 509.3m 10% m 2% m 2008 785.7 2008 509.3 2007 714.3 2007 499.8 Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2007 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2008 of $1.97 1 andB1.31 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of intangible fixed assets EBITA.
Pre-tax profit stated prior to amortisation of intangible fixed assets.
08 Acquisition strategy extensive experience in healthcare industry management, Relative to previous years, this has been a quiet year joined in September 2008 as Chief Operating Officer for acquisitions.
We continue to evaluate a number of of Sage Healthcare Division.
Greg Hammermaster joined opportunities in both new and existing markets, although in November 2008, after the end of the financial year, as in many cases vendor price expectations have not as yet President of Sage Payment Solutions Division.
Greg has adjusted to current market conditions.
During the year, long-term experience of the payments industry.
The new we completed three principal acquisitions, for an enterprise executive management team is focusing on driving value of 51.2m.
KCS, a leading supplier of HR and operational improvements and earnings growth.
payroll services in the UK, was completed in October 2007 for an enterprise value of 20.2m.
Tekton, a supplier Environment of construction solutions for UK mid-market companies, We are aware of the current debate around climate was completed in March 2008 for an enterprise value of change, and our corporate policy is to minimise our 19.8m.
Eurowin, acquired in July 2008 for an enterprise carbon footprint where possible.
This year, our focus value of 11.2m, strengthened our market position at the has been on developing a globally consistent template entry-level in Spain.
These acquisitions were all strategic for measuring our carbon emissions and waste generation investments in broadening our product offering.
across our businesses in all our major locations as an initial step in our strategy to reduce our long-term impact on the We remain committed to our acquisition strategy of global environment.
We encourage our employees to think expanding our product and service offering to SMEs in and act in an environmentally positive manner to help us both new and existing territories.
As we expand the scope realise this strategy.
of our businesses worldwide, we are increasingly focused on leveraging our scale and exploiting global synergies Outlook between our businesses.
Our strong balance sheet and The strength and flexibility of our business model cash conversion put us in an advantageous position to has helped us achieve solid results in difficult market pursue opportunities when asset prices fall.
As markets weakened in the UK and North our acquisition methodology remains robust and highly America, we were rapidly able to adapt to the changing disciplined in determining valuation parameters.
markets and proactively refocus our businesses in these regions.
Our businesses in Mainland Europe Distribution strength and Rest of World recorded strong results through a Our distribution strength remains one of our key combination of favourable market conditions and good competitive advantages, with over 30,000 business commercial execution.
partners and 40,000 accountancy practices recommending and marketing Sage products worldwide.
We anticipate that the broader economic climate will The role of our business partners in promoting our remain uncertain for the near future.
However, our products and services and providing local expertise business model, together with consistently strong cash continues to evolve as customers demand increasing flows, robust balance sheet and high level of recurring levels of tailored products and specialised services.
Our revenue streams, provides a solid foundation for our business partners are a key component in building and operations.
Our large and geographically diverse maintaining on-going relationships with our customers.
customer base of over 5 million customers also provides many opportunities to meet future demand for business Customer base critical solutions designed to help SMEs run their Over the year, we added 341,000 new customers businesses more efficiently in difficult market conditions.
37,000 resulting from acquisitions made this year.
Whilst we are still early in our new financial year, growth New customers are an important component in our in subscription revenues has continued to offset weakness long-term growth strategy as customers tend to remain in software revenues.
Although we remain cautious in our loyal to their original software supplier as they grow, outlook, we expect demand for our customer support to purchasing upgrades and additional products and driving continue, which combined with tight cost control and our future organic revenue growth.
strong geographic market positions, will allow us to weather these turbulent times.
North America management team This has been a transitional year for our North American Paul Walker business and a period of organisational change.
In March Chief Executive 2008, we appointed Sue Swenson as President and CEO to lead our North American business.
She was joined in June 2008 by Marc Loup as Chief Financial Officer of North America.
Lindy Benton, who brings 09 Corporate strategy While we are locally focused in serving our customers, we work manage their businesses more efficiently.
Our products will be easy together as one organisation towards one future.
Our strategy sets to install, customise and maintain.
The services and support provided out a clear vision supported by a set of goals towards which all of by our people and our partners will help to take the complexity out of our operating companies around the world are working.
Our business model and the way in which we operate will make it easy to deal with Sage.
Our vision is to be the most admired and respected software provider in the world.
Our business will grow as we help our customers Objective Strategy Progress Be a key leader in all markets of Supply business management Leading market positions enhanced the world software and services that help in several key markets in all our our customers run their businesses major markets more efficiently Develop products and services which Maintain high levels of quality Contract renewal rates maintained are the most compelling fit with a service support that feed back into at 81% customers country and industry the product and services development cycle Have the most trusted brands Invest in a strong brand identity Global brand development project consistent with our corporate values to identify and apply Sages core corporate values across our businesses Have the most satisfied and active Focus on product innovation Migration revenue increased by 9% customers in our industry Focus on value-added services Combined software support contract Fulfilment of the changing needs revenue increased by 14% of our customers New integrated product suites well received Experience superior organic revenue Anticipate market developments and Subscription revenue grew growth versus our peer group develop products and services to by 10% driven by combined meet changing customer needs software support contracts Be recognised as one of the most Build organisational leadership Continued investment in talent admired employers to drive business performance management, succession planning, people development and HR processes
