Statements of  Independent auditors report to the members of Salamander Energy PLC The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the We have audited the Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements the Financial Statements Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of Salamander Energy PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the statement of accounting policies and general information, the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are Statements of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRSs as adopted by Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the respective related notes 1 to 28 and 1 to 10.
These Financial the European Union and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also required by law to be properly information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the IAS 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the and understandable information: and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be financial position and financial performance.
audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable UK and Ireland.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and to enable them to ensure that the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, other irregularities.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information Directors Report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
The information given in the Directors Report included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and includes that specific information presented in the Financial Review and the Operational Review that is cross dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have Directors responsibility statement not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law We confirm to the best of our knowledge: regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
1 The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine adopted by the EU give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate 2 The business review, which is incorporated into the directors report, includes a fair review of the governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and uncertainties they face.
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
40 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 41 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Salamander Energy PLC continued Financial statement of Salamander Energy PLC Group Basis of audit opinion Statement of accounting policies and general information We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the General information on the Company and the Group Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Salamander Energy PLC the Company is a company incorporated in England and Wales on 13 September 2006 disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also under the Companies Act 1985, which serves as a holding company for the Group.
The address of the registered includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of office is 5th Floor, 21 Palmer Street, London SW1H 0AD.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys activities are as an independent oil and gas exploration, development and production company focused on circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
building a portfolio of assets in Southeast Asia.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered Financial information necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial The financial information is presented in US Dollars.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with policies Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, set out on page 65. whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall At the date of authorisation of this financial information, the following Standards and Interpretations which have adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors not been applied in this financial information were in issue but are not yet effective: Remuneration Report to be audited.
IFRS 1 amended Opinion IAS 27 amended Cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate In our opinion: IFRS 2 amended Share-based payment vesting conditions and cancellations the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the IFRS 3 revised 2008 Business combinations European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended: IAS 23 revised 2007 Borrowing costs the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted IAS 27 revised 2008 Consolidated and separate financial statements by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been IFRIC 15 Agreements for the construction of real estate properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and IFRIC 16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
The Directors anticipate the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will not have a material impact on the financial position of the Group.
The impact of IFRS 8 Operating Segments and IAS23 Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors revised 2007 Borrowing Costs have not yet been assessed.
London Accounting policies and presentation of financial information 24 March 2009 a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU, IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as set out in the Directors Report on page 31.
The separate financial statements of the Parent Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by the Act, the separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis.
The principal accounting policies are the same as those set out in the Accounting Policies in this section.
As a consolidated income statement is included, a separate income statement for the Parent Company has not been included in accordance with section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985.
The profit for the year for the Parent Company is disclosed in note 8 to the Company financial statements.
42 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008 43 Financial statements Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2008
