qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 58 Directors Report Annual Review and Accounts Substantial shareholdings The Directors have pleasure in presenting As at 26 February 2009 the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure the Annual Review and Accounts of the Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of the following holdings Group for the year ended 31 December of voting rights in its shares: No.
Comparative figures used in this millions % held report are for the year ended 31 Baillie Gifford & Co 29.0 5.96 December 2007.
Newton Investment Management Limited 28.9 5.93 Fidelity International Limited 23.9 4.93 Activities HBOS plc 20.5 4.22 Serco Group plc is a holding company Legal & General Group plc 19.5 4.00 which operates via its subsidiaries and its AEGON UK plc Group of Companies 18.3 3.78 joint ventures to improve services by managing people, processes, technology The Directors are unaware of any restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company or and assets more effectively.
There are also no known agreements between holders of the Companys supports governments, agencies and securities which may result in such restrictions.
companies by offering operational, management and consulting expertise in Directors the aviation, defence, education, health, The current members of the Board together with biographical details of each Director are home affairs, local government, nuclear, set out on pages 60 and 61.
Grant Rumbles ceased being a Director with effect from 25 science, technology, transport and March 2008 and subsequently left Serco employment on 16 May 2008. commercial sectors.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 10 Directors interests and 11 and the Business Review on pages With the exception of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-Executive 12 to 48 report on the activities during the Directors letters of appointment, there are no contracts in which any Director has an year, post balance sheet events and likely interest.
The information in Certain change in control conditions are included in the service contracts of Directors these reports which is required to fulfil the which provide compensation or reduction of notice periods in the event of a change in requirements of the Business Review is control of the Company.
incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options over the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 75.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of Annual General Meeting the Company, together with the details of The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II shares issued during the year is shown in Conference Centre, London on 12 May 2009 at 11.00am.
note 30 to the Financial Statements.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes is sent to The powers of the Directors to issue or shareholders with this Review.
buy back shares is restricted to that approved at the Companys Annual Financial risk policies General Meeting.
A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is on pages 112 to 115.
Dividends An interim dividend of 1.48p 2007 Employment policies 1.213p per ordinary share was paid on 17 The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually October 2008.
The Directors recommend valued and recognised.
Group companies and divisions operate within a framework of a final dividend of 3.52p 2007 3.02p human resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their own market per ordinary share which, if approved by sector and country of operation.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 20 May 2009 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 March 2009.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 59 The Group is committed to ensuring equal system and is supported by defined PAC, and the Company does not therefore opportunity, honouring the rights of the policies in all of the areas it covers.
These consider these to be political donations.
individual and fostering partnership and are applied within the context of our Employee contributions are entirely trust in every working relationship.
Policies policies on Ethics and Business Conduct voluntary and no pressure is placed on and procedures for recruitment, training and Human Rights.
Activities are reported employees to participate.
Under US law, and career development promote equality quarterly as part of our internal assurance an employee-funded PAC must bear the of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual reporting process.
name of the employing company.
orientation, age, marital status, disability, Further information on our approach to race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or Financial Statements corporate responsibility and how we have national origin.
At the date of this Report, as far as each delivered our commitments is contained in Director is aware, there is no relevant audit The Group gives full consideration to the Corporate Responsibility Review which information of which the Groups auditors applications for employment, career is available online at www.
Each Director has taken all development and promotion, received site also provides an overview of our the steps that he she ought to have taken from the disabled and offers employment approach to corporate responsibility, our as a Director in order to make himself when suitable opportunities arise.
If management system and our policies.
herself aware of any relevant audit employees become disabled during their information and to establish that the service with the Group, wherever Creditor payment policies Groups auditors are aware of that practicable, arrangements are made to The Group requires each of its business information.
continue their employment and training.
units to negotiate and agree terms and conditions for payment for the supply of The Group remains proud of its record of Auditors capital and revenue items just as keenly as managing employee relations and Deloitte LLP have expressed their they negotiate prices and other continues to believe that the structure of willingness to continue in office as auditors commercial matters.
individual and collective consultation and and a resolution to reappoint them will be negotiation are best developed at a local Suppliers are made aware of the terms proposed at the forthcoming Annual level.
and the way in which disputes are to be General Meeting.
Payment is then made in Over the years, the Group has Approved by the Board of Directors and accordance with those terms.
demonstrated that working with trade signed on its behalf by: unions and creating effective partnerships The Groups average creditor payment allows improvements to be delivered in terms in 2008 were 28 days 2007: 24 business performance as well as terms days.
Where employees choose not to belong to a Donations trade union, employee communication The Group continues to encourage all staff Joanne Roberts forums such as works councils exist to to participate in their local communities Secretary ensure involvement of staff within the and has a process to capture investment 26 February 2009 business.
This measure is Participation by staff in the success of the based upon the Business in the As at 9 March 2009, the Company had Group is encouraged by the availability of Community BitC reporting format.
been informed that the notifiable interests Sharesave Schemes, and a Share Option of Legal & General Group plc were 3.96%: The value of this investment in 2008 at Scheme and Long Term Incentive Plan for there were no other changes or additions 1,767,168 2007: 1,066,527 represents senior management, which effectively align to these notifiable interests.
1.3% of the Groups pre-tax profit.
their interests with those of shareholders During the year neither the Company nor by requiring that performance criteria are the Group made political donations and achieved prior to exercise.
they intend to continue with this policy.
The US businesses which joined the Group in Corporate responsibility 2008 as part of the acquisition of SI The Group maintains a focus on corporate International have a Political Action responsibility through a structure model Committee PAC which is funded entirely that is applied across the business.
Our by employees and their spouses.
No funds corporate responsibility model focuses on are provided to the PAC by Serco, nor will our people, safety, the environment and they be, and any administrative services the communities we serve.
This model provided to the PAC by the US business forms an integral part of our management are fully charged to and paid for by the Serco Group plc 59
