qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 60 Directors profiles From left to right: David Richardson Non-Executive Director Tom Corcoran Non-Executive Director Christopher Hyman Chief Executive Margaret, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Non-Executive Director Kevin Beeston Chairman Leonard V. Broese van Groenou Non-Executive Director Andrew Jenner Finance Director Joanne Roberts Company Secretary Kevin Beeston FCMA 46 Christopher Hyman CA SA 3 Chairman 45 Kevin Beeston became Non-Executive Chief Executive Chairman of Serco Group plc in Christopher Hyman was appointed Chief September 2007, having previously served Executive of Serco Group plc in 2002.
He as the Group's Executive Chairman, Chief is also chairman of the Prince of Wales' Executive and Finance Director since charity In Kind Direct, and a non-executive joining the Group in 1985. director for Habitat for Humanity and Africa Foundation.
Earlier this year Christopher He is a member of the CBI President's was appointed National Ambassador by Committee and Chairman of the CBI's the Prince of Wales for Business in the Public Services Strategy Board, which Community.
He is also a member of the promotes the role business has in UK Government's Honours Advisory transforming the UK's public services.
Committee for Economy and UK In addition, he is the non-executive Commission for Employment and Skills.
Chairman of Partnerships in Care, Infinitas Christopher graduated from Natal Learning BV and Domestic and General University in Durban, South Africa and Ltd, and is a non-executive director of qualified as a chartered accountant, IMI plc.
serving with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the European Finance Director.
He was appointed Group Company Secretary in 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and Group Finance Director in April 1999.
He is responsible for setting the vision and strategy of the Group.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 19 03 2009 16:32 Page 61 Andrew Jenner ACA 40 Leonard V. Broese van David Richardson BSc FCA Finance Director Groenou MSc 62 57 Andrew joined Serco in 1996 as Group 1 2 3 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Financial Controller, having previously Leonard joined Serco as a Non-Executive David joined Serco as a Non-Executive worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche Director in April 2006.
He became Corporate Finance Leonard was previously Vice-President He has previously held the position of Director with additional responsibility for Human Resources and a member of the Finance Director of Whitbread, where his treasury activities in 1999 and Group corporate executive committee of roles in a 20-year career have included Finance Director in May 2002.
Andrew Pennsylvania-based Air Products, a New eight years as Strategy Director.
David shares responsibility for our relationship York listed company serving customers in was instrumental in transforming with shareholders and the City with the technology, energy, healthcare and Whitbread from a brewing and pubs Chief Executive.
He is also responsible for industrial markets worldwide where he company into a market leader in hotels, the Group's PFI investment business.
His career at restaurants and leisure clubs.
Andrew is a non-executive director of Air Products spans numerous international David is currently a non-executive director GallifordTry plc.
roles including financial control, business of Dairy Crest Group plc, Forth Ports PLC planning, operational management and and Tomkins plc.
He is the Chairman of the Netherlands Benevolent Society.
Tom Corcoran BA PhD 64 Baroness Ford of 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director Cunninghame MA MPhil 51 Tom joined Serco in December 2007 as a 1 2 3 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director.
He brings 40 Margaret joined Serco in October 2003 as years of global business experience, a Non-Executive Director.
She spent her particularly in the US aerospace and early career in a variety of roles either in the defence contracting industry.
He is public sector or as an advisor to currently Senior Advisor to private equity Government and is a specialist in firm The Carlyle Group and President of leadership development, culture change Corcoran Enterprises, LLC, a management and public sector reform.
2000 she was Chairman of Lothian Health Board and from 2000 to 2003 was a nonTom has held senior positions in the executive director of Ofgem.
In December aerospace, defence and electronics 2007 Margaret retired from English industries including Chairman and Chief Partnerships, the national regeneration Executive Officer of Allegheny Teledyne agency, after six highly successful years.
and President and Chief Operating Officer From 2000 to 2005 Margaret was a of Lockheed Martins Electronic and Space director of Good Practice Limited, the Sectors.
During his 26 years with General publishing company that she founded.
Electric, Tom held senior management positions including Vice President and Margaret is Managing Director, Social General Manager of GE's Aerospace Infrastructure and Development, Royal operations.
Bank of Canada Capital Markets and Chairman of Irvine Bay Urban He is also a non-executive director of Regeneration Company.
She is also a Aer Lingus Ltd, L3 Communications non-executive director of Grainger plc.
Holdings Inc, Labarge Inc, ARINC Inc. and GenCorp Inc. 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee Serco Group plc 61
