qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 4 Civil Government Our business Revenue 1,127m 2007: 952m We organise our business around market expertise in a variety of sectors: Civil Government, Defence, Transport and Science.
Our work in Civil Government includes home Revenue by market 2008 affairs, information and communications technology ICT, business process outsourcing Civil Government 36% BPO, education and childrens services, health, 2007 integrated facilities management and consulting.
Science 17% 17% We manage prisons in the UK, Australia and Germany, 34% electronically monitor offenders, develop systems for law enforcement agencies, controlling immigration and 3,124m 2,811m improving civil resilience.
23% We run all education services in two local authority areas and all childrens services in one area, providing services 26% for over 500 schools and around 20,000 children.
Our expanding health business provides clinical Transport 22% Defence 25% services to over two million people in a range of primary and community settings and occupational health services for private companies, local authorities Revenue by geography 2008 and not-for-profit organisations.
We use our ICT skills and BPO knowledge to deliver Europe & Middle East 7% better, faster and cheaper solutions to local North America 12% government, schools and blue chip private sector customers.
In North America, the acquisition of Asia Pacific 6% 2007 SI International has added new records management and IT capabilities which we provide to a number of civil 6% government agencies.
During the year, we also 11% acquired InfoVision now Serco BPO, the largest independent BPO business in the Indian market.
8% 3,124m 2,811m Our integrated facilities management business provides environmental, streetscene and other direct services to councils, and also works with hospitals and private sector customers.
Our consulting capability 75% United Kingdom 75% raises awareness of Serco and enhances our reputation with potential and existing customers by providing high-value advisory services.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 5 Defence Transport Science Revenue Revenue Revenue 786m 671m 540m 2007: 721m 2007: 655m 2007: 483m Serco is a leader in the provision of Serco is a major provider of transport Serco is a leader in managing both support services to the armed forces of services.
With our partner, NedRailways, science-based organisations and the the UK, US, Germany and Australia.
we run Merseyrail one of the UKs best process of developing, transferring and performing franchises and Northern applying knowledge.
In the UK, we provide training, engineering Rail, which is the UKs largest network.
and operational support to the Royal Air We manage the National Physical Force and the flight arms of the British In Australia, Serco owns and operates Laboratory NPL, which is one of the Army and Royal Navy.
We put the Royal Great Southern Rail, including The Ghan worlds major scientific establishments.
Navy to sea at its three main UK bases, and Indian Pacific trans-continental It is our responsibility to maximise the operate and maintain strategic defence services.
positive impact of NPLs mission in assets such as secure satellite measurement standards and science, We have substantial experience communications and the Defence for business and government.
of operating light rail systems, including the Academy of the United Kingdom, and award-winning Docklands Light Railway in We have an integral role in the UK defence provide systems engineering, safety London.
During 2008, we signed the and civil nuclear industries.
Since 2000, assurance and risk management services.
contract to operate and maintain the Serco, as a joint venture partner in AWE In North America, following the acquisition Dubai Metro system which will commence Management Limited, has been entrusted of SI International during the year, our skills operation in September 2009. with the management of the UK Atomic now encompass information technology, Weapons Establishment, which is Serco is also a UK market leader in traffic professional services, human capital responsible for providing the warheads for management systems, including the management, engineering and logistics, the UKs nuclear deterrent.
In addition we National Traffic Control Centre for England, national security, and intelligence, and have provided independent specialist which helps motorists to plan their journeys we serve every branch of the military.
nuclear safety advice to the Royal Navy in and make best use of the road network.
support of its nuclear submarine fleet for We provide training, logistics and In air, we are one of the worlds largest nearly half a century.
operational support services to the private sector providers of air traffic control We also offer specialist technical support Australian Department of Defence, with services, with operations in the UK, Middle to the UKs civil nuclear industry, providing a presence on every defence base in East and the US.
safety, environmental, risk and asset Australia, and to the German Bundeswehr, management advice and operational including our work at one of Europes solutions across the UKs civil nuclear sites.
most advanced combat training centres.
