qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 6 Our vision is to be the leading Sercos vision and strategy service company in our chosen markets.
Our strategy for achieving this vision has four elements: Build a balanced portfolio Maintain high rebid and new win rates We aim to reduce risk and increase opportunity by building a We maintain high win rates through building long-term customer balanced contract portfolio, spread across markets.
This reduces relationships and by meeting and often exceeding customer our exposure to market fluctuations, enables us to select the best expectations.
This, along with our reputation with existing opportunities whichever market they are in, and allows us to customers, helps us to expand the scope and scale of contracts transfer expertise from one market to another.
during their life, retain contracts at rebid, and win new contracts.
Our key achievements in 2008: Most Admired Support Services Education in Walsall Light Rail in the Middle East Company for the fifth year running Serco continued to strengthen and broaden its portfolio.
We Our win rate on rebids for existing contracts in 2008 was 90%, won 3.2bn of contracts, increasing our presence in existing and we won one in two new bids, reflecting our ability to select markets, both through new contract wins and expanding the only those opportunities where we can differentiate ourselves.
scope and scale of existing contracts, and developing new We received numerous awards for the quality of our service in our markets, such as local authority strategic partnerships and businesses, which are mentioned throughout this report.
We won light rail in the Middle East.
Management Todays award for the Most Admired Support Services Company for the fifth year running.
The outcomes of our strategy Reducing our exposure to market fluctuations Each of the four elements of our strategy contributes to Our balanced portfolio and our high rebid and new contract win one or more of the following outcomes: rates give high visibility of future revenue and protect against fluctuations in any one of our markets.
Innovation enhances our competitiveness and allows us to enter new markets and find new ways of delivering services to customers.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 21 3 09 10:30 Page 7 Leading means that we want to be Our chosen markets are those the best partner to work with, the which promise strong revenue growth, company people aspire to work for, attractive margins and the ability to and the company which delivers offer good working conditions for superior returns to shareholders.
Make strategic acquisitions Develop new models While we are primarily focused on organic growth, We respond to emerging opportunities by finding new ways to we make acquisitions to acquire new skills which will be important deliver services.
This may mean collaboration between our for future growth and to enter new markets where we see strong divisions, bringing together skills and experience which few other opportunities.
Or it may mean partnering with our customer or the voluntary sector.
Our ability to lead change keeps us at the forefront of our markets.
SI International Serco BPO Glasgow City Council Guys and St Thomas pathology We took a significant step in our international development by We signed a pioneering joint venture with Glasgow City Council for acquiring SI International, a provider of information services, a range of innovative ICT and property services.
technology, and network solutions in the substantial US federal We developed a new partnership structure with the Guys and St government services market.
Thomas NHS Foundation Trust to improve its pathology services The acquisition of InfoVision now Serco BPO established Serco and target the significant pathology market.
in the fast-growing Indian market.
We also acquired the UKs Serco signed two environmental services contracts with an leading independent occupational health service company, the innovative approach to waste and recycling collection.
Our marine services and transport businesses partnered to win a contract to operate the Woolwich Ferry service.
Strengthening our position in our chosen markets Developing new skills and capabilities for the future We focus our resources on those markets where we see We constantly invest in our skills and capabilities to strengthen our the best prospects, and innovate to satisfy our customers market position.
We acquire to enhance our capabilities and to needs.
We supplement our organic growth with carefully allow us to enter new markets which helps us secure opportunities selected acquisitions to expand our footprint.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 8 Market opportunities Our customers, principally national and local governments, are increasingly under pressure to reduce budgets and to maximise the effectiveness of their available resources given the current challenging economic environment.
At the same time, they continue to face The role of the private sector in delivering rising demand from their citizens to efficiencies was further confirmed in the improve the delivery of existing public UK Governments Operational Efficiency services, and growing challenges in Review, announced in July 2008, and due areas such as climate change, to report this year.
The Review identifies five migration, security, economic work streams, including collaborative development, ageing populations procurement, back office and IT functions, and congestion.
asset management, property and local initiatives and empowerment, and is These pressures are increasing demand seeking to draw on the best of public and from our customers to reduce the costs of private sector experience to deliver billions public services and address these broader of pounds of savings across these areas.
We are well positioned to help The further development of Competitive them, given our strong capabilities across Neutrality, as set out in the UKs Budget in a broad range of markets, our proven track 2008, should also increasingly mean that record in delivering people-led change and there will be equality between the public excellent service, and our ability to create sector and private sector or voluntary innovative solutions.
agencies when bidding for contracts.
Above: Caring for prisoners at Acacia Prison.
The strong opportunities for the private Looking at prospects across the business, sector in delivering better value for money we continue to see strong opportunities in services, both in the UK and overseas, home affairs.
Rising prison populations are were confirmed in the independent review increasing the demand for prison places of the public services industry conducted and innovative approaches to offender for the UK Government by Dr DeAnne management, providing Serco with Julius.
The review, which was published in opportunities to expand its work in the July 2008, concluded that the UK has the sector in the UK and Australia.
At the same most developed public services industry in time, border security issues have increased the world, valued at 79bn, and saw strong the pressure on places at immigration potential for this to grow further in the UK control centres, and the demand for and for these skills to be exported into proven, consistent approaches to new markets.
managing these facilities, and associated services such as escorting.
"qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 3 09 19:09 Page 9 Above: The joint venture between Serco and Guys and Above: Serco delivers and operates the National Traffic Above: Providing ""surface finishing"" services at St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust will enhance the Control Centre NTCC, delivering real time traffic RAF Cranwell Trusts pathology capabilities."
In the US, the incoming administrations Local authorities in the UK face a range We recognise the financial and operational focus on countering cybersecurity threats, of challenges in balancing the requirement pressures affecting our defence customers, improving information sharing among to achieve a 3% annual efficiency gain and are using our expertise to help them agencies, modernising healthcare as required by the 2007 Comprehensive achieve more within existing resource management, and increasing the need Spending Review with the demand for levels.
In the UK, we remain in constant for logistics services with the anticipated more responsive public services and their dialogue at senior levels as to how we drawdown of combat troops and the key role in enabling the delivery of national can contribute to through-life capability lengthening life expectancies of existing policy such as the Every Child Matters management, and continue to innovate to military platforms provide growing areas of agenda.
Serco has pioneered an innovative help our customers at a local level.
In the opportunity for the expanded capabilities approach to service transformation in our US, we now serve every branch of the of our North American business.
partnership with Glasgow City Council, military and see strong opportunities to and we see good opportunities to provide grow in key areas such as personnel Ageing populations are adding significantly similar services to other local authorities.
support services, procurement, engineering to the pressures on health services and We also see a strong pipeline in providing and logistics, and program management.
increasing the need to use existing our environmental services to local We also see opportunities to deploy our resources efficiently.
skills in other selected markets overseas.
partnership between Serco and Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust Traffic congestion is a growing threat to We have also identified good growth establishes a new, replicable model to economic growth, public health and the opportunities in the Indian market where target the significant national pathology wider environment in most regions of the we launched Serco BPO following the market, which is valued at 2.5bn and world.
Responsive, dependable traffic acquisition in December of InfoVisions BPO is growing at 8% to 10% annually, with management and reliable, cost-effective capabilities.
Rising incomes are creating an international opportunities.
Similarly, the public transport systems both play vital increasing demand from consumers for acquisition of Grosvenor has given us new roles in the solution.
We see further services and consequently a growing use of opportunities in the fast-growing market opportunities to grow our presence in third parties to deliver them.
The for occupational health services for public, light rail, both in Dubai as the new Metro outsourced domestic BPO services market private and not-for-profit organisations.
network expands, and in other countries, is expected to grow in value to around including the UK and continental Europe.
US$1.8bn over the next five years and The economic downturn is increasing Sercos expertise in traffic management there is early evidence that there will be the focus on developing new solutions is also in growing demand as the UK demand for process outsourcing within the to increase employment by encouraging Highways Agency increases its investment Indian public services market.
entrepreneurialism and supporting people in this area, and as other countries look to in returning to work.
We see further import the expertise in integrating systems opportunities to support small and mediumand data to maximise efficiency of the road sized enterprises through initiatives such as network developed in the UK.
Business Link and our work with the UKs regional development agencies, and expect new opportunities under the Governments Flexible New Deal initiative following the publication of the Green Paper on welfare reform in July 2008.
