24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 18 Performance review Water Technologies and Services branded as Severn Trent Services Performance 2008 2007 m m Turnover 297.3 288.9 Profit 20.7 19.7 Len Graziano before interest, tax and exceptional items President and Turnover in Water Technologies and Chief Executive Officer Services was 297.3 million in 2007 08, Severn Trent Services up 2.9% on 2006 07.
Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items was Leading the way in water and waste water treatment solutions 20.7 million, up 5.1%.
around the world Our Water Technologies and Services business is one of the worlds 2008 2007 leading suppliers of water and waste water treatment solutions.
We m m operate at the forefront of new water technology, are known around the Turnover 297.3 288.9 world for our quality, reliability and stability and enjoy a strong position Changes in group 0.1 4.8 in our chosen markets.
297.2 284.1 The business has three main divisions: Water Purification, Operating Exchange rate impact 7.6 Services and Analytical Services.
Water Purification is a leader in developing advanced technologies and products focused on 297.2 276.5 disinfection, filtration, arsenic removal, ballast water treatment and Growth 7.5% metering.
Operating Services is a leader in running and maintaining water and waste water treatment plants around the world and Analytical Services is a leader in UK environmental water testing services.
Lost days per 100,000 hours worked Another year of encouraging progress Throughout 2007 08 we remained focused on water and made 2007 08 14.77 excellent progress in all three divisions.
We achieved top line and bottom line growth and maintained a good return on invested capital.
2006 07 25.26 The global market for water and waste water is substantial and is growing at around 5-6% pa.
Within this diversified market, we focus on the higher growth and higher margin market segments and geographies Lost time injury rates where our particular products and services meet a significant need.
per 100,000 hours worked In the financial year we have focused on organic growth and have concentrated on building our international presence.
Our strategy has been to expand our existing technologies into new geographical markets 2007 08 0.44 and take new technologies into existing markets.
To support this strategy, we have been developing our international sales and 2006 07 0.47 distribution network beyond our primary markets of the US, UK and Italy to establish a growing footprint in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
excluding road traffic accidents In 2007 for example, we opened a new branch in Abu Dhabi.
We continue to improve cost control and efficiency and to look for ways to maximise synergies throughout the business.
Water Purification Our Water Purification division performed well, with turnover rising by 9.4%, excluding the impact of exchange rates, to 112 million.
We concentrate on advanced water and waste water treatment technologies and maintain continuous levels of innovation in order to keep winning.
To this end for example, we invested in the acquisition of Quay Technologies, whose patented ultraviolet UV technology significantly improves bulb life and results in lower overall operating costs compared with traditional UV.
We are developing this technology and taking it to market under the Micro Dynamics brand name.
We received a patent in the US for our system and method of ballast water treatment within ocean going vessels BalPure.
18 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 19 Our electrochlorination product line had a particularly good year.
of analysis, capacity, health and safety and environmental management We are pioneering alternatives to chlorine gas and lead the industry in every aspect of our service.
As a result we expect to deliver improved using seawater or brine to generate chlorine on site.
We introduced two quality of data and cost savings to our clients.
new product lines for sodium hypochlorite: ClorTec MCT, a mediumDuring the financial year we won sampling and analytical services sized unit, and the ClorTec SCT, a smaller portable unit for the contracts with both C2C and Brey Utilities to support their 25 year European market.
contracts to serve UK MoD sites throughout the country.
We also gained We also launched a new energy efficient SmartMeter range with preferred laboratory status with Viridor Waste Management for the next a battery life of up to 20 years in some products, giving significant three years.
Using the SmartMeter, we have developed Committed to responsible business a new package to help water companies identify and quantify supply We have maintained our focus on improving health and safety in all pipe leakage.
In 2007 08, we targeted reducing the number of Notable contract wins included an electrochlorination contract in France lost time incidents and also the number of lost days.
We succeeded in and phase two of our project with the Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity reducing the number of lost time incidents per 100,000 hours worked Authority to install 46 onsite hypochlorite generation systems.
by 7% and the number of lost days per 100,000 hours worked by 42% year on year.
In Australia, we supplied our denitrification filters for the Bundamba Advanced Water Treatment project.
Three of our UK businesses achieved Occupational Health and Safety OHSAS 18001 accreditation in the financial year.
In Jiaxing, China, we trialled our TETRA SAF denitrification filtration technology to purify polluted water from the local river.
We also targeted a 3% reduction in vehicle emissions for the year.
It proved both effective and cost effective so we installed a full scale We achieved approximately an 8% reduction across Operating Services unit.
The project was highly commended in the 2007 Global Water in the US and Water Purification in the UK: the reductions accounted for Intelligence Awards.
by core fleet replacement, general driver awareness programmes, and fleet reduction as a result of restructuring.
In fact, Water Purification UK We also secured a project to design, build and install a membrane reduced emissions by approximately 30% compared with the previous filtration desalination plant in a large development for La Paz, Baja fiscal year.
This community has committed to becoming completely solar powered our plant included.
Reducing energy consumption is another priority.
In the US, we are looking to reduce electricity costs per one million gallons of water Operating Services produced.
To this end, we are producing Site Energy Management Plans Turnover at our Operating Services division increased 5.0%, excluding for our larger plants.
In one of our plants in Oklahoma for example, the impact of exchange rates.
we have achieved a 5% reduction in electricity costs.
We had a particularly good year in the UK, Italy and the US.
On UN World Water Day, 22 March 2008, three of our UK businesses In the US, we continue to stay at the forefront, growing our business supported the Give an hour campaign, where you give an hour of your organically in line with US market growth.
We have improved our cost salary to WaterAid.
base by consolidating our operations into bigger regions and by Looking ahead rationalising a number of smaller contracts.
The market for all three divisions remains strong.
Key drivers such as We are operating the treatment plant at a second closed landfill site for water scarcity, water quality, security concerns and rising energy costs New York City.
We also won a contract to operate a 15 million gallons will continue to create opportunities for us to grow by meeting the per day waste water treatment plant for Bristol Tennessee and Bristol increasing needs of our clients for advanced water and waste water Virginia, which is set to reduce operating costs by approximately 20% treatment solutions.
In Pritchard Alabama, we won a contract to run two waste Going forward, we are working to an accelerated and more water treatment facilities our first win in that state.
focused growth strategy building on our brand recognition and Our UK Coast to Coast Water C2C joint venture has been invited by reputation, our strong market positions, our international scale the UK Defence Secretarys office to be in this years Parliamentary and our advanced technologies.
C2C serves some 1,500 UK Ministry of Defence MoD sites Over the coming years we will focus on four key strategic initiatives.
in a 25 year 1 billion Private Finance Initiative contract that began First, we aim to continue the geographic expansion of our products and in 2005.
We are proud to be one of six featured companies in the services.
Second, we aim to expand the scope of our operating services Defence Section.
in both our home countries and other international markets.
Third, we Analytical Services aim to focus on product and operational enhancements to improve our Both turnover and profits before interest and tax at Analytical Services effectiveness and efficiency.
And fourth, continue to develop new exceeded our expectations.
Anticipated reductions resulting from technologies that are at the forefront of water and waste water solutions.
planned changes in the scope of contracts with two major utilities were In line with this strategy, we have established a central product offset by strong growth in our commercial business.
Turnover for the development group to help us focus very accurately on how best to year was down 1%.
improve existing technologies and develop new technologies and Towards the end of 2007, our laboratory in Coventry became one of the solutions that are really valued and welcomed by our clients around first automated potable water microbiology labs in the UK.
automated system enables us to improve traceability of samples, quality Severn Trent 19
