24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 28 Directors report The directors present their report, together with the audited financial Capital structure statements of the group for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the companys issued share capital during the Principal activity year are shown in note 31 to the financial statements on page 88.
The The principal activity of the group is the supply of water and the company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to treatment and disposal of sewage.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general Details of the principal joint venture, associated and subsidiary meetings of the company.
The percentage of the issued nominal value of undertakings of the group at 31 March 2008 appear in notes 20, 21 the ordinary shares is 100% of the total issued nominal value of all and 42 to the financial statements on pages 72 and 95. share capital.
Business review There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the report transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions and performance reviews for the groups main businesses on pages 4 of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
The directors to 19 provide detailed information relating to the group and its strategy, are not aware of any agreements between holders of the companys the operation of its businesses and the results and financial position shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or for the year ended 31 March 2008. on voting rights.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are set Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 35 to the out in the corporate governance report on pages 36 to 37. financial statements on page 90.
Shares held by the Severn Trent Employee Share Ownership Trust abstain from voting.
All of the above are incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
No person has any special rights of control over the companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development, including amounts With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the capitalised as tangible fixed assets related to research and development, company is governed by its articles of association, the Combined Code, amounted to 4.9 million 2007: 4.2 million.
the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Treasury management directors are described in the Matters Reserved to the Board, the The disclosures required under the EU Fair Value Directive in relation to articles and the corporate governance report on page 32. the use of financial instruments by the company are set out in note 22 to the accounts on pages 73 to 81.
Under its articles of association, the directors have authority to issue up to 111,298,079 ordinary shares, subject to the aggregate nominal Post balance sheet events amount limit set at the 2007 AGM.
Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 40 to the group financial statements.
There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or terminate, upon a change of control of the company, such as commercial Dividends contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and An interim dividend of 24.34p per ordinary share was paid on employees share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant 16 January 2008.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 41.29p in terms of their likely impact on the business of the group as a whole.
per ordinary share to be paid on 1 August 2008 to shareholders on Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the register on 20 June 2008.
This would bring the total dividend the company and its directors or employees that provide for for 2007 08 to 65.63p per ordinary share 2007: 61.45p excluding compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because the special dividend paid on 20 October 2006.
The payment of of a takeover bid.
the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors and their interests Details of changes to the board during the year and of the directors offering themselves for reappointment at the AGM are set out on page 32.
Details of directors service agreements are set out in the directors remuneration report on page 42.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the company are shown on pages 46 and 47.
Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board are set out on pages 26 and 27.
28 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 29 precautionary measure to allow the company to continue supporting Directors indemnities the community and such organisations without inadvertently breaching The companys articles of association provide that directors of the the legislation.
company shall be indemnified by the company against any costs incurred by them in carrying out their duties including defending any At the 2006 AGM, shareholders gave the company authorities to make proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as political donations or to incur political expenditure in the EU which directors in which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their would not ordinarily be regarded as political donations up to an favour or relief from any liability is granted to them by the court.
aggregate annual limit of 50,000 each for the company and its subsidiary Severn Trent Water Ltd.
The authorities will expire at the Supplier payment policy 2009 AGM.
Pursuant to those authorities, during the year ended Individual operating companies within the group are responsible for 31 March 2008 the group incurred costs of nil 2007: nil.
establishing appropriate policies with regard to the payment of their suppliers.
The companies agree terms and conditions under which Substantial shareholdings business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
It is group policy As at 2 June 2008 the company had been notified in accordance with that provided a supplier is complying with the relevant terms and chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of all major shareholdings: specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance with Name of holder Percentage agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers know of voting No.
of the terms on which payment will take place when business is agreed.
rights and ordinary issued shares Details of supplier payment policies can be obtained from the individual 17 share of 97 19p Nature of companies at the addresses shown in note 42 to the financial capital each holding statements on page 95.
Trade creditors for the group at the year Pictet Asset Management SA 7.601% 17,718,717 Indirect end are estimated as representing 35.4 days purchases AMVESCAP Plc 5.200% 12,140,054 Indirect 2007: 45.2 days purchases.
Legal & General Group Plc 5.010% 11,769,005 Direct Contributions for political and charitable purposes Barclays Plc 3.610% 8,412,304 Indirect Donations to charitable organisations during the year amounted to Newton Investment Management Ltd 3.050% 7,161,850 Indirect 412,471 2007: 277,476.
The group focuses on the development of long term partnerships with charities close to its major sites which Authority to purchase shares reflect the three core aims of promoting the natural environment, The company was given authority at its AGM in 2007 to make market education and building communities.
The group is also committed to purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 23,432,281 supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major charity dedicated to providing shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from shareholders at this safe domestic water and sanitation to the worlds poorest people.
No market purchases were made by the company during In addition, in response to the floods of July 2007 Severn Trent Water the year ended 31 March 2008. established a 3.5 million recovery fund for Gloucestershire.
Of the Employees 1.6 million paid during the financial year, approximately 1.1 million The average number of employees within the group is shown in was paid to charitable organisations in the Gloucestershire area.
note 9 to the financial statements on page 64.
The remainder of the total donation to the Flood Relief Fund was paid through Gloucestershire local authorities and Gloucestershire Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor First a partnership between public sector bodies and local businesses in being a successful business.
Apart from ensuring an individual has to support other recovery projects.
A further 1.9 million, as agreed the ability to do the job we do not discriminate in any way and make by the Severn Trent Water board, is due to be paid in the 2008 09 every effort to ensure that those with disabilities are able to be financial year.
We ensure that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available for all our employees irrespective Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political purposes of their gender, race, age or disability.
in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU Political Expenditure.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc nor its subsidiaries The group actively encourages employee involvement and consultation made any political donations or incurred political expenditure in the and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of its activity financial year under review.
and financial performance by way of briefings and publication to staff of all relevant information and corporate announcements.
To help Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and Referendums develop employees interest in the companys performance, Severn Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which are now contained in Part XA Trent offers two employee share plans.
The Severn Trent Sharesave of the Companies Act 1985, shareholder authority is required for Scheme, a HM Revenue and Customs approved SAYE plan, is offered political donations to be made or political expenditure to be incurred by to UK employees on an annual basis.
The Severn Trent Share Incentive the company or any of its subsidiaries in the EU and disclose any such Plan, approved by HM Revenue and Customs, makes an annual award payments in the annual report.
The legislation gives a wide definition of of shares to Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Ltd employees, what constitutes political donations and political expenditure including based on performance against the KPIs.
sponsorship, subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public duties and support for bodies representing Further details of arrangements relating to employee involvement are the business community in policy review or reform.
The company described in the corporate responsibility report on pages 20 to 21. has therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as a Severn Trent 29 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 30 Directors report continued Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Relevant audit information means information needed by the companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at this years AGM.
The reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee, who will also be responsible for determining their audit fee on behalf of the directors.
Accounts of Severn Trent Water Ltd Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Ltd are prepared and sent to the Water Services Regulatory Authority.
A copy of these accounts will be available from the website of Severn Trent Water Ltd www.
co. uk or on written request to the General Counsel and Company Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
There is no charge for this publication.
Going concern The board has a reasonable expectation that the group and the company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the financial statements set out on pages 48 to 95 and 96 to 105 have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the company will be held at the International Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 11.00am on Tuesday 22 July 2008.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also available on the companys website: www.
By order of the board Fiona Smith General Counsel and Company Secretary 4 June 2008 30 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Governance 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 31 Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, directors The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position applicable law and regulations.
of the company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud to prepare the group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by and other irregularities.
The group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial in other jurisdictions.
position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation Sir John Egan Michael McKeon will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Chairman Finance Director directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
