24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 8 Our strategy Focusing on continuous improvement Water continuous The right team Waste water aligned with process improvement Customer relations Strategic Direction Statement The Strategic Direction Statement is the result of a very thorough Strategic Direction process of engagement with all our stakeholders, including customers, customers representatives, employees, environmental groups, investors Statement and local authorities.
It is a living document, which will be refined in response to changing times.
In delivering our strategic focus on water, In summary, the eight Key Strategic Intentions KSIs we identified are: we have three connected touch points: Providing a continuous supply of quality water We are committed to ensuring a safe, reliable, supply of drinking water, highest standards, lowest charges and which is the top priority of our customers.
This is at the heart of our We need to ensure that there is enough available, getting the right commitment to continuous improvement.
balance between water storage and abstraction, reducing leakage and reducing demand and balancing these with environmental pressures.
When you drive for highest standards, you Responding to customers needs find more efficient, effective and safer ways Our customers expect to see and experience higher standards of of working.
This helps reduce operating costs, customer service.
The benefits of satisfying their expectation extend to both customers and the company itself.
As an example, improving which feeds through to keeping tariffs as low the quality of our bill reminders or notices about planning interruptions as we possibly can for our customers.
And to supply will reduce the need for customers to contact us, and make of course to do all this you need a skilled set of it easier to offer a high speed of response and standard of service to those customers who do need and want to contact us.
people hence our belief in and backing of our great people.
Having the lowest possible charges Our customers want us to make significant but affordable improvements in services.
Increases in bills in recent years have raised concerns about the ability of low income customers to pay their water bills.
So over and above the way we do business, we will continue to develop payment options to help the most needy and least able to pay.
We are continuing on our journey to change the culture of our organisation, improving efficiency and ultimately improving the standards that we set for ourselves and the service we provide to our customers.
8 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Direction 24526 Txt 01 48. qxp 12 6 08 11:15 am Page 9 Having our business reorganised and streamlined around the three attracting and, critically, retaining the right skills among our employees key processes of water, waste water and customer service has, as and suppliers.
We must also play a leading role in the communities in intended, enabled us to drive the improvements against our KPIs which we live and work, helping our customers understand what we do, outlined on the following pages.
why, and how we can all assist in managing water resources.
The cost of all water and waste water activities for every household Maintaining investor confidence in our region today is on average around 80p a day, one of the lowest The water industry is a long term undertaking, and that means costs in our industry.
continuing to provide stable returns for investors and limiting the extent of the future capital programme to that which can be financed without Dealing effectively with waste water excessive increases in the cost of raising finance.
There will be a Our customers should have confidence that we will take away their continuing large capital programme to be financed.
waste and treat it to the highest environmental standards before returning it to our regions rivers.
And new higher standards will drive The annual income provided by customers has always been insufficient, further new investment increasing our costs.
in itself, to finance the capital programme over the past 18 years, and borrowing has increased steadily.
This situation will continue and is The population is growing.
To meet this additional demand we will need critically dependent upon a stable and transparent regulatory to ensure that treatment works capacity for both water and sewerage framework: it should guarantee a fair and appropriate return to equity can be planned and timed to provide services for new residents.
and debt investors through a fair return on capital or, in regulatory In the 21st century, customers justifiably expect that homes should not terms, the weighted average cost of capital WACC.
be flooded by sewers overflowing.
It is not acceptable, and we will invest In 2007, we won a Building Public Trust award for our measures to reduce the risk of that happening.
We already work hard to avoid of success and the honesty with which we presented our situation.
serious pollution incidents and meet environmental standards for discharges to rivers.
We are committed to continually review and reset our KPI targets and expectations, in line with our Strategic Direction Statement.
Minimising our carbon footprint We are an industry leader in terms of minimising our carbon footprint Promoting an effective regulatory regime by generating renewable electricity, and we intend to maintain that The regulatory regime has played a major role in developing increased position.
We are already the biggest generator of green, renewable efficiency and service improvements over the last 18 years.
But nothing energy in our sector.
Most of our production is used on the host site is set in stone, and we believe that the UK framework should now with the remainder exported to the grid.
The total electricity produced develop to respond to the new challenges facing the industry going is equal to 17% of the total energy we consume.
forward in particular to encourage innovation and long term sustainable solutions.
We believe we can maintain a leading position in sustainable operations but, as always, in doing so we will not compromise standards or A full version of the Strategic Direction Statement can be found at increase bills beyond levels which customers are willing to pay.
Having the right skills to deliver If we are to deliver the service improvements we are aiming for, we need Severn Trent 9 to have the right people and resources available to us.
