directors report The Directors present their Annual Report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Directors The composition of the Board of Directors at the date of this report is shown on the previous page together with their biographical details.
Mr A Auer, Mr E van Amerongen, Mr P Johnson, Dr S Riley and Mr F Welham all served on the Board throughout the financial year under review, while Mr T Drury joined the Company on 3 September 2007 and was appointed to the Board as Group Chief Executive on 1 October 2007.
Non-executive Directors Mr P Delaunois and Mr B Pointon retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 26 July 2007.
Mr M Averill stepped down from his position as Group Chief Executive on 30 September 2007 and was retained to work for the Company on an advisory basis until the end of May 2008.
Mr T Drury will be standing for election at the forthcoming AGM and Mr A Auer, who will be retiring by rotation, will be offering himself for re-election.
Mr T Drury has a service contract terminable on twelve months notice.
The Board commends to shareholders the election of both Mr A Auer and Mr T Drury both of whom they regard as possessing the requisite skills and attributes to continue making significant contributions in their respective roles as Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
Details of the Directors interests are shown in the Remuneration Report.
Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activities of the Group continue to be waste processing and waste management in the Netherlands, Belgium, UK, and since April 2007, Canada.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, Business Overview, Operating Review, Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility on pages 3 to 24 refer to the objectives and strategy, competition and the markets in which the Group operates, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, a review of the development and performance of the business for the year ended 31 March 2008, the financial position of the Group as at the financial year end, key performance indicators and likely future developments of the business.
The information referred to above fulfills the requirements of the business review provisions in section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 and is incorporated by reference into, and shall be deemed to form part of, this report together with the other information referred to in this Directors Report.
Acquisitions and Disposals Acquisitions have been made during the year at a total cost of 47.5m 2007: 65.3m and are described in note 13 to the financial statements.
There have been no disposals during the year 2007: Nil.
Subsequent to the year end the Group announced in April 2008 that it had acquired the Belgian Foronex Group for a cash consideration of 10.4m.
Research and Development The Group spent Nil 2007: Nil on research and development during the year ended 31 March 2008.
Results and Dividends The Groups Consolidated Income Statement appears on page 43 and note 2 to the financial statements shows the contribution to revenue and profits made by the different segments of the Groups business.
The Groups profit for the year amounted to 28.3m 2007: 31.3m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.2p 2007: 4.0p per share be paid on 1 August 2008 to ordinary shareholders whose names appear on the register of members at close of business on 11 July 2008.
This dividend, together with the interim dividend of 2.0p 2007: 1.9p per share already paid on 9 January 2008, if approved by shareholders, will make a total dividend for the year of 6.2p per share 2007: 5.9p.
annual report 2008 Statement of Going Concern After making enquiries the Directors have formed the view, at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Company and Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Notifiable Interests As at 27 May 2008, the Company had been notified of the following direct and indirect interests in voting rights equal to or exceeding 3% of the ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares Percentage Legal & General Group plc 41,705,994 17.60 Schroder Investment Management Limited 30,983,387 13.08 Aberforth Partners LLP 17,202,200 7.32 Liontrust Investment Services Limited 11,682,512 4.92 Artemis Investment Management Limited 10,337,324 4.38 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 9,947,564 4.22 Share Capital During the year ended 31 March 2008 no ordinary shares were issued other than those issued in respect of exercises of options under the Companys share option schemes and long term incentive plan, details of which are given in note 5 to the financial statements.
As at 31 March 2008 and as at the date of this report the authorised ordinary share capital was and is 35,000,000 represented by 350,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
As at 31 March 2008 and as at the date of this report there were 236,928,379 ordinary shares in issue.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are: Dividend rights holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Payment or satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets, including fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Such action must be directed by the general meeting which declared the dividend and upon the recommendation of the Directors.
Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting and every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: a the chairman of the meeting: b at least 5 shareholders entitled to vote and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: c any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy and holding shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled to cast the deciding vote in addition to any other votes he may have.
Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking priority in accordance with statute, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
A liquidator may with the sanction of a special resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by the Companies Acts, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys assets.
Alternatively, a liquidator may, upon the adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, vest the assets in whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability.
annual report 2008 27 directors report continued Powers of Directors The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company provides that the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
This power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by legislation.
It is also limited by the provisions of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and any directions given by special resolution of the members of the Company which are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
Specific provisions relevant to the exercise of power by the Directors include: Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares while holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the Directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Articles of Association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, the Company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
Borrowing powers the Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all net external borrowings of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to three times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the Articles of Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Amendment to Companys Articles The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special resolution passed at a general meeting.
Corporate Governance The Board is fully committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Details relating to the Companys compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance for the financial year are given in the Corporate Governance and Remuneration Reports on pages 30 to 39.
These sections contain details of Directors service contracts and further information on the appointment of Directors and the responsibilities of the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Memorandum and Articles of Association and directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Corporate Responsibility Information on Corporate Responsibility matters including the environment, employment policies, health and safety and community relations are set out on pages 21 to 24.
Charitable and Political Donations During the period donations made by the Group for charitable purposes amounted to 2,430 2007: 2,980.
No donations were made for political purposes during the year 2007: Nil.
annual report 2008 Payment of Suppliers It is the Groups payment policy to agree payment terms with all suppliers and to abide by them.
The amount owed to trade creditors at the year end in proportion to the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year, expressed as a number of days, was 65 days 2007: 53 days for the Group and was 25 days 2007: 31 days for the Company.
Significant Agreements The Groups principal financing instrument, the multicurrency 250m revolving credit facility with five major banks, contains an option for those banks to declare that all sums outstanding under that agreement are repayable immediately in the event of a change of control.
This notice takes effect no earlier than thirty days from change of control and, if exercised at 31 March 2008, would have required the repayment of 211.7m in principal and interest.
The 2001 notes issued under the Groups private placement contain an option for the noteholders to enforce prepayment between thirty days and sixty days from change of control of outstanding principal and interest which would have amounted in total at 31 March 2008 to 41.8m.
In addition, an amount of make-whole amounting to 6.9m which is not provided for in these accounts would be payable to private placement noteholders based on treasury yields at 31 March 2008.
Disclosure of information to the Companys auditors In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Companys Directors in office as at the date of this report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps which he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on 24 July 2008, the notice for which is set out on pages 86 to 93.
A form of proxy has also been included in a separate document sent to shareholders with this report.
Resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, receive the 2008 report and accounts, approve the 2008 Remuneration Report, elect Directors, reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company and authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew the general authority of the Directors to issue shares, together with the authority to disapply pre-emption rights and authorise the Company to make purchase of its own shares.
In addition, a resolution will be proposed to revise the Articles of Association to reflect some of the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and to reflect a number of other legislative, regulatory and best practice developments which are explained further in the appendix to the notice of the AGM.
The Directors consider that all the resolutions proposed at the AGM to be held on 24 July 2008 are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
By Order of the Board Philip Griffin-Smith Company Secretary 29 May 2008 shanks.
