board of directors Non-executive Directors Adrian Auer BA, MBA, ACT Age 59 Peter Johnson, BA, ACA Age 54 Chairman Peter joined the Board in May 2005 and Adrian joined the Board in 2005 and was is the Chairman of the Audit Committee appointed Chairman in July 2006.
He and also sits on the Remuneration and chairs the Nomination Committee and is Nomination Committees.
Peter is a also a member of the Remuneration chartered accountant and Finance Committee.
Adrian is also Chairman of Director of Taylor Wimpey plc and a NonReadymix plc and a Non-executive Director of Filtrona plc.
Executive Director of Oriel Securities Limited.
Previously he has Previously he has held the position of Finance Director in a held a number of senior positions in the Financial Services number of major companies, notably in the building materials sector including those of Group Finance Director of Henderson and construction sectors, as well as senior finance positions plc, Chief Financial Officer for Pearl Assurance and Finance with BP and ICI.
In September 2007 he was appointed Director of Norwich Union Life.
Chairman of Addaction, Britains largest specialist drug and alcohol treatment charity.
Adrian will be standing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and is considered by the Board to be independent.
Eric van Amerongen, Age 54 Stephen Riley, B Eng, PhD Age 46 Senior Independent Director Steve was appointed to the Board in Eric was appointed to the Board in March 2007 and is a member of the February 2007 and sits on the Audit, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He is currently an Executive Committees.
In July 2007 he was Director with International Power plc appointed Chairman of the Remuneration having joined that business in 1985.
Committee and Senior Independent Director.
He was until March Steve has extensive operational experience in the power 2008 a Non-executive Director of Corus Group plc, a position he industry having held senior positions in the UK and Australia.
Eric also has wide ranging European business experience and holds a number of Non-executive and advisory positions.
Executive Directors Tom Drury, MA, ACMA Age 46 Fraser Welham, BSc, ACA Age 43 Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Tom joined the Company as Group Chief Fraser joined the Board in May 2005 and Executive Designate in September 2007 was appointed Group Finance Director in and succeeded Michael Averill as Group June of that year.
He was previously Chief Executive in October of that year.
Finance Director of Shanks Belgium for Following an early career with Unilever seven years and has held finance and  he went on to a distinguished positions with the Group for over twelve years.
Fraser is a career with United Utilities plc, being appointed a main Board chartered accountant and prior to joining the Company he held Director in 2005.
In 1996 he was appointed Managing Director finance positions with other leading waste management of a new commercial enterprise, Vertex, which grew to become companies.
the second largest firm in the UKs business process outsourcing sector until the sale of that business in March 2007 to US private equity.
Tom will be standing for election at the forthcoming AGM.
