business overview As last year much of the background Both the public and the private sector are excess of 20 years for treatment and information remains unchanged.
This is active in the waste market.
The I&C sector tends to be a repeated below, updated where privatisation varies across Europe: it is much more short term market, with appropriate.
high in the UK and France but lower in contracts in excess of a couple of years Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium.
Each year the Group reviews its strategy.
Advancing EU legislation is necessitating This year, following the appointment of substantial investment in new Market Trends and Drivers Tom Drury as Group Chief Executive in infrastructure.
This investment combined In Europe, and indeed elsewhere in the October 2007, a more in depth exercise with budgetary constraints is driving world, the general market trend can be was undertaken.
In order to give a clearer privatisation initiatives in many EU summarised as: understanding of the Groups strategy this countries.
Within the private sector, section has been expanded.
consolidation of the industry has been a Less waste, more materials recovery, feature for many years.
The new energy from waste and much less The European Waste Market infrastructure requirements and the long landfill Waste management is an essential term nature of the business have recently service.
In societies where there is a high attracted infrastructure funds.
The high level factors behind this are level of regulation and enforcement, it is a climate change, soaring fossil fuel prices sophisticated industry using advanced Within the national markets a further and increasing environmental awareness, technologies.
In societies with little or no distinction may be made between specifically an increasing appreciation regulation or enforcement, waste tends to collection, transfer and recycling and within society of the need to develop be treated indiscriminately.
The former has sustainable waste solutions.
These historically had low barriers to entry and factors are driving a convergence between In the European Union EU the level of hence has been made up of many small the waste, energy intensive and power environmental regulation is high, however participants.
unlike trade regulations, there are no greater investment in infrastructure which common standards for waste is moving this market towards the larger In terms of specific legislative and market management.
EU legislation on waste players.
Treatment and disposal have high drivers these can be summarised as sets minimum standards which member barriers to entry as facilities tend to be follows: nations must meet, however they are free capital intensive and projects have long to exceed these standards in order to gestation periods.
These activities are The European Landfill Directive follow their own political and therefore the domain of well capitalised biodegradable waste in landfill is a major environmental agendas.
The result is that, companies, and are populated by a few source of methane emissions to the within the EU, national regulations differ large players, often multinationals.
Methane is a potent and there is no single market.
greenhouse gas with 25 times the impact The markets may also be split between of a carbon dioxide emission of the same The waste management market can be the industrial and commercial I&C sector mass.
A key objective of this directive is subdivided into non-hazardous and and the municipal sector.
In most EU to significantly reduce the landfilling of hazardous waste.
The former tends to be countries the municipalities have a biodegradable waste, a major component a local business, as the relatively low unit statutory duty to deal with household of municipal waste, that is landfilled by cost of treatment makes transport a waste, which they either do themselves or European member states.
The directive significant part of the overall cost.
They have also aims to reduce the polluting impact Hazardous waste treatment costs tend to no such duty in respect of I&C waste.
The of landfills by substantially restricting be higher making it a more regional municipal sector is therefore typified by other types of waste that may be business.
long-term contracts which tend to be 5 to landfilled.
10 years for collection and often in shanks.
annual report 2008 7 business overview continued Landfill tax is a significant mechanism predominant final disposal route.
This is scheduled to rise to being used by many European states to higher cost and limited capacity of final 60 per tonne in 2010. drive waste out of landfill to more disposal outlets has made sorting and environmentally acceptable options such recycling in the Netherlands more viable The Brussels Region has little landfill as recycling and energy recovery.
and it is not uncommon for recycling rates capacity.
It has its own incinerator but to be 70% or above.
The Dutch market is beyond that it is reliant on the other Soaring energy prices have increased the therefore relatively stable and not subject Regions for final disposal.
pressure to find alternative fuels: waste is to major changes.
UK Belgium The UKs historical heavy reliance on Carbon emissions quotas have further In Belgium, environmental responsibility is landfill means that the imposition of the increased the cost of using fossil fuels.
devolved to the three Regions: Flanders, European Landfill Directive is having a Waste derived fuels can be exempt from Wallonia and Brussels.
Flemish major impact, particularly on the carbon emissions calculations, increasing environmental legislation and landfill tax municipal sector.
Implementation of the interest in this source of fuel.
levels are very similar to those in the directive implies that some 14 million Netherlands resulting in similar market tonnes per annum of biodegradable Renewable electricity many waste characteristics: high levels of recycling, a municipal waste needs to be diverted based electricity generation projects reliance on incineration for final disposal from landfill between 2006 and 2020.
In qualify for renewable electricity subsidies and very little landfill.
November 2006 DEFRA estimated that and credits, available in various forms the investment in new infrastructure across Europe.
This is because a major In the Walloon Region landfill tax on I&C required to achieve this is between 9bn component of waste derived fuels waste at an effective rate of 53 per and 11bn.
In an endeavour to secure comprises renewable short carbon cycle tonne is sufficient to drive reasonable least cost compliance the Government materials, e. g. wood, paper, and other high levels of recycling.
This rate will rise has introduced the Landfill Allowance vegetable matter.
to 90 per tonne in 2010, which Trading Scheme LATS, a tradeable combined with a lack of incineration permit scheme between local authorities.
European Waste Directive this is capacity will promote increased recycling Here authorities who overachieve against currently being revised and the changes and other forms of energy recovery.
The their landfill diversion requirements may should be endorsed by the European effective cost of landfill tax is 52% higher sell their overachievement to an Parliament during the course of 2008.
It than the actual tax because it is nonunderachieving authority.
Failure by an is likely this will impose even higher deductible for corporation tax purposes.
authority either to meet its diversion targets on recycling and energy recovery requirements or to secure the necessary from waste on European member states In January 2008 new legislation was LATS, results in a 150 per tonne penalty going forwards.
introduced which has had a major impact for the excess.
on the municipal waste treatment sector.
The effects of these drivers vary from Prior to January 2008 a reasonable In parallel, the government has stated country to country.
proportion of municipal waste was still that landfill tax will increase.
Landfill tax landfilled as, unlike I&C waste, it is one of the primary drivers for diverting The Netherlands attracted very little landfill tax.
In the 2007 Budget the The Netherlands has had some of the 2008 the Walloon Region adopted a strict Government increased the annual landfill most advanced environmental legislation interpretation of the Landfill Directive tax escalator from 3 per tonne per in Europe in place for some time.
They requirement for pre-treatment of nonannum to 8 starting in April 2008 and also have high levels of landfill tax hazardous waste which stopped residual committed to keeping it at this level until currently 88 per tonne.
These, together waste collected from households from April 2010.
In the 2008 Budget it was with the geological characteristics of the being landfilled without pre-treatment.
At indicated that landfill tax may continue to country, have resulted in a low reliance on the same time landfill tax was introduced rise post 2010.
This means that UK landfill, incineration being the on other municipal waste streams at 20 landfill tax, which increased to 32 per 8 shanks.
annual report 2008 Figure 1 Waste Hierarchy Prevention Reuse Recycling Shanks Energy Recovery Disposal tonne in April 2008, will rise to 48 per Corporate strategy the organic waste treatment sector not tonne in 2010, a similar amount to the Invest to drive organic growth where only in the Netherlands, but also in the tax on I&C waste in the Benelux.
Develop our infrastructure further to Another driver for the I&C waste market is support sustainable waste management Belgian Strategy restriction of the type of waste that can and conversion of waste to renewable In Belgium the strategy is to grow the I&C be landfilled.
Solid Waste business to replace the the European Landfill Directive is the Share core capabilities and declining contribution from landfill.
By restriction on landfilling of untreated nontechnologies across the Group.
focusing on solid recovered fuel SRF hazardous waste.
The government has Maximise asset utilisation and production from I&C waste we will be able introduced new legislation which required minimise unit costs.
to create sustainable competitive pre-treatment of non-hazardous waste Continue to use acquisitions to improve advantage by securing long term energy prior to landfilling from October 2007. asset utilisation and re-orient the from waste outlets at lower costs than Whilst the authorities have taken a fairly portfolio to high growth markets.
landfill or mass burn incineration 120- soft handed approach to the enforcement 130 tonne.
of this legislation initially, it is expected it This provides a strong corporate will become more assiduous in the future.
framework for clear individual country The recent acquisition of Foronex builds strategies.
on this strategy by moving us into the Canada European waste wood processing market As part of the Orgaworld acquisition Dutch Strategy which creates further opportunities in the completed in April 2007 the Group The strategic goal for the Dutch biomass and co-generation areas with the acquired a start up operation in Canada.
operations is to maintain the premium potential for Shanks to both supply and In Canada there is strong public opinion operating margins we currently enjoy and invest in energy from waste projects.
against landfill, which in some areas has to grow both the Solid and Hazardous There are also further opportunities to led to a shortage of consented capacity.
Waste businesses ahead of gross invest in additional green energy Like in Europe therefore there is a drive domestic product.
This will be achieved production at our landfill and hazardous to reduce waste going to landfill.
Orgaworld identified an opportunity in the maintaining the current decentralised Canadian market to offer biological structure and culture but seeking out UK Strategy treatment of source segregated organic greater benefits from collaboration In the UK the aim is to make Shanks the municipal waste, a market which has between the business units: preferred alternative to landfill.
In the I&C significant potential in terms of volumes upgrading existing recycling facilities to waste area we will build a resource and to date has few competitors.
improve their efficiency and thereby management and reprocessing business maintain our market leadership in with improved margins by importing more Strategy processing costs: than ten years of Dutch know-how in this Group Vision focusing on new niche mono-stream area.
Initially we will focus on building markets such as the depleted growth density in the three regions where we To be Europes leading provider of media from the Dutch greenhouse already have critical mass, Scotland, the sustainable waste management industry we already process: East Midlands and the Northern Home solutions.
continue the successful track record of Counties.
tuck-in acquisitions: We will continue to bid for PFI residual This will be achieved by firmly positioning maintain the current strong cash waste contracts, using those that we win the Group in the Recycling and Energy generation from the business.
as a base from which to expand our I&C Recovery area of the Waste Hierarchy In addition the recent Orgaworld business.
At the same time we intend to see Figure 1. acquisition provides significant secure a share of the significant UK opportunities for higher rates of growth in demand for anaerobic digestion and shanks.
annual report 2008 9 business overview continued composting both in the municipal and I&C This is further complicated by the rapid The Pace of the UK Municipal Waste sectors using the Orgaworld and other rate of change in legislation resulting from Contracts Tender Process technologies as appropriate.
the increased profile of environmental Significant resources are devoted to the issues.
Changes in the legislation or its bidding process due to the size and Having established an enabling platform interpretation can have a significant and complexity of these contracts.
A of a strong regional business with a far reaching impact on markets.
The Group consequence is that there are often differentiated and profitable business endeavours to mitigate this risk by unforeseen delays in, and in extreme model, we may then consider more employing high quality management in cases, cancellation of the process.
As the aggressive consolidation options.
each of our divisions to influence the investment in the bidding process is only evolving legislative framework.
We recouped in the event a contract is won, Key Objectives therefore actively lobby for our interests at the Group regularly reviews the risks and The key objectives over the coming three European, National and Regional levels.
The Group also tries to have its years are: advisors work on a contingency fee basis Grow UK Solid Waste trading margins Environmental Compliance wherever possible, and restrict post overheads to a high single digit All operating sites and activities are expenditure in the early stage of a bid percentage: regulated by environmental authorities in when the certainty of success is less.
Launch Orgaworld in the UK: line with the requirements set out within Grow trading profit from non-landfill licences and permits.
These licences and Activities and Structure Belgium business by an average of 15% permits are required to carry on the The Group is a major player in the per annum: business, therefore the negotiation of, Netherlands, Belgium and the UK.
There Win PFI contracts in the UK increasing and compliance with, their terms is of are also some operations in France close residual municipal waste under paramount importance.
Maintaining the to the Belgian border which are managed management to 1.5m tonnes per highest environmental standards is also from Belgium.
Due to their small size these annum currently 0.6m tonnes.
important to ensure continuing are combined with the Belgian operations.
acceptance of operations by host By achieving the above the Group will communities, and to satisfy customers.
In April 2007 the Group acquired maintain strong underlying organic growth.
Orgaworld, a Dutch business specialising Details of how the Group monitors and in the treatment of source segregated Principal Risks and their Mitigation controls environmental compliance are organic waste streams from both the The performance of our I&C businesses is given in the Corporate Responsibility municipal and I&C sectors.
The business linked to the economic activity in the section.
uses in-house tunnel composting and sectors we serve.
We are therefore anaerobic digestion technologies some of exposed to fluctuations in these sectors Health and Safety which are patented.
The acquisition also across our national markets.
We mitigate The waste management industry is included a start up operation in Canada, this risk by diversifying our customer base recognised as one of the most hazardous which is currently small but has where possible.
This has employees are the Group's most therefore expanded our geographical In addition to this general economic risk important and valuable asset and their presence to Canada.
there are a number of waste industry health and safety is paramount.
As a specific risks: result the Group devotes considerable The Groups organisational structure management resources to ensuring the reflects the national nature of the Environmental Legislation and its highest health and safety practices are markets in which it operates, with Interpretation imposed and maintained.
divisions in the Netherlands, Belgium, UK As already mentioned, regulation is a key and Canada.
Management of the Group is driver of the waste market.
The ability of Details can be found in the Corporate decentralised to ensure that the people individual countries, and indeed regions in Responsibility section under Health and making the decisions are close to, and the case of Belgium, to set their own Safety.
This structure legislation makes this a very complex field.
is underpinned by strong central financial 10 shanks.
Throughout the organisation we Operational different.
The result is that whilst nonemploy high calibre management who are The number of waste activities undertaken financial measures are extremely important properly trained and motivated.
by the Group is significant, with each site at an activity or site level, they are of very involved in differing ranges of activities.
limited value when aggregated across sites Table 1 summarises the Groups waste The performance indicators used to or activities.
For this reason the KPIs used activities in each country and table 2 monitor these activities are varied and at a regional or country level are financial shows how these activities are grouped in range from lifts per day, lifts per kilometre in nature, being those common to most the segmental reporting.
and tonnes per lift for collection activities, businesses namely revenue, trading profit, to input and output tonnages and final cash flows and return on capital employed.
In addition to the waste activities detailed elimination diversion rates for treatment Details of these for the main business above we also operate a sand quarry and recycling activities.
Also, even where units are included in the Operating Review adjacent to our landfill site in Wallonia and two sites perform similar activities, the section.
have small infrastructure and groundworks type of customer or urban characteristics operations in Ghent in Belgium and of the area the site serves may be quite Amersfoort in the Netherlands.
Due to their small size the infrastructure and groundworks activities are reported as Table 1 part of the Solid Waste activities.
Group Activities Industrial & Commercial Municipal Key Performance Indicators KPIs Non-hazardous Solid Waste The Groups KPIs can be divided into Collection NL, BE, UK NL, BE three categories, health and safety, environmental and operational.
Transfer & recycling NL, BE, UK NL, BE, UK Treatment NL, BE NL, UK, CA Health and Safety Landfill disposal & power UK, NL, BE UK, BE Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Hazardous Waste Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Industrial cleaning and transport NL, BE RIDDOR is UK law which requires Treatment and disposal NL, BE companies to report specified more Contaminated land remediation NL, BE, UK serious accidents and incidents to the Health and Safety Executive.
While RIDDOR is UK law the Group requires all of its operations, no matter which country they are based in, to report monthly to this Table 2 common format.
Minor incidents are also Waste Activities in Segmental Reporting reported.
The minor and RIDDOR KPIs for the current and prior years are given in the Solid Waste Non-hazardous solid waste collections, transfer and recycling Health and Safety section.
Landfill and Power Landfill disposal including contaminated soils and power generation from landfill gas.
Environmental The Group closely monitors compliance Hazardous Waste Industrial cleaning, hazardous waste transport, treatment with environmental permits at locations.
including contaminated soils and disposal and contaminated All issues are reviewed at monthly land remediation divisional meetings and, at least Organic Treatment Anaerobic digestion and tunnel composting of source quarterly, at Group Board level.
Details of segregated organic waste streams convictions during 2008 are given in the PFI contracts Long term UK municipal waste treatment contracts Environment section.
