7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 36 36 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 4 Matthew Emmens 57 Angus Russell 53 David Kappler 61 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Mr Emmens succeeded Dr Cavanaugh as NonMr Russell succeeded Mr Emmens as Chief Non-Executive Director Executive Chairman on June 18, 2008 and has Executive Officer on June 18, 2008 and has Mr Kappler has been a member of the been a member of the Board since March 12, been a member of the Board since December 13, Companys Board since April 5, 2004.
He is also a member of the Companys 1999.
He was the Companys Chief Financial Chairman of the Companys Nomination Nomination Committee.
He was Chief Executive Officer from December 1999 to June 2008.
He is Committee and Audit, Compliance & Risk Officer from March 2003 to June 2008.
Mr also the Chairman of the Companys Leadership Committee.
Mr Kappler also serves as the NonEmmens also serves as a Non-Executive Director Team.
Mr Russell also serves as a Non-Executive Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc and and President of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. Director of the City of London Investment Trust as a Non-Executive Director of Intercontinental and will become Chairman and Chief Executive plc.
Between 1980 and 1999, he held a number Hotels Group plc.
Mr Kappler was a Director of Officer in May 2009.
He is a former board of positions of increasing responsibility at ICI, Camelot Group plc from 19962002 and of HMV member of Incyte Corporation.
Mr Emmens Zeneca and AstraZeneca PLC, including Vice Group plc from 20022006.
Mr Kappler retired began his career in international pharmaceuticals President, Corporate Finance at AstraZeneca from Cadbury Schweppes plc in April 2004 with Merck & Co, Inc. in 1974, where he held a and Group Treasurer at Zeneca.
Mr Russell after serving as Chief Financial Officer since 1995. wide range of sales, marketing and administrative is a Chartered Accountant, having qualified He worked for the Cadbury Schweppes group positions.
In 1992, he helped to establish Astra with Coopers & Lybrand, and is a Fellow of the between 1965 and 1984 and rejoined the Merck, a joint venture between Merck and Astra Association of Corporate Treasurers.
company in 1989 following its acquisition of AB of Sweden, becoming President and Chief Trebor Group, where he was Financial Director.
In 1999, he joined Merck 3 Mr Kappler is a Fellow of the Chartered KGaA and established EMD Pharmaceuticals, Graham Hetherington 50 Institute of Management Accountants.
the companys US prescription pharmaceutical Chief Financial Officer business.
He was later based in Germany Mr Hetherington has been the Companys Chief 5 as President of Merck KGaAs US prescription Financial Officer and a member of the Board Patrick Langlois 63 pharmaceutical business and was a Board since July 1, 2008.
He is also a member of the Non-Executive Director member.
Mr Emmens holds a degree in Business Companys Leadership Team.
Mr Hetherington Mr Langlois has been a member of the Management from Fairleigh Dickinson University.
most recently held positions as the Chief Companys Board since November 11, 2005.
Financial Officer of Bacardi in 2007 and Allied He is also a member of the Companys Domecq plc from 19992005.
Mr Hetherington Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Remuneration Committee.
is a Non-Executive Director of Scynexis Inc. Nanobiotix S. A. and Exonhit S. A. Mr Langlois previously served as Vice Chairman of the Management Board of Aventis S. A. Strasbourg, having been Group Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for several years.
He also spent many years in senior financial roles with the Rhne-Poulenc Group, including three years as a member of the Executive Committee and Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Langlois holds a PhD in Economics and a diploma in banking studies.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 37 37 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Board of Directors 678910 6 7 9 Dr Jeffrey Leiden 53 David Mott 43 Dr Barry Price 65 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Dr Leiden has been a member of the Companys Mr Mott has been a member of the Companys Dr Price has been a member of the Companys Board since January 1, 2007.
He is a member Board since October 31, 2007.
He is also a Board since January 16, 1996.
He is a member of the Companys Remuneration Committee member of the Companys Audit, Compliance & of the Companys Nomination Committee and and Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Risk Committee.
Mr Mott joined venture capital Science & Technology Committee.
He also Companys Science & Technology Committee.
firm New Enterprise Associates NEA in serves as Chairman of Antisoma plc and Summit Dr Leiden served as President and Chief September 2008 as a General Partner focused Corporation plc.
Dr Price worked for Glaxo for Operating Officer, Pharmaceutical Products on biopharmaceutical investments.
Prior to joining 28 years, where he held positions of increasing Group and Chief Scientific Officer at Abbott NEA, Mr Mott was President and Chief Executive responsibility with the companys research group.
Laboratories from 20012006: during this time Officer of MedImmune Inc. a subsidiary of he was also a member of the Boards of Directors AstraZeneca PLC, and Executive Vice President 10 of Abbott and TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc. of AstraZeneca.
He joined MedImmune in 1992 Dr Michael Rosenblatt 61 Prior to joining Abbott, Dr Leiden served as the and served in roles of increasing responsibility Non-Executive Director Elkan R. Blout Professor of Biological Sciences, including Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Dr Rosenblatt has been a member of the Harvard School of Public Health and Professor Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer.
Companys Board since April 24, 2008 and is a of Medicine, Harvard Medical School.
Previously, Prior to joining MedImmune, Mr Mott was a Vice member of the Companys Science & Technology he was the Frederick H. Rawson Professor of President in the healthcare Investment Banking Committee.
Dr Rosenblatt is the Dean of Medicine and Pathology and Chief of the Section Group at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Inc. Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, of Cardiology at the University of Chicago.
His Mr Mott is a member of the board of Rib-x Massachusetts.
He was previously Professor extensive business and consulting experience Pharmaceuticals and of the St. Albans School.
of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and has includes both the pharmaceutical and medical He is a former board member of Ambit served in senior research positions at the Beth device areas.
Dr Leiden was a founder of Biosciences, Conceptis Technologies, and Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
He Cardiogene, Inc. a biotechnology company MedImmune, Inc. and has served on numerous was the founding director of the Carl J. Shapiro specializing in cardiovascular gene therapy.
industry trade group and not-for-profit boards.
Institute for Education and Research at Harvard Dr Leiden earned a bachelors degree in Mr Mott holds a bachelors degree in economics Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess biological sciences, a doctorate in virology and and government from Dartmouth College.
In addition, Dr Rosenblatt has a medical degree, all from the University of served as Director of the Harvard-MIT Division Chicago.
He is a Fellow of the American 8 of Heath Sciences and Technology and as Senior Academy of Arts and Sciences and an elected Kate Nealon 55 Vice President for Research at Merck Research member of the Institute of Medicine of the Non-Executive Director Laboratories where he headed a worldwide National Academy of Sciences.
Dr Leiden Ms Nealon has been a member of the Companys development team as well as directing drug is currently a Managing Director at Clarus Board since July 27, 2006.
She is Chair of the discovery efforts in the United States, Japan and Ventures LLC.
Companys Remuneration Committee and Italy.
In Japan, he was responsible for Mercks also a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk clinical research and development: he also Committee.
Ms Nealon is a Non-Executive headed Merck Researchs worldwide University Director Cable & Wireless plc and a former Nonand Industry Relations Department.
He is a Executive Director of HBOS plc.
She is also a graduate of Columbia University and gained his Senior Associate at the Judge Business School medical qualification at Harvard Medical School.
Ms Nealon was previously Group Head of Legal & Compliance at Standard Chartered plc until 2004.
She is a US qualified lawyer and spent several years in her early career practising law in New York.
