7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 38 38 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Directors report The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Incorporation of Shire plc Shire plc formerly Shire Limited the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as the Group or Shire is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
Shire plc was incorporated under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, on January 28, 2008 and is a public limited company.
Following the implementation of a court sanctioned Scheme of Arrangement, on May 23, 2008 the Company replaced the former Shire plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, as the holding company for the Group.
Change of name As a result of an amendment to the Companies Jersey Law 1991 permitting a public company to use plc in its name, Shire Limited changed its name to Shire plc with effect from October 1, 2008.
Results and dividends The income from continuing operations before income taxes, minority interest and equity in earnings of equity method investees for the year to December 31, 2008 was $265.6 million 2007: loss $1,398.1 million.
The net assets of Shire at December 31, 2008 were $1,298.2 million December 31, 2007: $1,227.0 million.
In respect of the six months to December 31, 2008 the Board resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 7.76 US 2007: 6.47 US per Ordinary Share.
Together with the first interim payment of 2.15 US 2007: 2.15 US per Ordinary Share, this represents total dividends for 2008 of 9.91 US 2007: 8.62 US per Ordinary Share.
ExcellerateHRO Guernsey Limited, trustee of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, has waived its entitlement to any dividends, which become due and payable in respect of shares or other securities, which are registered in the name of the trustee or its nominee s, from time to time, except the right to receive 0.0001 pence per share.
Principal activity Shire focuses its business on attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, human genetic therapies and gastrointestinal diseases.
The subsidiaries and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of Shire in the year are listed in Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements, including their country of incorporation principal trading area.
Business review Shire is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year to December 31, 2008 the position of the Group at the end of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as the Enhanced Business Review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Chairmans review on pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 4 to 6, the Financial review on pages 7 to 35 and the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 44 to 49 which are incorporated in this report by reference.
The Financial review and Note 23 also provide a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group as well as risk management objectives and policies.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
There are no material differences between market and balance sheet values of land, the accounting policy of which is set out in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Liquidity, cash flow and going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans review, Chief Executive Officers review and Financial review on pages 2 to 35.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the Financial review.
The Financial review also includes information in respect of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its hedging activity: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups financial instruments are disclosed in Note 23 of the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups robust balance sheet contains $218 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2008.
The Group generated $800 million of cash from operating activities during the year.
Shire has no debt or facilities maturing in the next three years and substantially all of the Groups debt relates to its $1.1 billion 2.75% Convertible Bonds which mature in 2014, although these include a put option which could require repayment in 2012.
In addition, Shire has a committed facility until 2012 of $1.2 billion, which is currently undrawn.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic climate, and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Corporate governance The Directors are committed to business integrity and professionalism and as an essential part of this commitment the Board supports high standards of corporate governance.
Details relating to corporate governance and Shires compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in 2006 the Combined Code for the 2008 financial year are given on pages 44 to 49 and in the remuneration policy contained in the Directors remuneration report which is detailed on pages 52 to 65.
The Directors remuneration report contains details of Directors service contracts, whilst the Corporate Governance Statement includes further details on the appointment of Directors and the responsibilities of the Board.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 39 39 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Directors report Share capital At December 31, 2008 the Companys issued share capital comprised 560,153,863 Ordinary Shares and 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
Further details of the authorized and called-up share capital of the Company as at December 31, 2008 and the changes during the year are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
The Company was given authority at the 2008 Annual General Meeting AGM to make market purchases of up to 55,991,697 of its own Ordinary Shares of 5 pence each at a maximum price per share of 105% of the middle-market price.
The Directors were given authority at the 2008 AGM to allot relevant securities within the limits of the authorized share capital up to a nominal amount of 9,331,949, being the equivalent of 33.33% of the total issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company on the latest practicable date before publication of the notice of the 2008 AGM.
The Directors were also given authority at the 2008 AGM to allot equity securities of the Company for cash by way of rights issue free of the statutory pre-emption provisions up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,399,792, being the equivalent of 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company on the latest practicable date before publication of the notice of the 2008 AGM.
ExcellerateHRO Guernsey Limited as trustee of the Shire Trust, operating under an irrevocable, non-discretionary program, purchased a number of Ordinary Shares of the Company and American Depositary Shares each equivalent to three Ordinary Shares ADSs for the benefit of the Trust during the year.
As at December 31, 2008 the Trust held 7,368,415 Ordinary Shares and 4,454,689 ADSs.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes and subject to and without prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so far as it does not make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association Articles, the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended Companies Laws and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares are not entitled to receive dividends or distributions in respect of such shares.
On a winding up, the holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares are entitled only to the nominal value of each Subscriber Ordinary Share after the holders of all other classes of share have received the nominal value of those shares.
Dividends and other distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Laws, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the Companies Laws, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to the holders of any shares for any loss they may suffer in consequence of the payment of an interim or fixed dividend on any other class of shares ranking pari passu with or after those shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a Restriction Notice containing such a restriction under the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Articles.
Shire has put in place income access share arrangements and shareholders can elect to receive their dividends this way and a shareholder who holds 25,000 or fewer shares at the first dividend record date after he first becomes a shareholder will be deemed to have so elected unless he notifies the Company in writing to the contrary.
Pursuant to the Articles, where any dividends paid on the income access share issued by Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings to the IAS Trustee as defined in the Articles are received by the IAS Trustee and are paid on by the IAS Trustee to shareholders who have made or are deemed to have made an IAS Election as defined in the Articles, the entitlements of such shareholders to be paid any amount in respect of a dividend declared by the Company shall be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to them and to the extent dividends are not paid to such shareholders by the IAS Trustee then the shortfall will be made up out of dividends on shares of the Company.
The income access share arrangements may be suspended or terminated at any time and for any reason by the Company, without financial recompense.
Restrictions on voting Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares in the Company, every member present in person at a general or class meeting has one vote upon a show of hands.
On a poll, every member present has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Votes on a show of hands or a poll may be exercised in person or by proxy.
A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on its behalf as a corporate representative.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
It is the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual and Extraordinary shareholder meetings.
Where shareholders choose to appoint proxies to vote on their behalf at shareholder meetings or any adjournment thereof, such appointments must, under the Articles of Association, be received whether sent by post or by electronic means at such office or address as may be specified by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled to attend or vote at any general or class meeting in respect of any shares if any call or other sum payable remains unpaid.
Also, a member may not be entitled to attend or vote if served with a Restriction Notice under the Articles of Association.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 40 40 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Directors report The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
The holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares have no right to receive notice of or attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company, unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company or to vary the rights attaching to those Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
The Company maintains an ADR programme in the US.
Each ADR is the equivalent of three Ordinary Shares and each ADR holder is entitled to the financial rights attaching to such shares although the ADR depositary is the registered holder of the shares.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Laws and to any rights attached to existing shares, all or any rights attached to any existing class of shares may be varied either with written consent of the holders of not less than two-thirds in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of those shares.
At each such separate general meeting, except an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
Transfer of shares The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any transfer of any certificated share which is not a fully paid share or shares held in certificated form by a member who has been issued a Restriction Notice containing such a restriction unless such a transfer is pursuant to an arms length sale.
Registration of a transfer of a share in uncertificated form may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Order, and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the transfer instrument: i is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right of transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii in the case of a transfer to joint transferees is in favor of no more than four such transferees.
The Board may decline to register any transfer of a Subscriber Ordinary Share to any person of whom the Board does not approve.
Articles of Association The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the members of the Company.
Directors Biographical details of Directors currently serving on the Board are stated on pages 36 and 37.
Dr James Cavanaugh, Chairman of the Board, retired from the Board on June 18, 2008 and was succeeded by Mr Matthew Emmens.
Mr Angus Russell succeeded Mr Emmens as Chief Executive Officer on June 18, 2008 and continued to act as Chief Financial Officer until July 1, 2008 when Mr Graham Hetherington joined the Company as Chief Financial Officer.
Dr Michael Rosenblatt, a Non-Executive Director, was appointed to the Board on April 24, 2008.
Mr Robin Buchanan, a Non-Executive Director, resigned from the Board on July 29, 2008.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Laws, the Articles and directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the Company and, subject to the Companies Laws, to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security, for a debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of a third-party.
Directors interests in shares Details of the current Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, together with details of the share options granted to Executive Directors, are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 65.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one year terms.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as it may determine and may also revoke to terminate any such appointment.
At every AGM of the Company any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
The Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolve to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health or becomes a patient for the purpose of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: iv he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited or disqualified by law from being a Director: or vii he ceases to be a director by virtue of the Companies Laws or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 41 41 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Directors report Directors service contracts and interest in material contracts In the event of termination of employment within twelve months of a change in control, the amount payable to Mr Russell and Mr Hetherington is one years salary and the cash equivalent of one years pension, car and other contractual benefits.
Any annual bonus payable is at the discretion of the Committee and is capped at the contractual maximum level.
Other than the related party transactions and insurance indemnity provisions disclosed below, none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party during the period under review.
Related party transactions Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc.
In October 2005 the Group sub-leased its office premises in Newport to Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr James Cavanaugh, the Non-Executive Chairman of the Group up to June 18, 2008, was the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals, Inc. up to February 9, 2007.
As a result of the transaction the Group will receive $7.8 million net of inducements in lease income over the sub-lease period from Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc. Directors liability insurance and indemnification In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy for its Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or Officers.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions were also in place during the year under review for the benefit of Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may potentially incur to third-parties in the course of their duties.
Research and development Shire continues an active research and development program and as a result has incurred research and development costs of $526.6 million in the financial year to December 31, 2008 2007: $576.4 million.
These costs have been charged to the consolidated statements of operations in accordance with Shires accounting policy.
Substantial shareholdings As at February 18, 2009 the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company: Fidelity International Limited has a holding of 4.99%: Legal and General Group plc has a holding of 4.28%: and i ExcellerateHRO Share Plan Services Guernsey Limited has a holding of 3.02% i Shares held on behalf of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust Political donations Shire did not make any donations to EU political parties during the year ended December 31, 2008 2007: $nil.
In 2006, Shire set up a Political Action Committee PAC in the United States.
The PAC is registered with the Federal Election Committee and attracts voluntary donations from US citizen employees and certain US suppliers and vendors.
The PAC is run by a committee of employees which determines the political campaigns or political candidates the PAC will support.
Contributions are held by the PAC in a separate and segregated fund and Shire does not contribute financially to this fund.
Charitable contributions During the year, charitable contributions amounting to $1.5 million 2007: $0.5 million were made.
The contributions were made to a range of charities in line with the Shire charity and community policy and included matching of funds raised by employees.
For further information, please refer to the Companys Corporate Responsibility website at www.
Employee involvement At December 31, 2008 Shire employed 3,769 personnel, of which 72% are based in the United States, 12% in the UK and 16% in the rest of the world.
Shire places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and constantly seeks to develop employee involvement throughout the Group.
To further this aim, pursuant to Shires Employee Internal Communication Charter, employees are kept informed of strategy, current business performance, product developments, changes in Group policy and processes, employee benefits including pensions and health and safety arrangements.
In addition, the CEO established a Leadership Team Advisory Group in 2008, which acts as a conduit between all employees and the Leadership Team.
Shire communicates with employees via regular internal publications Shire Dynamics and Shire Xpress, email, the Group intranet, regular allemployee meetings, functional and departmental meetings, focus and consultation groups on specific topics, employee surveys and notice boards.
Shire also encourages involvement of employees in the Groups performance through an annual individual objective setting process linked to Shires corporate objectives, and through the operation of various employee share schemes, details of which are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 65 and in Note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
Shires employment polices are developed to reflect local legal, cultural and employment requirements and to maintain high standards wherever Shire operates.
Employees at all levels within the Group are encouraged to make the best possible contribution to Shires overall success.
Equal opportunities Shire operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other prohibited basis.
Applications for employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
7598 US GAAP 2008. qxd 19 3 09 15:25 Page 42 42 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 Directors report Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always given full and fair consideration, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned relative to the requirements of the position being applied for.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with Shire continues and that appropriate training or accommodation is arranged.
It is Shires policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees and that reasonable accommodation is made wherever possible.
Health, safety and welfare The Directors are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of Shires employees at work.
Accordingly, it is Shires policy to manage its activities so as to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risk to employees and those who may be affected by the Groups business.
In addition, Shire takes its corporate responsibilities seriously, and maintains an active Corporate Responsibility Committee as well as a global environmental health and safety team devoted to promoting employee safety at and outside of work.
Payment of creditors It is Shires policy to agree payment terms with its suppliers, making sure the supplier is aware of those terms, and to abide by them.
As at December 31, 2008 the trade creditors days outstanding were: 2008 2007 Days Days Group 22 19 The Company has no trade creditors.
Financial instruments Details of Shires use of financial instruments can be found in the Financial review on pages 7 to 35 and in Note 23.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise the following rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: under the $1,100 million 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 issued by the Company pursuant to a trust deed dated May 9, 2007 and a supplemental trust deed dated April 15, 2008 upon a change of control Bond-holders will, for 60 days thereafter, be able to exercise their right to convert their bonds into Ordinary Shares in the Company at a more advantageous price than normal, as specified in the terms and conditions of the bonds, unless the change of control is effected by a scheme of arrangement which results in the interposition of a new holding company between the Companys shareholders and the Company, and certain other conditions are met an Exempt Scheme.
With respect to an offer or a scheme to acquire all or most of the Ordinary Shares in the Company, further requirements are also imposed on the Company, including a requirement to notify Bond-holders of the offer or scheme and to use reasonable endevors to procure the making of an equivalent offer to Bond-holders, unless the scheme is an Exempt Scheme.
For these purposes, a change of control is defined as the acquisition, pursuant to an offer or a scheme, by a party of the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company: and under the $1,200 million credit facility agreement dated February 20, 2007 as amended and re-stated on July 19, 2007 and April 15, 2008 between, amongst others, the Company and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders, upon a change of control any lender may, following not less than 30 days notice, cancel its commitments and require prepayment of its participation in any outstanding loans.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company or holds more than half the equity share capital of the Company.
A waiver of the mandatory prepayment provision would require the consent of each lender under the agreement.
As at February 18, 2009, no loans are outstanding under the credit facility agreement.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Group will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee reviews both the level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
By order of the Board Tatjana May Company Secretary February 27, 2009
