Statement of DIrectorS reSponSIbIlItIeS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation to prepare the Group Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Group Accounts are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IAS 1 requires that IFRS accounts present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the Parent Company Accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The Parent Company Accounts are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these Accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Accounts: and prepare the Accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Parent Company Accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibilities statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the Accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Business Review, which is incorporated into the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Signed on behalf of the Board chrIS DavIeS Gareth DavIeS DIrector DIrector 18 march 2009 18 march 2009 46 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
