REPORT Of ThE AudIT COmmITTEE  theCommittee  paragraphC.
The report gives details of the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
P. H. Blackburnand Mr. M. J. C. Borlenghiweremembers.
, Mr. D. A.  FCA  experience.
Sincethen he has served as Audit Committee Chairman of a number of UK listed companies.
The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business experience, .
Members of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
: , : , includinganychanges: : , inconfidence, : : : , : overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, including but not limited to approving their remuneration, assessing annually their independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the Auditors as a whole, including the provision of anynon-auditservices:and  as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee has the power to engage outside advisers if it considers it to be necessary.
The Committee reviews its own performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
 each member of the Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
It is planned to meet four times a year.
In 2008 it met four times and all members of the Committee attended each meeting.
The Finance Director attended all four of the scheduled meetings and the external Auditors three.
 at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The external Auditors had a confidential discussion with members of the Committee without the Chairman of the .
Ernst & Young LLP, who provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group, are invited to most meetings to present their reports.
The Chairman of the Committee also meets with Ernst & Young LLP without the Executive Directors present.
60 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS WORK OF THE COMMITTEE : ,  .
 : accounting policies and standards at its November 2008 meeting the Committee reviewed the application of any new accounting policies or standards that .
Italsomonitored , , ,  : in August 2008 the Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference and Non-audit Services Policy.
Following the appointment of  ,  : :consideredits :: : internal audit function in April 2006 Ernst & Young LLP was appointed to provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group.
During the year Ernst& CSA  of businesses in the UK and Ireland and a number of special projects.
The Committee received reports from Ernst & Young at its meetings in March 2008, August2008, November2008, .
 for2008:and Whistleblowing Policy in August 2008 the Committee reviewed the Whistleblowing Policy under which employees may in confidence notify the Company of any concerns, inter alia matters involving financial reporting.
It also reviewed the procedures for investigating and resolving any such concerns.
Thehotlinewas introduced for UK employees in November 2007 for identification of matters they consider relevant.
A full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a .
The Group policy with regard to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external Auditors, which was operated during 2008, is based on the principles that they should only undertake non-audit services where they are the most appropriate and cost-effective provider of the service and where the provision of , , .
: Auditor permitted services those services which it is acceptable for the Auditors to provide and the provision of which can be engaged without referral to the Committee e. g.  :  e. g. selection, ,  :and Auditor authorised services those services for which the specific approval of the Committee is required before the Auditors are permitted to provide the service e. g. complex tax planning and structure advice, corporate finance and M&A activity.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 61 REPORT Of ThE AudIT COmmITTEE CONTINuEd INDEPENDENCE OF AUDITORS CONTINUED The policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any Auditor Authorised Services.
The Committee regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external Auditors.
The policy is reviewed annually .
Details of the amounts paid to the external Auditors for audit and non-audit services in 2008 are set out in Note 4 to the Accounts on page 77.
The external Auditors report to the Committee each year on the actions they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
Deloitte LLP has formally confirmed their independence to .
, independence, objectivity, expertise, ,  andtheBoardagrees  as Auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
OnbehalfoftheBoard dAvId hAxBY ChAIRmAN Of ThE AudIT COmmITTEE 18 mARCh 2009 62 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
