InSUlatIon and bUIldInG enVIronmentS Growth drivers: The need to reduce energy consumption SIG...
THE FIRST CHOICE for insulation materials More stringent regulation Public sector and Private Finance Initiatives high energy costs and environmental concerns drive the use of insulation products across a wide range of construction and industrial applications.
In general, insulation is used to 1,112m control the transfer of heat and sound and provide resistance to fire, all of which are subject to the specific Building Regulations in each country.
In addition, the goal of reducing carbon 36.4% emissions is placing increasing importance on the use of of total revenue appropriate insulation materials and systems.
The most widespread application for insulation is that of thermal management where insulation is most commonly used to retain heat within a building or industrial process.
However, there are also applications, such as cold stores, where the requirement is to keep heat out.
Fire protection is another important application for insulation.
Good design, material specification and installation are vital in protecting buildings from the ravages of fire and ultimately help save lives.
The third application of insulation is that of sound control.
Cities and towns are becoming increasingly dense and the ability to minimise the transmission of noise between dwellings is now an integral part of building design.
The technical capabilities for this application are developing apace and the Group has positioned itself as a leader within this area as well as the wider insulation market.
In all these areas of application, SIG works closely with leading manufacturers to bring a wide range of products to market and provide the technical expertise which only a specialist business is able to offer.
The Group has over 220 trading sites in Europe focused on the requirements of the insulation and building environment market and are able to provide expert advice, wide stock holding and rapid service and delivery.
In the UK, the Group is also engaged in domestic insulation contracting, improving the efficiency of existing residential properties through a number of Government supported schemes and the provision of built-in insulation in new dwellings.
SIG has built upon its extensive experience in the industrial and Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC insulation market to develop into the adjacent and complementary area of air handling and air conditioning materials.
With activities spread across eight countries and twelve trading sites through the recent acquisition of specialist distribution business, Air Trade Centre, this market offers excellent growth prospects driven by increasing regulation on thermal efficiencies in the non-residential environment.
26 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS 1.
SIG stocks a comprehensive range of specialist insulation products to meet the requirements of the customer.
SIG has the most extensive delivery fleet in the industry providing next day delivery to specialist contractors.
SIGs significant local stock holding is provided from over 220 trading sites across the UK and Ireland and Mainland Europe.
SIg SUPPLIeS STrUCTUrAL, INdUSTrIAL ANd hIgh TemPerATUre INSULATION PrOdUCTS, TOgeTher wITh A rANge Of AIr hANdLINg ANd AIr CONdITIONINg PrOdUCTS.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SIG plc 27
