SpecIalISt conStrUctIon prodUctS Growth drivers: Government investment in infrastructure SIG...
THE FIRST CHOICE and non-discretionary spending by utilities for value-engineered construction Demand for high performance solutions and solutions innovative products Supply chain efficiency and specific technical just-in-time project management SIgs Specialist Construction Products division provides a range of materials and consumable items that are essential to the construction process.
detailed product knowledge 284m and a keen understanding of specific technical applications are vital elements of customer support.
9.3% SIG supplies a wide portfolio of specialist construction of total revenue products such as concrete accessories, waterproofing systems, construction chemicals and admixtures, brickwork support systems, specialist fixings, safety products and tools from over 50 trading sites.
Typically, products are supplied to large commercial or civil engineering projects.
Examples include tunnels and bridges, schools and hospitals, retail developments, hotels and office buildings.
The products supplied by SIG are often of critical importance to the whole building programme and must perform to tight specifications and be available for use at the right time and right location.
Consequently, relationships throughout the supply chain with manufacturers, major contractors and specialist sub-contractors are vital.
The capability to resolve problems with expert technical advice and the ability to offer rapid delivery times to maintain workflows on large projects is a big point of differentiation on time-critical projects.
Public sector investment in large scale infrastructure projects together with non-discretionary spending by utility companies generates high levels of continuing opportunity for SIGs products in this sector.
Major construction contractors are increasingly looking to shrink their supplier base and to outsource more work to less suppliers.
SIGs extensive range of products and service make it ideally positioned to take advantage of this opportunity.
32 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS 1.
SIG s trading sites provide customers with technical advice on product specification and product application.
SIG sells a wide range of specialist safety products such as eye, hand and foot protection, with particular emphasis on the construction sector.
In the UK, SIG s Specialist Construction Product activities now fall under four distinct SIG brands: SIG Construction Accessories, SIG Fixings, SIG Access and SIG Safety and Workwear.
The PrOdUCTS SUPPLIed by SIg Are OfTeN Of CrITICAL ImPOrTANCe TO The whOLe bUILdINg PrOgrAmme ANd mUST PerfOrm TO TIghT SPeCIfICATIONS.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33
