PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist products to construction and related markets.
The main products supplied are insulation, exteriors, interiors and specialist construction products.
As at the date of this Report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
 year except that Mr. D. Williams resigned as a Director on his retirement on 30 June 2008.
There is no maximum number of Directors but there shall at no time be less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or bytheBoard.
TheBoardmay, fromtimetotime,  Company for such term, remuneration and other conditions of appointment as they may determine and may revoke such appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts.
All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
The Company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Acts, remove any Director before the .
: i  : ii : iii : iv heresigns: v : vi his : vii : viii  :or ix  of an investigation and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he remains a Director.
D. A. Haxby, ,   circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of his independent judgement.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES The Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against them.
The Company has also provided an indemnity for its Directors to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
42 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS SHARE CAPITAL .
 i. e. in certificated form or held in electronic i. e. uncertificated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may attend any general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every Shareholder or his representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every Shareholder or his representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the registered Shareholder.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless:before, , avoteonashowofhands, ,   :orbyanyShareholders  %of :orbyanyShareholders   been paid up of at least one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
TheBoardmay, ,  ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the Company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed by the Shareholders, divide among the Shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company and he can value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
No Shareholders can be compelled to accept any asset which would give them a liability.
VOTING AT GENERAL MEETINGS Any form of proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
NoShareholderis, ,   which confers, upon public companies, the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply .
 default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant Section793notice, .
: i , dulystamped ifstampable,  : ii  ofshares:and iii .
 the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
 the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
There are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43 REPORT Of ThE dIRECTORS CONTINuEd VARIATION OF RIGHTS , : i %:or ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a reduction of paid up capital or if another share of that same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend or in respect of capital or more favourable voting rights.
AGREEMENTS WITH EMPLOYEES AND SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
 of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
2008 INTERIM REPORT In 2007 the Company changed its Articles of Association to permit the use of electronic communications for all Notices, documents and information to be sent to Shareholders, in accordance with Shareholder preference.
This would enable the Company to use website communication with Shareholders as the default position.
The Company has, at this time, not made any decision as to whether to move to electronic communication as the default position.
Shareholders will therefore for the time being continue to receive paper copies of all Company communications.
Current regulations do however permit the Company not to have to send copies .
ACqUISITION BY THE COMPANY OF ITS OWN SHARES .
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS At13March2009,  : Ordinary sharesof %ofissued 10peach sharecapital DeutscheBankAG 8,301,937 6.11 Avivaplc 6,835,471 5.03 Schrodersplc 6,755,490 4.98 BlackRockInc.
6,632,375 4.88 Fidelity International 6,334,032 4.67 F&CAssetManagementplc 6,084,717 4.48 Legal&Generalplc 5,997,088 4.42 BarclaysPLC 4,910,061 3.62 PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS , .
44 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS ON THE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS : , :and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the .
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the Accounts, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis .
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING , BritanniaWay, Catcliffe, , together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, is contained in a circular to be sent to Shareholders with this Report.
ByorderoftheBoard RIChARd mONRO COmPANY SECRETARY 18 mARCh 2009 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45
