eXterIorS Growth drivers: Essential RMI requirement SIG...
THE FIRST CHOICE in all areas of exterior Growth of specialist distribution as the main supply route roof-related products New products The roof is one of the most critical parts of any building.
It protects the integrity of the buildings structure and the buildings contents from the elements.
repair and 849m maintenance is often an urgent requirement and requires suitable products to be readily available on demand.
27.8% The 370 trading sites in this division offer materials from the of total revenue leading manufacturers of roofing materials and supply products for pitched, flat, industrial and agricultural applications.
As the largest specialist supplier of roofing materials in Europe, the Group is able to keep at the forefront of innovations and provide its customers with a level of technical know-how unrivalled in the market.
As well as specialist roofing materials, each location offers a range of accessories such as tools and fixings, ventilation, access equipment, safety products and insulation materials.
Many of these accessories are core product areas for other Group businesses and the Exteriors business is able to draw on the experience and technical knowledge of its sister businesses as well as taking advantage of Group procurement.
SIG is also a leading supplier in the UK of reclaimed and pre-used roof tiles and slates which have two key advantages over newly manufactured products.
Firstly, they remove the need for energy-consuming manufacture and secondly, their aged and worn character provides an aesthetically pleasing appearance that matches that of the local environment, something that is increasingly important to local communities and planning agencies.
The on-going need for repair or replacement of existing roofs, whether as the result of natural wear and tear or of storm damage, creates a resilient market for roofing materials.
The emergency nature of some repairs requires materials to be readily available from local stock and these demands dictate the nature of the market, which is for a large number of depots holding a broad range of stock.
For new-build applications, where consumers or designers require certain styles or finishes, SIG also provides Roof Libraries which offer a very wide selection of materials and facilitate the specification process.
During the last few years, SIG has also broadened its product offering to include roofline products such as rainwater and guttering, soffit, fascia and barge boards.
28 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS 1.
R oof Libraries in each trading site offer a wide selection of materials and facilitate the specification process.
Each of SIG s trading sites provides a range of ancillary products to support the needs of the roofing contractor.
Mechanical offload facilities ensure product can be delivered wherever it is required on a construction site.
rePAIr ANd mAINTeNANCe IS OfTeN AN UrgeNT reqUIremeNT ANd reqUIreS SUITAbLe PrOdUCTS TO be reAdILy AvAILAbLe ON demANd.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29
