InterIorS Growth drivers: Government investment in schools and hospitals SIG...
THE FIRST CHOICE for a wide range of interior products Rising standards of internal fit out Acoustic and safety standards The interiors market place is demanding, sophisticated and fast moving.
emphasis is on achieving a balance between efficient utilisation of space and the quality and comfort of 809m the working environment.
There is also an added requirement of flexibility to meet the changing business requirements of todays world.
26.5% of total revenue The core product areas for the Group are ceilings, partitioning, dry lining, floor coverings, glass and specialist door systems used in non-residential buildings, together with a wide range of ancillary products supplied to support individual contracts.
All types of non-residential buildings such as schools, hospitals, hotels, offices and shops are supplied with products for either new build or refurbishment projects.
The Group supplies ceiling and dry lining products from leading suppliers and manufactures its own door and partitioning systems.
The Group has over 230 trading sites 80 of which also supply insulation products in Mainland Europe which blend the requirements of small,  projects which require ready access to materials with those of larger, specification-based contracts where specialist advice, service and support are required to secure orders.
Customer and client support may include technical design and development of visual appearance, together with logistics and delivery scheduling in order to meet the fit out requirements.
Delivery service is an important element of project planning as city locations can often have difficult access and minimal space for holding stock.
If materials are not available on time then contractors face lost downtime and potential time penalties.
30 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REVIEW OF THE YEAR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS 1.
SIG provides bespoke performance door and doorsets into schools, hospitals and a whole range of commercial buildings.
In 2008, SIG acquired a glass processing business in the UK to support its partition business but also to enable it to diversify into the wider glass market.
SIG provides a range of partitioning solutions that are supplied bespoke to each customer.
dUrINg 2008, SIg INCreASed ITS PrOdUCT OfferINg wITh The ACqUISITION Of A gLASS PrOCeSSINg SUPPLIer, A mANUfACTUrer Of wAShrOOm SySTemS ANd A TemPOrAry PrOTeCTION PrOdUCT SUPPLIer.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31
