Directors report for the year ended 13 September 2008 The directors submit to the members their seventy-third annual report Payments to suppliers together with the audited financial statements of Associated British The Company has no trade creditors but has a group policy on payment Foods plc the Company for the 52 weeks ended 13 September 2008. of suppliers set out in its Business Principles which states that the group settles its bills promptly, being a signatory to the Better Payment Business review Practice Code.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review, as required by Section 234 ZZB of the Companies Act 1985, and which should Employees be treated as forming part of this report by reference are included in the Employees are the Companys most crucial resource, and it therefore abides following sections of the annual report: by the following principles: Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5.
Equal opportunities it is committed to offering equal opportunities to all people in their recruitment, training and career development, having Group at a glance on pages 2 and 3. regard for their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Full and fair consideration Operating review on pages 6 to 15, which includes a review of the external is given to applicants with disabilities and every effort is made to give environment, key strategic aims and performance measures.
employees who become disabled whilst employed by the Company an opportunity for retraining.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 27 to 29.
Health and safety health and safety are considered as equal in importance Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on page 99. to that of any other function of the Company and its business objectives.
Financial review on pages 16 and 17.
The policy and a full global report is available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk Corporate citizenship on pages 36 and 37.
Harassment the Company will not tolerate sexual, mental or physical Principal activities harassment in the workplace.
It expects incidents of harassment to be The activities of the group principally concern the processing and reported to the appropriate human resources director.
manufacture of food worldwide and textile retailing in the UK and continental Europe.
Comments on the development of the business Human rights managers must take account of the core International during the period under review and on the future outlook are contained Labour Organisation labour conventions and strive to observe the UN within the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Operating Declaration on Human Rights, by respecting the dignity and human review on pages 6 to 15. rights of its employees and in particular as stated below: The Company is the holding company for the Associated British Foods Universal respect for an observance of human rights and fundamental group the group.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set freedoms for all without discrimination as to race, sex, language or religion.
It remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance, its peers and The audited financial statements of the group and Company appear on local conditions.
Communication the Company will brief employees and their Results and dividends representatives on all relevant matters on a regular basis.
The consolidated income statement is on page 48.
Profit for the financial Security the security of our staff and customers is paramount and the year attributable to equity shareholders amounted to 357m.
Company will at all times take the necessary steps to minimise risks to The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.5p per ordinary share, to their safety.
be paid, if approved, on 9 January 2009 which, together with the interim Property, plant & equipment dividend of 6.75p per share paid in July, amounts to 20.25p for the year.
The groups property, plant & equipment are included in the financial Dividends are detailed on page 63. statements at depreciated historic cost.
The properties are employed in Research and development the business and many of them were acquired when market values were Innovative use of existing and emerging technologies will continue to be substantially lower than at present.
The directors consider that a surplus crucial to the successful development of new products and processes for over book value exists, but have not quantified the excess.
Substantial shareholding and controlling interest The Company has a major technical centre in the UK at the Allied Details of a controlling interest in the shares of the Company are given Technical Centre.
Facilities also exist at ACH Food Companies in the in note 30 on page 99.
US, Weston Technologies and AB Mauri in Australia and AB Enzymes in Other than as noted above, so far as is known, no other person holds or Germany.
These centres support the technical resources of the trading is beneficially interested in a disclosable interest in the Company.
divisions in the search for new technology and in monitoring and maintaining high standards of quality and food safety.
Power to issue shares At the last annual general meeting, held on 7 December 2007, authority Charitable and political donations was given to the directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Contributions to charitable organisations by the group during the year Company up to a maximum of an amount equivalent to one third of the totalled 1.6m 2007 1.6m.
No political donations were made during shares in issue at any time up to 6 December 2012.
No such shares have the year.
The directors propose to renew this authority at the annual Financial instruments general meeting to be held on 5 December 2008 for a further period of Details of the groups use of financial instruments, together with five years.
information on our risk objectives and policies and our exposure to price risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rate risks, can be found in note 25 on pages 84 to 96.
20 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our business in action Financial statements A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard to relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
This authority expires auditors in connection with the preparation of their report on page 35. on the date of the annual general meeting to be held on 5 December 2008 Auditors and the directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution Appointment of directors for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the directors to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Directors Nomination committee, any appointment must be recommended by the The names of the persons who were directors of the Company during the Nomination committee for approval by the board of directors.
The Articles financial year and as at 4 November 2008 appear on pages 18 and 19, other also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the than Lord MacGregor and Mike Alexander who each retired from the board first annual general meeting following appointment and all directors who at the end of the annual general meeting on 7 December 2007. held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings, to Charles Sinclair was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 October submit themselves for re-election.
2008 and, in accordance with the Articles, will be standing for election at Articles of Association the annual general meeting to be held on Friday, 5 December 2008.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of Also in accordance with the Articles and the Combined Code on Corporate the shareholders.
Governance, Galen Weston, who has served for more than nine years, Power of the directors Martin Adamson, John Bason and George Weston retire from the board.
The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company These directors, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the annual and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions general meeting.
of relevant statutes, to any directions given by special resolution and to the Three directors of operating subsidiaries, benefited from qualifying thirdCompanys Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles, for example, contain specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to party indemnity provisions provided by the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, ABF Investments plc, during the financial year and at the date borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders at the annual of this report.
Power to purchase the Companys own shares is Non-beneficial interests also provided in the Articles subject to statutory provisions.
The directors The following two directors of the Company at the end of the year had have no existing authority to purchase the Companys own shares.
non-beneficial interests: Significant agreements Galen Weston and George Weston are trustees of a trust, in which they The group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banking have no beneficial interests, which at 13 September 2008 held 683,073 groups.
These facility agreements generally include change of control ordinary shares of 50p 2007 683,073 in Wittington Investments Limited.
provisions which, in the event of a change in ownership of the Company, Subsequent changes could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
The most The interests shown above remained the same at 4 November 2008. significant of these agreements are the US$1.2bn syndicated loan facility which was signed on 12 October 2006 and under which 469m was drawn Directors responsibility statement down at the year end and the 120m Finance Contract from the European The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Investment Bank which was signed on 5 December 2007 and under which Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 120m was drawn down at the year end.
Since the year end, the Company view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit for the Company has negotiated a multicurrency 320m syndicated loan facility with a term and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and of three years.
It will be used for general corporate purposes.
The new Pursuant to Disclosure and Transparency Rules Chapter 4, the following facility has been provided by the Companys existing bank group.
sections of the Companys annual report contain a fair review of the There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate development and performance of the business and the position of the upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is considered a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the that they face: group as a whole.
The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5 Further information 2.
Operating review on pages 6 to 15 which includes a review of the Further information that fulfils the requirements of section 992 of the external environment, key strategic aims and performance measures Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of 3.
Financial review on pages 16 and 17 this report by reference are included in the following sections of the 4.
Directors report Research and Development annual report: 5.
Directors report Property, plant and equipment, and details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attached to the Companys shares set out on pages 78 and 79: and 7.
Directors report Power of directors details of the employee share schemes set out on pages 82 and 83.
On behalf of the board Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Martin Adamson George Weston John Bason report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each 4 November 2008 director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
