RISK PRODUCT LIABILITY The Group monitors the safety of its products from initial product development through to product use or application.
In addition, the businesses of the Group analyse on a worldwide basis reports of adverse reactions and complaints relating to its products.
Each business reviews these adverse reactions and complaints and any safety matters arisingwithits .
Product liability is a commercial risk for the industry of which the Group is a part, particularly in the US.
Smith & Nephew has taken steps it believes are appropriate to minimise losses.
Management believes that the Groups regulatory and medical controls are robust and insurance cover is adequate and appropriate for this class of products.
The Groups reputation depends on strong risk management controls and on appropriate crisis .
In August 2003, the Group voluntarily withdrew the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components from all markets.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were inthe US, 450 inAustralia and 50 inEurope, the first  2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants which need to be replaced.
Evidence suggested that the cause of some revisionswas   fixationwiththebone.
As at 31 December 2008, 1,044 of these implants had undergone revision surgery, and settlements had been agreed with patients in respect of 997 of these revisions.
The total amount paid as of 31 December 2008 in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses was $206m, of which $60m was received from insurers and $ settlement.
In addition to the macrotextured claims, the Group has faced other claims from time to time.
Even if there is no product defect, an unsuccessful patient procedure can lead to a claim of product liability against the Group.
The Group carries insurance against product liability risk in amounts and subject to terms that it believes are appropriate, withasubstantial .
RISK FACTORS There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below could cause the Groups financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical levels.
Factors not listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify or does not believe to be equally significant, could alsoadversely affect Smith&Nephewsbusiness.
Product LiabilityClaims and Lossof Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
Smith & Nephew may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged defects in its products.
In addition, product defects could lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which may be costly and harmful to the Groups reputation.
There can be no assurance that customers, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographical market, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future, or that the Group will be able to resolve such claims within insurancelimits.
 The Groups business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
The markets in which each of the business units operates each contains a number of different competitors, includingspecialised 22
