On 10 May 2007, the Group purchased BlueSky Medical Group, Inc. BlueSky, a private US company for an initialpayment of $15m with further milestone payments of up to $95m related to revenues and other events.
The company developed products for treating chronic wounds using negative pressure wound therapy and markets a range of negative pressure pumps and wound dressing kits.
BlueSky has been integrated into the Groups Advanced .
Following a group-wide in-depth review, the Group launched an Earnings Improvement Programme EIP during the first quarter of 2007.
The objectives of the programme were to enhanceshort and mediumterm performance, to liberate resources for investment and to establish a culture of continuous improvement.
Workstreams were created toaddress improvedperformance,  oftheGroupsbusiness: in cost of goods by increased use of lower-cost locations, mainly in Asia, and savings in procurement by takingadvantage : in a number of administration functions by centralising, where appropriate, functions formerly run separately byeachbusiness, forexample, InformationSystems andHumanResources: :and insales ,  forcesandsales channels.
The financialobjectives of the EIP are to contributeto an increase intrading profit marginby an average of 1% per annum to the end of 2010, net of a planned increase in research and development expenditure.
Cash restructuringcosts areestimated tobe $125mspread overthreeyears to2010.
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Organisation Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis.
This has been achieved through a series of acquisitions, in the US and in Europe, and through continued emphasis on the development and introduction of new products in the .
Smith & Nephew is currently organised into three global business units of Orthopaedics which includes Reconstruction, Trauma and Clinical Therapies, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
The Group also has a separate emergingmarkets unit.
In 21 , theglobalbusiness units take direct responsibility for business operations.
These are referred to as direct markets.
The remaining markets in which the Group has operations are managed by country managers, who are responsible for sales ,  unit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas of business development, legal, company secretarial, finance, human resources and investor relations.
A dedicated Biologicsbusiness locatedinYork, EnglandandDurham,  programmes and skills from across the Group, focusing on advanced, locally delivered biological therapies to .
Orthopaedic reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement and mixing systems used in cemented reconstruction joint surgery.
Orthopaedic trauma fixation products consist of internal and external devices and orthobiological materials used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
Clinical therapies products are those that are applied in an orthopaedic office or clinic setting and include bone growth stimulation, joint fluid therapies and outpatient spine products.
The Orthopaedics business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, which is also the site of its main manufacturing facility.
Products are also manufactured at smaller facilities in Switzerland, Germany, and the UK 5 Group Description as well as third-party manufacturers.
The Clinical Therapies business is headquartered in Durham, North Carolina, , Tennessee.
The Total Knee product portfolio includes the LEGION Total Knee System and the JOURNEY family of products.
The LEGION Total Knee System is comprehensive and technologically advanced.
It enables a surgeon to move from a simple primary procedure to a difficult revision procedure with a single surgical technique philosophy.
VERILAST is one of the newest technologies offered as part of the LEGION System.
It is the combination of OXINIUM and XLPE and provides and maintains extremely low wear rates.
The JOURNEY family includes a range of products developed for the active patient.
The JOURNEY BCS Knee System is designed by the Group to reproduce normal kinematics.
Other highlights of the Groups early intervention portfolio include the new JOURNEY Uni System, the JOURNEY PFJ, and the JOURNEY DEUCE implants.
VISIONAIRE is a key new technology spanning the Groups total knee portfolio that includes the development of patient specific cutting blocks with the , less , .
The trauma fixation product portfolio consists of internal and external devices used in the stabilisation of many types of fractures and limb deformity correction procedures.
Internal fixation products, such as the TRIGEN INTERTAN Intertrochanteric Nail, the PERI-LOC upper and lower locked plating systems, PERI-LOC VLP and external fixation systems such as JET-X and TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME provide orthopaedic surgeons with a  .
Smith & Nephew integrated Plus into its worldwidebusiness during2008.
The Plus Gliding Nail and IP-XS trauma products were added to the Groups European business.
The Plus spine business consists of internal spinal fixation products sold in certain European countries.
The majority of the products are sourced through a distribution agreement with a third party.
Smith & Nephew plans to continue to maintain this spinal fixation business andwillevaluate .
The EXOGEN line of ultrasonic bone healing stimulators, DUROLANE and SUPARTZ hyaluronic acid joint fluid therapies, and outpatient spine products, are the main products in the clinical therapies portfolio.
EXOGEN retained its number one market share position for long bone stimulation in 2008.
EXOGEN is an ultrasound technology approved to treat fractures that have failed to heal known as non-unions and in some cases prescribed to help specific fresh fractures heal faster.
DUROLANE is a single injection therapy used to treat osteoarthritis of the knee and hip currently only approved in Europe and Canada, and is manufactured by Q-MED AB of Sweden.
SUPARTZ is an injection therapy used to treat osteoarthritis of the knee, and is .
Strategy Smith & Nephews strategy for the reconstruction market is to become the leading innovator of solutions for the active, informed patient.
Management believes that by focusing innovation on the needs of younger, more active patients, Smith & Nephew can lead the sector in providing hip and knee implants to this growing demographic segment.
For example, in the US, patients aged 64 and under represent 41% of the primary hip and knee replacement market, and management believes this segment is growing at twice the overall market rate.
The Orthopaedics business continues to invest in strategies that drive patient demand through integrated communications programs, including direct-to-consumer advertising, public relations and internet-based initiatives.
Smith & Nephews strategy for the trauma and clinical therapies markets is to deliver growth through innovative product development in its existing core business while expanding into fast-growing market areas including alternative therapies for pain management and fracture healing.
Management believes these markets will continue to grow for the foreseeable future.
This is largely attributable to a global population increasingly at risk from fractures due to age, osteoporosis, obesity and diabetes, and to continuous advancements in the surgical treatment of fractures.
Smith & Nephew intends to further penetrate these markets by expanding its sales force and by introducingless invasive therapies.
The Group is also contributingto patient  throughits websites,  andattendingsurgeons.
New Products In 2008, for the reconstruction market, Orthopaedics launched the R3 Acetabular System, supporting XLPE, metal and ceramic liners in a single cup system, giving the surgeon all advanced bearing options without changing implants intraoperatively.
Also launched was VERILAST technology, introduced this year with the LEGION family of knee products.
VERILAST couples XLPE with the Groups proprietary OXINIUM technology to reduce wear rates .
6 In the trauma market, several significant product innovations were commercialised in 2008.
The polyaxial locking mechanism of the PERI-LOC Variable-Angle Locked Plating System VLP allows the angles at which locking screws can be inserted and locked into any of the low profile plates to be adjusted for optimal intraoperative versatility.
PERI-LOC VLP specifically targets partial articular fractures in areas of the body where implant prominence and soft-tissue irritation are major concerns.
Additionally, the PERI-LOC Periarticular Reduction Forceps Set provides a variety of soft-tissue sparing instruments for percutaneous reduction of fractures prior to definitive fixation.
The Large Cannulated Screw System 6.5mm, 7.0mm and 8.0mm offers new implants and  percutaneousand .
ThePERI-LOC PFP proximal femoral plate presents an alternative to traditional femoral plating with locked plating technology.
The TRIGEN META-NAIL Blocking Screw Instruments allow precision placement of blocking screws during intramedullary nail procedures to assist with fracture reduction, nail insertion, and postoperative implant stability.
The TRIGEN Percutaneous Intertrochanteric Femoral Antegrade Nail Instruments facilitate minimally invasive antegrade femoral nailing procedures and optimise intraoperative efficiency by combining all proximal locking .
Recent Regulatory Approvals In February 2008, the Japanese government approved the use of the OXINIUM technologyinthe GENESIS II Knee System in Japan.
Regulatory teams in Memphis and Tokyo had been seeking approval for OXINIUM femoral components in the Japanese market for more than six years.
Approval of OXINIUM technology will allow additional OXINIUM implant products to be registered in Japan and will eventually give Japanese customers access .
In 2008, US approvals for the R3 Acetabular Shell and Metal Liner for use with BHR and BHR manufacturing site change were received.
US clearance was obtained for fifteen products: MIS Hip Stem: JET-X Bar System Quick Clamp Bar and Post, MR Conditional: INTERTAN Compression Hip Screw: PERI-LOC Volar Distal Radius Plate: Ti th ECHELON Hip Stem: SL-PLUS Hip Stem: PIGALILEO 4 Generation Surgical Navigation System: MDF Revision Hip Stem: JOURNEY Uni Femoral Component: LEGION Hinge Knee: OXINIUM DH Femoral Head: PERI-LOC Hexalobular Bone Screw: PROMOS Reverse Shoulder: PIGALILEO Surgical Navigation System Knee Replacement Software Module:andVISIONAIRE Patient MatchedCuttingBlocks.
Competition Management estimates that the worldwide orthopaedic market excluding clinical therapies served by the Group grew by approximately 8% in 2008 and is currently worth more than $15.5 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew holds a 12% share of this market by value.
Principal global competitors in the , Stryker, DePuy Johnson&Johnson, Synthes andBiomet.
Management estimates that the worldwide market for clinical therapies increased by 5% in 2008 and is currently worth more than $1.6 billion per annum.
Smith & Nephews primary market for clinical therapies is in the US.
In the US long bone stimulation market management estimates Smith & Nephews market share to be 41%.
Principal competitors are Biomet, DJ Ortho and Orthofix.
In the US joint fluid therapies market Smith & Nephew maintains a share of 21%.
The principal competitors are Genzyme, Sanofi Aventis, DePuy Johnson & Johnson .
Endoscopy Overview Smith & Nephews Endoscopy business, headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts, develops and commercialises endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissue and articulating joints.
The business focuses on the arthroscopy sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the minimally invasive surgery of joints, in particular theknee, shoulderandhip.
The Endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery, including: specialised devices and fixation systems to repair damaged tissue: fluid management and insufflation equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: and radiofrequency wands, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resecting damaged tissue.
7 Group Description Manufacturing facilities are currently located in Mansfield, Massachusetts, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and San Antonio, Texas.
Strategy Smith & Nephews strategic intent is to maintain and grow the business as the leading provider of endoscopic techniques and technologies for joint and ligament repair.
Management believes that the business capitalises on  apreferred , patients andcustomers.
To sustain growth and enhance its market position, the Endoscopy business supports its strategy with surgeon education programmes, financing solutions, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional .
New Products In 2008, Smith & Nephew continued to expand its arthroscopic repair portfolio with the launch of the FOOTPRINT PK SutureAnchor, asystem used toattach rotatorcufftissue toboneintheshoulder.
Additionally, the BIORAPTOR 2.3 PK Suture Anchor was launched for repair of instability in both the shoulder and hip joints.
This anchor is designed to be implanted in the dense bone along the rim of the joint socket.
Its small size and design provide strong fixation, and enable a surgeon to use more than one to establish multiple attachment points.
Its delivery system also enables a surgeon to insert it directly through an incision in the skin .
Smith & Nephews new CROSSTRAC Hip Guide and ARTHROGARDE Hip Access Cannula systems were launched in 2008.
They are designed to ensure more consistent and accurate minimally invasive pathways for the .
The business also launched its BIOSURE HA Interference Screw line for use in reconstructing the Anterior Cruciate Ligament ACL and Posterior Cruciate Ligament PCL in the knee.
BIOSURE Interference screw can be used .
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2008, the Endoscopy business obtained regulatory clearances for the following products in most major markets, except Japan where the approval process is more lengthy: BIOSURE HA bioabsorbable interference screw, made with poly-L-lactic acid PLLA and Hydroxyapatite HA : FOOTPRINT PK suture anchor for shoulder rotator cuff repair: OSTEORAPTOR suture anchor for shoulder instability repair, featuring PLLA with HA: and various other arthroscopy instruments and devices.
In addition, the business also gained approval in Japan for  interferencescrew.
Competition Management estimates that the global arthroscopy market in which the business principally participates is worth more than $2.5 billion a year and is growing at 12% annually, driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, innovative technological developments and a need for cost effective procedures.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew has a 23% .
Smith & Nephews main competitors in the global arthroscopy market in 2008 were Arthrex, Mitek Johnson & Johnson, Stryker,  Conmed.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Smith & Nephews Advanced Wound Management business has its global headquarters in Hull, England and its North American headquarters in St Petersburg, Florida.
The business offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted at chronic wounds connected with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers, and the alleviation of wounds such as  .
8 Advanced Wound Management products are manufactured at facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke, England: Largo, Florida: .
Strategy The strategy for the Advanced Wound Management business is to focus on the higher added value segments of exudate and infection management through improved wound bed preparation and moist and active healing.
In 2007 the business entered the negative pressure wound therapy NPWT market with the acquisition of BlueSky, which management believes will allow the business to build further presence in the technologically advanced areas ofadvanced woundmanagement.
The Advanced Wound Management business has built its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets, largely through investment in additional sales teams particularly in the key markets of the US and Europe.
In 2007 and 2008, management has taken part in the Group-wide EIP and reviewed cost and efficiency across the Advanced Wound Management business.
Savings have been delivered in 2007 and 2008 in areas ranging from support functions to the outsourcing of some manufacturing to low cost countries.
In 2007 the business announced the planned closure of the Largo, Florida manufacturing facility.
New Products Management believes that the market will continue the trend towards advanced products with their ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of clinicianand nursing time and aftercare in thehome.
The move into the NPWT market, particularly in the US, provides access to a market place that management estimates is worth $1.4billion in annual revenue and to a range of products that management believes can  mediumusingnegative pressure .
The ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings range has been considerably enhanced by new versions introduced in recent years that management believes deliver efficient fluid management and an optimal moist wound environment that can lead to promotion of faster healing of the wound, reduced risk of maceration and protection from infection.
During 2008, the ALLEVYN range was extended further with the development of variants that included soft gel adhesives.
This new range of dressings has the efficient fluid management capability of the  .
The ACTICOAT range was enhanced during 2008 with the launch of ACTICOAT Flex, a conformable range of dressings designed to address wounds in awkward anatomical areas such as face and hands and to improve patient comfort during wear.
The ACTICOAT range incorporates the smallest crystallised silver nanocrystalline silver used in the treatment of wounds or burns.
The silver reduces the risk of bacterial colonisation and acts to   orretard healing.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2008, the Advanced Wound Management business secured approvals for a new variant of ALLEVYN Heel, which includes the addition of silver, for ACTICOAT Flex and for low friction Flexigrid.
In addition the Group secured European approval for BIOSTEP, a denatured collagen dressing designed to stimulate tissue granulation.
Competition Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound management market worldwide was $5.2 billion in 2008, an increase of 7% from 2007 which includes the impact of the continuing expansion of the NPWT segment.
Management estimates that Smith & Nephew has a 17% market share of the wider market.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advance in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
Management believes that there is  technologyproducts.
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management in 2008 include Kinetic Concepts, who are wholly in the NPWTsegment, Convatec, , theformerJohnson&.
9 Group Description Joint Ventures and Discontinued Operations Joint ventures are those in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are jointly .
Discontinued operations in 2006 represent the gain on disposal of the Groups joint venture, BSN Medical.
Smith & Nephew owned 50% of the BSN Medical joint venture, which was jointly owned with Beiersdorf AG and was independently managed.
BSN Medical comprised traditional woundcare, fracture casting and bandaging and compression hosiery businesses.
Following the Groups announcementin August 2005 of its intention to dispose of BSN Medical, Smith & Nephew and Beiersdorf AG announced in December 2005 that they had signed an agreement to sell BSN Medical to Montagu Private Equity for an enterprise value of 1,030m.
