As part of the EIP programme, the Group announcedits intention to close the Largo manufacturing facility in 2009 and to outsource or relocate its manufacturing output.
The Advanced Wound Management business purchased land in Suzhou, China and is building a new facility to supply certain wound management products on a global basis.
The Orthopaedics business has purchased land near Beijing, China and construction is due to start on a .
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The business units each manage a portfolio of short and long-term product development projects designed to meet the future needs of their customers and continue to provide growth opportunities for their businesses.
The Groups research and development is directed towards all three business segments.
Expenditure on research and development amounted to $152m in 2008 2007 $142m, 2006 $120m, representing approximately 4%ofGrouprevenue 20074%, 20064%.
The Groups principal research facility is located in York, England with research programmes that seek to underpin the longer-term technology requirements for its businesses and to provide a flow of innovative products.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities, particularly active biologic solutions for clinical needs identified from across the Smith & Nephew businesses.
In-house research is supplemented by  , AmericaandAsia.
Product development is carried out at the Groups principal locations, notably inMemphis, Tennessee and Aarau, Switzerland Orthopaedics, Mansfield, Massachusetts Endoscopy and Hull, England Advanced Wound Management.
INTELLECTUALPROPERTY Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting, with patents, the results of research and development carried out by the Group.
Patents have been obtained in a wide range of fields, including orthopaedic reconstruction and trauma, clinicaltherapies, endoscopyand advanced woundmanagement.
Patent  sought routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfolio stands at over 3,400 patents inforceandpatent applications.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products in the markets in which they are sold by registering trademarks under local laws.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement and currently is not aware of any significant infringement of its trademark registrations.
Smith & Nephews goal is to provide a collectionof intellectual property, whichmay includepatents, trade secrets and licenses, for each major product that reduces the risk associated with failure of any individual piece of intellectual property.
Most pieces of intellectual property protect a relatively small proportion of the Groups annual revenue.
As a result, the Group tries to ensure that its overall business is not sensitive to the loss howevercaused .
In addition to protecting its market position by the filing and enforcement of patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew may oppose third party patents and trademark filings where appropriate in those areas that  interests.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered material to the current operations and the financialresults oftheGroup.
