THEBOARDANDEXECUTIVE OFFICERS &Nephewas at 11March2009comprised: Termof appointment Initiallyelected or expires at Director Position appointed AGM in JohnBuchanan...........
Illingworth......... Executive Director, ChiefExecutive 8February2006 2009 AdrianHennah........... Executive Director,  15June2006 2010 Dr. Pamela J. Kirby.........
Independent  1March2002 2011 Joseph C. Papa...........
Independent  1January2001 2010 Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg.....
He was appointed independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in 2005 and became Chairman in April 2006.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc and a non-executive director of AstraZeneca PLC and BHP Billiton.
He joined the Group in May 2002 as President of Orthopaedics and was appointed a director and Chief Operating Officer in February 2006.
In July 2007 he was appointed Chief Executive.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Prior to joining the Group he held posts within GE Medical, as Chief Executive Officer of a publicly traded medical devices company, President of a respiratory  .
He joined the Group and was appointed a director in June 2006.
She was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Ethics and Compliance Committee.
She is non-executive  S. Warren D. Knowlton 62.
He was appointed a director in November 2000 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Graham Packaging Inc. and a non-executive director of Ameriprise Financial Inc.
Previously he was Group Chief Executive .
He was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He was appointed a director in August 2008 and is a member of the Ethics and Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo Company.
Previously he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Pharmaceutical and Technology Services segment of Cardinal Health Inc. and President and Chief Operating Officer of Watson PharmaceuticalsInc.
He was appointed a director in January 2001 and is Chairman of the Ethics and Compliance Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation and a non-executive director of VarianInc.
Independent non-executive director and Senior Independent Director.
He was appointed a director in 1998 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman of Lanxess AG and a non-executive director of Hoyer GmbH, Biesterfeld AG andSeverstal.
52 ExecutiveOfficers The Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew and other senior executives are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to the executive directors, the following are Executive Officers of Smith & Nephew: Mark Augusti 43.
He joined the Group in 2003 as Vice President of Global Marketing for the Trauma Division and became President Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies in February 2006.
She joined the Group in July 2004, as Senior Vice President Human Resources for the Orthopaedics global business unit.
In August 2007, she was appointed Group Human Resources Director.
Previously, she was Vice President Human Resources with Bristol-Myers Squibb, .
John W. Campo 54 Chief Legal Officer.
He joined the Group in June 2008.
Prior to joining the Group he was employed by General Electric Company for 14 years in a variety of roles, including seven years with GE Healthcare successortoGE MedicalSystems intheUS andAsia.
He joined the Group in June 2007 as President of Orthopaedic Reconstruction and was appointed to his current role in May 2008.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior executive positions with RITA Medical Systems Inc, Computer Motion Inc and United States Surgical a division of .
He joined the Group as President Endoscopy in July 2006.
Previously he was President and Chief Executive Officer of a US manufacturer of medical devices and spent 15 years at  ofeachofPatient CareandHealthSystems divisions.
Senior Vice President Global Planning and Development.
He joined the Group in 1998, and served in planning and business development roles in the Orthopaedics division.
He was appointed to his current role in August 2007.
Prior to joining the Group, he held management positions with United Technologies Corporation.
President of Advanced Wound Management.
He joined the Group in 2003 as Vice President and General Manager of the Clinical Therapies Division.
He was appointed President Advanced Wound Management inFebruary2006.
Group Company Secretary Paul R. Chambers 64.
He joined the Group in 1994 as Assistant Company Secretary and was  inApril2002.
