OUTLOOK AND TREND INFORMATION The discussion below contains statements that express managements expectations about future events or results rather than historical facts.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the Groups actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
Smith & Nephew cannot give assurance that such statements will prove correct.
These risks and uncertainties include factors related to: the medical devices industry in general: product liability claims and related insurance coverage: the geographical markets in which the Group operates: the nature and efficiency of the Groups products: the Groups ability to research, develop, manufacture and distribute its products: and the translation of currencies and the values of international securities markets.
For additional information on factors that could cause the Groups actual results to differ from estimates reflected in these , youshouldread .
The markets in whichthe Group concentrates continueto demonstrate robust growthand are expected to benefit in 2009 and for the foreseeable future from an ageing population, obesity, more active lifestyles and technological developments including less invasive techniques in orthopaedic and endoscopic surgery.
In advanced wound management continuing innovation and the potential for further penetration of moist wound healing and wound bed preparation techniques should continue to stimulate expansion of this market.
The long-term demand fundamentals of the Groups industry continue to be favourable, regardless of the current .
In the orthopaedic reconstruction market, management believes the Group is well positioned and expects continued strength from the Groups strong knee portfolio together with a balanced contribution from across its hip range.
In the orthopaedic trauma market, management will continue to focus on achieving sustainable revenue growth at about the market growth rate during 2009.
Management continues to believe that the Groups Endoscopy business, particularly capital sales, is the most likely to be impacted by the turmoil in the macroeconomy.
In Advanced Wound Management, the Group is concentrating on delivering an improved US   enhanced.
The Group is focused on extending its track record of delivering innovative products, bringing clinical benefits to patients and economic benefits to healthcare providers.
Through the Earnings Improvement Programme the Group is continuing the development of the processes and systems designed to deliver innovation and customer service efficiently, underpinning the Groups target of an annualised 2010 trading margin exit rate of 24.5%.
Management is confident that by executing these priorities the Group will continue to deliver sustainable longtermgrowthforits shareholders.
