MANUFACTUREAND SUPPLY Where management considers that the Group possesses a core competence, its policy is to manufacture products internally whenever possible to ensure quality, regulatory and cost goals are met.
The Group invests in the expansion of its manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet these aims.
The Group will outsource manufacturing where a need is identified.
This might include a requirement for specialised expertise, lower costs .
Where products and services are outsourced, suppliers are determined based on a number of factors which include the complexity of the product, manufacturing technology, manufacturing capabilities, cost competitiveness and intellectual property.
Suppliers are selected based  services to specification, their ability to establish and maintain a quality system and their financial stability.
Suppliers are monitored through on-site assessments and ongoing monitoring of delivered products.
Each business unit purchases raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
These principally include metal forgings and stampings for Orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components and finished goods for Endoscopy, active ingredients and finished goods for Advanced Wound Management and packaging materials across all businesses.
Management believe that whilst prices of principal raw materials can be volatile, the effect is not material to the Group.
Finished goods purchased for resale include SUPARTZ joint and DUROLANE fluid therapy products in the Orthopaedics business, screen displays, optical and electrical devices in the Endoscopy business and enzyme debrider agents and ACTICOAT in theAdvanced .
PROPERTY, PLANTAND EQUIPMENT  follows: Approximate area Square feet 000s , England 15 , England 88  , Tennessee.............. 770 , Tennessee i 102 , Tennessee newfacility 210 , Switzerland. 77  inRotkreuz, Switzerland i.... 28 , China........... 20 , Switzerland. 50  inAndover, Massachusetts..... 112 , Massachusetts...... 98 , Oklahoma................ 150 Advanced  , England........ 439 Advanced , England................. 41 Advanced , China 128 Advanced , Florida i 135 Advanced WoundManagementUS headquarters inSt.
Petersburg, Florida................... 40  inDurham, NorthCarolina 27 i Ithasbeen announced .
The Orthopaedics headquarters and ,  Wound Management facilities in Hull, Gilberdyke, and Largo are freehold while all other principal locations are leasehold.
In 2008, improved Orthopaedics distribution facilities were opened in Baar leasehold and Memphis freehold.
Advanced Wound Management are nearing completion on their manufacturing facility in Suzhou which is leasehold.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is individually significant to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate governmental authorities have approved the facilities.
During 2008 a dedicated Biologics business was formed, which is headquartered inDurham, NorthCarolina.
