THEBUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Strategy Smith & Nephew is a global business engaged in the development, manufacture, marketing and sales of medical devices in the sectors of orthopaedics which includes reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy andadvanced woundmanagement.
Group History The Group has a history dating back 153 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937.
Today it is a public limited company incorporated in the UK, registered in, and conducted under the laws of, England and Wales.
The corporate headquarters is in the UK.
Operations in countries other than the UK are underthelaws ofthosecountries.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the London Stock Exchange measured in terms .
Recent Developments The Reconstruction and Trauma and Clinical Therapies segments reported separately in the annual accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 are now combined into a single reporting segment named Orthopaedics for the year ended 31 December 2008.
This reflects the unification of the management reporting structure for these businesses announced during the year.
Where relevant, revenue, trading profit and operating .
During 2008, a dedicated Biologics business was formed, bringing together the research programmes and skills from across the Group, focusing on advanced locally delivered biological therapies to promote healing and pain relief.
In February 2007, the Group commenced a share buy-back programme of up to $1.5 billion over an initial two years.
In 2008, 16 million shares were purchased at a total cost of $193m.
Since the programme began, the Group has purchased 68 million shares at a cost of $833m.
In light of the current conditions in the financial markets, the Group announced in November 2008 to suspend the share buy-back programme.
There has been no change in the Groups long-term target balance sheet, cash generation or acquisition policy.
On 27 September 2007, settlements were reached inrespect of the subpoenas issued by the US Attorney for the District of New Jerseys office to the Groups Orthopaedics business in 2005 and four of its primary competitors.
The Group paid a civil restitution payment of $29m and entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement and Corporate Integrity Agreement which required improvements to its compliance program.
On 31 May 2007, the Group completed the purchase of Plus Orthopedics Holding AG Plus a private Swiss orthopaedic company for a total of CHF1,086m $889m in cash, including assumed debt.
The acquisition was financed by bank borrowings and was integrated into the Groups Orthopaedics business.
The acquisition of Plus increased the Groups share of the global orthopaedics market, making it the fourth largest global orthopaedics .
In January 2009, the Group reached an agreement with the vendors of Plus to reduce the total original purchase pricebyCHF159m.
As part oftheagreement theparties resolved theirdisputes  adjustments.
In addition, the Group released the vendors from substantially all of their warranties, includingthose relating to taxation, under the original purchase agreement and dropped all existing claims under the original warranties.
