LEGALPROCEEDINGS The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages.
The outcomeof suchproceedings cannotreadilybe foreseen, butexcept as detailed below management believes, none of them will result in a material effect on the financial position or results of operationsoftheGroup.
Product LiabilityClaims In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
A number of related claims have been filed, most of which have been settled.
To date the primary insurance carrier has paid $60m in full settlement of its policy liability.
An additional $22m was received from a successful legal settlement.
At 31 December 2008, $124m remains due, and the Group has sought coverage from five other excess insurers.
However, these excess carriers have denied coverage, citing defences relating primarily to the wording of the insurance policies.
In December 2004, the Group brought suit against theminfederal , Tennessee, andhearingisexpected tocommenceinlate 2009.
A charge of $154m was recorded in 2004 for anticipated expenses in connectionwith macrotexture claims.
Most of that amount has since been applied to settlements of such claims.
Management believes that the $30m provision remaining is adequate to cover remaining claims.
Given the uncertainty inherent in such matters, however, therecanbe .
BusinessPractice Investigations In March 2005 the US Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey issued subpoenas to the five largest sellers of hip and knee implants to US orthopaedic surgeons, including the Groups Orthopaedic business, asking for certain agreements with orthopaedic reconstructive surgeons.
In September 2007 the Group and the other four companies involved settled the criminal and civil matters with respect to any charges against the companies that could result from this investigation, without admitting any wrongdoing as part of the settlement.
The Group paid a civil restitution payment of $29m and entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the US Attorney which obligated the Group to improve its existing compliance program under the scrutiny of a monitor appointed to oversee its efforts.
This agreement is for 18 months, set to expire late in March, 2009, and if the Group meets its terms, the criminal charges that are asserted in the agreement will be dismissed.
At the same time, the Group also entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of the Inspector General OIG of the US Department of Health and Human Services which requires certain compliance efforts.
This agreement is in effect for five years, until September 2012.
If the Group meets its terms, the OIG will not attempt to exclude it from receiving Medicare payments for its products.
The Group has devoted substantial effort to comply with both agreements and decided to apply the best practices developed in the process to the rest of its business units as well.
In September 2007, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC notified the Group that it was conducting an informal investigation of the Group, regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries.
The US Department of Justice has subsequently joined the SECs request.
The Group is cooperating fully with the US Department of Justice and the SEC regardingthese matters.
In June 2006, the US Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana obtained subpoenas requiring Smith & Nephews Orthopaedics business and certain of its competitors to produce documents in connection with an investigation of possible violations of US antitrust and other laws.
In March 2008 the Group was notified that the US Attorney had concluded its investigation and closed its file without bringing any action against the subjects of thisinvestigation.
The Group has received similar inquiries from authorities in other jurisdictions from time to time and, as a matter ofpolicy, cooperatesfully.
46 Patent Disputes The Group is engaged, as both plaintiff and defendant, in litigation with various competitors and others over claims of patent infringement.
Some of the claims against the Group relate to products sold by its Orthopaedics and Advanced Wound Management businesses, including negative pressure wound therapy products.
These disputes are being heard in courts in the United States and other jurisdictions and also before agencies that examinepatents.
In June 2008, the Group won a jury verdict in Portland, Oregon against Arthrex Inc. Arthrex for infringement of a patent relating to suture anchors.
Smith & Nephew was awarded approximately $15m in damages plus approximately $6m interest and an injunction forbidding further sales of infringing suture anchors by Arthrex.
On appeal by Arthrex, the Court of Appeals stayed the injunction pending a hearing.
A second lawsuit against other Arthrex suture anchors has also been stayed pending the appeal.
Arthrex has also asked the US Patent and TrademarkOffice  inquestion.
Other Matters In 2008 the Group  , Plus Orthopedics AG, for breach of warranties inthe 2007 purchase agreement.
In January 2009 the parties agreed to settle all disputes, including those relating to breach of warranty and purchase price adjustment, by reducing the total original purchase price by CHF159m from CHF1,086m $889m at the then prevailing rates paid in May 2007.
This amount has been paid in 2009 and the Group has released the vendors from substantially all of their .
In 2006 and 2007, a number of charges were filed with the US Equal Employment Opportunity Commission EEOC in Memphis, Tennessee, alleging that the Groups employee hiring, training or promotion practices were discriminatory.
A class action law suit was filed in federal court in Memphis in September 2006 with the same allegations.
In 2008 the EEOC dismissed the claims filed with it, and the claims in the lawsuit were settled for an amountthat willbe .
