29 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Legal issues Smiths is committed to operating within the law in all applicable John Crane, Inc. litigation jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit from the rights and protections John Crane, Inc. JCI an indirect subsidiary of the Company, is one of afforded by relevant laws.
The Company aims to anticipate and meet the many co-defendants in numerous lawsuits pending in the USA in which changing requirements of the markets it serves, as legal and regulatory plaintiffs are claiming damages arising from alleged exposure to, or use reforms impact those markets.
The JCI products generally referred to in these cases consist of industrial sealing products, primarily packing Smiths faces different types of legal issues in different jurisdictions.
The asbestos was encapsulated within these products in high level of activity in the US, for example, exposes the Company to the such a manner that, according to tests conducted on behalf of JCI, the likelihood of various types of litigation commonplace in that country, products were safe.
John Crane ceased manufacturing products such as mass tort and class action litigation, and legal challenges to containing asbestos in 1985. the scope and validity of patents.
These types of proceedings or the threat of them are also used to create pressure to encourage negotiated JCI has resisted every case in which it has been named and intends to settlement of disputes.
continue its robust defence of asbestos-related claims based upon this safe product defence.
As a result of its defence policy, JCI has been In addition, contracting with the US Government subjects a company to dismissed before trial from cases involving approximately 159,000 claims numerous stringent regulatory obligations, calling for an active over the last 29 years.
JCI is currently a defendant in cases involving programme of compliance, reporting and communication.
Despite these large numbers of claims, the Companys activities in some countries with less developed legal JCI has had final judgments against it, after appeals, in only 70 cases, systems pose challenges for the protection of corporate assets such as amounting to awards of some US$70m over the 29 year period.
real estate and intellectual property rights.
The 2007 Annual Report noted that JCI had secured the commutation In order to address the challenges and exploit the opportunities arising of certain liability insurance policies, resulting in proceeds of 43m.
from these and other legal issues, Smiths employs experienced lawyers While substantial excess liability insurance remains in place the exact in head office and certain operations, and retains the services of law scope of the cover is currently the subject of litigation in the United States firms around the world.
in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois.
In the meantime JCI has begun to meet defence costs directly, and intends to recover appropriate contribution from insurers in accordance with the terms of the remaining policies in due course.
The 2007 Annual report noted that JCI has made a provision for defence costs of 101m based upon an assessment of the probable costs of defending known and expected future claims.
In establishing this provision no account has been taken of recoveries from insurers as their nature and timing are not yet sufficiently certain to permit recognition.
During the current year, JCI has charged 5m in respect of adverse legal judgments delivered.
Despite JCIs commitment to its safe product defence, history shows that juries will occasionally return adverse verdicts which can be difficult to overturn on appeal.
A further 40m has, therefore, been charged to establish a provision for future adverse judgments.
In deciding upon this amount, JCI has relied on expert advice from a specialist in asbestos liability estimation.
