36 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Board of directors 12 3 456 7 1 Donald Brydon, CBE 4 Stuart Chambers Chairman # Non-executive director Aged 63.
Donald Brydon was appointed to the Board in April Aged 52.
Stuart Chambers was appointed to the Board in 2004, becoming Chairman in September 2004.
He was previously Chief November 2006.
He was Chief Executive of Pilkington plc and became Executive of AXA Investment Managers SA and prior to that had been Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet Glass in June 2008.
Prior to Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Management.
He is joining Pilkington plc in 1996, he spent ten years at Mars Corporation, Chairman of the London Metal Exchange, Chairman of Taylor Nelson latterly as Vice President, Sales & Marketing Mars Electronics Sofres plc and a Member of the Board of AXA Investment Managers SA.
A chemical engineer by training, he previously spent ten He was formerly Chairman of Amersham plc.
years at Shell in a variety of European roles.
He is also Chairman of the North West Business Leadership Team.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Philip Bowman Chief Executive 5 Peter Jackson Aged 55.
Philip Bowman was appointed Chief Executive in Non-executive director # December 2007.
He is currently the senior independent director of Aged 61.
Peter Jackson was appointed to the Board as a nonBurberry Group plc and is a non-executive director of Berry Brothers executive director in December 2003 and as senior independent director and Rudd Limited, as well a member of the Advisory Board of Alchemy in September 2004.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Associated Partners.
He previously held the positions of Chief Executive at Scottish British Foods plc.
He is Chairman of Kingfisher plc and chair of the Power plc from early 2006 until mid 2007 and Chief Executive at Allied Disabilities Trust.
Past board appointments include Senior independent director.
Scottish & Newcastle plc, British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and Coles Myer Limited as well as Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc.
6 John Langston His earlier career includes five years as a director of Bass plc now Finance Director Mitchells & Butler plc and Intercontinental Hotel Group plc, where he Aged 58.
John Langston was appointed to the Board in held the roles of Chief Financial Officer and subsequently Chief Executive December 2000 on the Companys merger with TI Group plc.
Chartered Accountant, he was appointed Finance Director in September 2006.
He previously held positions as head of Sealing Solutions, Group 3 David Challen, CBE Managing Director of Detection and Group Managing Director of Non-executive director Specialty Engineering.
He joined TI Group in 1993, becoming Chief Aged 65.
David Challen was appointed to the Board in September Executive of Bundy Automotive in 1996 and Chief Executive of TI Specialty 2004.
He is Vice-Chairman of Citigroup European Investment Bank and Polymer Products in 1998.
He was appointed a director of TI Group plc former Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co Ltd.
He formerly worked for Lucas Industries.
Independent Director at Anglo American and Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel.
7 Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG Non-executive director # Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to the Board in June 2006.
He served widely in policy, management and finance posts in the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, NATO and finally the Ministry of Defence, where he was Permanent Under-Secretary of State from July 1998 to his retirement in November 2005.
He is Chairman of Finmeccanica UK.
He is also Visiting Professor at Queen Mary, University of London.
Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee # Nomination Committee
