6 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Smiths divisions Smiths Group has five divisions: Smiths Detection John Crane Smiths Detection, John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths Smiths Detection is a world-leading John Crane is a world-leading Interconnect and Flex-Tek.
Our designer and manufacturer of provider of products and services businesses are highly competitive, sensors that detect and identify for the major process industries, with strong technology positions, explosives, narcotics, weapons, these include the oil and gas, and operate in sectors with chemical agents, biohazards chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp excellent opportunities for growth.
and paper, and mining sectors.
Smiths has evolved substantially since its foundation.
Now employing over 22,000 people in more than 50 countries, we serve a diverse range of global customers including governments Customers Customers Our technology is John Crane serves oil and and their agencies, petrochemical deployed at nearly 80% gas companies, refineries, companies, hospitals, of the worlds commercial pump and compressor airports.
Some 85% of manufacturers, chemical telecommunications companies sales are influenced and other process and manufacturers in a variety by more than 100 industries.
Its main governments and customers include BP, of sectors around the world.
their agencies globally, Chevron, China Petroleum, including homeland ConocoPhillips, We bring technology to life.
security authorities, ExxonMobil, Gazprom, customs authorities, Qatargas, Saudi Aramco, Contribution Contribution emergency responders Shell, Total, Dresser, Elliot, to 2008 sales to 2008 sales and the military.
This Flowserve, GE Nuovo includes the US Pignone, ITT, Mitsubishi, 22% 27% Department of Defense, Siemens, Solar turbines, Contribution to 2008 Contribution to 2008 US Transportation Security Sulzer, York, BASF, Bayer, headline operating headline operating Administration TSA, UK Dow, Koch Industries and profit # profit # Ministry of Defence, and Lyondell.
airport operators such 22% 25% Key strengths as BAA in the UK.
Two-thirds of revenue Key strengths from after-market Growth opportunities Growth opportunities Global market growth service Bring new technologies Creation of a single John to market Strong technology Crane customer-facing Market leader in its field, positions organisation blue chip customer base Develop biological and millimetre wave Good access to growing Expand technology Largest segment is fastdetection technology markets footprint through growing petrochemical acquisitions industry Seek acquisitions Investment in R&D increasing Build new upstream Good positions in key Deliver efficiencies: services business that growth markets implement single Employees uses existing global enterprise wide software 2,300 Employees network system and smarter 6,400 sourcing initiative Increase original equipment sales and manufacturing capacity and extend global customer service network With governments seeking more In the petrochemical industry, advanced ways to counter terror our advanced mechanical seals threats, our world leading X-ray are deployed on oil and gas pipelines screening equipment is continuously and refineries, helping to deliver evolving to help keep passengers energy efficiently to millions of safe across the globe.
homes and businesses around Analysis is based on revised operating structure the world.
for 2008 09 see page 72 #Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs
