Board of Directors From left to right: Ettore Contini 34 Roger Cagle 61 Non-Executive Director Executive Vice President, Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer A member of the Board of SOCO International since December 2001.
A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997.
Over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry including succeeding John Snyder 67 positions of responsibility with Exxon Non-Executive Director Corporation and senior management roles with Superior Oil Company.
A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 and a Formerly, Chief Financial Officer of member of the Nominations Committee.
Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary and of Conquest Exploration Formerly, Chairman of the Board of Company.
Santa Fe Snyder Corporation and founder of its predecessor company, Currently, non-executive Chairman Snyder Oil Corporation.
of Dominion Petroleum Ltd and a non-executive director of Vostok Currently, a director of Texas Energy Limited.
Rui fide Sousa 53 John Norton 71 Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO International since July 1999 and International since April 1997 and a Chairman of the Nominations member of the Audit and Nominations Committee.
Currently, a director of Quantic Limited, A Chartered Accountant by profession a director of New Falcon Oil Limited, and a partner at Arthur Andersen, a director of Gazprombank-Invest heading the oil and gas practice in Lebanon SAL and Chairman of Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Carbon Resource Management Ltd. until his retirement in 1995.
Formerly, a member of the Oil Industry Accounting Committee and a director of the Arab-British Chamber of Commerce.
32 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Financials Governance Financials Ed Story 65 Martin Roberts 64 Olivier Barbaroux 53 President and Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 and International since September 2004 International since July 1999 and a a member of the Nominations and a member of the Audit and member of the Remuneration and Committee.
Formerly, a non-executive director A Solicitor by profession and a partner Formerly, Managing Director of of Cairn Energy PLC, President of of Slaughter and May, specialising in Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux, Snyder Oil Corporations international oil and gas projects, until his retirement President and Chief Operating Officer of subsidiary, Vice Chairman of Conquest in 2002.
Head of the Energy Exploration Company, Vice President Sector of Paribas and Chairman and and CFO of Superior Oil Company and Robert Cathery 64 CEO of Coparex International.
holder of various positions with Exxon Non-Executive Director Currently, Chairman and Chief Corporation, including seven years A member of the Board of SOCO Executive Officer of Dalkia and a resident in the Far East.
International since June 2001 and a member of the Executive Committee member of the Remuneration and of Veolia Environment.
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Over 40 years of City experience.
and Senior Independent Director Formerly, Managing Director and Head A member of the Board of SOCO of Oil and Gas at Canaccord Capital International since April 1997 and Europe Limited, Head of Corporate Chairman of the Remuneration and Sales at SG Securities London Ltd.
director of Vickers da Costa and A petroleum engineer who has worked director of Schroders Securities.
in the oil and gas industry since 1965 Currently, a non-executive director of in various roles.
Vostok Energy Limited, Salamander Formerly, a founding director of Energy PLC, Indigovision plc and Enterprise Oil plc, then Managing Central Asia Metals Limited.
Director Technical and a director of Elf Enterprise Petroleum Ltd.
Currently, Executive Chairman of Tower Resources plc and a director of Plexus Energy Limited, a social and environmental advisory network.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 33 The Annual Report of the Directors The Directors present their annual report, along with the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Cynthia Cagle Vice President Finance and Company Secretary 34 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Financials Governance Financials exploration and development activities Principal Activity and Business and, accordingly, are not recommending Review the payment of a dividend 2007 nil.
The Groups principal activity is oil and gas exploration and production.
The Group Directors has its headquarters in London and has The Directors, all of whom held office oil and gas interests in Vietnam, Thailand, throughout the year, and the dates of Congo Brazzaville, the Democratic their current service contracts or letters Republic of Congo Kinshasa and Angola.
of appointment, which are available for The subsidiary undertakings principally inspection, are listed in the table opposite.
affecting the profits or net assets of the Group are listed in Note 17 to the financial Relevant details of the Directors, which statements.
include their Committee memberships, are set out on pages 32 and 33.
Details Information fulfilling the requirements of of Directors, their interests in the shares Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 of the Company, their interests in any the 2006 Act and paragraph 4.1.
8 of the contracts relating to the Companys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the business and Directors contracts are Financial Services Authority DTRs can be included in the Directors Remuneration found within the reports described below, Report on pages 44 to 50. which are incorporated into this report by reference.
A fair review of the performance Mr Snyder, having determined that he and development of the Groups business will reduce his business commitments during the year, its position at the end generally, will retire from the Board at of the year and its future prospects is Directors Holding Office in 2008 the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM.
contained in the Chairmans and Chief Mr Edward Story will retire by rotation and Executives Statement on pages 6 to 11: Director Date of contract Mr Peter Kingston, Mr Olivier Barbaroux the Review of Operations on pages 12 to Rui C fide Sousa Chairman 12.07.99 and Mr John Norton, having served 21: and the Financial Review on pages 22 Peter E Kingston to 25.
The principal risks and uncertainties on the Board for more than nine years, Deputy Chairman and facing the Group are set out in the are subject to annual reppointment and Senior Independent Director 14.05.97 Financial Review on page 25 and, in will also retire at the AGM.
Each of the Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 respect of the principal financial risks, retiring Directors, except for Mr Snyder, Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 in Note 3 to the financial statements.
offers themselves for reappointment, Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 The key performance indicators KPIs being eligible and having been used by management are set out on recommended for reappointment Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 pages 18 and 23, and are summarised by the Nominations Committee.
John C Norton 14.05.97 along with pertinent definitions in the Five Martin J D Roberts 06.09.04 Year Summary on page 73.
The Nominations Committee carefully John C Snyder 14.05.97 considered its recommendations As set out in the Corporate Responsibility regarding the reappointment of retiring Edward T Story 14.05.97 Report on page 26, SOCO is committed Directors with regard to the policies and to high standards of corporate processes set out in more detail in the Denotes those determined by the Board to be responsibility.
However, the size and Corporate Governance Report on pages independent Non-Executive Directors as described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 39. scope of those projects which the 38 to 43, and in particular in respect of Company directly operates is small with a each Directors continued independence commensurately small organisation.
While and the relevance of tenure.
The Board we closely monitor the health, safety and has given full consideration to the balance environmental matters of the full portfolio, of skills, knowledge and unique breadth the primary measures are relevant to the of experience on the Board and the performance of third party operators.
manner in which each of the retiring Additionally, at the current staff size, key Directors contributes to that balance.
personnel matters are measured through In particular, the Board has considered qualitative rather than statistical the value of continuity of leadership measures.
KPIs will be developed in these through the significant development areas at an appropriate time in the project underway in Vietnam.
These evolution of SOCOs operations.
factors have been weighed in consideration of succession planning and Information about the use of financial the need to refresh Board and Committee instruments by the Company and membership.
The Chairman, having given the Group is included in Note 2 n consideration to the results of the Boards and Note 23 to the financial statements.
formal evaluation process and other relevant factors, is satisfied that the Results and Dividends retiring Non-Executive Directors offering The audited financial statements for the themselves for reappointment continue to year ended 31 December 2008 are set out demonstrate the commitment level on pages 52 to 72.
The Directors intend to appropriate to the effective fulfilment of devote the Groups cash resources to its the responsibilities of the role.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 35 recommended the introduction of a of any default shares shall be registered.
The Annual Report of new option plan the Plan, which will These restrictions end seven days after the Directors be submitted for shareholder approval receipt by the Company of a notice continued at the 2009 AGM.
The Plan is intended of an approved transfer of the shares to provide flexibility in motivating and or all the information required by the retaining senior staff members.
Further relevant Section 793 notice, whichever SOCO has provided liability insurance for details of the proposals are included in the is earlier.
The annual cost notice of AGM.
Details of the outstanding of the cover is not material to the Group.
options in the Company are set out in The Directors may refuse to register The Companys Articles of Association Note 28 to the financial statements.
any transfer of any share which is not a allow it to provide an indemnity for fully-paid share, although such discretion the benefit of its Directors which is a Share Capital may not be exercised in a way which the qualifying indemnity provision for the Details of changes to share capital in Financial Services Authority regards as purpose of Section 233 of the 2006 Act.
the period are set out in Note 25 to the preventing dealings in shares of that class financial statements.
The Company from taking place on an open or proper Directors of the Company are appointed has one class of share in issue, ordinary basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse either by the Board or by shareholders shares of 20 pence each, all of which any transfer of a share in favour of more under the terms of the Companys are fully paid.
Each ordinary share in issue than four persons jointly.
The business carries equal rights including one vote of the Company is managed by the per share on a poll at general meetings The Company is not aware of any other Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the terms of restrictions on the transfer of ordinary of the Company subject to the Articles the Companys Articles of Association shares in the Company other than certain of Association and law.
Shares held in treasury carry no restrictions that may from time to time such rights for so long as they are held be imposed by laws and regulations for Articles of Association in treasury.
Votes may be exercised example, insider trading laws : and The Directors are proposing specific by shareholders attending or otherwise pursuant to the Listing Rules of the amendments at the 2009 AGM to the duly represented at general meetings.
Financial Services Authority whereby Companys Articles of Association to Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights certain employees of the Company reflect actual and expected changes by proxy on a poll at a general meeting require approval of the Company to in English company law brought about by the 2006 Act.
Further information are detailed in the notice of meeting deal in the Companys shares.
regarding these changes is set out in and proxy cards issued in connection the notice of AGM.
Voting rights The Company is not aware of any relating to the shares held by the SOCO agreements between shareholders that Supplier Payment Policy Employee Benefit Trust are not exercised.
may result in restrictions on the transfer SOCOs policy is to settle the terms of The Companys Articles of Association of securities or voting rights.
payment with suppliers when agreeing may only be amended by a resolution the terms of each transaction to ensure of the shareholders.
Resolutions will be proposed at the that suppliers are made aware of and 2009 AGM to authorise the Directors abide by the terms of payment.
As the No shareholder is, unless the Board to exercise all powers to allot shares Company is a holding company, it has decides otherwise, entitled to attend and approve a limited disapplication no trade creditors and accordingly no or vote either personally or by proxy at of pre-emption rights.
Further information disclosure can be made of the year end a general meeting or to exercise any other regarding these resolutions is set out in creditor days.
right conferred by being a shareholder the notice of AGM.
if he or she or any person with an interest Charitable Contributions in shares has been sent a notice under A resolution will also be proposed Information regarding the Companys Section 793 of the 2006 Act which at the 2009 AGM to renew the Directors global charitable programmes, which confers upon public companies the existing authority to make market are principally carried out in the countries power to require information with respect purchases of the Companys ordinary where the Group has operations, is to interests in their voting shares and he share capital, and to limit such authority contained in the Corporate Responsibility or she or any interested person failed to to purchases of up to 7,495,071 shares Report on pages 26 to 30. supply the Company with the information representing up to 10% of the Companys requested within 14 days after delivery of issued share capital, excluding treasury Share Option Plan that notice.
The Board may also decide shares.
Shares purchased under this Following expiry of the Companys share that no dividend is payable in respect of authority may either be cancelled or option plan in April 2007, the Board has those default shares and that no transfer held as treasury shares.
Substantial Shareholdings Issued Shares Warrants Name of Holder Number % Held Number Pontoil Intertrade Limited 17,329,514 23.12 487,823 Chemsa Ltd 5,921,435 7.90 325,215 Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 4,901,549 6.54 BlackRock, Inc. 3,894,261 5.20 Legal & General Group Plc 2,973,214 3.97 Banca Akros 2,918,077 3.89 Mr Edward Story 2,874,459 3.84 36 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Financials Financials Governance Financials Substantial Shareholdings The Directors are required to prepare As at 9 March 2009, the Company had financial statements for each financial been notified, in accordance with the year that give a true and fair view of the DTRs, of the interests in the issued share financial position of the Company and of capital of the Company and warrants to the Group and the financial performance subscribe for ordinary shares of the and cash flows of the Group for that Company Warrants as set out in the period.
In preparing those accounts the table on page 36.
Directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Auditors consistently: present information and A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP accounting policies in a manner that Deloitte as the Companys auditors will provides relevant, reliable and comparable be proposed by the Directors at the information: and state that the Company forthcoming AGM.
Deloitte also provide and the Group have complied with non-audit services to the Group which applicable accounting standards, subject are set out in Note 9 to the financial to any material departures disclosed and statements.
The Directors are currently explained in the accounts.
satisfied, and will continue to ensure, that this range of services is delivered The Directors are responsible for keeping in compliance with the relevant ethical proper accounting records which guidance of the accountancy profession disclose with reasonable accuracy at and does not impair the judgement or any time the financial position of the independence of the auditors.
Each of the Company and the Group and enable Directors at the date of approval of this them to ensure that the accounts comply report confirms that, so far as he is aware, with relevant legislation.
They are also there is no relevant audit information, responsible for safeguarding the assets being information needed by the auditors of the Company and the Group and in connection with preparing their report, hence for taking reasonable steps for the of which the auditors are unaware.
prevention and detection of fraud and Each Director has taken all steps that other irregularities.
he ought to have taken, having made such enquiries of his fellow Directors The Directors are responsible for the and the auditors and taken such other maintenance and integrity of the corporate steps as are required under his duties and financial information included on as a Director, to make himself aware of the Companys website.
Information any relevant audit information and to published on the internet is accessible establish that the auditors are aware of in many countries with different legal that information.
This confirmation is given requirements.
Legislation in the United and should be interpreted in accordance Kingdom governing the preparation and with the provisions of Section 234ZA of dissemination of financial statements may the Companies Act 1985. differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern Directors Responsibility Statement It should be recognised that any The Directors confirm that, to the best consideration of the foreseeable future of each persons knowledge: involves making a judgement, at a a the financial statements set out in particular point in time, about future pages 53 to 72, which have been events which are inherently uncertain.
prepared in accordance with Nevertheless, at the time of preparation applicable United Kingdom law and of these accounts and after making International Financial Reporting enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Standards as adopted by the expectation that the Group has adequate European Union, give a true and fair resources to continue operating for the view of the assets, liabilities, financial foreseeable future.
For this reason, and position and profit of the Company taking into consideration the additional and of the Group taken as a whole: and factors in the Financial Review on page b the management report, which is 25, they continue to adopt the going incorporated into this report, includes concern basis in preparing the accounts.
a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Directors Responsibilities for the position of the Company and the Financial Statements Group taken as a whole, together with The Directors are responsible for a description of the principal risks and preparing the annual report and the uncertainties that they face.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law By order of the Board and International Financial Reporting 9 March 2009 Standards as adopted by the European Union both for the Group Cynthia Cagle and the Company.
Company Secretary Annual Report and Accounts 2008 SOCO International plc 37
