Business Review Group Overview We serve our clients Spectris designs, develops through our global presence and markets  instrumentation 2008 sales by destination Continuing businesses and controls.
Our products, applications and services help Rest of world 7% UK 4% customers to: Improve product quality and performance Continental Europe 38% Asia 28% Improve core manufacturing processes Reduce downtime and wastage North America 23% Reduce time to market We operate on a global scale Our sales and service offices are located around the world, supporting customers in the key regions of Europe, Asia and the Americas, and with a growing presence in other expanding regions in the rest of the world.
We enable our customers to achieve rapid payback on their investment Our products generally involve low capital expenditure and bring significant and rapid payback for customers in terms of increased productivity.
A typical example is the installation of a BTG Mtek system at a large producer of recycled fibre-based carton board, which, by cutting chemical additives and boosting productivity, paid for itself in just three months.
In another example, a UK mineral processing company has increased throughput by around 60% following the installation of a Malvern in-line particle size analyser.
The majority of our sales are to customers who are looking to upgrade existing processes at modest cost.
This Business Review forms part of, and should be read in conjunction with, the Directors Report.
06 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008 O Ove ver rv viie ew w Business Review Governance Financial Statements and operate in a balanced Contents range of end markets 06 Group Overview 08 Strategy and Objectives 09 Key Performance Indicators 10 Operating Review 2008 approximate sales by end user market 20 Financial Review Continuing businesses 23 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Other 18% Metals, minerals and mining 13% 26 Employees Transport 12% Energy and utilities 4% Semicon, Pulp and telecoms, paper 11% electronics 7% R&D 7% Machine building 10% Distribution 9% Pharma, life sciences 9% We operate across a diverse range of markets Our customers are multinational, blue-chip customers in a diverse range of end markets, with no individual market representing more than 13% of total group revenues.
Metals, minerals and mining, pharmaceuticals, pulp and paper, and transportation primarily research and development for the automotive and aerospace industries are the principal end markets.
Our core business is the design, assembly and testing of our 6,057 products, and we outsource manufacturing and non-core activities where possible in order to reduce fixed costs Employees worldwide and speed up response times.
Our businesses have resilient qualities and 29 operate in niche markets Our businesses are leaders in their specialised markets, Countries in which we have offices with strong brands and market-leading products.
Many of their activities are focused on markets which demonstrate resilient growth drivers.
These include increasing environmental, health and safety legislation which drives demand for our products in areas such as environmental noise monitoring and emissions control: restricting hazardous substances in product manufacture: and food safety.
In addition, consumables, product and software upgrades, replacement parts and calibration services form a significant part of our business, providing a degree of protection from wider economic trends.
07 Annual report and accounts 2008 Spectris plc
