Board of Directors 01 John Hughes, Chairman 05 Peter Chambr, Non-executive director John Hughes was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became Peter Chambr was appointed to the Board in 2006.
He is a member Chairman in May 2008.
He is chairman of the Nomination of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
He is Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
John chairman of Axellia Pharmaceuticals, ApaTech and 7TM Pharma, was previously executive vice-president and chief operating officer all private companies, and a non-executive director of BTG plc.
He of defence, aerospace and electronic systems company Thales Group is also an adviser to private equity company 3i.
Peter was formerly and is currently non-executive chairman of Intec Telecom Systems chief executive officer of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and Telecity Group plc, non-executive deputy chairman of plc and prior to that was chief operating officer of Celera Genomics Parity Group plc, and a non-executive director of Chloride Group Group and Chief Executive of Bespak plc.
plc and Barco NV, a company quoted on the Brussels Stock Exchange.
06 Anthony Reading MBE, Non-executive director Anthony Reading was appointed to the Board in 2004.
He is 02 John OHiggins, Chief Executive chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the John OHiggins joined Spectris in 2006.
He is a member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee and is the Senior Nomination Committee.
Prior to joining Spectris, he was with Independent Director.
Tony was previously a director of Tomkins Honeywell, most recently as President of Automation and Control plc and chairman of Tomkins Corporation, USA, and a nonSolutions, Asia Pacific.
He began his career with Daimler Benz in executive director of George Wimpey plc.
John has engineering degrees from University College director of Laird plc, Taylor Wimpey plc and e2v technologies plc.
Dublin and Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD.
07 John Warren, Non-executive director 03 Clive Watson, Group finance director John Warren was appointed to the Board in 2006.
He is chairman Clive Watson joined Spectris in 2006.
He was previously at Borealis, of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration a leading provider of plastics solutions, where he was chief financial Committee.
From 2000 to 2005 John was group finance director at officer and executive vice president for business support.
Prior to that he was with United Biscuits Plc for 19 this, he was group finance director at Thorn Lighting Group and years, latterly as group finance director.
He has been a nonbefore that group finance director Europe with Black & Decker.
executive director of Rexam Plc and RAC plc and is currently a Clive is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in non-executive director of The Rank Group Plc, Bovis Homes Group England and Wales and the Chartered Institute of Tax and holds a PLC, BPP Holdings plc and Uniq plc.
Bachelors degree in Commerce & Accounting from the University of Birmingham.
08 Roger Stephens, Head of commercial and company secretary Roger Stephens is an economics graduate and chartered company 04 Jim Webster, Business group director secretary.
Prior to joining Spectris in 1997, he held commercial Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, joined Spectris in 1993.
He is roles in the power and construction sectors, specialising in contract responsible for the operational supervision of a number of the negotiation, claims resolution, IP exploitation and property groups trading companies.
He was previously general manager of development.
the European Wire and Cable Division of Raychem Corporation.
He is a non-executive director of Raymarine plc.
30 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008 O Ove ver rv viie ew w Business Review Governance Financial Statements 01 02 01 02 03 04 03 04 05 06 05 06 07 08 07 08 31 Annual report and accounts 2008 Spectris plc
