Business Review Strategy and Objectives Our objective is to deliver shareholder value over the long term by supplying  solutions for our customers.
Our strategy is based on five key elements: Business model In order to deliver our strategy successfully, we organise our Strengthening market positions through innovation businesses in a way that combines the benefits of a multinational We invest around 6-7% of sales each year in R&D 7.2% in group with the best aspects of entrepreneurial capability.
Our 2008, with the aim of developing and delivering advanced business model is based on a flat organisational structure of four products and applications to our customers.
Working closely segments, each comprising a number of autonomous operating with customers, experienced engineers develop solutions which companies, with management teams who have a high degree of are tailored to the customers specific requirements, based on responsibility and accountability, operating within a framework standard platforms customised through high added value of group management and control.
Within each business segment, applications engineering.
This understanding of our customers the companies operate with their own brands, sales and service processes brings significant competitive advantage.
Much of our channels, tailored to meet individual customer requirements, technology is proprietary and protected by patents or process enabling them to meet their customers demands.
New products and applications may be developed in of this results-driven structure is that management teams have house, by acquiring bolt-on product lines or by collaboration local ownership and can focus on their priorities and react and licensing agreements for proprietary technology in quickly to changing customer and market demand.
High calibre partnership with universities and other institutions.
employees, including qualified scientists, applications engineers and technicians, have direct contact with users to develop solutions Increasing regional expansion with a focus that deliver tangible benefits.
Stand-alone acquisitions must share on emerging markets these business characteristics and have the management strength We seek to grow our businesses around the world, with to operate as autonomous units within the Spectris group.
particular emphasis on industrialising markets such as China, India and Latin America.
We continue to establish sales and Central to our philosophy is a small corporate centre which support facilities in these regions so that we are able to support determines the strategy and drives and monitors its our global customers wherever they are based.
In addition to setting and monitoring the groups overall policies and values, the centre provides advice and selective Growing existing businesses through acquisition support services such as legal, tax and treasury, establishing a We seek to enhance the growth potential of our businesses by control framework within which entrepreneurial cultures can pursuing an active but disciplined approach to acquisitions, thrive and knowledge can be shared between businesses.
focusing on businesses which are strong players in specific application areas where there are significant barriers to entry.
SERVOPRO MultiExact The SERVOPRO MultiExact is an innovative multi-gas Focusing on operational excellence analyser specifically developed to meet the latest We continue to focus on improving all aspects of our business industry requirements for air separation plants.
It through a range of actions including: process efficiencies, value provides exceptional levels of accuracy, stability and pricing, optimising the business mix, cost competitiveness, reliability for all required gas measurements, whilst offering unparalleled ease-of-use and minimising designing products for low-cost production, reducing inventory maintenance and cost of ownership.
and improving supply chain management.
Building our presence in key strategic growth areas, both organically and through acquisition We aim to grow our existing businesses organically by developing new products as well as pursuing opportunities for growth in new markets, such as nano-technology and life sciences.
Our investment in R&D enables us to maintain our leading market positions and acquisitions are targeted at both existing and new markets.
08 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008
