Directors Report The directors present their report and accounts for the year ended 21,363 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet the 31 December 2008. companys obligations under its share plans and no shares were cancelled out of Treasury.
An authority to make further market Principal activities purchases of the companys ordinary shares, if believed appropriate, Spectris designs, develops and markets  will be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting instrumentation and controls.
For 2008 reporting purposes, the although the Board has no present intention of so doing.
businesses were grouped into four segments: Materials Analysis, Test and Measurement, In-Line Instrumentation and Industrial Also included in the special business of the 2009 Annual General Controls.
Further details of the trading companies can be found in Meeting are proposals to renew the directors authority to allot the Business Review page 6.
Developments in the groups business shares up to prescribed limits.
activities are discussed in the Chairmans Statement page 2, the Chief Executives Statement page 4 and the Business Review.
The company is introducing a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, providing shareholders with the option of using their dividend Acquisitions payments to buy additional Spectris plc shares.
Further details are During the year a number of acquisitions were made.
Malvern given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Instruments acquired Viscotek Corporation, a US-based provider of chromatography solutions for the characterisation of natural and At 23 February 2009 interests notified to the company in synthetic polymers and proteins.
HBM and Particle Measuring accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Systems acquired their distributors in, respectively, the Nordic Rules comprised: countries and China.
HBM acquired nCode International, a supplier of durability, test and analysis software and mobile data Standard Life Investments acquisition instruments.
Microscan acquired Siemens Machine 10,490,369 shares 9.10% material interest Vision Business, a leader in Automatic Identification and Data Capture AIDC, specialising in machine vision and inspection AXA SA systems used in a broad array of manufacturing, packaging and 6,160,607 shares 5.34% material interest traceability applications.
Finally, the LDS Test & Measurement business was acquired and integrated with Brel & Kjr Sound & Ameriprise Financial Inc. Vibration and HBM.
LDS is a leader in integrated vibration test 5,747,326 shares 4.98% material interest and measurement equipment and software for applications in the aerospace, defence, automotive, machinery, electrical and Legal & General Group Plc electronics markets.
The total consideration, including acquisition 4,997,437 shares 3.99% material interest expenses and net debt acquired, as well as deferred and contingent consideration expected to be paid in future years, for the above Barclays Global Investors acquisitions, was 88.8 million.
Deferred consideration paid and 3,483,251 shares 3.02% material interest working capital adjustments made during the year in respect of prior year acquisitions amounted to 1.3 million.
Takeovers directive Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the Disposals EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to disclose certain There were no disposals during the year.
Such disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report, include the following: Share capital The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 5p The companys Articles of Association Articles give power to the each: each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings Board to appoint directors, but require directors to submit of the company.
The authorised and issued share capital of the themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting company, together with movements in the companys issued share following their appointment and for re-election where they have capital during the year, are shown in Note 25 on page 77.
The been a director at each of the preceding two Annual General Articles of Association of the company, available on the companys Meetings and were not appointed or re-appointed by the company website, contain provisions governing the ownership and transfer at, or since, either such meeting.
The Articles may be amended by of shares.
special resolution of the shareholders and are available to view on the companys website.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting shareholders authorised the directors to make market purchases of the companys ordinary The Board of directors is responsible for the management of the shares up to a maximum number of 12,500,000 shares, representing business of the company and may exercise all the powers of the approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the company, and company subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes, the to either cancel the shares or hold them as Treasury shares which companys Memorandum of Association and the Articles.
The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the may then be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of the companys share plans, depending on the best interests of companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the Articles and such the companys shareholders at the time.
At the close of business on 23 February 2009, the company had 125,005,123 ordinary shares authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
in issue, of which 9,694,495 were held in Treasury.
During the year 32 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate In accordance with Section 309C of the Companies Act 1985 the upon a change of control of the group following a takeover, such as directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity provision bank loan agreements and company share plans.
None of these are entered into between the company and its directors and officers deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the which was in force at the date of approval of this report.
This business of the group as a whole.
In addition, there is a service indemnity gives contractual force to the Indemnity of Officers contract between the company and one of its directors which provision contained in the companys Articles which were approved provides for compensation for loss of office or employment by shareholders in May 2005. following a change of control of the group please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on page 40 for further explanation.
Auditors It is also possible that funding arrangements for the groups defined Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and benefit pension arrangements would need to be enhanced following to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be a change of control if that resulted in a weakening of the relevant proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Dividend The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the companys Results for the group are set out in the Consolidated Income offices on Tuesday 19 May 2009 at 11.30 a. m. is contained in a Statement on page 45 and in the supporting notes.
A final separate letter from the Chairman accompanying this report.
dividend of 17p per ordinary share is proposed for the year to 31 December 2008 2007: 15.25p.
With the interim dividend, this Corporate governance makes a total for the year of 23.4p 2007: 21p.
The final dividend will be paid on 26 June 2009 to shareholders on the register on Combined Code statement of compliance 5 June 2009.
Spectris plc is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code that is appended to the Listing The terms of the Spectris plc Employee Benefit Trust provide that Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Combined Code sets out dividends payable on shares held within the Trust are waived to principles and provisions relating to the good governance of 0.01p.
No dividends are payable on shares held in Treasury.
Research and development Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility of Expenditure committed to research and development is focused on the whole Board.
This statement describes how the company applied new product development, applications engineering and process the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined integration.
Costs are expensed as incurred, except where the Code during 2008.
The Board considers that it was throughout the expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation.
In the year and continues to be in full compliance with the provisions set year to 31 December 2008, amounts expensed totalled 57.0 million out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that: 2007: 45.2 million, and no expenditure met the criteria for capitalisation 2007: nil.
A majority of the members of the nomination committee are not independent non-executive directors, as required by provision Fixed assets A.
The committee consists of the Chairman, the senior Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book independent director and the Chief Executive and the Board values, the directors believe that the differences are not material.
considers this to be the most appropriate composition for the sensitive issues addressed by the committee.
Payment of suppliers The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure that terms Board composition and procedures of payment accord with contractual and legal obligations.
The The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout the year company had no trade creditors at the year end 2007: nil.
to consider developments in relation to the companys strategy and long-term objectives and to review trading results and operational Directors and business issues.
In particular it deals with those matters The directors of the company are named on pages 30 and 31. reserved to it for decision, including the acquisition and disposal of Stephen Harris resigned from the Board on 31 January 2008. businesses, major capital expenditure, the appointment and, where John Poulter retired from the Board following the 2008 Annual necessary, removal of directors and Board and senior management General Meeting.
Additional meetings are convened as required to consider specific topics requiring immediate decision.
Usually, John OHiggins and John Warren retire from the Board by rotation two meetings each year are held at operating locations and in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, encompass a detailed review of the relevant business.
Operational offer themselves for re-election.
decisions are delegated by the Board to senior management at trading company level over which the executive directors exercise The directors total remuneration for the year and their supervision.
All directors receive detailed progress reports one interests in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries week prior to each Board meeting.
at 31 December 2008 are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 43.
33 Annual report and accounts 2008 Spectris plc Directors Report continued The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive S C Harris and J W Poulter held office for part of the year only.
directors and three non-executive directors.
The Board considers S C Harris attended both of the two Board meetings which he its non-executive directors Peter Chambr, Anthony Reading and was eligible to attend.
J W Poulter attended four of the five Board John Warren to be independent, in that none of them are or have meetings he was eligible to attend and did not attend the ever been holders of an executive office with the company.
The nomination committee meeting he was eligible to attend as positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent its subject matter concerned his succession as Chairman.
director are held by separate individuals and, in accordance with the Combined Code, the Board has adopted written profiles for the Board appointments and performance evaluation first two of these.
The non-executive directors have all had senior The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, the senior experience in other organisations and offer independent judgement independent director and the Chief Executive and is chaired by the on Board matters.
The Chairmans other significant interests are as Chairman, save in the event of discussions relating to his succession non-executive chairman of Intec Telecom Systems plc and Telecity when the senior independent director takes the chair.
Group plc, non-executive deputy chairman of Parity Group plc and non-executive director of Chloride Group plc and Barco N. V. The Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a new Board believes that the Chairmans obligations to the company are director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to present for unaffected by these directorships.
Board consideration suitably qualified candidate s. In making such recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance of skills, There are procedures for individual Board members to receive knowledge and experience on the Board and develops a description induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent of the role and required capabilities.
Candidates are then identified professional advice at the groups expense where specific expertise is for interview, external search consultants being engaged as part of required in the course of exercising their duties.
All directors have this process.
The committee also makes recommendations to the access to the company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring Board regarding the re-election and or re-appointment of any compliance with appropriate statutes and regulations.
Similar selection processes apply for the appointment of a chairman.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter at The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its terms of intervals of no more than three years.
reference can be found on the companys website.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees, The operation of the Board and its committees is reviewed by the notably the nomination, remuneration and audit committees.
The Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and company terms of reference of these committees are published on the secretarys performances are appraised annually against objectives companys website and the following additional documents are established for the prior year.
The contributions of the Chairman available to shareholders on application to the company secretary: and non-executive directors are reviewed in advance of the conclusion of their initial three-year term, by the senior schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: independent director and the Chairman respectively, prior to their responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the being proposed to shareholders for re-election.
Additionally, the non-executive directors: Chairman holds periodic meetings with the non-executive directors relations with shareholders: only and, led by the senior independent director, the non-executives performance evaluation: and have the opportunity to meet at least annually without the procedure for taking independent professional advice.
Board and committee meeting attendance 2008 An evaluation of the operation and performance of the Board was conducted in 2008.
The process included submissions from all Remuneration Audit Nomination Board members in response to a structured questionnaire covering Board committee committee committee a range of issues, which were considered by the Chairman and Total meetings during year 13 4 3 1 the senior independent director and then reviewed by the Board J L M Hughes Chairman 13 4 2 n a as a whole.
A J Reading senior independent director 13 4 3 1 Shareholder relations P A Chambr 11 4 3 n a Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional shareholders J A Warren 12 4 3 n a and divulges such information as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
The content of presentations made after results J E OHiggins announcements may be accessed by individual investors on the Chief Executive 13 n a n a 1 group website, www.
C G Watson 13 n a n a n a J C Webster 13 n a n a n a All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the S C Harris 2 n a n a n a chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees J W Poulter 4 n a n a are available to answer questions.
The results of proxy votes are 34 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has The Head of Internal Audit is employed by the group to perform been dealt with on a show of hands.
These are then published on the internal control reviews across the group according to a work group website.
programme agreed by the committee.
The Head of Internal Audit is assisted in this by two further internal auditors and by other group The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders finance personnel.
The nature and scope of the groups internal through periodic reports from the Chief Executive, the companys control review resources is reviewed by the audit committee joint brokers Merrill Lynch and RBS Hoare Govett and the annually.
The audit committee receives reports twice a year on the companys shareholder relations adviser, Makinson Cowell.
The results of internal control reviews.
The Head of Internal Audit has Chairman and non-executive directors have the opportunity to direct access to the chairman of the audit committee and may meet attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
with him in the absence of executive management.
Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the companys issued Internal controls share capital receive a standing invitation to meet the Chairman, The groups system of internal controls is described on page 23 of the senior independent director or new non-executive directors.
Such meetings would supplement if necessary, but not replace, the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and group Going concern finance director.
Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial facilities, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate Audit committee resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The audit committee comprises the non-executive directors and future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis is chaired by John Warren who has recent and relevant financial in preparing the groups accounts.
experience as the former group finance director of WH Smith PLC.
The committee meets at least twice each year to consider the Business Review effectiveness of the groups internal controls, policies and The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business procedures, the process of internal audit and the outcome of the Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and external audit.
Its meetings are normally attended by the Chairman, which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference, the Chief Executive, the group finance director, the company is included in the following sections of the annual report: secretary and the external auditor.
All executive directors attend the year end final audit review meeting and processes requiring the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3. disclosure of relevant information by individual directors to the Chief Executives Statement on pages 4 and 5. auditor have been adopted.
The committee regularly confers with Group Overview on pages 6 and 7. the auditor without the attendance of executive directors.
Its terms Operating Review on pages 10 to 19, which includes a review of of reference can be found on the companys website.
Key strategic aims and performance measures are described on The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the pages 8 and 9.
Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 23 then for approving the external auditors remuneration, terms of and 24. engagement and scope of work.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on pages 12 to 19.
The committee has also adopted procedures governing and Financial Review on pages 20 to 22. restricting the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit Corporate citizenship on pages 25 to 29 which includes the services.
The following services are precluded: companys policy on treatment of its employees.
book-keeping or other services related to the accounting records Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the or financial statements of Spectris plc: Directors Report and the financial statements financial information systems design and implementation: The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution and the group and parent company financial statements, in in kind reports: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
actuarial services: internal audit outsourcing services: Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent management functions or human resources: company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking law they have elected to prepare the group financial statements in services: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all other with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence and taxation Accepted Accounting Practice.
services above which all engagements are subject to prior approval by the audit committee.
35 Annual report and accounts 2008 Spectris plc Directors Report continued The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as The directors who held office at the date of approval of this adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report In preparing each of the group and parent company financial We, the directors of the company, confirm that to the best statements, the directors are required to: of our knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them a the financial statements of the group have been prepared in consistently: accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and for the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: company under UK GAAP, in accordance with applicable for the group financial statements, state whether they have been United Kingdom law and give a true and fair view of the assets, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group: and for the parent company financial statements, state whether b the information that is cross-referenced from the Business applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Review section of the Directors Report includes a fair review to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent of the development and performance of the business and the company financial statements: and position of the group, together with a description of the principal prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis risks and uncertainties that face the group.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
R J Stephens Secretary The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 24 February 2009 the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
36 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008
