Governance Report of the directors The directors present their Annual Report to the Results and dividends shareholders together with the audited consolidated The consolidated income statement is on page 43.
Profit financial statements of the Group and the parent for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders Company financial statements for the year to 31 amounted to 74.8 million.
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to shareholders of the Company.
The A final dividend of 0.6 pence per Ordinary Share is Annual Report contains certain forward-looking recommended by the Board for the year to 31 December statements with respect to the operations, performance 2008 2007 nil for which approval will be sought from and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, shareholders at the Companys 2009 Annual General these statements involve uncertainty since future events Meeting 2009 AGM on 7 May 2009, to be paid on and circumstances can cause results to differ from those 8 May 2009 ADR holders on 18 May 2009 to those anticipated.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be shareholders whose names are on the Register of construed as a profit forecast.
Members on 6 March 2009. Business review Together with the interim dividend of 0.5 pence per The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to Ordinary Share 2007 nil which was paid to shareholders present a Business Review in this report.
The information on 15 October 2008, this amounts to a total dividend for that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections 2008 of 1.1 pence per Ordinary Share.
set out below and is incorporated by reference into this report: Share capital and control The Company has a single class of share which is divided 1 Chairmans statement on page 3: into Ordinary Shares of 3 3 pence each.
Each Ordinary Chief Executive Officers review on page 4: Share carries one vote and all of the Ordinary Shares Description of the business on page 5: rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights Business group development and performance on relating to the Ordinary Shares.
pages 6 to 9: Financial review on pages 10 to 14: At the date of this report, 671.8 million Ordinary Shares 1 Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 15 to 17: of 3 3 pence each had been issued and are fully paid Corporate social responsibility statement on pages 18 up and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The to 20: and Company also operates a Level 1 American Depositary Statement of directors responsibilities on Receipt ADR programme with each ADR representing page 26. four Ordinary Shares.
The ADRs trade on the US over-thecounter market and The Bank of New York Mellon is the This Business Review has been prepared to provide the authorised depositary bank for the Companys ADR Companys shareholders with a fair review of the programme.
Further details on share capital are set out business of the Company and a description of the in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements and principal risks and uncertainties facing it.
note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
This report, together with the sections of the Annual The rights including those relating to voting, obligations Report incorporated by reference as set out above, and any restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys consist of a directors report that has been drawn up and Ordinary Shares, as well as the powers of the Companys presented in accordance with, and reliance upon, directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of applicable English law.
The liabilities of the directors in Association, a copy of which can be found on our website connection with that report shall be subject to the at www.
com or can be obtained from Companies limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
House or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended Principal activities by a special resolution at a general meeting The principal activities of the Group are set out on page of shareholders.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Spirent Communications plc 22 Annual Report 2008 Governance A Group company has a significant agreement with a Share capital and control continued contract manufacturer which contains a clause requiring During the year to 31 December 2008, options and the manufacturers consent to any proposed transaction rights exercised pursuant to the Companys share which will or may result in a change of control of the incentive plans resulted in the allotment of 5.2 million Group company.
The Company considers that the new Ordinary Shares.
No new Ordinary Shares have been agreement is essential to its business and intends it to allotted under the share incentive plans between the end remain in place until at least September 2010. of the financial year and the date of this report.
The Company is not aware of any other significant The Company has established two employee benefit agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or trusts in connection with the operation of the Companys terminate upon a change of control of the Company share incentive plans: the Spirent Employee Share following a takeover.
Ownership Trust ESOT and the Spirent Sharesave Trust SST.
The trustees of both trusts have waived Return of capital their right to receive dividends on any Ordinary Shares Since the Company commenced returning capital to held by them except for a nominal amount of 0.01 pence, shareholders in May 2006, a total of 175.7 million save for those Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT which has been returned, representing 319.5 million are the beneficial property of an employee for further Ordinary Shares.
details on the employee benefit trusts see Investment in own Ordinary Shares in note 16 to the parent The Company will seek renewal of the authority to Company financial statements on page 106. repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of its own Ordinary Shares at the 2009 AGM to facilitate any further return Trustees of both trusts do not vote their Ordinary Shares, of capital if it is concluded that it is in the best interests save for those Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT which are of shareholders.
the beneficial property of an employee shareholder which they will vote in accordance with the instructions received On-market programme from the beneficial owner.
The Company was authorised at the 2006 AGM to repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of its own issued The Company does not have agreements with any Ordinary Shares, within certain limits and as permitted director or employee that would provide compensation for by the Companys Articles of Association.
This authority loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover was renewed at the 2007 and 2008 AGMs and the except that provisions of the Companys share incentive 2008 EGM see tender offer below.
During 2008 a plans may cause options and awards granted to total of 72.9 million Ordinary Shares, each with a nominal employees under such plans to vest on a takeover, 1 value of 3 3 pence were repurchased for an aggregate as follows: Change of consideration of 42.2 million and placed either in control treasury and cancelled or cancelled immediately following Share incentive provisions Effect on Performance the repurchase.
This represents 9.2 per cent of the plan in the rules vesting condition Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at the 2005 Employee beginning of 2008 excluding treasury shares see Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies also note 29 to the consolidated financial statements Spirent Stock and note 16 to the parent Company financial Incentive Plan No None N A statements.
The Company did not repurchase any further Ordinary Shares between 1 January 2009 and The Company has entered into a 25 million Multicurrency Revolving Facilities Agreement dated 5 September 2008 the date of this report.
which provides that, in the event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders are entitled to call for the Tender offer On 15 September 2008, the Company announced the repayment or cancellation of the facilities.
The facilities are undrawn at the date of this report.
launch of a tender offer to repurchase up to 50 million of Ordinary Shares in the Company.
A circular was sent to shareholders on 15 September 2008, containing the detailed terms of that tender offer.
However, on Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 23 Governance Report of the directors continued Board on 22 December 2006, Edward Bramson and Return of capital continued Gerard Eastman stated that they would retire and offer 13 October 2008, the Company announced that as the themselves for re-election as directors on an annual Companys Ordinary Shares were trading at a 22 per cent basis and therefore, will retire at the 2009 AGM and, discount to the bottom of the price range set out in the being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Bill Burns tender offer, it no longer believed the tender offer to be is the only director subject to election or re-election who in the best interests of the Company or the shareholders has a service contract with a Group company.
as a whole and withdrew the tender offer.
Directors interests On 13 October 2008, the Company announced that Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman have a connected it would launch a new tender offer to repurchase up notifiable interest in the Companys Ordinary Shares held to 25 million of Ordinary Shares in the Company and by Sherborne Investors GP, LLC see Substantial a new price range was set for this tender offer.
This connected notifiable interest offer was launched on 27 October 2008 and led to is also deemed for statutory purposes, to be an interest 52.9 million Ordinary Shares 7.3 per cent of the of these directors as they are members of Sherborne Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at Investors GP, LLC, which is the general partner of 27 November 2008 being repurchased for immediate Sherborne Investors, LP.
Sherborne Investors, LP is the cancellation at a total cost of 24.8 million.
managing member of each of the following funds, which are the beneficial owners of the Companys Ordinary Substantial shareholdings Shares: Sherborne Strategic Fund A, LLC: Sherborne At the date of this report, the following significant Strategic Fund B, LLC: Hayden Investor Partners, LLC and holdings of voting rights had been disclosed to the Hayden Investor Partners II, LLC.
The directors interests Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules including any connected persons in the issued Ordinary of the Financial Services Authority: Number of % of Share capital of the Company are set out in the Report ordinary companys on directors remuneration.
shares total voting rights voting rights Directors indemnity arrangements Sherborne Investors GP, LLC 130,270,000 19.39 Save as disclosed, at no time during the year did any Prudential plc 82,045,817 12.21 director hold a material interest in any contract of Aviva plc 51,634,447 7.69 Ameriprise Financial, Inc 38,520,235 5.73 significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary BlackRock Inc 37,539,447 5.59 undertakings other than a third party indemnity provision Credit Suisse Asset Management Ltd 36,863,179 5.49 between each director and the Company and service Legal & General Group plc 35,628,811 5.30 contracts between executive directors and the Company.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada UK Ltd 23,382,347 3.48 The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year directors and officers liability insurance in Board of directors respect of itself and its directors.
The names and brief biographical details of the directors who served during the year under review are shown on In addition to the indemnity provision contained in the page 21.
Companys Articles of Association, the Company has provided a deed of indemnity for the benefit of the Election and re-election of directors directors of the Company in respect of costs of defending The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions claims against them and third party liabilities.
These relating to the appointment and replacement of directors.
provisions are currently in force.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, and Corporate social responsibility the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Ian The Groups Corporate social responsibility statement Brindle and Alex Walker will retire at the 2009 AGM and, appears on pages 18 to 20.
This statement gives details being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Having of the Groups policies on ethics, the environment, health been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, and safety, charitable donations and involvement in Bill Burns will retire at the 2009 AGM and, being eligible, the community.
will offer himself for election.
On appointment to the Spirent Communications plc 24 Annual Report 2008 Governance The Group has considerable financial resources together Corporate social responsibility continued with long term contracts with a number of customers and Charitable donations of 52,000 were made in the year suppliers across different geographic areas and 2007 40,000.
This amount excludes operating units industries.
As a consequence, the directors believe support and participation in local community activities.
that the Group is well placed to manage its business No political donations were made in the year 2007 nil.
risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Group employs approximately 1,500 people 2007 1,550 around the world and is proud of its history After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable of being regarded as a responsible and respected expectation that the Group and the Company have employer.
The Corporate social responsibility statement adequate resources to continue in operational existence gives details of the Groups policies on employment, for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue training and development.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
Research and development Product development and innovation are considered Disclosure of information to auditors key strategies to maintain and improve the Groups Each of the directors of the Company at the date of this competitive position and therefore continue to receive report confirms that: high priority.
This commitment is highlighted by the 45.3 million research and development spend during so far as the director is aware, there is no information the year for continuing business, equivalent to 18 per needed by the Companys auditors in connection with cent of revenue 2007 44.5 million and 19 per cent.
preparing their report of which the Companys auditors The Group will continue to commit resources as are unaware: and appropriate to research and development.
he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any Policy on payment of suppliers information needed by the Companys auditors in Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing connection with preparing their report and to establish the terms and conditions under which business that the Companys auditors are aware of that transactions with their suppliers are conducted and it is information.
Group policy to comply with those terms and to make suppliers aware of them.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors At 31 December 2008, the Company had an average of and to authorise the directors to determine their 51 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors remuneration will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
Annual General Meeting Corporate governance The 2009 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Thursday The Directors statement on corporate governance is set 7 May 2009 at the offices of the Companys PR advisers, out on pages 27 to 31.
The Statement of directors Financial Dynamics, Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton responsibilities in respect of the financial statements Buildings, London WC2A 1PB, United Kingdom.
By Order of the Board Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review on pages 4 to 20.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, Michael Anscombe liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in Company Secretary the Financial review on pages 10 to 14.
In addition, note 24 February 2009 27 to the consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 25
