Business review Description of the business The Spirent Group is organised into two business areas: Spirent delivers wireline and wireless solutions which Communications and Systems.
The Communications address carrier Ethernet, data center, IMS, IPTV, location business comprises two divisions: Performance Analysis, based, Long Term Evolution LTE, satellite, Triple Play, providing test solutions for wireline and wireless WiMax, 3G wireless and other emerging technologies.
technologies, and Service Assurance, providing network monitoring solutions for telecom service providers.
Spirents service assurance solutions allow service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and determine how Spirent Communications provides tools and systems to to resolve issues with networks and systems within the enable the world to communicate faster, better, more live network as well as address the transition to nextfrequently and more reliably.
We develop new test generation service offerings.
Service providers rely on solutions for the engineers working within the Spirent to improve the quality of service at the network Communications industry to evaluate the performance of core, edge or even within the home.
the latest technologies to be deployed across the worldwide telecommunications infrastructure.
We also By leveraging the expertise gained by testing provide tools for service technicians and field test technologies and systems in the lab, Spirent enables engineers to improve quality and make troubleshooting service providers to deploy and maintain efficient, more efficient and effective.
Spirents equipment and software facilitate functional, Network equipment manufacturers and service providers conformance, interoperability and scalability testing face numerous challenges associated with taking across an entire wireline or wireless network.
As a result, products and solutions from the lab to the marketplace.
the operators of Ethernet, IMS, IPTV, Triple Play and Spirents Performance Analysis division allows equipment wireless networks see reduced churn by providing a manufacturers, service providers, enterprise and higher quality of experience which ultimately increases governments to holistically test and benchmark the subscriber retention.
Additionally, such testing helps performance of voice, video and data systems and service providers reduce operational costs through better services in an effort to accelerate the development and identification of potential network problems and then deployment of related applications.
using the right resources to address and correct those difficulties.
Spirent provides the ability to conduct functional, conformance, interoperability, scalability and quality of Systems is a leading supplier of sophisticated electronic experience testing under real-world conditions inside and control systems for electrically powered vehicles in the outside the lab.
This capability, across the entire product mobility and industrial markets.
These include medical lifecycle from concept inception to use in commerciallyvehicles such as powered wheelchairs and mobility available scenarios, helps shorten the product scooters as well as industrial vehicles such as floor development cycle, improve the quality of new services, cleaning vehicles, golf carts, fork-lift trucks and aerial and reduce the cost and risk associated with such efforts.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 5
