Governance Board of directors N  and deputy chairman 1.
Edward Bramson 57 1. of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
He Chairman serves as a non-executive director on the boards Edward Bramson was appointed Chairman of of 4imprint Group plc and Elementis plc.
the Board and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 22 December 2006.
Gerard Eastman 51 chairman and chief executive officer of Nautilus, Non-Executive Director Inc, where he was elected to the board on 31 2.
Gerard Eastman was appointed to the Board December 2007.
He was a member of the board on 22 December 2006.
He is a partner in of directors of Elementis plc where he served as Sherborne Investors, a turnaround investment chairman from June 2005 to September 2006 firm.
He also serves as a director on the board and as non-executive director until April 2007. of Nautilus, Inc.
He was previously a managing Mr Bramson was chairman of 4imprint Group plc director of investment banking at Citigroup and from October 2003 to July 2004 and a nonbefore that held senior positions at Salomon executive director until his resignation from the 3.
Brothers and S. G. Warburg & Co. board in April 2005 and was chairman of Ampex Corporation until his resignation in February NR 7.
He is currently a partner in Sherborne Independent Non-Executive Director Investors, a turnaround investment firm.
Duncan Lewis was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2007.
Mr Lewis is chief executive officer 2.
Bill Burns 41 of Vislink plc, a technology company supplying Chief Executive Officer 4. secure communication systems to the Bill Burns was appointed Chief Executive Officer broadcast, law enforcement and marine and on 6 November 2008, having previously led the energy markets.
Until October 2008 he was Communications division.
He is responsible for senior adviser to The Carlyle Group, assisting overall leadership, strategy, investments, them in developing strategy and identifying coordination of resources and leveraging investments in the telecommunications and Spirents breadth and depth of technology across media sector worldwide.
5. all of Spirents business units.
Eric Hutchinson 53 Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer Tom Maxwell was appointed to the Board on Eric Hutchinson was appointed Finance Director 1 October 2007.
Until September 2007, he was in 2000, having previously been responsible for investment director and head of the UK Growth & all financial reporting and control within the 6.
Income Product Group at Martin Currie Group.
He is also a non-executive director and Investment Management in Edinburgh and is a chairman of the audit committee of Trifast plc.
non-executive director of Foresight 3 VCT plc.
He ANR is a Member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers 4.
Alex Walker 62 in Scotland and a Member of the Society of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Investment Professionals & CFA Institute.
Alex Walker was appointed to the Board on 22 December 2006 and is the Senior 7.
Statements on the independence of Board Independent Non-Executive Director and members are given in the Directors statement Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He on corporate governance on page 27. was chief executive of Yule Catto & Co. plc until 17 August 2006 and is currently a member of Further biographical details of the directors the audit, remuneration and nomination can be found on the Companys website at committees of Rotork plc.
Ian Brindle 65 A Audit Committee Chairman Ian Brindle Independent Non-Executive Director N Nomination Committee Chairman Edward Bramson Ian Brindle was appointed to the Board on R Remuneration Committee Chairman Alex Walker 22 December 2006 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was previously UK chairman of Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 21
