spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 33 coRpoRATe GoVeRNANce RepoRT corporate Governance The Board of directors of the Company is committed to maintaining The non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be high standards of corporate governance and to managing the affairs of independent.
The former Chairman, David Richardson, was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment and the the Group in accordance with the provisions of the Listing Rules and of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Board considers Simon Bentley, the Acting Chairman, to be Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
The Board considers that an independent director is one who is independent in character and judgment, and where there are The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance no circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his or her judgement.
Relationships or circumstances that could affect processes and policies, and has concluded that during the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2008 the Year the Company complied with the judgement include having been an employee of the Company or of any provisions of the Combined Code except as set out below.
Group company during the past five years, having had a material business relationship or having been a partner, shareholder, director The Combined Code code provision A3.2 recommends that at least or senior employee of a body with a material business relationship with the Company or any Group company in the past three years, half of the Board of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the Chairman, should be comprised of non-executive directors receiving remuneration from the Company other than directors fees, determined by the Board to be independent in character and participating in any share option or bonus schemes or in a Company judgment and free from relationships or circumstances which may pension scheme, having had close family ties with any of the affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgment.
As explained Companys advisors, directors or senior employees, having cross directorships or significant links with any other director, representing below, during the period from 30 April to 31 May 2007 the Board of the Company consisted of the Chairman, three executive directors and two a significant shareholder, or serving on the Board for more than nine independent non-executive directors.
October 2007 the Board comprised the Acting Chairman, three executive directors and one independent non-executive director.
From The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, who currently holds 25 October 2007 until the end of the Year the Board was made up of the Acting Chairman, three executive directors, and two independent approximately 72.2% of the issued share capital of the Company non-executive directors.
Accordingly during the Year the Company did excluding treasury shares, which agreement is described in the not comply with this provision of the Combined Code in this regard.
Given the structure of the Board and the terms of the Relationship The Combined Code also provides code provisions B2.1 and C3.1 that each of the Remuneration and Audit Committees of the Board should Agreement, the Board believes that no individual or small group of comprise of at least three independent non-executive directors, and individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
from 30 April 2007 until 31 May 2007 those Committees comprised of only two such directors.
From 31 May 2007 until 25 October 2007 the The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of committees comprised only one such director and the Acting Chairman, and from 25 October 2007 comprised two independent non new directors to the Board.
The composition of that Committee and a executive directors and the Acting Chairman.
Accordingly during the description of its terms of reference are set out on page 36.
Year the Company did not comply with these provisions of the Combined Code.
Details of executive directors service contracts and of the Acting Chairmans and the non-executive directors appointment letters are On 31 May 2007 David Richardson, the Chairman, resigned from his given on page 41.
Copies of service contracts and of appointment appointment as Chairman and as a director, and Simon Bentley was letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office appointed Acting Chairman.
On 25 October 2007 Chris Bulmer during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
resigned from the Board and Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton Executive directors normally retire on reaching the age determined were appointed.
The Company has used recruitment consultants to search for a Chairman and for additional independent non-executive by the Board from time to time as the retirement age for executive directors and the Nomination Committee has approved job directors.
descriptions for those roles, which for the Chairman includes an assessment of the time commitment expected, always recognising Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years from the Annual General Meeting following their joining the Board, the need for availability in the event of major activity.
The Company intends when possible to appoint a further independent and, subject to performance, there is an expectation of reappointment non-executive director to each of the Remuneration and Audit for a further period of three years.
Exceptionally a non-executive committees, which will bring the Company into compliance with all director may be invited to serve for a further and final three year term.
the provisions of the Combined Code.
Non-executive directors fees are determined by the Board in the absence of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman.
The Board All directors appointed by the Board are appointed after As explained above, from 30 April 2007 until 31 May 2007 the Board consideration of the recommendations of the Nomination Committee, comprised of a non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, and those so appointed must stand for reappointment at the following Annual General Meeting.
Every director must retire at least and two non-executive directors.
From 31 May 2007 until 25 October 2007 the Board comprised the Acting Chairman, three once every three years, and in addition at least one third of the executive directors and one non-executive director.
From 25 October continuing members of the Board must retire by rotation each year.
2007 the Board comprised the Acting Chairman, three executive Retiring directors may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to do directors and two non-executive directors.
The names and short so and if so recommended by the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman will, when proposing the reappointment of a director, biographies of the current Acting Chairman and other directors are set out on page 27. confirm that following formal performance evaluation, the directors performance continues to be effective and he or she continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
34 continued coRpoRATe GoVeRNANce RepoRT This year Dave Forsey is retiring by rotation and is seeking The Board currently plans to meet on a pre-planned basis ten times reappointment, and Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton, having during each year, including a strategy meeting, and meets on other been appointed by the Board during the Year, are retiring and seeking occasions as required.
During the Year the Board met on 13 reappointment.
The Board has adopted a formal process for the performance The Board has a programme to enable it to discharge its evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
Every responsibility of providing entrepreneurial leadership to the Company other year independent consultants will conduct confidential within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
An agenda is interviews with each director, when the director will have an established for each meeting, and appropriate documentation is opportunity to express his or her views on the organisation and provided to directors in advance of them.
For regular meetings the operation of the Board and its committees, their effectiveness and agenda will include reports from the Chief Executive and the Group contribution to the business, the contributions of individual members, Finance Director, reports on the performance of the business and and on any other matter they consider relevant.
The results of these current trading, reports on meetings with investors, reports from interviews will be consolidated and reported to the Chairman and, in committees of the Board and specific proposals where the approval so far as they relate to the Chairman, to the Senior Independent of the Board is sought.
Presentations are also given on business or Non-Executive Director, and, in so far as they relate to the Board as a strategic issues where appropriate, and the Board will consider at whole or to any of its committees to the Board as a whole.
In least annually the strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the meetings of intervening years the process will be repeated, covering the same committees of the Board are circulated to all members of the Board, matters other than the contribution of individual directors, but by way unless a conflict of interest arises, to enable all directors to have of questionnaire and without the involvement of independent oversight of those matters delegated to committees, and copies of consultants.
In this Year, given the recent appointments of Malcolm analysts reports and brokers notes are provided to directors.
Dalgleish and Dave Singleton, the process has been conducted by way of questionnaire.
Attendance by directors at Board and Board committee meetings during the Year and the total number of meetings that they could have In addition the Chairman will meet with individual directors privately attended are set out in the table below.
All directors attended all at least once in every year, to review the contribution of that director meetings of the Board and of committees of the Board of which they to the Board and his or her development needs.
The Chairman will were members during the Year, or, if appointed during the Year, from meet with the non-executive directors as a group and in the absence of the time of their appointment until the end of the Year.
any executive directors at least twice a year, and as part of the Board Evaluation Programme the non-executive directors, led by the Senior Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Independent Non-Executive Director, will review the performance of Committee Committee Committee Meetings the Chairman, having taken account of the views of the executive Meetings Meetings Meetings directors.
Mike 13 13 - - 2 2 Ashley The Board and the Nomination Committee will consider the output from the evaluation programme in their evaluation of the skills, Simon 13 13 4 4 4 4 3 3 Bentley knowledge and experience of the Board, and in formulating development plans.
Chris 8 8 2 2 2 2 3 3 Bulmer The Board provides corporate governance training for those directors Malcolm appointed to the Board for who it is their first appointment to a listed 5 5 1 1 2 2 - Dalgleish company board, and provides a tailored induction programme for all Dave directors on appointment.
In addition the Board is made aware of 13 13 - - - Forsey material changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business from time to time.
All directors have access to the advice and Bob 13 13 - - - services of the Company Secretary, and each director and each board Mellors committee may take independent professional advice at the David - - - Companys expense, subject to prior notification to the other Richardson non-executive directors and the Company Secretary.
The Company Dave maintains appropriate directors and officers insurance.
5 5 2 2 2 2 - Singleton The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, for ensuring its effectiveness, and for ensuring that all it.
Matters so reserved include the approval of the strategic plan and directors are able to play a full part in the activities of the Company.
long-term objectives of the Group, the annual budget and the He ensures effective communication with shareholders, and that the allocation of resources to achieve that budget, decisions relating to Board has an understanding of the views of major investors.
The unbudgeted expenditure over certain limits, significant acquisitions, Chairman is available to provide advice and support to members of disposals and joint ventures, other material contracts, changes to the the executive team.
The Executive Deputy Chairman is an ambassador corporate structure of the Group, the appointment and removal of the for the Company, and takes the lead in the strategic development of Company Secretary, approval of accounting policies and practices and the Company, formulating the vision and strategy in conjunction with approval of the annual report.
The Board delegates management of the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the the businesses of the Group to the executive management, and management team, the running of the Groups business, for the delegates specific responsibilities to Board committees.
delivery of the strategy approved by the Board, and for implementing specific decisions made by the Board.
