38 DiRecToRs ReMuNeRATioN RepoRT This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Basic salaries for executive directors other than Mike Ashley have the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the been set at a level well below the median level for a business of the Regulations and of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance size and complexity of the Group and its subsidiaries.
The maximum 2006 the Combined Code.
payment under the annual bonus plan is 100% of salary, and the Performance Share Plan permits annual grants of up to four times salary.
If the Committee were to change its policy on basic salaries, uNAuDiTeD iNFoRMATioN then it would revisit the salary multiple for grants under the Performance Share Plan, and the Committees remuneration policy set out above will not necessarily apply to any new appointment to The Remuneration committee the Board.
During the 52 weeks ending 27 April 2008 the Year, the members of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, all of whom are Mike Ashley has agreed that he will not receive a salary for his role as independent, were: Executive Deputy Chairman, nor does he participate in the Performance Share Plan.
Chris Bulmer Chairman and member of Committee until 25 October 2007 Executive directors do not participate in a company pension arrangement and do not have the use of a company car or other Dave Singleton Chairman and member of Committee from 7 similar benefits often available to executive directors.
Towers Perrin December 2007 has advised the Committee that in aggregate the total remuneration of Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors is below median.
Simon Bentley The Committee intends to establish and thereafter maintain contact Malcolm Dalgleish from 17 December 2007 with major shareholders and representative groups where appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are summarised in the Corporate Governance Report on page 36.
The expected value of a four times salary award under the Performance Share Plan is approximately 170% of salary.
Accordingly, if the Companys performance meets target levels, performance Advisers related pay in 2008-09 is likely to account for approximately 70% of The Committee has appointed Towers Perrin to provide it with Dave Forsey and Bob Mellors total remuneration, and at upper independent advice in determining the appropriate remuneration, quartile performance, performance related pay would account for including bonus schemes, and other terms and conditions of approximately 85% of total remuneration depending in each case on employment of directors, and to assist it in review of remuneration share price improvement during the relevant performance period.
policies and practices throughout the Group.
The Committee is at all times mindful of the Companys social, ethical Towers Perrin has, with the consent of the Committee, assisted the and environmental responsibilities, and is satisfied that current Company by providing market data and advice in connection with the remuneration arrangements do not inadvertently encourage remuneration of senior managers.
The Committee is conscious of the irresponsible behaviour.
need to ensure that no conflict of interest arises as a result of Towers Perrin advising both it and the Company, but believes that the benefits of consistent advice outweighs the possible problems that could arise Remuneration policies and key elements of remuneration from these arrangements.
Executive directors remuneration in the Year comprised: A summary of the terms of reference of Towers Perrin in their role as Basic Salary independent advisors to the Committee are set out on the Companys website and are available upon request from the Company Secretary.
Annual Bonus Scheme Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, Bob Mellors, the Group Finance Performance Share Plan Director, and Mike Ashley the Executive Deputy Chairman have also advised the Committee when requested.
IPO Bonus Pension Remuneration policy The Committee has endorsed the provisions of Section B of the In 2008 executive directors remuneration will comprise the elements Combined Code, and has had those provisions in mind when listed above other than the IPO bonus.
determining remuneration policies for the past, current and future years.
Policies and practice in respect of remuneration inevitably evolve over time and, while it is currently believed that the policies Basic salary described in this report will apply in future years, they will be subject Basic salaries are reviewed annually, but the first review post the to regular review.
Admission of the Company to the official list and to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 2 March 2007 Admission as envisaged The Committee seeks to ensure that levels of remuneration are in the prospectus issued prior to Admission did not take place until sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors and senior April 2008.
There was no increase in executive directors salaries in managers of the quality required to run the Group successfully, and, in 2007 and the Committee decided not to alter executive order to maintain the Groups historic focus on growth, has adopted a directors salaries on review in April 2008. strongly performance based remuneration policy for executive directors, under which a large proportion of their remuneration will be dependent upon the Groups performance.
