spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 17 continued cHieF eXecuTiVes RepoRT AND BusiNess ReVieW 4 Management and mitigation of risk The monitoring of customer complaints is described in the The identification and management of risk is a continuous process, Community and Social Responsibility Report on page 46.
Records and the Groups system of internal controls and the Groups business containing complaints received prior to the beginning of 2007-08 were not retained, and accordingly annual percentage change in continuity programmes are key elements of that.
customer complaints is not yet available.
The Groups policies of forging long term relationships with suppliers 5 and of utilising two leading supply chain companies to procure much Employee turnover was affected in both the Year and in 2006-07 by of the Groups own branded goods is described on page 47 in the the relocation of head office, retail and brand support functions, and warehousing and distribution activities to Shirebrook Community and Social Responsibility Report.
Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-UK suppliers, and to the throughout these periods.
reputation of the Groups Brands are managed and mitigated by the implementation of those policies.
The Group intends to use UK Retail stores like for like contribution as a KPI with effect from May 2008.
The management and mitigation of Finance Risk is described in note 3 to the Financial Statements on page 58. our strategy for growth We manage our business with the objective of increasing long term Close monitoring of the market, competitors, consumer confidence, shareholder value.
We are focused on strengthening the Groups participation in major sporting events, the weather, companies in financial performance and profitability, building relationships with our partners and suppliers, and by the continued roll out of our stores and which the Group holds strategic stakes, the behaviour of licensees, and of possible infringement of intellectual property, and the brands in the UK and around the world.
development of contingency plans and rapid response to changing circumstances manages and does much to mitigate the risks caused Developing international distribution channels is a key part of the by these factors.
We look at a number of potential markets with interest.
We believe that the experience we gain in China with our The business continuity programme addresses the risk of disruption ITAT relationship can be adapted for other markets in the future.
Our to the Shirebrook campus.
growth strategy will include acquisition, partnership, joint venture and licensing opportunities.
Accordingly the Board is confident that as far as is practical the risks We believe that the business remains in a strong position with its and uncertainties that face the Group are being monitored and managed and that where required appropriate action is being taken.
flexible business model, international growth plans and strong portfolio of brands, to achieve its long term objective of becoming the Key performance indicators worlds most profitable sports retailer.
The Board monitors the performance of the Group by reference to a outlook for the current year number of key performance indicators KPIs, which are discussed fully in this Chief Executives Report and Business Review, and also in Trading conditions remain challenging across the sporting goods the Financial Review, and in the Community and Social Responsibility sector with economic data pointing to a severe slowdown across the Report on pages 19 to 25 and 45 to 47 respectively.
The most important economy with retail in particular expected to get worse in the short of these KPIs are: term.
We continue to concentrate our efforts on getting back to basics and, 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended in spite of the difficult consumer environment, we believe we are 27 April 2008 29 April 2007 seeing the benefits of this in our UK Retail division, where our Financial Kpis performance in the first two months since the period end has seen underlying EBITDA marginally ahead of the same period last year.
Group revenue 1.26bn 1.35bn 1 Underlying EBITDA 150.2m 214.1m As a result, currently we are targeting 2008 09 Group underlying EBITDA to be at a similar level to that in 2007 08.
UK retail margin 44.3% 44.3% 2 Underlying earnings per share 9.27p 16.32p Dave Forsey Chief Executive 10 July 2008 Non Financial Kpis 3 No.
of core stores 272 230 4 Customer complaints % change - - 5 Employee turnover 38.4% 48.1% Cardboard recycling 5558 tonnes 1944 tonnes 1 The way in which underlying EBITDA is calculated is set out in the Financial Review on page 19.
2 The way in which underlying earnings per share is calculated is set out in the Financial Review on page 21.
3 A core store is a store acquired and fitted out by the Group or otherwise so designated.
