spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 41 contracts of service On 11 February 2007, each executive director entered into a new Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or share service agreement with the Company.
Each non executive directors appointment is for an initial period that Each executive directors employment is terminable by either party on expires on the date of the Companys first Annual General Meeting 12 months written notice.
The Company may elect to terminate the after appointment.
If the appointment of each of Malcolm Dalgleish employment of Dave Forsey and or Bob Mellors by making a payment and Dave Singleton is renewed at the AGM, it will continue for a term of three years and then terminate unless renewed prior to the expiry in lieu of notice equal to basic salary that the director would have received during the notice period or, if notice has already been given, of that term.
during the remainder thereof, a pro-rated annual bonus payment for their 12 months notice period or any unexpired period thereof Notwithstanding renewal for a three year term, the appointment of assuming on target performance, and the cost to the Company of each of Simon Bentley and Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton may be terminated at any time by either party on one months written providing other benefits excluding pension that the director would have received during the notice period or the unexpired portion notice.
The Company may elect to continue to provide the other benefits during the notice period, or deem such benefits to have a Each of the appointments of the non-executive directors may also be value of 10% of basis salary and pay an appropriate sum in lieu.
terminated in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, and immediately in certain prescribed circumstances The Company may elect to pay any payment in lieu of notice by including the bankruptcy of the non-executive director.
monthly instalments during the outstanding notice periods, and if the director obtains alternative employment or provides services In addition to the annual directors fees of 40,000 per annum referred pursuant to a consultancy agreement while such payments are being to above, prior to his appointment as Acting Chairman Simon Bentley was entitled to a fee of 10,000 per annum as Chairman of the Audit made the director being obliged to use his best efforts to obtain such employment, each instalment falling due after the commencement of Committee, and Chris Bulmer was entitled to a fee of 7,500 per such employment or provision of services is reduced by one twelfth of annum as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
the annual remuneration or fees received by the director in respect of that alternative employment or consultancy.
Non-executive directors are subject to confidentiality undertakings without limitation in time: they are not entitled to receive any Any entitlement to benefits under any share related incentive scheme compensation on the termination of their appointment and are not are determined in accordance with the rules of that scheme.
entitled to participate in the Companys share or bonus schemes.
Each executive directors service contract automatically terminates on Non-executive directorships the date that the director reaches such age as is determined by the Board from time to time as the retirement age for executive The Board recognises that executive directors may be invited to directors.
become non-executive directors of other companies, and that the experience and knowledge gained as a result of such appointments The non-executive directors have each entered into a letter of are of benefit to the Company.
Accordingly, the Board has agreed that the executive directors may accept one such appointment, and retain appointment with the Company, which became effective in the case of Simon Bentley, David Richardson and Chris Bulmer on Admission, any fees payable in respect thereof, subject to there being no conflict and in the case of Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton on execution.
Details of the letters of appointment are set out below: No executive director currently holds any such appointment.
Annual Date of Letter Position Fee 000 of Appointment David Non-Executive 144 11 02 2007 1 Richardson Chairman 2 Simon Bentley Non-Executive 50 11 02 2007 Director 3 Chris Bulmer Non-Executive 40 11 02 2007 Director Malcolm Non-Executive 50 25 10 2007 Dalgleish Director Dave Non-Executive 50 25 10 2007 Singleton Director 1 David Richardson resigned on 31 May 2007 2 Simon Bentley received an annual fee of 40,000 per annum prior to appointment as Acting Chairman.
He currently receives an annual fee of 144,000 as Acting Chairman 3 Chris Bulmer resigned on 25 October 2007
