36 continued coRpoRATe GoVeRNANce RepoRT Thirdly, there are services that the auditors may provide as the work is The Company intends to appoint additional independent nonclearly audit related and there is no potential threat to independence, executive directors to the Board following which a further independent including regulatory reporting and acting as reporting accountants.
non-executive director will be appointed a member of the The Company is satisfied that its policy falls within the requirements Remuneration Committee, and the Committees structure will then of the Auditing Practices Board.
comply with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code.
Every engagement of the auditors for non-audit work is to be reported to the next meeting of the Committee.
Nomination committee Members of the Nomination Committee during the Year were: The Combined Code recommends that the Audit Committee is made up of at least three non-executive directors, independent in character David Richardson Chairman and member of the Committee until and judgment and free from any relationship or circumstance which 31 May 2007 may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgment.
The Audit Committee currently consists of only two independent nonSimon Bentley Chairman from 31 May 2007 executive directors and the Acting Chairman, but the Company intends to appoint additional independent non-executive directors to the Chris Bulmer until 25 October 2007 Board, following which a further independent non-executive director will also be appointed a member of the Audit Committee, and Mike Ashley from 12 October 2007 the Committees structure will then comply with the recommendation set out in the Combined Code.
Malcolm Dalgleish from 17 December 2007 Dave Singleton from 7 December 2007 Remuneration committee Directors who served on the Committee during the Year were: The Committee met on three occasions during the Year.
Chris Bulmer Chairman and member of Committee until 25 The main responsibilities of the Board Nomination Committee are to: October 2007 Review the Boards structure.
Dave Singleton Chairman and member of Committee from 7 December 2007 Review the composition and make up of the Board, including evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Simon Bentley members of the Board.
Malcolm Dalgleish from 17 December 2007 Give consideration to succession planning for directors.
The main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to: Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for any Board appointment including that of Chairman.
Determine the Companys policy on executive remuneration, including the design of bonus schemes, and targets and Make recommendations to the Board concerning the standing for payments made thereunder.
Determine the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and each Identify potential candidates to be appointed as directors, and of the executive directors.
make recommendations to the Board as the need may arise.
Monitor the remuneration of senior management and make The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans for the recommenations in respect of thereof.
Chairman and the Chief Executive, who will not be present at meetings when such matters are being discussed.
Agree any compensation for loss of office of any executive director.
The Nomination Committee will meet at least once a year and will also meet when appropriate.
The Committee met on four occasions during the Year.
During the Year the Committee considered the job specifications for During the Year the Committee determined whether any bonus the Chairman and for non-executive directors, and the appointment of payments were due to executive directors under the 2006-07 Annual an Acting Chairman and of non-executive directors, and the standing Bonus Scheme, determined to operate an annual bonus scheme for for reappointment of directors retiring by rotation or after executive directors for 2008-09, and made awards thereunder, appointment by the Board.
reviewed senior managers remuneration arrangements throughout the Group and reviewed the performance measures of the Dave Forsey, as Chief Executive, will normally attend meetings of the Performance Share Plan.
Nomination Committee, save where the Nomination Committee is dealing with matters relating to him or with the appointment of his A report on the remuneration of directors appears on pages 38 to 43. successor.
The Combined Code recommends that the Remuneration Committee The Combined Code recommends that a majority of the Nomination is made up of at least three non-executive directors, independent in Committee be non-executive directors, independent in character and character and judgment and free from any relationship or judgment and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, could or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgment.
The Committee currently consists of only two Board considers that the Company complies with the requirements of independent non-executive directors and the Acting Chairman.
the Combined Code in this regard.
