spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 07 ABouT spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc Sports Direct is the UKs leading sports retailer by revenue and The Brands division continues to sponsor leading sports men and operating profit, and the owner of a significant number of women.
Amongst them Joe Calzaghe and Ricky Hatton are two of the internationally recognised sports and leisure brands.
world boxing champions sponsored by Lonsdale and Everlast during the last financial year: Jamie Murray won last years mixed doubles at As at 27 April 2008 the Group operated out of 375 stores in the United the Wimbledon championships with a Dunlop racket, and Slazenger Kingdom excluding Northern Ireland.
The majority of stores trade sponsors Paul Collingwood, the England one-day International cricket under the Sports Direct or Sports World fascias, and the Sports Direct captain.
Slazenger completed its 106th year of sponsorship of the fascia will be applied to all the Sports World stores over time.
The Wimbledon championships and continues to sponsor the England Group has acquired a number of retail businesses over the past few womens hockey team.
years, and some stores still trade under the Lillywhites, McGurk, Exsports, Gilesports, Hargreaves and Streetwise fascias.
Field & Trek As part of the Brands division licensing activities, agreement was stores trade under their own fascia.
reached during the year with Retail Corp. a Dubai-based company, under which Retail Corp. will, during the 25 year term of the The Groups UK stores other than Field & Trek supply a wide range of agreement, open Lillywhites and Sports Direct stores in the Middle competitively priced sports and leisure equipment, clothing, footwear East and South Africa.
Stores have already been opened under this and accessories, under a mix of Group owned brands, such as Dunlop, agreement in South Africa and Dubai.
Slazenger and Lonsdale, licensed in brands such as Umbro, and well known third party brands including adidas, Nike, Reebok and Puma.
The Group holds a number of strategic investments in other A significant proportion of the revenue in the stores is derived from companies, including 29.9% of Blacks Leisure Group and 12.3% of the the sale of the Group owned and licensed in branded products, which John David Group.
These and other stakes are held for investment allows the retail business to generate higher margins, whilst at the purposes.
The Group continually reviews the value and size of its same time differentiating the Groups stores from its competitors, investments and the rationale for them, and continues to consider both in terms of the range of products on sale and the competitive further strategic investments in the UK and overseas.
prices at which they are offered.
During the year the Group acquired the Field & Trek chain of stores in the UK.
As at 27 April 2008 16 stores operated under the Field & Trek fascia, selling a wide range of camping and outdoor equipment, waterproof clothing and footwear, including leading brands such as The North Face, Berghaus, Merrell and Salomon.
The acquisition of Field & Trek gave the Group an entry into the outdoor market, which had been identified as a strategic opportunity for the Group.
Sports Direct also operates a number of stores outside the UK.
As at 27 April 2008 the Group had 39 stores in Belgium, 14 in Slovenia, 4 in Holland and 1 in Luxembourg.
In addition, through its 42.5% shareholding in Heatons, the Group had 6 stores in Northern Ireland and 15 in the Republic of Ireland.
Sports Direct recently announced a strategic alliance with the ITAT Group in China.
ITAT is the largest network of multibrand apparel retailers in China, and under the agreement the Group supplies merchandise under some of the Groups owned brands for sale in a shop in a shop in the larger ITAT stores.
The Groups portfolio of sports and leisure brands includes Dunlop, Slazenger, Kangol, Karrimor, Lonsdale, Everlast and Antigua.
As previously mentioned the Groups Retail division sells products under these Group brands in its stores, and the Brands division exploits the brands through its wholesale and licensing businesses.
The Brands division wholesale business sells the brands core products, such as Dunlop tennis rackets and Slazenger tennis balls, to wholesale customers throughout the world, obtaining far wider distribution for these products than would be the case if their sale was restricted to Group stores.
The wholesale business also wholesales childrenswear and other clothing.
The licensing business licenses third parties to apply Group owned brands to non-core products manufactured and distributed by those third parties, and third parties are currently licensed in different product areas in over 100 countries.
The Brands division is closely involved in the development of licensed products and monitors licensees and their manufacturers to ensure product quality and presentation and consistency with the appropriate brand strategy.
