spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 29 DiRecToRs RepoRT Going concern The directors of Sports Direct International plc present their annual Having considered Group cash flow forecasts and strategic plans, the report to shareholders, together with the audited consolidated directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate financial statements for the Company and its subsidiaries for the 52 resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable weeks ended 27 April 2008 the Year.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
This document contains a number of forward-looking statements relating to the Company and its subsidiaries the Group with respect to, amongst others, the following: financial conditions: results of Appropriations operations: economic conditions in which the Group operates: the An interim dividend of 2.06p per share was paid to shareholders on business of the Group: and future benefits of the current the register on 28 March 2008.
The directors recommend the payment management plans and objectives.
The Group considers any of a final dividend for the Year of 2.44 per share on 31 October 2008 to statements that are not historical facts as forward-looking shareholders on the register on 3 October 2008. statements.
They relate to events and trends that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results and financial position of the Group to differ materially from the information Group structure and operations presented in the relevant forward-looking statement.
When used in During the Year the Group has continued the consolidation of its this document the words estimate, project, intend, aim, office and warehouse operations into the purpose built campus in believe, expect, should, and similar expressions, as they relate Shirebrook, Derbyshire.
Most recently the Dunlop Slazenger head to the Group and the management of it, are intended to identify such office was relocated from Wakefield to Shirebrook.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements which speak only On 29 June 2007 the Group entered into an agreement with Retail as at the date of this document.
Neither the directors nor any member Corp. a division of Dubai world, under which Retail Corp. have a of the Group undertake any obligation publicly to update or revise any licence to manufacture and sell certain Group branded products, and of the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new to open stores under the Sports Direct and Lillywhites fascias in South information, future events or otherwise, save in respect of any Africa and in certain countries in the Middle East.
requirement under applicable laws, the Listing Rules, and other regulations.
On 12 July 2007 the Group acquired a 60% interest in Field & Trek UK Limited, the outdoor clothing and equipment retailer, for 5.1m, with an option to acquire within 5 years the remaining 40% for 5m.
On 1 principal activities April 2008 the Group acquired the outstanding 40% for 1m.
Field and The principal activities of the Group during the Year were: Trek operates retail stores mostly in the South East of England, and has an established on-line offer providing camping and outdoor Retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment: equipment, waterproof clothing and footwear.
Wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, On 20 September 2007 the Group completed the acquisition of footwear and equipment under Group owned or licenced brands: Everlast Worldwide Inc. for an aggregate consideration of and approximately 80.9m.
Everlast is engaged in the design, manufacture, import and sale of boxing and fitness sportswear, Licensing of Group brands.
principally in the United States, and the licensing of the brand worldwide.
Further information on the Groups principal activities is set out in About Sports Direct International plc on page 7, and in the Chief On 18 December 2007 the Group disposed of Original Shoe Company Executives Report and Business Review on pages 11 to 17.
Limited to JJB Sports plc for 5m.
Original Shoe operated 54 stores in the UK.
Business review and future developments On 5 February 2008 the Group entered into a strategic alliance with A review of Group activities during the Year, Group trading results for ITAT Group Limited under which merchandise under some of the the Year and the Groups financial position at the end of the Year, and Groups portfolio of brands is now being supplied to the larger ITAT likely future developments, are dealt with in the Chief Executives stores.
ITAT is the largest network of multi brand apparel retail stores Report and Business Review on pages 11 to 17, and in the Financial in China, operating from over 700 stores in 275 cities.
The Chief Executives Report and Business Review and the Financial Review also describe on pages 15 to 17 and 25 respectively the principal risks and uncertainties that face share capital the Group, the financial risk management objectives and policies of The authorised share capital of the Company is 100,000,000 divided the Group, and details of the exposure of the Group to financial risks into 999,500,010 ordinary shares of 10p each and 499,990 redeemable relating to financial instruments.
Details of the Groups Key preference shares of 10p each.
Performance Indicators by reference to which the development, performance and position of the business can be measured effectively The ordinary shares have all the rights that usually attach to such stated in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review on page ordinary shares, including the right to receive dividends if paid or 17. declared, to receive notice and attend and vote at meetings of shareholders and subject to what is said below concerning The Community and Social Responsibility Report on pages 45 to 47 redeemable preference shares to receive a share of the assets of the reports on environmental matters, including the impact of the Groups Company on any winding up.
businesses on the environment, the Groups employees, and on social and community issues.
