spoRTs DiRecT iNTeRNATioNAl plc ANNuAl RepoRT 2008 15 continued cHieF eXecuTiVes RepoRT AND BusiNess ReVieW strategic investments pensions During the Year, we reduced our strategic investments in other Some subsidiaries in the Group make contributions to certain related businesses.
This was through a combination of the Boards occupational defined benefits pension schemes.
An increase in the ongoing review of the benefits of each stake to the Group and the Groups funding needs or changes to obligations in respect of its takeover of Umbro by Nike.
We still believe that taking strategic pension schemes could have an adverse impact on its business.
investments is beneficial for the Group and the Board will continue to evaluate opportunities.
Market forces The sports retail industry is highly competitive and the Group shirebrook campus competes at national and local levels with a wide variety of retailers of The Group continues to make significant investment in infrastructure.
varying sizes who may have competitive advantages.
Such competition During the Year support functions of our Brands businesses continues to place pressure on the Groups pricing strategy, margins transferred to the head office and distribution facility at Shirebrook, and profitability.
operational All UK Retail functions operate out of Shirebrook, including Field & Any significant disruption to the operations at Shirebrook, Derbyshire, Trek which had its functions moved following that acquisition.
Going a purpose built 800,000 square foot head office campus and forward Shirebrook will continue to enhance our operational efficiency distribution centre or interruption to the smooth running of the through opportunities for rationalisation within existing businesses.
Groups fleet of vehicles, might significantly impact its ability to manage its operations, distribute products to its stores and maintain Risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups business its supply chain.
Risks are an inherent part of the business world.
The Group has identified the following factors as potential risks to and uncertainties Business continuity and acts of terrorism concerning the successful operation of its business.
The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from the UK and accordingly any terrorist attacks, armed conflicts or government supply chain actions within the UK could result in a significant reduction in Any disruption or other adverse event affecting the Groups consumer confidence, which will have an adverse affect on sales in relationship with any of its major manufacturers or suppliers, or a stores as they are primarily discretionary purchases.
failure to replace any of its major manufacturers or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, could have an adverse effect on the legal Groups business, operating profit or overall financial condition.
The Groups trade marks, patents, designs and other intellectual property rights are central to the value of the Group Brands.
Third Finance parties may try to challenge the ownership or counterfeit the Groups The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange intellectual property.
The Group may need to resort to litigation in the risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect future to enforce its intellectual property rights and any litigation could to the US dollar and Euro.
result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or The Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, agents and recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is distributors are in material compliance with employment, not the entitys functional currency.
The violation, or allegations of a violation, of such laws or regulations, by any of the Groups licensees, The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating suppliers, agents or distributors, could lead to adverse publicity and interest rates linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group does not a decline in public demand for the Groups products, or require the use interest rate financial instruments to hedge its exposure to Group to incur expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and interest rate movements.
If unmonitored the Group may be exposed other business arrangements to ensure compliance.
to fluctuations in interest rates and the impact on monetary assets and liabilities.
sales The Groups retail business is subject to seasonal peaks.
The The Group could have a credit risk if credit evaluations were not incidence and participation in major sporting events will have an performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
impact on the Groups retail business.
The Group does not require collateral in respect of financial assets.
Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or temporary severe The availability of adequate cash resources from bank facilities and weather during peak trading seasons could also have a material achieving continuity of funding in the current financial climate could adverse effect on the Groups business.
consumers The Group also holds shares in publicly listed companies and The Groups success and sales are dependent, in part, on the strength fluctuations in their share prices will have a financial impact on the and reputation of the Brands it sells, and are subject to consumers business results.
perceptions of the Group and of its products, which can fall out of favour.
Adverse publicity concerning any of the Group Brands or Reliance on non uK manufacturers manufacturers or suppliers could lead to substantial erosion in the The Group is reliant on manufacturers in developing countries as the reputation of, or value associated with the Group.
majority of the Groups products are sourced from outside the UK: the Group is therefore subject to the risks associated with international Research and development trade and transport as well as those relating to exposure to different The Groups success depends on the strength of the Group Brands legal and other standards.
and, to a lesser extent, the licensed-in brands.
The Groups efforts to continually develop or obtain brands in a timely manner or at all may be unsuccessful.
