32 DiRecToRs RepoRT continued The Groups policy for its employees and for all applicants for Copies of the service contracts of executive directors and of the employment is to fit the abilities and aptitude of each individual to an appointment letters of the Acting Chairman and non-executive appropriate job, irrespective of gender, race, religion or belief, sexual directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered orientation, disability or ethnic origin.
The Company and other Group office during normal business hours and at the Annual General companies will not tolerate discrimination in any form.
does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the training and employment of disabled people, and makes every effort No director has a directorship in common or other significant links to provide continuity of employment in the same or similar job where with any other director except in the case of executive directors an employee becomes disabled.
holding directorships of subsidiary companies of the Company.
Further information on relationships with employees can be found in the Community and Social Responsibility Report on page 45.
Deeds of indemnity The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company and for the benefit of each person who charitable and political donations was a director during the Year, in respect of liabilities to which they During the Year, the Group made charitable donations of 10,000 may become liable in their capacity as director of the Company and of 2007: 373,000.
No political donations were made 2007: nil.
These indemnities are qualifying third part indemnity provisions within the meaning given to that term by Section 309B of 2005 Act, and all these indemnities remain in force.
Directors Directors who served during the Year were: Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 10 Date of appointment Date of resignation September 2008 at Unit D, Brook Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY.
The meeting will commence at 3.00 pm.
Mike Ashley 21 December 2006 Simon Bentley 02 March 2007 New Articles of Association Chris Bulmer 02 March 2007 25 October 2007 Changes to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles must Malcolm Dalgleish 25 October 2007 be approved by the Company in General Meeting passing a Special Resolution to that effect.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at Dave Forsey 08 February 2007 this years Annual General Meeting to adopt new Articles to reflect Bob Mellors 21 December 2006 changes in company law made by the Companies Act 2006.
An explanation of the changes to the Articles is set out in the Notice of David Richardson 02 March 2007 31 May 2007 Annual General Meeting sent to shareholders with this report.
Dave Singleton 25 October 2007 Auditors Resolutions to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be David Richardson and Chris Bulmer resigned from the Board on 31 proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
May and 25 October 2007 respectively and Malcolm Dalgleish and Dave Singleton were appointed to the Board on 25 October 2007.
Audit information The provisions in the Companys Articles for the appointment, The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors retirement after appointment by the Board and by rotation, and Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant standing for reappointment are described in the Corporate audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and Governance Report on page 33. that each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit Details of directors, their roles, responsibilities, achievements and information and to establish the Companys auditors are aware of that significant external commitments are set out on page 27 and, in information.
respect of directors standing for reappointment, in the Annual General Meeting Notice, which is sent to shareholders with this report.
By Order of the Board The Board believes that each director standing for reappointment continues to demonstrate commitment, to be an effective member of Michael oliver the Board, and to contribute to the balance of skills, knowledge and Secretary experience identified by the Board as being required.
The Board is satisfied that the Acting Chairman is not precluded from devoting 10 July 2008 sufficient time to his duties to the Company by reason of his other commitments.
The Board recommends reappointment of the directors standing for reappointment.
Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company at 27 April 2008 and at the date of this report is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 and 43 respectively.
