Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 03 Directors Report 39 Principal Activities Resolution 2 to be proposed at the Annual Research and Development Scottish and Southern Energy plc is a holding General Meeting seeks shareholders Research and development is fundamental company.
Its subsidiaries are organised approval of the Remuneration Report.
to the companys ability to change and adapt into the main businesses of: generation, to the challenges of the future, and in 2007 08 transmission, distribution and supply of Directors Insurance and Indemnities a number of strategic parts of SSEs R&D electricity: storage, distribution and supply The Directors have the benefit of the programme were successfully implemented.
of gas: electrical and utility contracting: indemnity provision contained in the These included the appointment of R&D domestic appliance retailing: and telecoms.
The Coordinators in each of the main business A review of the years operations and future Directors of the company have been granted areas, improved R&D governance, developments is contained in the Business a qualifying third party indemnity provision identification of key R&D funding sources, Statement on pages 8 to 34 and the which was in force throughout the financial and the development of strategic research Corporate Governance Report on pages year and is currently in force.
The company partnerships with leading UK research 41 to 47 which form part of this report.
also purchased and maintained throughout institutes.
The company has also continued to the financial year directors and officers take an active role in the UK Energy Research Business Review liability insurance in respect of itself and Partnership, as well as building relationships The business review has been divided into for its Directors and Officers.
with UK and EU Research Councils.
three areas and dealt with in the Annual Report as follows: Results and Dividends During 2007 08 the company invested The Group profit attributable to shareholders 3.7m in a number of innovative research k Principal risks and uncertainties for the financial year amounted to 872.9m.
and demonstration projects including clean pages 45 and 46 of the Corporate The Directors recommend a final dividend coal technologies, carbon capture and Governance Report: of 42.4p per ordinary share which, subject storage, and novel fuel processing k Review of the development and to approval at the Annual General Meeting, techniques.
Other projects have focused performance of the business included will be payable on 26 September 2008 to on climate change, energy efficiency, in the Business Statement on pages shareholders on the register at close of energy storage and advanced renewable 8 to 34: and business on 22 August 2008.
With the interim energy technologies.
One of the largest k Performance indicators pages 35 to 38. dividend of 18.1p per ordinary share paid on R&D projects commissioned in 2007 was 25 March 2008, this makes a total dividend the Energy Demand Research Project which Directors of 60.5p per ordinary share.
is jointly funded by SSE and the government, The Directors at the date of this report are: to enhance the understanding of how Share Capital customers react to improved information Executive Details of the companys authorised and on energy consumption.
Gregor Alexander issued share capital at 31 March 2008, Colin Hood which includes options granted under the SSE Power Distribution has continued to Ian Marchant Groups employee share option schemes, are take an active role in the Ofgem Innovation Alistair Phillips-Davies detailed in notes 24 and 27 to the Financial Funding Incentive for both distribution and Statements.
Each ordinary share of the transmission and has commissioned R&D Non-Executive company carries one vote at general projects addressing asset management, Sir Robert Smith Chairman meetings of the company.
security of supply and active network Nick Baldwin management.
Richard Gillingwater Annual General Meeting Ren Mdori The 19th Annual General Meeting of the Employees Susan Rice company will be held on 24 July 2008 at The number of staff directly employed by Sir Kevin Smith 12 noon at the Bournemouth International the Group at 31 March 2008 was 16,892.
Richard Gillingwater was appointed as The Notice of Annual General Meeting Employees are encouraged to participate in a non-Executive Director on 25 May 2007 together with full explanations of business the business of the company in a variety of and David Payne retired on 26 July 2007. to be conducted is set out in the separate ways.
In support of the Boards commitment shareholder circular.
to providing opportunities for employees to Colin Hood, Ian Marchant, Ren Mdori become shareholders, the company offers a and Sir Robert Smith retire by rotation at Substantial Shareholdings Share Incentive Plan and a Sharesave Scheme the Annual General Meeting and, being As at the date of this report the company which is open to all eligible employees.
eligible and in accordance with the Articles had received the following notifications Employee participation in these schemes of Association, all offer themselves for of beneficial interests of three per cent or is around 38% and 37% respectively.
Sir Kevin Smith will also retire more in the companys issued share capital: company recognises that its continuing as a non-Executive Director on 24 July 2008. success is closely linked to the performance, skills and individual commitment of its Number Biographical details for all Directors are set employees.
As part of the 2007 employee of shares Percentage out on pages 48 and 49.
Details of the service award, all eligible employees were awarded Barclays 43,048,546 4.95 contracts for Colin Hood and Ian Marchant, 20 free shares.
and the letters of appointment for Ren Legal & General Mdori and Sir Robert Smith, all of whom Group plc 39,198,734 4.50 The company places a strong emphasis on are standing for re-election are set out in employee communication and involvement.
the Remuneration Report on pages 52 and 53 An employee newspaper is published and respectively.
The interests of the Directors distributed to employees.
Participation and in the ordinary shares of the company engagement is encouraged through team at 31 March 2008 are set out in the meetings, briefings and the intranet where Remuneration Report on page 54. employees are informed of the latest company news from recent media coverage and about developments within the business.
