Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 04 Directors Biographies and Responsibilities 48 MAKING ENERGY BETTER 1.
Susan Rice CBE 62 Energy, Chairman of the Scottish Climate Change Business Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Delivery Group, and a member of Ofgems Environmental Nick joined the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy as Susan joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in Advisory Group, the Coal Forum and of the Energy a non-Executive Director in September 2006.
She is Chairman and Chief Executive of Lloyds Research Partnership.
Ian is a non-Executive Director worked in electricity, gas and water utilities, culminating TSB Scotland plc, having previously been Managing of Maggies Cancer Centres and a non-Executive Director in being the Chief Executive of Powergen plc.
He is a Director, Personal Banking, for the Bank of Scotland.
He is a member of the Risk and non-Executive Director of the Nuclear Decommissioning Susan is a non-Executive Director to the Court of the the Nomination committees and is lead Director for the Authority, a non-Executive Director of the Forensic Science Bank of England and chairs the Board of the Edinburgh Environment and Corporate Responsibility.
Service and Chair of the Public Weather Service Customer International Book Festival along with several other Group.
He also serves on the Advisory Board of Climate organisations.
Susan chairs the Remuneration Committee 7.
Richard Gillingwater 51 Change Capital Limited and is Chairman of Worcester and is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Non-Executive Director Community Housing Limited.
He is a member of the Richard joined the Board as a non-Executive Director Audit Committee.
He is Dean of Cass Business School and is a Energy Supply Director non-Executive Director of Debenhams plc and Tomkins plc.
Ren Mdori 50 Alistair joined the Board in January 2002, having previously He has held senior appointments in the City, including at Audit Committee Chairman held various positions in the finance and commercial Kleinwort Benson, BZW and Credit Suisse.
He has advised Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in operations areas of the company.
He joined Southern HM Government and most recently was Chief Executive then June 2003.
He is Finance Director of Anglo American plc Electric in February 1997 having previously worked for Chairman of the governments Shareholder Executive.
He is and is a non-Executive Director of Anglo Platinum and DB HSBC and the National Westminster Bank in corporate a member of the Audit and the Remuneration committees.
He is a former Finance Director finance and business development roles.
He is a Chartered of the BOC Group plc, and previously worked for Accenture Accountant and a Director of the Energy Retail Association.
Sir Robert Smith 63 and Schlumberger Limited.
He is Chairman of the Audit Alistair is Chairman of the Risk Committee and has Board Chairman Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
level responsibility for Energy Trading, Electricity and Gas Sir Robert joined the Board as a non-Executive Director Supply, Sales, Marketing and Energy Services.
in June 2003, was appointed Deputy Chairman in 3.
Gregor Alexander 45 November 2003 and became Chairman in January 2005.
Ian Marchant 47 He is Chairman of The Weir Group plc and a non-Executive Gregor joined the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy as Chief Executive Director of 3i Group plc, Standard Bank Group Limited, Finance Director in October 2002.
He was appointed Group Ian was appointed Chief Executive in October 2002 having and Aegon UK plc.
Sir Robert was formerly Chief Executive Treasurer and Tax Manager in 1998 having held a number been Finance Director since 1998.
He joined Southern of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management Limited, a member of senior positions within the Finance team.
He worked for Electric in 1992 and joined the Board on becoming Finance of the Financial Services Authority and the Financial Arthur Andersen for five years before joining Scottish Hydro Director in 1996.
Previously he worked for Coopers & Reporting Council, a Governor of the BBC, a Board Trustee Electric in 1990, six months before privatisation.
Gregor Lybrand now PwC, including a two-year secondment of the British Council, Chairman of Stakis plc and a Past is a Director of Scotia Gas Networks plc and Chairman to the Department of Energy working on electricity President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of of The Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
Ian is a member and former Chairman Scotland.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee of the Risk Committee.
of the United Kingdom Business Council for Sustainable and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 49 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: k select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: k make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: k state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and k prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open 9.
Colin Hood 53 to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Chief Operating Officer other irregularities.
Colin joined the Board of Scottish and Southern Energy as Power Systems Director in January 2001, and became Chief Operating Officer in October 2002.
Previously he was Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are also responsible for preparing Director of Distribution for Southern Electric, having joined a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance the industry with the North of Scotland Hydro Electric Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
He was Chairman of Scotia Gas Networks plc during 2007 08, and a member of the Forum for Renewable Energy Developments in Scotland.
Colin The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate is Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK Advisory Committee and is the lead Director for Health governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from and Safety matters.
He has Board level responsibility for Generation, Power Systems, Customer Service, People, legislation in other jurisdictions.
Sir Kevin Smith CBE 53 Non-Executive Director Sir Kevin joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in June 2004.
He is Chief Executive of GKN having previously been Managing Director, Aerospace.
Prior to GKN, he held various positions in BAE Systems over a 20-year 7 2 5 9 8 period, latterly as Group Managing Director New 3 6 1 10 4 Business.
Sir Kevin is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society, a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute and a past President of The Society of British Aerospace Companies Ltd.
He is a member of the Health, Safety and Environmental Advisory Committee, the Nomination and the Remuneration committees.
