Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2008 01 Providing Energy 2 4 1 3 5 2 68 7 4 1.
Contracting SSE supplies electricity and gas to SSE provides bespoke energy solutions SSEs Contracting business has three main 8.45 million customers within the UKs featuring on-site or off-site dedicated wind areas of activity: industrial, commercial competitive electricity and gas supply turbines, solar thermal systems, solar and domestic mechanical and electrical market, with growth continuing in the new photovoltaic systems and ground-source contracting: electrical and instrumentation financial year.
This makes it the second heat pumps.
Its Energy Services division engineering: and public and highway lighting.
largest supplier of energy in the UK.
operates and maintains site-wide energy It is one of the largest mechanical and infrastructures of this kind that improve electrical contracting businesses in the UK.
Water Supply environmental performance over SSEs subsidiary, SSE Water SSEW, will conventional alternatives.
Telecoms become the first new company to offer SSE Telecom and Neos Networks operate both water and sewerage services since 5.
Electricity Networks Management an 8,000km UK-wide telecoms network, privatisation in 1989.
This followed the SSEs objective in electricity networks is to providing services to other telecoms granting of an inset appointment to SSEW.
ensure that they are managed as efficiently providers, companies and public sector as possible, including maintaining tight organisations.
Home Services controls over operational expenditure and SSE supplies a wide range of electrical and effectively delivering capital expenditure, 8.
Electricity Networks Infrastructure gas appliances and a range of maintenance so that the number and duration of power SSE is responsible for around 127,000km and protection services for customers gas cuts experienced by customers is kept to of overhead lines and underground cables, and electrical systems and a full range of a minimum.
distributing electricity to 3.5 million homes, gas and electrical installation services.
Its offices and businesses in the north of shield gas boiler, central heating and wiring Scotland and central, southern England.
