Peter Read, Senior Independent Director 69 Board of Appointed in March 2002, Peter is Chairman of the Directors Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Vernalis plc and an independent Director of Innogenetics NV.
Previously, Peter was a senior Executive Directors executive of Hoechst and President of ABPI, a Non-Executive 1.
Garry Watts, Chief Executive 51 Director of Celltech Group plc and a member of the Board of Appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2004 after joining the South East Development Agency.
as Group Finance Director in February 2001.
Richard Adam 50 an Executive Director of Celltech Group plc and Finance Director Appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of of Medeva plc.
Garry is a Non-Executive Director of Protherics the Audit Committee in November 2003, Richard is currently plc and of Stagecoach Group plc.
He was, until May 2008, a Group Finance Director of Carillion plc.
Prior to this he was Non-Executive Director of the Medicines and Healthcare Group Finance Director of Associated British Ports Holdings Products Regulatory Agency.
Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered 2.
Mark Moran, Group Finance Director 48 Accountants of England and Wales.
Appointed as Group Finance Director in June 2004, Mark is 7.
Susan Murray 51 a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed in January 2005, Susan is currently Chairman of of Brixton plc.
He was previously Finance Director of Porvair plc.
FB Raphael 1 Limited the holding company of Farrow and Ball 3.
Ian Adamson, paint and wallpaper business and a Non-Executive Director Managing Director Europe and Americas 49 of Enterprise Inns PLC, Imperial Tobacco PLC, WM Morrisons Appointed as Executive Director in April 2004.
In addition Supermarkets plc, Compass Group PLC and The Advertising to his role as Managing Director for Europe and the Americas, Standards Authority.
Previously, Susan was Chief Executive of Ian also has responsibility for Group Marketing.
He joined Littlewoods Stores Limited.
Susan will stand down as a Director Seton Healthcare in 1991 as Director of Marketing and has after this years Annual General Meeting.
subsequently held a number of senior sales, marketing and 8.
Anna Catalano 48 general management positions within the Group.
He previously Appointed in November 2004, Anna has held senior global held sales and marketing positions at Johnson and Johnson marketing and sales positions in Amoco including President, and W. L. Gore & Associates.
Amoco Orient Oil Company and was Group Vice President, Non-Executive Directors Marketing at BP plc.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Willis 4.
Gerald Corbett, Chairman 56 Group Limited and the US company, Hercules Incorporated.
Chairman since August 2005, Gerald is also Chairman Company Secretary of Britvic plc, Moneysupermarket.
Maria Buxton-Smith 43 National Institute for the Deaf and a Non-Executive Director Appointed Company Secretary in January 2008 after of Greencore Group PLC.
Previous executive positions include joining as Assistant Secretary in 2002.
Maria has previously Chief Executive of Railtrack PLC and Group Finance Director held company secretarial positions at Whitbread PLC and of both Grand Metropolitan plc and Redland plc, whilst past Heron Corporation PLC.
non-executive directorships include Chairman of Woolworths Group plc and Non-Executive Director of MEPC PLC and Burmah Castrol PLC.
