Performance: superior performance is an outcome of the four key pillars that contribute to Business building our business.
review Products: emphasising the need for innovation well-managed launches of new products, Performance supported by consumer communication through media and point of sale.
Platform: ensuring that our systems and processes are operating efficiently.
People: investing in our employees to maximise their potential and the contribution they make to the business.
Purchases: acquiring new brands and businesses which are accretive to shareholder value.
The performance review on page 28 sets out more information on the key growth drivers of SSL in 2007 08.
Products Innovation is synonymous with global market leadership and strong growth.
Our links with external development houses, academic experts and medical partners combined with a strong internal capability allows our innovation teams to develop superior quality products, which in turn lead to sales and operating profit growth and stronger brand loyalty from our customers and consumers.
Increasingly, SSL sources innovation from third-party developers and this gives us the advantage of being flexible and agile, enabling rapid delivery of new products to the marketplace.
Lets see what we have achieved this year across our global brands, Durex and Scholl and our portfolio of locally owned brands Durex The past year has seen Durex build on its position as the worlds leading expert in sexual wellbeing and deliver on its promise to help consumers have more satisfying sex lives.
The brand continues to offer a wide product portfolio, including a range of pleasure-enhancing condoms, lubricants and vibrators.
The emphasis is on helping consumers to enjoy fulfilling sex lives irrespective of their age, gender or sexual orientation.
Durex is spreading these key messages far and wide, and today the brand is known as much for its expertise on sexual wellbeing as it is for being the worlds leading condom manufacturer.
One way it continues to do this is through the Durex Sexual Wellbeing Global Survey, the second wave of which, called In the Bedroom, was released to the worlds media in September 2007, achieving extensive coverage across print, TV, radio and the web.
superior performance 11 The In the Bedroom wave found that, while most of us wished we were having more sex, and that our sex lives lacked excitement and variety, people were still having a lot of fun in the bedroom.
Sensual massage was highly rated by the majority of consumers, while one in five said they use vibrators.
The third wave of information The Big O was released in April this year and found that both men and women wanted to achieve more orgasms but recognised that emotions and physical wellbeing both play a part in this.
It is findings such as these that help the brand develop products to satisfy key demand areas.
This year has seen the introduction of the Durex Play Touch vibrator, Durex Play Ultra, a vibrating stimulation ring, and the Very Cherry lubricant, designed to enhance and add a dash of fruitiness to lovemaking!
This year Durex also started to roll out a new generation of significantly thinner latex condoms meeting international quality standards.
Fetherlite Ultima, launched in Hong Kong in June last year, and Taiwan and Australia in September, forms part of a new generation of barely there condoms, and is 25 per cent thinner than standard Durex condoms.
It was developed following market research that showed consumers wanted as sensitive an experience as possible.
Scholl footcare The vision of making Scholl footcare the worlds leading foot and wellbeing brand is well on track.
Thanks to the brands philosophy of identifying and delivering on consumer needs, Scholl footcare continues to enjoy strong and sustained business growth.
Innovation has played a major part in this success.
The brand has set about really getting to know and understand its consumers who they are, what they think, and what they want from Scholl footcare products.
Armed with this knowledge, new products have been researched and developed to satisfy consumer demand.
We have then communicated all of this to our customers to ensure they know we lead the way in identifying and satisfying their needs.
As a result, business across the five brand categories foot skin, musculoskeletal, foot environment, virus and fungus, and toenail has been strong.
In particular, Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream, which is clinically proven to soothe and rehydrate cracked heels within seven days continues to perform strongly, while Scholl Party Feet Starlight gel cushions proved popular when they were launched in September last year.
A new jewel in the footcare category crown though, is the recently launched Scholl Nail Brightening System Perfect Nail Treatment, a revolutionary three-in-one product that covers and treats unsightly and discoloured toenails.
Based on consumer insight, this is a genuine first for the market.
It has been researched and developed using all of the scientific know-how consumers have come to expect from Scholl.
Put simply, its a perfect example of how Scholl continues to benefit consumers and help them improve their wellbeing.
Top: Communicating the range of Durex condoms, lubricants and vibrators.
Bottom: Scholl Nail Brightening System.
12 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008 We are collaborating with The School of Health Care Professions at the University of Salford to enhance the brand reputation of Scholl, build greater understanding, knowledge and expertise with internal and external stakeholder groups and drive development of innovative new products founded on credible science and research.
Scholl footwear Over the past two years our Scholl footwear business in Europe which represents 83 per cent of total footwear sales has undergone radical change as it looks to develop its distribution-led strategy by increasing retail distribution beyond its traditional pharmacy channel into new growth opportunities in the mainstream shoe trade.
The pharmacy channel is traditionally the heartland for Scholl footwear in Europe, where consumers are typically looking to buy a problem-solving product to provide them with relief from discomfort.
In this instance, the technology combined with a pleasing style is more important than alignment with the latest fashion trends.
In developing new distribution channels, it is essential to ensure that whatever steps are taken do not compromise the growth of the pharmacy channel the key to achieving this is clear range differentiation.
Diversification of distribution outside of the pharmacy channel began last year with the launch of the Scholl by Dolcini range.
In partnership with leading designer Diego Dolcini, Scholl presented a premium collection, primarily based around the classic Scholl exercise style, available in selected department stores and high street retail outlets worldwide.
For the first time, Scholl has been positioned as a luxury footwear brand with a high image and style.
This year we have extended our range to include an Autumn Winter collection and plan to incorporate the Bioprint and Gelactiv technologies in future collections.
We are currently in the process of developing a new collection specifically targeted at mediumpriced high street shoe retailers.
The collection for the shoe trade will be based around the core Scholl foot-bed technology cork, wood and gel but there will be a clear differentiation of style, look and feel.
Although focused at a younger consumer than the pharmacy range, the shoe trade collection will remain true to the Scholl heritage combining comfort with style.
This collection will be available in Autumn Winter 2009 and will feature in footwear exhibitions in August 2008.
Locally owned brands Locally owned brands are important in supplementing the businesss offering in specific countries.
Whether Full Marks and Medised in the UK or Mister Baby and Sauber in Italy, these products are important in ensuring SSLs portfolio has a diverse base and extensive consumer reach.
There have been notable achievements by some of these brands over the past 12 months.
In Italy, sales of Mister Baby have been transformed with a 30 per cent growth over the period, justifying the move into specialist mother and baby stores and mass market chains as well as sales in Italian pharmacies.
In the UK, SSLs range of over-the-counter products, including oral analgesics such as Paramol, headlice treatments including Full Marks and paediatric medicines such as Medised have all made a significant contribution to sales and profitability.
Poster advertising for Bioprint Giacosta improved foot-bed technology in the Scholl footwear range.
13 Sunday 10.34am Durex Play range of lubricants are designed to enhance pleasure, giving a more sensual experience for both partners.
Available in a range of sensations and flavours original, tingle, heat and, the latest addition, Very Cherry which tastes sweet and deliciously fruity!
14 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008
