SSLs strategy is now focusing on organic sales growth supplemented by executing well chosen Purchases acquisitions.
We have very clear criteria against which we measure opportunities to ensure that any acquisition complements our existing business, enables us to use our existing infrastructure more effectively and drives shareholder value in both the short and medium term.
Since March 2007 we have made two acquisitions which have wholly met these criteria.
Orthaheel In November 2007, we acquired Orthaheel, a range of orthotic insoles which are inserted into shoes to alter foot alignment and provide cushioning and support for the feet.
Designed by leading podiatrist, Philip Vasyli, they are proven to reduce heel and knee pain as well as improve posture.
Following the acquisition, Scholl has an ongoing relationship with Philip Vasyli which enhances our research and development capabilities and strengthens the foundation for the ongoing brand development for Scholl.
Currently, Orthaheel has geographic distribution in Australia, New Zealand, the UK, and Germany and its state-of-the-art orthotic product range provides SSL with immediate turnover and a market leadership position in the orthotics market in Australia and the UK.
Combining this with the Scholl brand and our extensive distribution network in Europe and Asia Pacific provides an exciting opportunity for future growth in new geographies.
We are planning an initial roll-out of a new co-branded range from the second half of 2008 onwards.
Global sales of Orthaheel to the year ended 30 June 2007 were 5.7 million: the acquisition was valued at 14.9 million, a multiple of 2.6 times sales.
If sales targets are achieved, consideration could rise to a maximum of 34.3 million payable in cash by June 2010.
Eastern Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS Recognising the importance of emerging markets in driving future sales growth we continue to identify opportunities where we are able to strengthen our position in markets in which we already operate, as with the increased investment in China early in 2007, or to enter into markets where we have no or limited presence.
In February this year, we entered into contracts to initially acquire up to 18 per cent of businesses which own and distribute condoms, primarily the Contex brand, and disposable medical products through Eastern Europe and the CIS consisting of 11 former Soviet Republics.
These contracts also give SSL the option to acquire, in two further stages, the remaining shares in the businesses.
Consideration for each stage is calculated on an earn-out basis calculated at 9x EBITDA.
Stage one of the acquisition was completed on 19 May 2008.
The initial investment was 24.8 million for a 15.5 per cent share of the businesses.
The remaining two stages are expected to take place before 31 May 2010.
We have very clear criteria against which to measure acquisition opportunities to drive shareholder value 16 19 Tuesday 2.04am When children are ill you want to help make them better, quickly.
Medised for Children is specially formulated to ease away pain in children from two years old and it also helps clear blocked noses and eases breathing to help a restful nights sleep.
20 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008
