By ensuring that we have an infrastructure which supports our business strategy and objectives, Platform we can be confident that we have a robust platform for driving future growth.
Over the past year we have undertaken significant changes in our global manufacturing footprint, information systems and in restructuring of Group-wide functions.
Manufacturing High levels of customer service driven by efficient supply of high quality product are an essential part of SSLs success.
During 2007 08, we restructured our global manufacturing footprint for Durex and pharmaceutical products thereby allowing further improvements to our supply chain and customer service in these areas.
Durex In March of this year we closed the Durex condom factory near Barcelona, Spain to transfer production to SSLs facilities in the lower cost countries of Thailand and India.
The one-off cost associated with this closure was 27.1 million and we expect operating margins to benefit from this transfer from 2008 09 onwards.
SSL currently has a Durex condom manufacturing facility in Qingdao, China, which manufactures condoms for the domestic China market however, reflecting the increasing importance of China in driving both overall global economic growth and Durex sales growth, we have commenced the construction of a new state-of-the-art factory which will be located near to our current factory.
The new factory, expected to cost in the region of 20 million, will increase condom manufacturing capacity in China five-fold, enabling the supply of Durex condoms to both the domestic and global markets.
As such, it will become the largest single condom factory in the Group and Durex lubricants will also be manufactured there.
We expect that the new factory, which will replace our current facility, will become operational by June 2009.
Pharmaceutical In February of this year we announced the closure of our factory on Guernsey, Channel Islands, which is expected to close by December 2008.
The cost of closure is anticipated to be 9.5 million.
Production will transfer to SSLs pharmaceutical facility in Peterlee, England and to third-party suppliers.
This consolidation will allow the elimination of duplicated activities between the two sites and allow a focused and co-ordinated approach to pharmaceutical manufacture at a single in-house supply point.
Factory locations Europe Peterlee, UK, OTC products 1 Guernsey, UK, OTC products Redruth, UK, Compression hosiery products Asia Pacific Bangpakong, Thailand, Condoms Qingdao, China, Condoms 2 Pallavaram, India, Condoms 2 Puducheri, India, Condoms 2 Virudhunagar, India, Condoms Irungattukottai, India, Footcare 1 expected to close by December 2008 2 joint venture An artists impression of the new state-of-the-art condom factory in Qingdao, China currently under construction.
15 Information technology Implementing SAP Further to our report last year, we have continued with the implementation of SAP across the business.
The benefits derived from creating a single, stable platform across all commercial, manufacturing and warehousing units are greater efficiency, shorter delivery lead times, increased responsiveness and more accurate information.
These benefits will result in faster decision-making, better customer service and improved working capital management enhancing the platform for growth for SSL.
During 2007 08, having implemented SAP in the UK our largest commercial unit and group functions, Ireland and Spain, we are now live in 11 European countries, in line with our published objectives.
In our manufacturing units, SAP is now fully implemented at all four factories in India and implementation is currently under way in China which is a key element of the project for the construction of the new factory.
In addition, a SAP procurement module is live at SSLs Footwear Development Group near Milan, Italy which enables more effective management of the Scholl footwear supply chain.
Our aim is to complete the implementation in China and to implement in our remaining European commercial markets by mid-2009.
We expect SAP implementation in the Asia Pacific and Americas regions will be completed by the end of 2010.
Web strategy With an increasing percentage of the worlds population now connected and billions spent online each year, the approach to web strategy and e-commerce is becoming increasingly important for all businesses and SSL is no different.
This year we have relaunched SSLs corporate website www.
com and developed for the first time www.
org which provides information on all the activities of the Durex Network in the sexual and reproductive healthcare arena.
Most recently we have launched the new Durex website www.
com in the UK and a number of other countries.
Full roll-out to over 60 countries will be completed during 2008 09.
The emphasis is to strengthen brand communication and further develop e-commerce as an additional route to market.
A similar development is now planned for Scholl.
Functional restructuring Restructuring our Group-wide functions, i. e. those roles which provide support to our operating units worldwide, to ensure that they are aligned to achieving our business objectives is another key factor for building the platform for growth.
Innovation driving growth SSL is becoming increasingly focused on innovation to drive sales growth.
During the year we restructured our Group Marketing & Innovation function into two separate streams so that we can ensure that not only the design, development and implementation of new products works efficiently, SSL is becoming increasingly focused on innovation to drive sales growth Home page of the newlylaunched www.
com website strengthening brand communication.
16 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Monday 8.47pm Hard, brittle and thick toenails can be unpleasant and uncomfortable.
Scholl Nail Brightening System Perfect Nail Treatment is a fast-acting easy to apply remedy for healthy, conditioned, comfortable nails and helps them look good too.
