SSLs strategy and values underpin business performance.
We aim to exploit the economic Our potential of both our brand portfolio and our global operating assets by focusing on: strategy Consumer insight-led innovation: the desire and drive for innovation is central to SSLs growth strategy and we recognise that the ability to innovate successfully on a long-term basis will drive growth in the future.
Cutting edge advertising: supporting the launch of new products by investing in effective and targeted marketing and advertising is a key part of the success of our brands by raising consumer awareness and helping drive retail distribution.
Efficient business practices: improving business processes throughout all areas of the business will help ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers whilst controlling costs.
Training and development of our people: SSLs employees are one of our greatest assets and through continued development programmes we aim to strengthen the expertise across our business.
Our values We are committed to our vision that SSL should become and remain Successful, Socially responsible and Lively through the application of our ABC operating principles Attitude Behaviour Culture.
Our ABC operating principles outline ways of working, adopted throughout our whole organisation, which will help us achieve our business objectives and our vision for SSL.
Our financial objective To achieve double-digit operating profit growth by continuing to drive brand contribution in each of the three years to March 2009 whilst controlling overhead expenditure.
We have exceeded this target in the first two years and are confident that we can do so again in 2008 09.
Brand contribution is defined as sales less cost of sales, market development expenditure and variable selling costs.
09 Saturday 1.23pm The gel technology in every Scholl Gelactiv sandal improves comfort whilst walking.
Every taste is catered for as the collection offers a wide variety of styles and colours.
10 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2008
