Durex Scholl footcare Durex has been making condoms of the highest quality Through in-depth consumer insight combined with an for nearly 80 years and continues to strengthen its position innovative approach to foot health and wellbeing, grounded as the global market leader.
With an increasing emphasis on in science and knowledge of the mechanics of the foot, the sexual wellbeing, the strategic development of Durex has led Scholl footcare product range addresses five key areas of to an expansion of the product range to include Durex Play foot conditions to help people improve their overall comfort lubricants and vibrators.
and wellbeing: Durex condoms: with over 30 per cent of the global branded Foot skin conditions: e. g. dry, hard and cracked skin, condom market, making it the number one condom brand corn, callus and blister.
The product range includes Scholl in the world, Durex condoms continue to go from strength Cracked Heel Repair Cream, Scholl Deep Moisturising to strength with new product introductions such as Durex Cream and Scholl Clear Gel Blister and Corn Plasters.
Tingle and Durex Pleasuremax Warming.
Musculoskeletal conditions: are those caused by inherent Durex Play lubricants: designed to enhance peoples sex malfunctions in feet and the body, e. g. bunions, arch problems, lives, the range is widened to include lubricants with warming heel pain and ball of foot pain.
The product range includes and tingling sensations, fruity flavours and Durex Play Massage Scholl Party Feet, Scholl Spring Action Insoles and Scholl Gel 2 in 1 a massage gel which doubles as a lubricant.
Durex Play vibrators: a range of personal vibrators, including Foot environment conditions: are those caused by body the new, improved Durex Play Ultra, the latest vibrating ring functions or activities, e. g. odour, hot cold feet and tired and Durex Play Touch vibrator, which are designed to help aching feet.
The product range includes Scholl Odour Control people have happier, healthier and more fulfilling sex lives.
Foot Spray, Scholl Fresh Step Anti-perspirant Foot Spray and Scholl Flight Socks.
Virus and fungus conditions: e. g. warts verrucas and athletes foot.
The product range includes Scholl Freeze Verruca and Wart Remover and Scholl Athletes Foot Cream.
Nail conditions: e. g. discoloured toenails, a problem which is now addressed by the newly launched Scholl Nail Brightening System Perfect Nail Treatment a revolutionary new product with a simple three-step approach to reducing discolouration, smoothing and conditioning toenails.
a world of brands 02 In brief Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Scholl footwear Locally owned brands Scholl footwear continues with its strategy to expand Locally owned brands are those brands which are distribution beyond its traditional heartland of pharmacy into sold only in specific countries, predominantly in Italy high street shoe retail outlets.
Three core technologies are and the UK.
They play an important part in achieving used within all Scholl footwear which defines the individual operating profit objectives by improving overall sales collections for each distribution channel: and distribution efficiencies.
Gelactiv: all shoes in the Gelactiv range have a pliable, UK: Over-the-counter OTC products are sold in the soothing, supportive gel insole inside the heel to cushion UK to both pharmacies and grocery stores.
includes oral analgesics such as Paramol and Cuprofen, headlice treatments such as Full Marks and paediatric Bioprint: a new, improved bio-mechanically designed medicines such as Medised.
and proven cork foot-bed which is flexible and comfortable offering the wearer better comfort, improved posture and Italy: Mister Baby offers a complete range of products easier walking.
designed to meet all the most important needs of infancy including products for feeding, hygiene and play for babies Exercise: the exercise sandal is the original and renowned and children from 0 to 3 years.
Its classic styling and contoured wooden footbed exercises and tones foot and leg muscles while you walk.
Also available in Italy is Sauber, a range of wellbeing and healthcare products which includes deodorants, hosiery, anti-cellulite treatments and other body care products.
