62880 StCchV13 p1to39:62880 StCchV13 p1to39 1 7 08 17:48 Page 18 Operating and Financial Review charity which helps runaway youngsters, and also helps Dorset Voluntary in the year to 30 April 2008 in the continuing modernisation of our fleet, Search and Rescue.
which meet and often exceed the latest environmental standards.
We have continued to support the UK educational charity businessdynamics, The Group has committed to invest a further 71m in more than 580 new which provides courses designed to build the skills and confidence of young vehicles for the UK during the financial year ending 30 April 2009.
It includes people as they prepare to enter the worlds of work and further education.
investment in greener bus technology to meet new European emissions Stagecoach has also supported a number of arts initiatives.
standards more than a year ahead of schedule.
More than 220 new buses and coaches will meet new Euro 5 emissions standards, which are not due to In North America, our businesses support the work of chambers of come into force until 1 September 2009.
These vehicles will use selective commerce, arts foundations, tourism associations, educational groups and catalytic reduction SCR technology to reduce nitrogen oxides in the other key services.
We have regularly provided transport facilities to assist the exhaust gas.
annual Tartan Day celebrations in New York, while similar support has been provided to a group of British police officers that make an annual visit to the We are testing the UKs first Bio-buses, which run on 100% biodiesel city to honour the Britons killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks.
In the manufactured by Motherwell-based Argent Energy Ltd.
The bio-fuel is United States, we are part of the federal Emergency Relief Programme, with manufactured from used cooking oil and other food industry by-products, vehicles on standby to assist the response to any natural disaster in the Gulf which are from sustainable sources that do not involve the destruction of Coast.
In Canada, we were involved in assisting with community fund-raising natural habitats or compete with the human food chain.
The environmental efforts to build and equip a new hospital in Peterborough, Ontario.
project also allows customers to exchange used cooking oil for discounted bus travel.
The initiative, which was launched in October 2007, cut CO2 Supporting the community.
Part of the emissions from the buses by around 80% in the first six months of the community.
That is embedded in our business philosophy.
project, saved approximately 550 tonnes of carbon, and more than 21 tonnes of used cooking oil has been recycled.
3.11.6 Greener travel and sustainable business Stagecoachs UK bus fleet of around 7,000 vehicles currently runs on a blend Climate change is one of the most serious challenges facing our world and of 95% diesel and 5% bio-matter, which can be derived from sources such as the choices we all make every day, including how we get to work and the way soy, palm, rape, sunflower and used cooking oil.
For the past three years, we we travel on holiday, affect the planet we will entrust to future generations.
have been using a fuel additive Envirox across the UK fleet, achieving a Government studies in the UK such as the Stern Review and the Eddington reduction in fuel consumption of 4% to 5% and a similar decrease in Report have made clear that emissions from transport are growing.
Stagecoach vehicles have now clocked up more than show that we can achieve significant economic and social benefits from more 700 million miles using the additive, developed by the leading international environmentally sustainable ways of living.
nanomaterials group Oxonica plc, delivering a significant saving in carbon emissions.
We also have a dedicated training programme for our bus drivers Public transport from buses and coaches to train and tram services - is an that emphasises fuel-efficient driving techniques.
important part of the solution.
We can help protect the environment by encouraging people to make less use of the car and domestic airlines, and get Stagecoach is to source most of its electricity requirement for its UK bus on board public transport as much as possible.
Carbon dioxide CO2 is one operations from renewables as part of its strategy to make its operations of the major contributors to climate change.
Public transport can lessen the more environmentally sustainable.
The two-year contract with Opus Energy, impact of CO2 emissions by supporting modal shift away from travel by car.
a leading independent supplier of electricity to UK businesses, covers For example, in The Case for Rail 2007, the Sustainable Development electricity supply to around 240 UK sites operated by Stagecoach.
Electricity Steering Group points out that the average CO2 emissions for the same generated from mostly small-scale hydro, as well as on-shore wind and passenger rail journey is about half that of an equivalent car journey.
biomass, will provide more than 70% of the required supply, with the remainder coming from cleaner, low-carbon sources.
The use of renewable Stagecoach is working with government bodies, local authorities and sources to generate electricity will decrease emissions of CO2.
Stagecoach is suppliers to develop a range of transport solutions.
We also support UK also installing smart meters to help cut energy use as part of the contract.
Government measures designed to reward intelligent car use and encourage modal shift from car to public transport.
In addition, we have cut emissions from around 90 of our largest UK bus locations by more than a third after the introduction of a hi-tech energy As a leading international business, Stagecoach Group recognises that any management system.
Gas consumption has been slashed by an average of form of transport has an impact on the environment.
The Group uses 36%, while CO2 emissions have been cut by more than 6,200 tonnes a year.
significant levels of energy resources and we recognise that operation of Developed by Manchester-based Vickers Electronics Ltd, the technology uses public transport services can affect air quality and noise levels.
For many self-learning predictive programming, coupled with high accuracy years, we have had a published environmental policy that sets out our temperature sensing.
It takes over the control of the existing heating and commitment to good environmental stewardship.
delivers improved control, staff comfort and dramatic reductions in energy Stagecoach Groups wide-ranging strategy includes investment in renewable consumption, saving hundreds of thousands of pounds a year.
fuels and cleaner engines, state-of-the-art energy efficient facilities, water In April 2008, Stagecoach launched Scotlands first carbon neutral bus and waste recycling initiatives and offering businesses green travel incentives network.
The ground-breaking environmental initiative, in partnership with for their employees.
Scottish charity, Global Trees, will see all of Stagecoach's Fife to Edinburgh bus Now, more than ever, we are taking seriously our responsibility to reduce our network become carbon neutral for the next five years.
Around 140,000 trees own carbon footprint.
We are currently in the process of updating our climate will be planted in the south of Scotland this year, saving 21,500 tonnes in change strategy and we have formed an internal cross-functional working CO2 emissions.
group to enhance and refresh key performance indicators and targets, as well as to share best practice across our divisions.
UK Rail Recent research by Stagecoach has confirmed that environmental concerns South West Trains has updated its environmental policy, developed a plan containing objectives and KPIs for all functions within the company, and put are increasingly driving customer behaviour.
We believe this represents a in place monthly environmental briefings covering all staff.
significant opportunity for our business and for shareholders, and we are actively marketing our greener smarter travel services to our customers.
South West Trains held its first Environmental Awareness Week in February 2008, which included an environmental roadshow to raise the profile of Our environmental initiatives these issues among our people.
Last year, it organised its environmental Stagecoach continues to pursue a number of initiatives to improve its awareness workshop for customer services employees that identified a own environmental performance and encourage people to take the number of actions to improve its environmental performance at stations, green public transport option.
Details of the Groups environmental including the involvement of tenants.
KPIs are contained on the Groups website at: Our UK Rail division is an active member of the Association of Train Operating www stagecoach.
com scg csr environment performance Companies ATOC Sustainability Forum set up in 2007 and it is currently UK Bus working with ATOC to identify an industry carbon trajectory to 2020 in light of likely future legislation.
Stagecoach continues to make significant investment in modern vehicles with improved environmental performance.
We have invested around 61m page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 62880 StCchV13 p1to39:62880 StCchV13 p1to39 1 7 08 17:48 Page 19 Environmental management is central to our approach in our rail operations.
GMPTE has signed a deal with Scottish and Southern Energy to use Our strategy is focused on reducing energy consumption within stations and hydroelectricity to run the service, which will substantially cut CO2 emissions.
depots, as well as cutting traction energy.
We have now worked with the Carbon Metrolink is already one of the most  forms of Trust to survey 60 sites across the network in order to identify energy saving transport in Greater Manchester as it does not produce air pollution at street opportunities.
South West Trains is a significant consumer of electricity to level.
This electricity is purchased via industry arrangements from North America mainly nuclear sources.
In the United States, we have continued to replace older vehicles in our fleet South West Trains has also achieved ISO 14001 environmental quality with coaches that feature reduced emissions engines with the latest accreditation for its train depots.
Plans have been developed for an energy technology.
During the year ended 30 April 2008, we replaced 40 motor awareness training session for station managers and key staff.
We will work coaches, 13 open-top sightseeing double deckers, and 35 school buses with with Network Rail to review the use of coasting boards which advise train new models, as well as introducing 17 double-decker coaches for our drivers that they may coast the train i. e. keep it moving without applying megabus.
com operations in North America.
power in order to reduce traction energy.
We are the first company in New York to ensure our vehicles can use low South West Trains is currently trialling bio-diesel on one of its diesel units.
The sulphur fuel, which significantly reduces emissions.
We have also started a trial will last approximately six months with cost, impact on the engine and programme to install emissions particulate filters on our vehicles.
viability assessed as part of the project.
We have also taken part in a successful trial of low sulphur diesel on one of our Class 159 trains in conjunction with Our business also has an action plan in place to comply with Federal US ATOC and the Rail Safety and Standards Board, with no adverse impact Environmental Protection Agency EPA policies and procedures by creating reported on the engine.
Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plans and Spill Containment and Countermeasure Plans in all our operations in the United States.
An environmental improvement has resulted from the introduction of controlled emission toilets to trains in the fleet.
Effluent is collected in tanks, We are taking part in a Smart Start energy conservation programme as well as emptied at special depot facilities, and transferred hygienically into the national rolling out the use of recycled water at bus washes in our depots.
In Canada, we have taken further steps to reduce direct emissions from our Carriage washing machines have been replaced with new modern washers, operations.
As part of our compliance with engine emissions requirements which use alkaline instead of acid wash and often recycle water.
Northam, the under Ontarios Drive Clean programme, we have increased the pass rate on base for the state-of-the-art Desiro fleet, has a carriage wash with a first test from 93.5% to 99%.
A total of 21 coaches were replaced with new sophisticated filtration system, ensuring 75% of the water can be recycled.
vehicles, equipped with the latest engine technology, and all of our locations While limited space has prevented water recycling at every facility, all machines have converted to ultra-low sulphur diesel.
are fitted with tanks that hold one months detergent supply, reducing the All of our Canadian facilities are equipped with a separator unit to filter the frequency of deliveries.
water from petroleum products before the water is sent into the water system.
Garbology, our industry-leading waste segregation and recycling operation, Sludge is removed by a contracted company certified by the Ministry of continues to expand.
Centred on our Wimbledon Traincare Depot, the Environment.
Each facility is also equipped with a spill kit to reduce any diesel programme involves waste being sorted into different types, with items such as fuel from entering the water system through a ditch or drain in the event of a cardboard and paper taken away for recycling.
A culture of re-use and recycle spill.
A programme is in place to recycle paper, cardboard, metal, waste oil, is gathering pace to reduce waste being turned into landfill.
Recycling schemes batteries and tyres.
The company has also recently adopted a wireless GPS have been set up at nine locations and we are planning to roll-out a paper and system that provides valuable information to address unnecessary idling of card recycling programme to 12 key locations during 2008. buses.
We are in the process of implementing a system to accurately track and record electricity and water use at our facilities as part of our drive to reduce our East Midlands Trains has ISO 14001 certification at its train depots and, as part consumption levels.
of our plans for the franchise, we are progressing towards the implementation of an environmental management system to the same standard.
Virgin Rail Group We are undertaking site energy surveys at East Midlands Trains major depots VRG, our joint venture with Virgin Group, has attracted new passengers to rail and stations as well as developing an action plan to reduce energy and water travel as a result of its Go Greener, Go Cheaper marketing campaign, which is use.
Plans include the development of a Green Station featuring on-site part of a consistent push to take on domestic airlines on speed, price, frequency renewable energy generation.
East Midlands Trains is working with Bombardier to modify the Class 222 Train VRG is committed to reducing its carbon footprint and is working in Management System to allow easier shutdown of engines at turn-arounds and partnership with the Carbon Trust on its five-step carbon management possible en-route coasting of engines.
We have also started the installation of programme.
The programme aims to reduce the CO emissions produced as 2 new, more efficient VP185 engines to our High Speed Train power cars where a consequence of all aspects of VRGs operations from traction power to these were not already fitted.
We are targeting further environmental domestic energy use.
improvements from better fuel monitoring and management as well as the VRG continues to look at all of its day-to-day operations and is committed to introduction of eco-driving to our driver training programme.
Our waste find ways to reduce the amount of energy and water used on board its trains, management plans involve improving recycling rates at three depots and two major stations as well as introducing separation of on-train waste on mainline at stations and in offices.
There is also a commitment to reduce waste and services.
increase recycling across all its activities.
The company has installed multifunctional print devices in its offices to save paper and energy, and is Sheffield Supertram has a programme that ensures waste metals, oils, solvents, now considering going further with research into PDAs for drivers and other aerosol cans, used batteries, newspapers and tyres are recycled.
The company on board staff.
Around 20% of the electricity used at Virgin Rail Groups has used a new tram tyre supplier since 2006, which has extended tyre life by stations is purchased from renewable sources and VRG has joined the between 17% and 20%.
Envirowise Big Splash campaign to reduce water consumptions at its Manchester Metrolink has become the first tram system in the UK to be stations.
Envirowise is also working with VRGs property and procurement specialists to advise as to how utilities consumption can be further reduced.
Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive Stagecoach Group plc | page 19
