What we do Preserving value Generating optimal returns from large-scale commodity manufacturing requires firm cost and risk control.
This involves careful management of any commodity exposure, negotiating the right price for our ingredients and providing our customers with quality products, within specification, on time, first time.
Getting the most out of raw materials is essential to keeping unit costs low.
This can be done by increasing yields through innovative manufacturing and Nothing is wasted by ensuring that nothing is wasted in the manufacturing process.
Tate & Lyle uses every part of the corn kernel: nothing is wasted.
Corn is broken Process efficiency down into 57% corn starch used to make Tate & Lyle has recently developed patented, proprietary process technology, food and industrial ingredients : 22% corn known as CORNBELT, which will enable our newest plant a corn wet mill in gluten feed made from the hull and fibre Fort Dodge, Iowa and our expanded plant at Loudon, Tennessee, to produce and used in cattle feed : 4% corn gluten corn starch and ethanol more efficiently than using traditional corn wet milling meal extracted from the endosperm and techniques.
CORNBELT increases starch yields and at the same time used in aquaculture feed and pet food : 3% corn oil made from the germ and reduces per unit energy consumption.
used by the food industry : and the remaining 14% is water.
We have also used similar technology to develop a 20 million biomass Hull and boiler at our UK cane sugar refinery, which will be operational by March 2009. fibre This will not only reduce the carbon footprint of our UK refinery by 25% but will also cut manufacturing costs significantly by replacing 70% of the plants fossil Starch fuel use with a renewable energy source.
Using every part of the raw material In our production processes, nothing is wasted.
In sugar refining, molasses Starch a by-product of the refining process is sold as animal feed or used as a raw and material for fermentation-based ingredients like citric acid and alcohol.
We also gluten capitalise on our expertise in molasses storage and distribution to sell these services commercially.
Likewise, in corn processing, every part of the kernel is valuable, and selling Germ on those parts we do not use ourselves helps manage the net cost of corn.
Corn gluten feed is sold to the beef and dairy industries, corn gluten meal to aquaculture and pet food customers, and corn oil to the food industry.
We also sell some of the more unexpected by-products of ingredient manufacturing on a very small scale.
We generate enough steam from our cane sugar refining business in the UK to generate and sell electricity back to the National Grid, and in the USA, we sell raw carbon dioxide gas, a by-product of ethanol production, to be made into carbonated gas for soft drinks and dry ice.
22 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Endosperm Ensuring quality Because Tate & Lyles ingredients enter the food chain in consumer Raw material hedging products, stringent quality standards are enforced at every site.
Quality In the USA, Tate & Lyle uses hedging assurance also reduces waste and costs and fosters good customer relations.
procedures to protect against price Every Tate & Lyle manufacturing facility has to comply with Group minimum changes in purchased corn.
This involves standards, which include third-party validation of food safety and quality entering into a futures contract at the systems, and sites are benchmarked against each other and ranked in Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME annual quality awards.
whenever we take an order from a customer, which means we can buy corn Negotiating prices and volumes at a specific price at a set date in the future, allowing us to budget without Selling corn-based commodity products in both the USA and Europe is considering fluctuating corn prices.
CME usually done through annual pricing rounds.
These involve a series of contracts offer the opportunity to establish face-to-face meetings with key customers, held over a number of months, raw material values as quoted today for where prices for products like high fructose corn syrup, or charges for toll periods up to two years in advance.
production are negotiated for the next 12 months or on a multi-year basis at an agreed volume.
The majority of our commodity ingredients, both food and industrial, are sold through this mechanism, with only a small amount sold on a spot or ad hoc basis.
The pricing rounds are highly commercial and it is the responsibility of our sales teams to ensure that we get the best price for our products, while remaining competitive against other ingredient suppliers who may sell the same ingredient or substitute products.
In the USA, as soon as a customer order is agreed, if we do not hold actual corn in storage, we manage the risk of changing corn prices by hedging corn costs on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
In Europe, a smaller market for us than the USA, there is no liquid corn futures market, which means we cannot hedge the full corn price cost as we can in Greg Hibner, Manager Co-Product Sales, corn trading desk, Decatur, Illinois, USA the USA.
It is not possible to use hedging procedures to lock in the majority of by-product revenues in either Europe or the USA.
Our European sugars business is also different because the cost of purchasing cane sugar and the final selling price of the finished product are largely determined by the EU sugar regime.
Logistics Our logistics teams are responsible for warehousing, freight costs and customer service.
All of our businesses measure service delivery performance against the same metric: on time, in full, no invoice errors.
We work closely with carriers to achieve the highest standards while controlling freight costs.
Our largest logistics hub is based in Lafayette, Indiana, which is broadly central to all our US plants.
This facility enables us to send mixed loads to customers who buy across our product range and so create cost savings.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 23 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR What we do Understanding consumers Canvassing consumers views helps us to develop new, relevant products and services for our customers.
For example, a report by the US Department of Agriculture found that only 21.4% of US consumers eat enough fibre each day.
So we undertook a study to find out what US consumers thought about fibre and its incorporation into their diet.
How acceptable do you find the use of fibre in food or drink products?
% very somewhat 1 acceptable 76 Percentage of adults who said fibre is useful in helping to maintain or 1 control your weight.
% 52 1 Source: Illuminas 24 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Food on-the-go Put my feet up with a glossy magazine Eco-friendly packaging Fewer calories in my treats Tasty products that are better for me A luxurious treat after a hard day Low-fat snacks An energy boost at 5pm An easier way to get more nutrients into my diet Get my kids to eat more fibre without them knowing Breakfast at my desk Food on-the-go Low-fat snacks An easier way to get more nutrients into my diet Healthy food fast Greener fuel Guilt-free indulgence All-natural cosmetics Get my kids to eat more fibre without them knowing Breakfast at my desk Tasty products that are better for me Fewer calories in my treats Guilt-free indulgence An easier way to get more nutrients into my diet An energy boost at 5pm Healthy food fast
