Adding value Rapidly changing lifestyles are causing consumers to demand more from the products they buy be they good food on-the-go or natural cosmetics.
Our expertise in carbohydrate processing and blending, specialist R&D knowledge and insights into the market give us an edge in developing ingredients that help add taste, nutrition and increased functionality to our customers products.
Our high-volume commodity base allows us to run our plants efficiently and so produce a low-cost substrate we can then use to make more Market drivers speciality, higher-margin products for both food and industrial customers.
The key driver of growth for our These products, some of which are branded, add value through the fact business is value added food ingredients.
that they are either proprietary to Tate & Lyle, have greater functionality In this market we operate primarily within than alternatives or come with an additional service for the customer.
three categories: sweeteners, texturants, and wellness ingredients.
In 2007, Consumer insights the addressable global market in these At the heart of our customer approach is the use of market research to categories was estimated to be worth 6.1 billion, and is forecast to grow at understand the consumer our customers customer, the markets we operate a compound average annual rate of in and our customers needs.
In 2005, we were one of the first food ingredients 4.3% to 7.2 billion in 2011. companies to go direct to the consumer to understand for ourselves what drives purchasing habits, and what consumers might look for in future products.
Global value added food We use this to drive our own product development, to differentiate ourselves ingredients market from our competitors and, importantly, to give our customers an advantage by Addressable market size bn working with Tate & Lyle.
6.1 6.4 6.6 7.0 7.2 Each year we run a programme of studies to canvass the views of consumers in Europe, the Americas and Asia.
We typically use basic attitudinal research such as focus groups as a starting point, then complete the programme with a 1.8 detailed quantitative study such as an internet survey.
Our most recent US survey 1.7 1.5 1.4 1.2 totalled more than 4,000 consumers, across a spectrum of ages and social groups.
In the last year, we focused our efforts on consumer attitudes towards 1.8 dietary fibre and no-calorie sweeteners in response to the growing market for 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.7 health and wellness products.
Due to this interest, development work for customers can include information on nutritional labelling and product positioning.
Tate & Lyles research and development R&D, marketing and regulatory teams work together to provide insights from consumer research, input on labelling regulations and detailed technical assistance on meeting specific product claims.
3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 Research and development 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 We have over 280 people in our R&D team worldwide working to develop Texturants Sweeteners innovative ingredients from renewable resources.
Our R&D network includes Wellness facilities around the world see pages 38 and 39, and is headquartered in Sources: Leatherhead Food Ingredients Report our largest US facility, Decatur, Illinois.
Most recently, we have opened satellite 2005, SRI Flavours Report 2004, SRI Nutraceuticals Report 2007, Company estimates laboratories in China, India and Australia to support our sales effort, while in Europe we have established a wellness and nutrition centre in Lille, France, which includes laboratories and pilot plant facilities for customers.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 25 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR What we do Adding value Our in-house research and development capability is organised into three primary groups: product development, technology, and customer solutions.
Product development is divided into sweeteners, wellness, texturants and bio-materials.
This group focuses on developing new and improving existing products.
The technology group covers process engineering, analytical and carbohydrate chemistry, and biochemicals.
Its role is to determine how to create, analyse and manufacture ingredients.
The customer solutions group includes applications and technical service teams.
The applications teams develop prototypes for customers using our ingredients, while the technical services teams work directly with our customers to incorporate our ingredients into their products.
Research partnerships To give us fresh ideas and insights into the market, we develop partnerships with the external research community.
In 2006, we announced that we would be making a 4.5 million contribution over five years to Kings College London to set up a new centre for research into the link between nutrition and health.
The Tate & Lyle Health Research Centre focuses on gastrointestinal health, carbohydrate metabolism, and medical conditions such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disorders.
This partnership will allow us to share knowledge and ultimately bring new products and technologies to market.
We have also established a Research Advisory Group comprising a panel of six international industry and academic experts, chaired by Dr Barry Zoumas, which reviews our research and development portfolio and provides insight into how leading-edge technologies could apply to future developments.
In 2006, we launched our venture capital fund, Tate & Lyle Ventures, which invests in high-growth companies that specialise in renewable ingredients, food technologies, renewable resources such as biomaterials and biofuels and industrial processing technologies.
In the past 12 months, it invested in Allylix natural flavour and fragrance production, Aquapharm marine-based nutrients, and BioFilm Ltd edible film used in medicines and personal care products.
Investment in R&D Target R&D spend Most of our spend is on internal capabilities fundamental research, product development and process improvement.
The remainder is spent on developing Tate & Lyle relationships with the external research community, through our venture fund Ventures Leadership 2% and alliances with key academic institutions.
Our target is to spend 4% to 5% building Process research improvement of value added turnover on R&D.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, we spent 20% 11% US$64 million 32 million on R&D.
Blending and speciality ingredients businesses In certain geographies where there is growth potential in the food ingredients External market, we have taken the opportunity to invest in blending and speciality alliances ingredients businesses.
These businesses open up new avenues for selling 17% ingredients through their relationships with small to medium-sized customers Application product and their expertise in specific areas such as the dairy industry, gums and development custom formulations.
These businesses, based in South Africa, Germany, 50% Italy and North America, source ingredients and develop solutions from them for customers.
Their specialist knowledge supplements our existing in-house R&D capability.
26 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 These businesses often act as an R&D team for small to medium-sized customers and, by building close working relationships, often become trusted development partners.
Commercial partnerships One way of growing our business is to form joint ventures or partnerships to develop and distribute new products, and to enhance the capabilities of our existing portfolio of ingredients.
Using alliances and joint ventures can be an efficient way to lower our cost of investing in new areas and markets, and to help secure access to new and complementary technology and expertise.
Examples include our partnership with McNeil Nutritionals a Johnson & Johnson company on SPLENDA Sucralose, and with DuPont on Bio-PDO.
Translating science into business results Dr Bob Fisher, President, Research and Development Whats the purpose of research and development R&D ?
Good R&D is not just about pure innovation, its about translating science into business results by developing ingredients that have benefits that customers will pay for.
Customers always look to control costs particularly in the current inflationary environment but our aim is that price is determined per unit of functionality rather than per gram of product.
Thats the driver behind How is Tate & Lyle responding?
Traditionally in our industry only technical service and application Whats driving change in the food scientists were customer facing.
Food is no longer At Tate & Lyle we have responded considered just fuel, its a lifestyle by restructuring our R&D team to choice, and consumers are get our bench-top scientists increasingly interested in health closer to customers.
Both ingredient functionality has been driven by the increased and product claims have to become interest of customers in the molecular more sophisticated, while the need functionality of ingredients, for to test the veracity of product claims example looking at how ingredients brings a new dimension to food are metabolised in the body.
Its fair to say that the science has become more In our R&D teams, its no longer complex: not so long ago products enough to be a scientist: you need to were fat-free: now consumers want be a technical business person: you products to help sustain energy levels, need to turn science into a consumer feel fuller for longer, or improve gut benefit quickly: and importantly, you health, for example.
need to understand what customers are prepared to pay for.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 27 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
