What we do Going to market We provide customers in four key markets with quality services and ingredients made from corn or cane sugar, which impart functionality that is vital for our customers products.
Generating returns and growing our business requires carefully managing the product mix.
This involves maintaining a high-volume, low-cost commodity base to help produce our higher-margin, value added ingredients and services.
Food and beverage The global food and beverage ingredient market is currently worth US$30 billion A brand at work and is growing at a rate of 3.1% per year.
We count the vast majority of the 1 In the last year, 65% of US households worlds top 100 food and beverage companies as our customers.
Food and purchased a product displaying the beverage is Tate & Lyles largest market, with sugars and food ingredients SPLENDA logo on its packaging.
contributing over three-quarters of Group operating profit.
Key drivers in this The most popular product category was market are the need for convenience and an interest in healthy eating, as yoghurt, purchased by over a quarter people live longer, busier lives.
The development of emerging economies, of US households.
Tabletop sweeteners like Brazil, India and China, is also fuelling the growth in demand for and juice drinks were the second and food ingredients in general.
Industrial Industrial ingredients represent a potential area of growth for Tate & Lyle as the trend towards greener living and the replacement of petrochemicals stimulates demand for ingredients made from renewable sources.
Traditional industrial markets for Tate & Lyle have included paper and board starches, fuels ethanol and household goods acidulants.
New markets for us include oil-well drilling biogums, textiles and plastics Bio-PDO.
We are also in the early stages of developing other biomaterials.
This market has great potential since annual demand for  plastics alone exceeds US$245 billion.
1 Approximately 75 million households Source: IRI Consumer Network Animal feed 52 weeks ending 27 January 2008 Rising cereal prices have seen this market become increasingly topical, and have fuelled demand for molasses in Europe and corn gluten meal and corn gluten feed in both Europe and the USA.
Tate & Lyle serves this market because the by-products of our key production processes are sold as nourishing feed ingredients for livestock, fish and pet foods.
This is important because selling on these products helps us manage the net cost of our raw materials.
Pharmaceutical and personal care A nascent market for Tate & Lyle, pharmaceutical and personal care is one we expect will grow in the future although remaining relatively small.
At the moment, we sell two value added ingredients into this market: Zemea cosmetics and creams through our joint venture DuPont Tate & Lyle BioProducts, and SPLENDA Sucralose to sweeten medicines without adding calories.
28 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Heading Heading Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 29 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR What we do Going to market Food and beverage Health and wellness Convenience Sustainability ethical sourcing - digestive health and immunity Indulgence Portion calorie control - weight management Clean label Home baking sugars - childrens health development natural organics - heart health Rising cost consciousness Increasing pressure for high Dealing with a changing - increasing raw material prices quality from suppliers regulatory environment - rise of private label own-label Supply chain ethics Traceability - cost-effective ways of delivering nutritional benefits Manufacturers Retailers branded and contract Food service operators - beverage - dairy - bakery - snack food convenience - confectionery PROMITOR dietary fibres Retail brands: Services: KRYSTAR crystalline fructose Lyles Golden Syrup CREATE innovations in shape, STA-Lite polydextrose Branded retail sugars structure, taste and texture SPLENDA Sucralose - Tate & Lyle Tate & Lyle OPTIMIZE maximising Value added starches, e. g. Fairtrade UK efficiency and value STA-Slim, TENDERJEL, Merigel, - Sidul Sores Portugal REBALANCE reformulating ResistamyI and FREEZIST to lower-fat, lower-sugar and Food stabilising systems, lower-calorie positions e. g. Hamulsion and Frimulsion ENRICH enhancing nutritional benefits of foods and beverages High fructose corn syrup Citric acid Corn oil Corn syrup glucose Pearl starch Industrial sugars PROMITOR fibres HFCS isoglucose SPLENDA Sucralose 30 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Examples of highExamples of branded or Types of Customer Market volume commodity value added ingredients customer trends consumer products and trends by-products Industrial Animal feed Personal care and pharmaceuticals Increased awareness of green High nutrient digestibility Replacement of petrochemicals issues environmental footprint nutrient efficiency preference for natural products Replacement of plastics Animal health petrochemicals Increased awareness of petrochemical Rising cereal costs global putting Pricing awareness but willingness vs. renewable options pressure on feed costs to pay for functionality Rising cost consciousness increasing Natural product claims raw material prices personal care Manufacturers Producers Manufacturers - paper - adhesives - dairy - poultry - cosmetics and personal care - detergent - fide-icing - beef - aquaculture hand creams, deodorantspackaging - textiles - pig - pet - over-the-counter OTC plastics - building products pharmaceuticals Oil-well drilling Fuel suppliers ETHYLEX paper starch Zemea personal care grade STA-LOK cationic starches Bio-PDO STADEX dextrin SPLENDA Sucralose STARPOL water soluble polymers StaZan X industrial xanthan gums Susterra industrial grade Bio-PDO Pearl starches Molasses Corn syrup glucose Ethanol Corn gluten feed Sugar Citric acid Corn gluten meal Biofuel Corn gluten feed Bio-PDO Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 31 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
