Overview of the year Vision, strategy and business objectives Vision Invest in acquisitions and partnerships Tate & Lyles vision is to create the worlds leading We continually evaluate acquisition opportunities that renewable ingredients business.
We aim to achieve this would add strategic value by enabling us to enter new by building a consistent portfolio of distinctive, profitable, markets or add products, technologies and knowledge high-value solutions in products and services for more efficiently than we could organically.
We also aim our customers.
to grow our business by forming joint ventures and partnerships to develop and distribute new products, Strategy and to enhance the capabilities of our existing ingredient Tate & Lyle is committed to providing long-term value for portfolio.
Using alliances and joint ventures can be an our shareholders.
Our strategy is to build a stronger value efficient way to lower our cost of investing in new areas added business on a low-cost commodity base.
To deliver and markets, and help secure access to new and growth, we focus on five key business objectives.
Business objectives Invest in technology and people Serve our customers We are investing in our research and development Delivering excellent customer service is at the core of capabilities to help us develop innovative solutions that everything we do.
Our aim is to be the partner of choice meet our customers product challenges.
We are also in our customers innovation processes and to help them complementing our own capabilities through business develop more successful consumer products.
Throughout and technology partnerships, university collaborations our business we have set up cross-functional teams and investments in start-up companies.
To develop talent, to work with our customers to provide consumer and improve leadership and help our employees succeed, we customer insights and to support them in looking for operate various programmes designed to ensure we have new product innovation opportunities.
the right skills at all levels to grow our business.
Operate efficiently and safely Grow the contribution from value added products We aim to be the lowest-cost and most efficient producer We are committed to continuing to grow the contribution in all our markets.
Through our expertise in high-volume from our value added products.
Value added ingredients process management, our focus on technical and utilise technology or intellectual property enabling our manufacturing excellence and the efficient use of services customers to produce distinctive products and Tate & Lyle such as logistics and utilities, we are continually working to obtain a price premium and or sustainable higher margins.
to improve the efficiency of our operations.
We also strive to ensure that there are safe and healthy conditions for everyone at our sites.
10 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 This section shows how we use raw materials to create endless possibilities for our customers.
It all starts here What we do 12 Overview 14 Sustainable sourcing 18 Creating volume 22 Preserving value 24 Adding value 28 Going to market 32 People 34 External environment and risk factors T Ta ate & L te & Lyle Annual Report 2008 yle Annual Report 2008 11 11 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
