What we do Through our production facilities around the world we turn raw materials corn or cane sugar into quality ingredients used by millions of people every day.
Sustainable sourcing Creating volume Ensuring we have a long-term, To create the hundreds Sustainable sourcing reliable supply of corn and cane of quality ingredients our sugar for our plants is essential.
customers want, we begin This involves developing by processing large volumes long-term, mutually beneficial of raw materials from which relationships with growers, we create basic products that farmers and other commercial are either sold on or used as partners to secure supply, the starting point for developing understanding commodity speciality ingredients and markets, and hedging costs branded goods.
this volume and operating large-scale, efficient plants, allow us to keep unit costs low across the business.
Sagamore plant, Indiana, USA 12 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Heading Heading You are here: Sustainable sourcing Preserving value Adding value Going to market Generating optimal returns Rapidly changing lifestyles We provide customers in four from large-scale commodity are causing consumers to key markets with quality services manufacturing requires firm demand more from the and ingredients made from corn cost and risk control.
This products they buy be they or cane sugar, which impart involves careful management good food on-the-go or natural functionality that is vital for of any commodity exposure, cosmetics.
Our expertise our customers products.
negotiating the right price for in carbohydrate processing Generating returns and growing our ingredients, and providing and blending, specialist R&D our business requires carefully our customers with quality knowledge and insights into managing the product mix.
products, within specification, the market give us an edge This involves maintaining a on time, first time.
in developing ingredients that high-volume, low-cost commodity help add taste, nutrition and base to help produce our higherincreased functionality to margin, value added ingredients our customers products.
People External environment and risk factors Running a diverse business like Tate & Lyle, which develops, Every business needs to be manufactures and sells a huge responsive to its competitive variety of products and services and regulatory environments.
to customers in different markets Understanding the issues that across the world, relies on a team could have an impact on our of highly skilled, motivated people business is vital for good risk from a wide range of disciplines.
management and long-term commercial success.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 13 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
