Directors report Principal activities of the Group There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares and prior The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiary approval is not required from the Company nor from other and associated undertakings are developing, manufacturing holders for such a transfer.
No limitations are placed on the and marketing food and industrial ingredients that have been holding of shares and no share class carries special rights made from renewable resources.
with regard to the control of the Company.
No restrictions are placed on voting rights other than as outlined above with Business review respect to preference shares.
The Company is not aware of A review of the Groups business, its activities and performance any agreements between shareholders that may restrict the during the year, use of financial instruments, post balance transfer or exercise of voting rights.
sheet events and likely future developments is on pages 4 to The Company was given authority at the 2007 AGM to make 56, and the corporate social responsibility report is on pages market purchases of up to 48,985,295 of its own ordinary 68 to 77.
The information on these pages that is required to shares.
This authority will expire at the 2008 AGM and fulfil the requirements of the business review is incorporated approval will be sought from shareholders at that meeting in this directors report by reference.
for a similar authority to be given for a further year.
Results and dividend During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Company The results are considered in detail in the operating and purchased 33,627,000 ordinary shares, at a total cost financial review on pages 41 to 56. of 159,327,758 under the share buyback programme announced on 18 July 2007.
This represents 6.86% of the An interim dividend of 6.5p per ordinary share was paid on issued share capital as at 18 July 2007.
The directors recommend a final dividend shares were cancelled and 3,300,000 shares were held of 16.1p per ordinary share to be paid on 31 July 2008 to as treasury shares.
shareholders on the register on 4 July 2008, subject to approval at the 2008 Annual General Meeting AGM.
To satisfy obligations under employee share plans, the The total dividend for the year is 22.6p per ordinary Company issued 413,068 ordinary shares during the year share 2007 21.5p.
and reissued 544,927 ordinary shares from treasury.
During the period 1 April 2008 to 21 May 2008, the Company issued Annual General Meeting 21,406 ordinary shares and reissued 709,481 ordinary shares The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad from treasury in connection with employee share plans.
Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE, on Wednesday Further information about the Companys share capital is 23 July 2008 at 11.15 am.
Enclosed with this report is a letter on page 131.
Information about options granted under the from the Chairman to shareholders.
Attached as an appendix Companys employee share schemes is on pages 133 and 134. to the letter is the notice convening the meeting, which includes five items of special business.
The letter includes an Change of control explanation of all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
The Company has committed bank facilities of US$1,110 million, of which US$110 million matures in 2009 and Financial risk policies US$1 billion matures in 2012.
Under the terms of these A summary of the Companys treasury policies and objectives facilities, the banks can give notice to Tate & Lyle to prepay relating to financial risk management, including exposure to outstanding amounts and cancel the commitments where associated risks, is on pages 52 to 56. there is a change of control of the Company.
Share capital All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions As at 31 March 2008, the Company had nominal issued relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and ordinary and preference share capital of 117 million comprising awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change 115 million in ordinary shares, which includes 1 million in of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance treasury shares and 2 million in preference shares.
Holders of ordinary shares have the rights accorded to them Substantial shareholdings under UK Company law, including the right to receive the As at 21 May 2008, the Company had been notified under Companys annual report and accounts, attend and speak at Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the general meetings, appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
Financial Services Authority of the following holdings of Holders of preference shares have limited voting rights and voting rights in its shares: may not vote on the disposal of surplus profits after the No.
of shares % held dividend on the preference shares has been provided for, the election of directors, their remuneration, any agreement INVESCO plc 75,787,643 15.68% between the directors and the Company, or the alteration Harbert Fund Advisers 69,811,234 15.28% of the Articles of Association dealing with any of such matters.
Lehman Brothers Further details regarding the rights and obligations attached International Europe 30,274,961 6.62% to share classes are contained in the Articles of Association, AXA S. A.
24,341,998 4.97% which are available on the Companys website, Legal & General Group plc 19,827,451 4.12% www.
Barclays Global Investors 17,568,133 3.59% Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 79 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR Directors report Directors Donations The current members of the Board, together with their Worldwide charitable donations during the year totalled biographical details, are set out on page 59.
More details of the Groups community involvement can be found on pages 75 to 77.
Retirement and re-election of directors Again this year, in line with the Groups policy, no political In accordance with its Articles of Association, one-third donations were made in the European Union EU.
Outside or the nearest whole number below one-third of the directors the EU, the Groups US business made contributions during of Tate & Lyle PLC are required to retire at each AGM, together the year totalling US$46,000 23,000 2007 US$34,000: with directors appointed by the Board since the previous AGM.
18,000 to state and national political party committees In addition, under the Combined Code Code, directors are and to the campaign committees of state candidates affiliated required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders to the major parties.
The total includes US$15,000 7,500 every three years and non-executive directors who have 2007 US$10,000: 5,000 contributed by the Tate & Lyle served more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
The PAC is funded entirely by US employees.
Employee contributions are entirely The directors retiring by rotation at the 2008 AGM and offering voluntary and no pressure is placed on US employees to themselves for re-election are Sir David Lees and Dr Barry participate.
No funds are provided to the PAC by Tate & Lyle Zoumas.
Sir David Lees, Chairman, has served on the Board but under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the for more than nine years and so is retiring and offering himself name of the employing company.
for re-election in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
Stanley Musesengwa and Stuart Strathdee will also be Payment to suppliers retiring at the 2008 AGM but will not be offering themselves It is the Groups policy that UK operating companies should for re-election.
follow the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
The Code requires the Company to agree the terms of payment with its suppliers, Sir David Lees and Dr Barry Zoumas do not have service to ensure its suppliers are aware of those terms and to contracts.
At no time during the year has any director had any abide by them.
It is the Groups policy also to apply the material interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract requirements of the Code to wholly owned companies of significance in relation to the Groups business.
A statement around the world, wherever possible.
of directors interests in shares of the Company is on page 92.
Tate & Lyle PLC is a holding company and had no amounts Research and development owing to trade creditors at 31 March 2008.
The Groups The Group spent 32 million 2007 22 million on research creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2008 were 42 days and development during the year.
Employment policy and involvement Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The average number of employees in the Group during the year The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, is given in Note 9 on page 111. the directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Group companies operate within a framework of human Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to and for preparing the parent company financial statements their own market sector and country of operation.
Policies and and the directors remuneration report in accordance with procedures for recruitment, training and career development applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage The directors are responsible for preparing financial a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop statements for each financial year that give a true and fair as fully as possible in accordance with their individual abilities and view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the the needs of the Group.
The Group remains committed to the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the full and fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to Group and a true and fair view, in accordance with United applications, training, promotion and career development.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of affairs of the Company for that period.
In preparing Training is concentrated on multi-skilling to encourage flexibility those financial statements, the directors are required to: in working practices.
The Group runs a series of international management programmes to develop management skills and select suitable accounting policies and then apply create valuable opportunities for the cross-fertilisation of them consistently: management ideas across the Group.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged.
state whether the Group financial statements comply A variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees with IFRS as adopted by the EU and, with regard to the including a Group-wide magazine, electronic mail, the Groups parent company financial statements, whether applicable intranet, briefings and roadshows.
These arrangements are accounting standards have been followed, subject to designed to facilitate a two-way dialogue and also enable the any material departures disclosed and explained in the development of a common awareness among employees of financial statements.
the factors affecting the performance of the Group.
80 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 Directors report The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and that the parent company financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors also confirm that, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the business review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their reports of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken in his her duty as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have signified their willingness to continue in office and a resolution reappointing them as auditors will be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
On behalf of the Board Robert Gibber Company Secretary 21 May 2008 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2008 81 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
