board of directors 1 John Hughes 3 Brian Mcarthur-Muscroft 6 Ian Nolan 2 3 2 Chairman Group finance Director Non-Independent Non-Executive Director John Hughes has more than 30 years Brian McArthur-Muscroft is responsible Ian Nolan is a Partner in 3is European experience leading complex, high for financial strategy, policies, reporting, Buyouts business, and is responsible technology businesses operating at a planning and control for the Group.
Mr Nolan began his 3i global level, including senior executive Mr McArthur-Muscroft has over career in 1987, and has been involved positions at Thales Group where he 20 years experience dealing with with TelecityGroup since 3i funded it was latterly executive vice president financial strategy, with the last as a start-up in 1998.
Mr Nolan has an and chief operating officer, responsible 12 of these specialising in the MA in Economics from Cambridge for an organisation with over 25,000 telecommunications and technology University, and prior to joining 3i he people, Lucent Technologies where sector.
Prior to joining the Group, he qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
his responsibilities included being was Group Finance Director of Viatel, president of its worldwide GSM and a pan-European communications UMTS businesses and Hewlett-Packard.
business, Eckoh Technologies plc, Mr Hughes has significant experience a UK-listed telecommunications 7 John OReilly of managing growth companies, and technology group, and Cable 1 2 Independent Non-Executive Director especially those supplying complex and Wireless HKT Multimedia.
John OReilly is Managing Director solutions and services to business He was also Director of Risk of Remote Betting and Gaming at customers, mergers and acquisitions, Management for Cable and Wireless Ladbrokes.
Mr OReilly joined the international channel expansion and Asia.
Mr McArthur-Muscroft qualified board of Ladbrokes following the development of leadership teams.
as a Chartered Accountant FCA completion of the sale of the Hilton He has lived and worked in the USA with  International hotels division in and mainland Europe as well as the in London, specialising in business February 2006.
He is also non-executive chairman restructuring and turnaround the Ladbrokes eGaming Division of Spectris plc and Intec Telecom assignments, and holds a law degree.
Systems plc, non-executive deputy Mr OReilly has responsibility for chairman of Parity Group plc and a Vernons in addition to Ladbrokes.
com member of the boards of Chloride and Ladbrokes Telephone Betting Group PLC and Barco nv a Brussels 4 Simon Batey operations.
Since joining Ladbrokes, exchange-listed company.
He holds Senior Independent Mr OReilly has held senior responsibility a BSc in Electrical and Electronic 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director within the company for marketing, Engineering.
Mr Hughes chairs the Simon Batey has 20 years experience public relations, public affairs, Nominations Committee.
in a number of senior finance roles in property, business development industry.
Between 2000 and 2006, and the Telephone Betting business.
Mr Batey was Group Finance Director Mr OReilly is a Director and Vice Chair of United Utilities plc and, from 2006 of The Remote Gambling Association.
2 Michael Tobin until 2007, he was Chief Financial Mr OReilly holds a First Class honours Chief Executive Officer Officer of Thames Water Utilities degree in Business.
Mr OReilly chairs Michael Tobin is the Chief Executive Limited.
From 1987 to 2000, he the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Tobin worked for AMEC plc, initially as joined Redbus Interhouse in 2002 Deputy Group Finance Director and as Sales and Marketing Director and then, from 1992, as Group Finance became Chief Executive Officer in Director.
Mr Batey has been a 8 Sergei Riabtsov 2003, leading the company through non-executive director of Arriva plc 3 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director its integration with TeleCity, the since October 2003 and has also Sergei Riabtsov joined the Sputnik subsequent acquisition of Globix served as a non-executive director Group at its founding in 1998 and in 2006 and the successful IPO of of THUS Group plc.
Mr Batey has is now the managing director.
He has more an MA in Geography from Oxford Mr Riabtsov has been a hands-on than 25 years experience in the University and is a qualified Chartered manager of investment activities for telecommunications and technology Accountant, having spent the first the last ten years and has served on sector.
Prior to TelecityGroup, he 12 years of his career at Armitage and the boards of a number of the Groups headed-up Fujitsus e-Commerce Norton now part of KPMG.
Prior to joining the operations in Germany and before chairs the Audit Committee, and is Sputnik Group, he was an investment that ran ICLs Danish outsourcing the Companys Senior Independent banker at Credit Suisse First Boston subsidiary out of Copenhagen.
in London and Moscow and at He has also held senior positions Renaissance Capital in Moscow.
based in Paris for over 11 years He holds a degree in Economics including International Computer and Finance from the State Finance Group and Tricord Systems Europe, 5 Robert Morse Academy in Moscow.
Mr Riabtsov was and was formerly Managing Director 1 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director a director of Redbus Interhouse plc of Goupil UK.
Mr Tobin is Chairman Robert Morse is a Partner of Oak Hill from November 2003 until its of the Friends of The Loomba Trust, Capital Management and has been acquisition by the Company.
a charity which provides education with the firm since 2001.
Mr Morse is and aid for children of poor widows responsible for the firms technology in India.
He is also a non-executive investments.
Prior to joining Oak Hill, director of Think London, the London Mr Morse worked at GCC Investments, Development Agencys organisation a growth private equity firm and at for inward investment.
Mr Morse earned a BSE degree, summa cum laude, from Princeton University and a MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of 1 Member of the Audit Committee Business, where he was an Arjay 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee Miller Scholar.
3 Member of the Nominations Committee 22 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 1 TCY ar08 front.
indd 22 26 02 2009 10:42:47 business and financial review corporate governance accounts 1 5 2 6 3 7 4 8 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 23 1 TCY ar08 front.
