212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 3 Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report to shareholders on the affairs Markets served and business model of the Group and Company, together with the audited financial statements Tescos growth, driven by this strategy, has been predominantly organic of the Company for the year ended 23 February 2008. and we have used our skills and knowledge in understanding customers, property development, supply chain management, new product development, store formatting and how to localise our offer to create strong business models in our chosen markets.
Where we do not have Business Review all the required skills ourselves to be successful, we regularly partner with existing businesses and these relationships have formed the basis of This Business Review analyses the performance of the Tesco Group in some of our most successful operations for example with Samsung in the financial year ended 23 February 2008.
It also explains other aspects South Korea and with the Royal Bank of Scotland in Tesco Personal Finance.
of the Groups markets, results and operations, including strategy and risk management.
The UK grocery retail market remains our largest source of revenue, representing some 46% of last years 51.8bn of sales.
International Long-term strategy retail sales from our 12 markets in Europe, Asia and the United States, Tesco has a well-established and consistent strategy for growth, which comprise a further 19% of Group revenues and non-food in a variety has allowed us to strengthen our core UK business and drive expansion of categories from health and beauty to electronics accounts for most into new markets.
The rationale for the strategy is to broaden the scope of the remainder.
Our services businesses not least in financial services of the business to enable it to deliver strong sustainable long-term growth and telecoms have comparatively small revenue streams because some by following the customer into large expanding markets at home such of the most important of them are joint-ventures but they are increasingly as financial services, non-food and telecoms and new markets abroad, material to our earnings base.
initially in Central Europe and Asia, and now also in the United States.
At the core of Tescos business model is a focus on trying to improve what The strategy to diversify the business was laid down in 1997 and has been we do for customers.
We aim to make their shopping experience as easy the foundation of Tescos success in recent years.
The new businesses which as possible, lower prices where we can to help them spend less, give them have been created and developed over the last decade as part of this strategy more choice about how they shop in small stores, large stores or online, now have scale, they are competitive and profitable in fact, the International and seek to bring simplicity and value to sometimes complicated markets.
business alone makes about the same profit as the entire Group did a And we aim to be a good neighbour in the communities we serve, be decade ago.
responsible, fair and honest in our dealings and give customers the information and products they need to make greener choices.
We are The Group has continued to make progress with this strategy, which now also an inclusive business everyone is welcome at Tesco.
has five elements, reflecting our four established areas of focus, and also Tescos long-term commitments on community and environment.
Because we are a discounter, underpinning this approach is a relentless attitude to being the lowest cost provider of goods and services in our The objectives of the strategy are: chosen sectors and this combination of qualities is the reason we have to grow the core UK business: been successful in some of the worlds most competitive markets.
We have to become a successful international retailer: recognised skills and proprietory systems in key areas which help us deliver to be as strong in non-food as in food: a low cost model particularly in customer relationship management, justto develop retailing services such as Tesco Personal Finance, in-time supply chain and distribution, property development and store Telecoms and tesco.
In some of our newer markets such as telecoms or financial to put community at the heart of what we do.
services, our willingness to partner with established businesses has given us access to their existing investment in systems and infrastructure and In 2007 8, Tesco has again delivered a strong performance, with all parts enabled Tesco to develop competitive, profitable business models quickly of the strategy contributing.
We have sustained good growth in the UK and and, at the same time, limit our own investment and risk in the early years.
coped well with the challenges of poor weather, recovering competitors, and a deteriorating consumer background.
In our international operations we have also made excellent progress, completing a large programme of new store openings and overcome difficult conditions in some of our largest markets.
We have also begun operations on the west coast of the United Sales growth contribution by region 1 States with our Fresh & Easy stores.
46% 1 UK In non-food, more customers are choosing to shop with us even in a period 2 Asia of more cautious consumer spending and we have seen good growth from 3 3 Europe Tesco Direct, which extends our reach in selling a broad range of products 29% on the internet and via a catalogue.
Our retailing services have delivered another good year, with tesco.
com sustaining its rapid growth, Tesco Personal Finance making progress in challenging markets and Telecoms 2 continuing to build its customer base strongly and moving into profitability.
25% Finally, we are making strides towards a revolution in green consumption, having reduced carrier bag use by over one billion more than any other retailer and are on target to sell ten million energy efficient lightbulbs in Profit growth contribution by region 1 a year as part of the Climate Groups Together campaign.
50% 1 UK 2 Asia 3 3 Europe 29% 2 21% Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 3 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 4 Business Review continued Group performance This years results represent very good progress across the Group and have been achieved by investing to improve the shopping experience for customers in our businesses in the UK and around the world.
We have been able to deliver another solid sales performance, and through good cost control and productivity improvements, we have grown profits slightly faster than revenue and thereby improved returns for shareholders.
These improvements have been achieved whilst continuing to invest in the long term in the people, assets, processes and systems, which will enable Tesco to sustain its success in the future.
Results These results are for the 52 weeks ended 23 February 2008, compared with the same period ending in February 2007.
Results from our business in China are consolidated in the full-year results for the first time.
Group sales, including VAT, increased by 11.1% to 51.8bn last year 46.6bn.
At constant exchange rates, sales increased by 10.4%.
In April 2006, with our Preliminary Results for 2005 6, and following our transition to IFRS, we introduced an underlying profit measure, which excludes the impact of the non-cash elements of IAS 19, IAS 32 and IAS 39 principally pension costs and the marking to market of financial instruments.
With these Results, the underlying profit measure also excludes the impact of the non-cash element of IAS 17 Leases, relating to the impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent free periods.
Underlying profit before tax rose to 2,846m in the year last year 2,545m, an increase of 11.8%.
With our Interim Results for 2006 7, we began reporting segmental trading profit, which excludes property profits and, as our underlying profit measure does, excludes the non-cash element of the IAS 19 pension charge and now also excludes the non-cash element of the IAS 17 lease charge.
Group trading profits were 2,751m last year 2,478m, up 11.0% on last year and Group trading margin, at 5.8%, was unchanged on last year.
Group operating profit rose by 5.4% to 2,791m last year 2,648m.
Within this, total net Group property profits were 188m in the year last year 139m, including asset disposals within joint ventures, comprising 186m in the UK and 2m in International.
Group profit before tax increased 5.7% to 2,803m last year 2,653m.
Excluding last years exceptional items: principally the Pensions A-Day credit, Group profit before tax rose 15.3% and Group operating profit rose 15.1%.
Group results Actual rates Actual rates Constant Group sales inc. VAT 51,773m 11.1% 10.4% Group profit before tax 2,803m 5.7% 5.1% Group operating profit 2,791m 5.4% 4.8% Group underlying profit before tax 2,846m 11.8% 11.2% Group trading profit 2,751m 11.0% 10.4% Trading margin 5.8% International Our International business delivered a very strong performance, contributing 54% of the growth in Group sales and 50% of the growth in Group trading profit.
Underlying margins improved whilst reported margins were diluted slightly by the consolidation of our business in China for the first time, following the increase in our shareholding to 90% in December 2006.
Total International sales grew strongly by 25.3% at actual exchange rates to 13.8bn last year 11.0bn and by 22.5% at constant exchange rates.
China contributed 702m to sales, representing 6.4 percentage points of the years total International growth at actual rates.
Excluding China, total international sales grew by 19.0% at actual rates and by 15.7% at constant rates.
Like-for-like sales in International grew by 2.0%, with net new space contributing the remaining 20.5%.
04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 Number of stores Group space 000 sq ft Sales performance m International International International UK UK UK Including 60 weeks International.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and www.
At constant exchange rates, International trading profit grew by 22.2%.
International results Actual rates Actual rates Constant International sales inc. VAT 13,824m 25.3% 22.5% International trading profit 701m 24.3% 22.2% Trading margin 5.6% US segmental reporting of sales and trading results within International will begin with our Interim Results in September.
For these preliminary results, sales and start-up losses in the United States are reported in our UK segment.
In Asia, sales grew by 27.2% at actual exchange rates and by 30.9% at constant rates to 6.0bn last year 4.7bn.
Excluding China, Asia sales grew by 12.3% and 15.1% at constant exchange rates.
Trading profit increased by 23.6% at actual rates and by 26.8% at constant rates to 304m last year 246m.
Excluding China, trading margins rose in Asia, to 5.8% driven by strong performances in South Korea, Thailand and Malaysia.
China made a small trading profit in the year.
Asia results Actual rates Actual rates Constant Asia sales inc. VAT 5,988m 27.2% 30.9% Asia trading profit 304m 23.6% 26.8% Trading margin 5.5% In Europe, sales rose by 23.9% at actual rates and by 16.1% at constant rates to 7.8bn last year 6.3bn.
Trading profit increased by 24.8% at actual rates to 397m last year 318m and by 18.6% at constant rates.
Trading margins increased by six basis points.
Central Europe overall delivered strong growth.
Despite the subdued economy in Hungary, our business delivered a pleasing increase in profit and resumed positive growth in like-for-like sales last summer.
Excellent performances in Turkey and Ireland were held back by planned commissioning costs for new large central distribution centres, both of which opened in the first half.
Europe results Actual rates Actual rates Constant Europe sales inc. VAT 7,836m 23.9% 16.1% Europe trading profit 397m 24.8% 18.6% Trading margin 5.8% UK Our core business performed well in challenging market conditions.
UK sales increased by 6.7% to 37.9bn last year 35.6bn with like-for-like growth of 3.9% including volume of 2.0% and 2.8% from net new stores.
Excluding petrol, like-for-like sales grew by 3.5%.
In our stores, we saw modest inflation of 1.2% for the year as a whole, with our continued investment in lowering prices for customers being offset by the strength of market prices for commodities and some seasonal fresh foods.
Further rises in commodity food prices in the second half saw inflation rise to just over 2% in our fourth quarter with food price inflation being offset by continuing deflation in non-food categories.
The pattern of our trading during the year was unusual.
Unseasonal summer weather impacted growth in the first half, and a combination of recovering competitors and more subdued customer demand in some non-food product categories, held back sales progress in the second half.
Increased productivity and good expense control enabled us to maintain solid margins and deliver good profit growth despite these challenges, whilst also absorbing initial operating losses totalling around 90m on Tesco Direct and on establishing our operations in the US.
Even after these additional costs, UK trading profit rose 7.1% to 2,050m, with trading margins at 5.9%, slightly up on last year.
UK results 2007 8 Growth UK sales inc. VAT 37,949m 6.7% UK trading profit 2,050m 7.1% Trading margin 5.9% EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation and amortisation charges of 357m to International operating profit of 694m.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 5 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 6 Business Review continued Joint ventures and associates Our share of profit net of tax and Cash flow and Balance Sheet Group capital expenditure excluding interest for the year was 75m, a decrease of 31m compared with last acquisitions rose to 3.9bn last year 3.0bn : higher than the 3.5bn year.
Driving this decrease was a 47m property profit last year, principally forecast at our Interim Results.
This increase was attributable to the reflecting profit realised on the sale of the Weston Favell store to a third purchase of a small number of UK trading stores from a competitor, party.
Excluding these property-related items, profits from joint ventures investment in new mixed-use development schemes during the second rose by 16m.
half and higher International capital expenditure.
Tesco Personal Finance TPF profit was 128m, of which our share was UK capital expenditure was 2.5bn last year 1.9bn, including 987m 64m.
This was after absorbing 31m of higher household insurance claims on new stores, 457m on extensions and refits and approximately 200m linked to last summers flooding in Yorkshire and the Midlands.
Tescos share relating to our US operations, slightly below the guidance we gave last of the cost of higher claims linked to these events was 11m after interest November.
Total International capital expenditure rose to 1.4bn last year and tax in the year as a whole.
1.1bn comprising 0.7bn in Asia and 0.7bn in Europe.
Underlying growth in the business was therefore encouraging, with the We expect Group capital expenditure to rise this year, driven largely by the new management team demonstrating that there remains significant expansion of our International business, to around 4.2bn.
This growth growth potential for TPF within the financial services sector, particularly will primarily arise from the increased scale of our investment in freehold amongst loyal Tesco customers, as we build our portfolio of products.
shopping centre developments in China.
The change in the status of our TPF is well-provisioned for bad and doubtful debts which are down yearinvestment in China to a subsidiary, means that such developments will on-year and we also continue to see improving trends in credit card arrears.
now be fully funded directly from Tescos balance sheet.
Finance costs and tax Net finance costs were 63m last year 126m, Cash flow from operating activities, including an improvement of 194m reflecting favourable movements in the non-cash IFRS elements of the within working capital, totalled 4.1bn last year 3.5bn.
The interest charge, excluding IFRS adjustments and rose to 6.2bn at the year end last year 4.9bn.
0.6bn of this increase finance income, rose 18%.
is attributable to the effect of unfavourable currency movements on our International balance sheet hedging Sterling has depreciated by 11.5% Total Group tax has been charged at an effective rate of 24.0% last against the currencies of the countries in which we operate.
This reduction in tax rate is primarily due to a one-off tax 0.3bn relates to acquisitions, including our share of Dobbies Garden reimbursement, reflecting settlement of prior year tax items with HMRC.
We have also benefited from an adjustment of deferred tax balances as a result of the lowering of the rate of UK corporation tax from 30% to 28% Pensions Our award-winning defined-benefit pension scheme is an with effect from 1 April 2008.
We expect the effective tax rate for the important part of our competitive package of pay and benefits, which helps current year to be around 27.5%.
Tesco recruit and retain the best people.
We manage and fund our scheme on an actuarial valuation basis and, as at December 2007, the scheme was Underlying diluted earnings per share increased by 20.8% to 27.02p estimated to be broadly fully funded.
As at February 2008, under the IAS 19 last year 22.36p, benefiting from the significantly lower than normal methodology of pension liability valuation, the Group pension deficit on a effective tax rate for the year and from the elimination of earnings post-tax basis was 603m.
dilution linked to new share issuance, resulting from our share buy-back programme.
On a normalised 28.9% tax rate basis, underlying diluted Return on capital employed In January 2004, we said that we had earnings per share rose by 13.1%.
an aspiration to increase our post-tax return on capital employed ROCE of 10.2% in the 2002 3 financial year by 200 basis points over five years Dividend The Board has proposed a final dividend of 7.70p per share on then current plans.
In April 2006, we renewed our commitment to last year 6.83p.
This represents an increase of 12.7%, and takes the fullincreasing our post-tax return on capital employed ROCE by a further year increase in dividend to 13.1%.
This increase in dividend is in line with 200 basis points, having exceeded our 2004 aspiration early.
the growth in underlying diluted earnings per share, which are inclusive of net property profits, using our normalised tax rate of 28.9%.
Going ROCE rose to 12.9% in the year, using a normalised tax rate, before forward, we intend to continue to grow annual dividends broadly in line start-up costs on the US and Tesco Direct and the impact of foreign with underlying diluted earnings per share growth.
exchange equity and our acquisition of a majority share in Dobbies last year ROCE was 12.6%, excluding the Pensions A-Day credit.
The final dividend will be paid on 4 July 2008 to shareholders on This represents a good performance and we remain on track to deliver the Register of Members at the close of business on 25 April 2008. our targeted ROCE improvement in the years ahead as these Shareholders have the opportunity to elect to reinvest their cash investments mature.
dividend and purchase existing Tesco shares in the Company through a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This scheme replaced the scrip dividend at the time of the Interim Results in 2006 and was introduced to reduce dilution from new share issuance and improve earnings per share.
com annualreport08 6 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 7 Current trading Key performance indicators KPIs We have seen a strong start to the new financial year across the Group.
We operate a balanced scorecard approach to managing the business In the UK, our planned investments in strengthening further our offer for that is known internally within the Group as our Steering Wheel.
This customers, involving our latest round of price cuts and the introduction unites the Groups resources and in particular focuses the efforts of our of stronger promotions and at the same time continuing to improve staff around our customers, people, operations, finance and the community.
availability and service standards have gone well.
UK like-for-like sales Its prime focus is as a management tool for the company so that there is growth, excluding petrol, was over 4% in the first five weeks of the new appropriate balance in the trade-offs that need to be made all the time year.
This figure is adjusted for the different timing of Easter this year and between the main levers of management such as operations measures, is a little ahead of our planned performance range of between 3% and financial measures or delivery of customer metrics.
Within this, inflation was under 1.5%.
It therefore enables the business to be operated and monitored on a International sales progress has also been pleasing.
Sales growth was balanced basis with due regard to the needs of all stakeholders.
For the strong 19% at actual rates in the first five weeks.
Overall, growth owners of the business, it is simply based around the philosophy that if moderated only slightly compared with last year despite passing the we look after customers well and operate efficiently and effectively then anniversary of the acquisition of both Leader Price in Poland and the shareholders interests will always be best served by the inevitable outputs majority holding in our business in China.
Total Group sales increased of those growth in sales, profits and returns.
Releasing value from property Our 5bn-plus programme of releasing value from property through a sequence of joint ventures and other transactions and return significant cash to shareholders over five years, both through enhanced dividends and share buy-backs, is on track.
The two transactions completed in 2007 delivered aggregate proceeds of 1.2bn.
The first of these deals, with the British Airways Pension Fund, was completed at the end of the 2006 7 financial year.
A second, larger joint venture transaction was completed with The British Land Company PLC in March 2007 and our reported first half property profits largely reflected the significant book profit on this transaction.
We completed a third such deal in February 2008 with Prudential plc on a 4.8% yield, realising proceeds of 207m.
The premium to bookvalue on this transaction was 66%.
Whilst yields have increased modestly in recent months, appetite for Tescos property and covenant remains strong, and if market conditions remain conducive, we expect to be able to complete further transactions on attractive terms in the months ahead.
We are currently in discussion with potential counterparties.
Proceeds will continue to be used to fund expansion and our share buy-back programme which has already re-purchased Tesco shares worth over 1.1bn.
The net bookvalue of our fixed assets is 19.8bn, most of it in our freehold store portfolio even after recent property divestments linked to our 5bn programme.
We estimate the current market value of these assets to be 31bn, representing a 57% premium to bookvalue.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 7 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 8 Business Review continued 2008 2007 Sales growth Change in Group sales over the year including value added tax 11.1% 10.9% UK sales growth 6.7% 9.0% International sales growth 25.3% 17.9% International sales growth at constant exchange rates 22.5% 17.4% Profit before tax 2,803 2,653m Underlying profit before tax 2,846 2,545m Trading margin UK trading margin 5.9% 5.9% International trading margin 5.6% 5.7% Trading margin is calculated from the trading profit expressed as a percentage of Group revenue sales excluding value added tax.
It is a measure of profit generation from sales and is a comparable performance measure with other companies.
This is how much we made from trade in our stores, taking account of the cost of the products sold, wages and salaries, expenses associated with running the stores, depots and head office, and the cost of depreciation of the assets used to generate the profits.
Trading profit is stated after adjusting operating profit for the impact of IAS 19, IAS 32 and IAS 39 principally pension costs and the marking to market of financial instruments.
It also excludes the non-cash elements of IAS 17 Leases, relating to the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free periods.
Net cash inflow outflow 801m 265 m Net cash inflow is the cash received less cash spent during the financial period, after financing activities.
Capital expenditure 3.9bn 3.0bn This is the amount invested in purchasing fixed assets.
UK 2.5bn 1.9bn International 1.4bn 1.1bn Net borrowings and gearing Net borrowings 6.2bn 4.9bn Gearing 52% 46% Return on capital employed ROCE 12.9% 12.6% ROCE is calculated as profit before interest less tax divided by the average of net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for sale.
ROCE is a relative profit measurement that not only incorporates the funds shareholders have invested, but also funds invested by banks and other lenders, and therefore shows the productivity of the assets of the Group.
Underlying diluted earnings per share 27.02p 22.36p Underlying diluted earnings per share is the calculation of profit after tax and minority interest divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
It is the amount which could be paid out on each share if the Company decided to distribute all its profits as dividends instead of retaining some for future expansion.
The measurement of net debt has been revised to include loans receivable from joint ventures.
Going forward net debt will be stated inclusive of the loan receivables from joint ventures.
International margins rose by 15 basis points excluding the impact of consolidating the China business.
Using a normalised tax rate before start-up costs in the US and Tesco Direct, and excludes the impact of foreign exchange in equity and our acquisition of a majority share of Dobbies.
Including the one-off gain from Pensions A-Day, ROCE was 13.6%.
com annualreport08 8 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 9 2008 2007 Total shareholder return 22.8% 36.0% Total shareholder return is the notional return from a share and is measured as the percentage change in the share price, plus the dividend paid.
This is measured over the last five years.
Full year dividend per share 10.90p 9.64p The growth of the dividend per share from one period to the next is important to shareholders since this represents their actual cash return, and is usually paid twice a year.
We monitor a wide range of KPIs, both financial and non-financial.
Individual business units have their own versions of the Steering Wheel which incorporate their own priorities and KPIs.
Some of the Group KPIs below are tracked through the Steering Wheel and those above are tracked as a monitor of investor return.
Across the Group, KPIs are set for local markets, with oversight from the Executive Directors, to ensure they are tailored to drive the priorities of each business.
During the last year we have made good progress with rolling out our Corporate Responsibility management system to our International operations.
We report quarterly on Community, which includes social, ethical and environmental matters alongside Customer, Operations, Finance and People KPIs.
More detail on each country follows in the Operations, resources and relationships section.
The following are some KPIs for the UK and Group operations: 2008 2007 UK market share Grocery market share 21.8% 21.0% Non-food market share 8.5% 8.0% This is measured as the share of all spend by all shoppers through Taylor Nelson Sofres Superpanel Total Till Roll data.
Supplier viewpoint measure UK 92% 94% The Group 88% N A We aim to monitor supplier relations through the Supplier Viewpoint Survey.
The target is for over 90% of UK suppliers to view Tesco as being trustworthy, reliable, consistent, clear, helpful and fair.
This is the first year our international suppliers have taken part in our Supplier Viewpoint Survey.
Employee retention 84% 84% This measure shows the percentage of employees who have stayed with the business for longer than one year.
It is one measure that we use to monitor employee loyalty and satisfaction and we aim to exceed 80% retention of experienced staff.
CO2 emissions 5.8% n a For 2007 8 our target was to reduce CO emissions from our existing buildings in the UK by 5.5%.
Our previous KPI was energy consumption, with our target in 2006 7 being to reduce energy consumption by 12%.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 9 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 10 Business Review continued Operations, resources and relationships Homeplus in South Korea delivered another excellent performance in International operations the year: overcoming the challenges of stronger competitors and subdued The performance of our international businesses has been outstanding consumer spending and achieving solid sales and strong profit growth.
with excellent progress in sales, profits and returns.
The growing strength of Over 1 million square feet of space was opened during the year and we our operations and market positions internationally gives us confidence that have a strong programme of 76 new stores and 1.4m square feet this we can deliver further strong progress in the years ahead.
We will almost double the size of our Express business in 2008 9 diversification has come of age and, in delivering half of the years Group to around 130 stores.
Our grocery dotcom operation in South Korea is trading profit growth, it has demonstrated its increased strength and now well-established and growing rapidly with sales up by more than maturity with much more to come.
Tesco Malaysia has made rapid progress, successfully integrating and We are seeing the benefits of last years acquisitions, and organic growth converting the Makro stores and at the same time sustaining very strong in selling space also continues to be rapid as we build out our networks.
like-for-like growth and moving into profitability for the first time.
Six We opened a total of 6.2m square feet in Europe and Asia during the year, major refits to the Makro stores to introduce the new Extra format, which an increase of 15%, plus a further 0.5m square feet in the US.
Over 60% was developed specifically for these sites, are complete and the stores of Group sales area is now in International.
We have recently become market leader, and with two more converted stores to be relaunched soon, plus a strong pipeline At the end of February, our operations in Asia and Europe were trading from of eight planned new hypermarkets, we hope to extend our lead this year.
1,561 stores, including 493 hypermarkets, with a total of 45.9m square feet Tesco Lotus in Thailand has performed very well.
Although consumer of selling space.
This year, we plan to open 505 new stores with a total of confidence levels remain subdued, our investment in improving our offer 8.4m square feet of sales area in these markets.
A further 1.5m square feet for customers through the political and economic instability of the last is planned to open in the US.
18 months has served us well.
Our business has achieved good sales and profit growth and strengthened its already robust market position.
Returns CROI The successful development and rollout of our formats has picked up All our established markets are now profitable and with growing local pace again with 106 stores opening with 1.4m square feet of selling scale, increasing store maturity and the benefits of new investment in area.
This included the opening of ten hypermarkets in the final quarter supply chain infrastructure, returns from our international operations are of the year.
On a constant currency basis and excluding China, cash return on investment CROI for International was the same as last year Europe Our European growth has been stronger than for many years, at 11.5%.
This reflects the rise in invested capital linked to our acquisitions helped in part by favourable exchange rate movements.
In Central in Poland and the Czech Republic in 2006 and higher capital expenditure.
Europe we are emerging from a long period of economic instability Like-for-like CROI shows a strong improvement, rising to 13.1% last year and intense competition as one of the clear winners across the region 12.7%, with our lead markets maintaining significantly higher levels and the prospects for improving returns as we continue to build our market overall.
Returns in Turkey and Malaysia have shown pleasing improvement.
positions, and benefit from increased scale, regional economies and In Central Europe, Hungary and Slovakia delivered increases in returns, improved infrastructure, have never been better.
The work we have done on while the performance in Poland and the Czech Republic was held back pan-European sourcing of Tesco own brand and general merchandise has temporarily by the additional capital linked to our acquisitions in 2006. further strengthened our competitive position in the region.
Our business in Ireland has also made excellent progress and we are increasingly confident Asia We have delivered a very strong performance in Asia, despite retail about the scale of opportunity for Tesco in Turkey as we build on the markets in our two largest countries South Korea and Thailand remaining excellent Kipa brand, which has already proven itself capable of trading subdued.
We are now market leader in Malaysia, just seven years after well across much of the country.
we entered the country and we are accelerating growth and investment in China now that we have full control of our business there.
In the Czech Republic, the benefits of our improved market position we are now among the leaders and stability following the very In China, with majority ownership and full management control of successful acquisition and integration of the Carrefour stores last year are the business, we have begun to accelerate store and infrastructure starting to come through well.
The performance of the acquired stores development as part of our long-term strategy to become a leader in has been excellent with second year like-for-like sales growth of 11%.
We plan to construct large multi-level freehold shopping Our first Express stores have also been well-received by customers in centres, built around Tesco hypermarkets, in the major cities of the central Prague and we are continuing a programme of refits and in three main economic regions around Shanghai, Beijing and some cases major redevelopments of our department stores.
These regions will each have modern distribution and supply chain facilities.
We now have 56 hypermarkets, mostly around The economic background in Hungary is showing early signs of Shanghai and our first stores in the other regions are trading well.
The improvement although the consumer environment remains challenging.
first four of our new large developments will be constructed in the current However, our strategy of investing hard to build on our already strong year.
We saw strong sales, including good like-for-like growth in the year market position by lowering prices and expanding our store network is and China made a modest profit.
We have seen improving performance from our stores, including a resumption of like-for-like sales growth last summer, The retailing environment in Japan remains difficult.
Our small but renewed profit growth and a significant improvement in returns.
profitable business there has continued to focus on refining and Our new store opening programme delivered a 12% increase in our developing the trial Express-type stores, which we began to open last space through four large hypermarkets, five of our 3k compact format, year with seven now trading into an expandable format.
We have 12 1k stores and one Express.
strengthened the management team in Japan, invested in infrastructure and plan a modest new store development programme this year.
Cash return on investment CROI is measured as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, expressed as a percentage of net invested capital.
com annualreport08 10 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 11 Our business in Poland had a good year with strong growth in market Our Riverside distribution centre DC and kitchen operation is gearing up share, driven by the successful integration and conversion of the former well as volumes rise.
As we announced last November, we have taken the Leader Price stores, combined with organic expansion across our range of necessary steps to secure the site and begin the process of obtaining the 1k, 2k and 3k formats.
In a difficult consumer and business environment, necessary permits to launch operations of our second DC in Northern sales grew well with like-for-like growth of 43% in the converted stores.
We expect a proportion of these costs will be Returns are expected to move forward in the current year as the business incurred in the current year.
absorbs the additional capital involved in last years acquisition and delivers the full benefits of the enlarged business and the increasing Last April, with our Preliminary Results, we said that costs of recruitment profitability of the converted stores.
and training of staff for the stores, combined with the other pre-launch costs and initial trading losses, would involve estimated US start-up costs An excellent performance from Tesco Ireland produced another year of around 65m in the financial year.
We have delivered on this guidance of strong growth, with good progress in all areas of the business.
We expect losses to rise this year to around 100m.
The planned operational benefits from our new 740,000 square feet distribution centre DC at Donabate, in north Dublin, which opened in US segmental reporting of sales and trading results within International the first half, are now coming through well.
Our pipeline of new space is will begin with our Interim Results in September.
strong through store extensions, new and replacement stores.
We now have six Extra hypermarkets trading in Ireland, which are proving very Core UK operations popular with customers and 12 Express stores with more to come In the UK, Tesco coped well with unseasonal summer weather, recovering this year.
Our new non-food ranges including Florence & Fred and competitors and a deteriorating non-food market, particularly in the Cherokee clothing are performing particularly well.
second half, to deliver solid progress in the year by investing in improving In Slovakia our new clothing and hardlines distribution centres, located the shopping trip for customers.
UK sales grew by 6.7%, with a like-forclose to Bratislava, which handle general merchandise for the whole like increase, including petrol, of 3.9%.
Both customer numbers and of Central Europe, are now fully operational and delivering significant spend per visit increased.
These substantial investments are enabling our Central European businesses to harmonise and improve our non-food ranges In the current year we expect to trade the business harder and give and deliver lower prices for customers.
Our market-leading retail business what help we can to families whose budgets have become increasingly there has made very good progress against the background of a strong stretched by higher interest rates, fuel costs and taxes.
Our new store opening programme, which is now focused on investing to improve all aspects of the shopping trip.
We have already our compact hypermarket and smaller 1k formats, delivered 9% growth announced a significant and budgeted round of price cuts, involving in selling area in the year.
an investment of 170m and this is in addition to the strengthened programme of half-price and other promotions we have been running In Turkey, our Kipa business continues to grow rapidly and profitably since January.
and we are making progress towards creating a national chain of hypermarkets in a market which offers great potential.
We are investing Every Little Helps in creating the necessary infrastructure for long-term expansion with our Our Price Check survey, which compares 10,000 prices against our first major distribution centre at Yasibasi covering 400,000 square feet, leading competitors weekly, shows that our price position has improved now in operation and with similar infrastructure projects planned over again for more information see www.
We have already cut the next two years as we begin to secure sites in Istanbul, Ankara and the price of 7,500 products this year and in the last decade, Tesco has the other cities in central and western Turkey.
We aim to grow our space saved a typical household 5,000 by investing in even lower prices in Turkey by around 60% this year, from our base of 26 hypermarkets.
Customer response to the Express format has been very encouraging and we plan to add more than 40 further stores this year, bringing the We are able to monitor and improve our checkout service using our total to over 80. new thermal imaging technology.
A renewed focus on reducing queues for customers has delivered significant improvements with a remarkable United States We are very encouraged by the start Fresh & Easy has 22.5 million more customers benefiting from our one-in-front promise.
The first stores opened only in November and we now have over Customers recognise Tesco as offering the best checkout service in 60 trading.
Whilst it is still early days, the response of customers to our offer the market.
has surpassed our expectations with our research regularly confirming that they like the quality and freshness of our ranges, as well as the prices The broad appeal of the Tesco brand drives our work on ranges.
and the convenient locations of the stores.
We have seen solid growth across our food categories.
We launched a comprehensive update of our Healthy Living range in January Sales are ahead of budget and sales densities are already higher than the and customer feedback has been very good.
Our Organics range is US supermarket industry average, with our best stores exceeding $20 still growing well and Finest is now the UKs biggest brand with sales per square foot per week.
We are seeing strong growth in the early stores of 1.2 billion.
Last week, we did our first big event of the year on as we step up, as planned, our marketing programmes and as we build Value, delivering great prices for customers right across the store.
This is also reflected in the strong sales performance of recent openings in all of our markets in Southern California, Nevada On-shelf availability, which we measure using our in-store picking of and Arizona.
Fresh foods and own brand products have sold particularly tesco.
com orders, has improved again and more customers are able well, confirming that the core of our offer has already gained acceptance to buy everything they want when they shop at Tesco.
We have made with customers.
particularly strong progress on fresh availability with projects including better weather forecasting and working with our suppliers to reduce Progress with real estate has been good and we have secured enough lead times.
sites for our immediate needs although the deteriorating property market, All 7,000 of our eligible own-brand products now carry our GDA particularly in Arizona and Nevada, will mean that some of the third-party nutritional signpost labels.
We have created a system that is easy to developments in which we had planned to open prototype stores later this understand and practical to use and sales data confirms we have year, will now be deferred.
Nevertheless, we still expect to open around made a genuine impact on customer behaviour.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 11 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 12 Business Review continued Step-Change We delivered efficiency savings of well over 350m in the Entertainment sales strengthened during the second half, helped by a year, significantly ahead of plan, through our Step-Change programme, stronger programme of new DVD and games releases.
The transition to which brings together many initiatives to make what we do better for in-house sourcing of our entertainment offer has gone well.
Health & beauty customers, simpler for staff and cheaper for Tesco.
We have picked up the also saw an improving trend.
Consumer electronics saw very strong growth pace of a number of these often long-term cross-functional projects and 31%, with particularly large increases in the sales of flat-screen televisions, plan to deliver even higher savings in the current year of around 450m.
laptop computers and digital cameras.
Other strong categories include DIY, Most of these savings are reinvested to improve our offer for customers.
Some examples of these projects are: Tesco Direct Our new general merchandise business, which is designed to extend the reach of our non-food offer by making it more available to We have stepped up our investment in energy saving across the business, customers who cannot access one of our Extra stores, is now established delivering significant reductions in consumption and helping us to absorb and thriving.
We started Tesco Direct in a low-key way with initially 8,000 rising utility costs.
products offered online and 1,500 by catalogue, including new categories Savings in supply chain from further improvements in shelf-ready such as furniture and last March, we successfully launched a more merchandising, increased vehicle utilisation and more productive work comprehensive offer.
methods in depots and stores have risen, with more to come.
Our latest catalogue, the third of our big books, which was launched The introduction of new checkout technology for stores, which is faster, last month, demonstrates the growing strength of our offer.
We have more accurate and easier for staff, has continued to reduce costs and 11,000 products online and 7,000 in the catalogue.
The breadth of range improve customer service.
is similar but we have refined the mix of products, increasing the proportion We now have nearly 3,000 employees at our Hindustan Support Centre of higher ticket items.
Service levels and availability for customers have also in Bangalore, India, which provides IT and administrative support to our seen steady improvement.
UK and International operations from software development to management accounting and payroll.
Customer response has been very positive with order volumes rising season by season.
As well as wider ranges, Tesco Direct provides customers with the New space We opened a total of 2.0m square feet of new sales area, choice of ordering online, by phone or in selected stores and the option to of which 489,000 square feet was in-store extensions, principally for Extra.
pick up items from some stores is proving very popular.
We have desks in We opened another 19 Extra hypermarkets nine from extensions to 200 stores with plans to add a further 80 by the end of the year, which will existing stores, ten from new stores, bringing the total to 166, with a further mean that most areas of the country will be served.
Extra now represents 41% of our total sales area.
We also opened 17 new superstores and 103 new Express stores, bringing Sales are growing well, and last year, we comfortably exceeded our plan to the overall total number of Tesco stores to 1,608. generate turnover in excess of 150m delivering sales of almost 180m.
Start-up costs and initial operating losses on Direct were 25m, up on last Competition Commission We are continuing to work with the year and we expect these to reduce this year to around 20m.
Competition Commission on the final stages of their inquiry into the grocery industry.
We look forward to the publication shortly of their final Homeplus We are extending the trial of our general merchandise-only report.
This is a very competitive industry from which consumers benefit stores to a further ten large sites, including our new store at Cribbs Causeway, hugely.
We hope that the regulatory authorities will give due weight to Bristol, which will open this summer, selling some Tesco Direct products this and to the need to avoid costly and burdensome new regulation, from stock.
which discourages the pace of innovation that has served the industry and consumers so well.
Dobbies The acquisition of a majority share in Dobbies Garden Centres PLC was completed at the end of the first half and with our 65.5% Non-food operations ownership of the business we are now implementing the strategy we Tescos general merchandise business has been resilient despite the outlined for the business at the time the offer was announced.
Dobbies challenges posed by weakening demand in a number of categories and is a strong business, already a leading innovator in its market and with it remains an important contributor to our growth as we improve our offer Tescos resources, it will be able to expand more rapidly towards national for customers to drive market share.
Because our customers increasingly coverage.
It will also become a platform for the group to encourage green recognise the quality, breadth and value of our offer, Tesco non-food sales, consumption by developing an offer for customers who are looking for whilst growing less rapidly than in previous years, remained robust and sustainable solutions from water recycling, to wind and solar power.
again grew faster than our core business, helped by a successful first full In April 2008, Dobbies announced an open offer of new shares to raise season for Tesco Direct.
150m of additional capital to fund expansion.
Sales growth in the UK was 9% in the year, with total non-food sales Retailing services operations increasing to 8.3bn included in reported UK sales.
Sales growth Our efforts to bring simplicity and value to sometimes complicated moderated in the second half, but in reducing to 8% growth after a markets are behind the success of our retailing services businesses.
10% increase in the first half, we were able to outperform strongly the Underpinning our services strategy is a strong economic model, based market for general merchandise as a whole.
We saw particularly pleasing around leveraging existing assets either our own or a partners so that growth in hardlines, whilst clothing sales, though well ahead of the market, we can simultaneously price our services competitively for customers grew more slowly by 6% in the year as a whole.
Including 3.5bn and also achieve high returns for shareholders.
in International, where sales grew by 20% at constant prices, Group non-food sales rose 12% to 11.8bn.
com annualreport08 12 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 13 Tesco Personal Finance TPF TPF is ten years old this year and 2007 8 In the UK, we offer our staff a market-leading package of pay and benefits: was a successful one for our joint venture with Royal Bank of Scotland with 1.7m new customers being attracted by a substantial increase in its Employee share schemes Through share ownership and share incentive range to 26 products, spanning credit cards to pet insurance and bureaux schemes, over 170,000 of our people have a personal stake in Tesco.
New products were launched in health insurance, dental were awarded shares worth a record 85m last May under our Shares in insurance and internet savings accounts.
Most products are available Success scheme.
52,000 staff were able to benefit when Save As You Earn online, where over 50% of new sales are now made, after a 20% rise in schemes matured in February, giving them access to shares worth 175m.
internet business in the year.
The Tesco Compare website, which allows customers to compare price and non-price product features across a wide Training and development We are committed to developing our people range of providers, has been very successful.
to bring out the best in everyone and do what we can to enable all our people to reach their potential.
All our staff have access to training Whilst profits were flat in the year, this was after absorbing 31m of programmes and personal development planning to ensure that they additional home insurance claims linked to last summers severe floods have the right skills to do their job.
in Yorkshire and the Thames and Severn valleys.
Diversity and inclusivity We strive to provide an inclusive environment Tesco.
com had another excellent year, with our online businesses achieving where all difference is valued, people are able to be themselves, enjoy a 31% increase in sales to 1.6bn and a 49% increase in profit to 124m coming to work and realise their full potential, regardless of their gender, before initial operating losses on Tesco Direct, helped by improved order marital status, race, age, sexual preference and orientation, colour, creed, picking productivity.
Customer numbers once again saw strong growth ethnic origin, religion or belief, or disability.
we saw 20% growth in new customers during the year leaving more than one million active customers by the year end.
Product availability Suppliers To be a successful, sustainable business we have to ensure has improved again, with more customers receiving everything they that our drive to bring cheaper prices is achieved without compromising order, and this has been helped by the strong growth in bag-less delivery our standards, reducing quality, damaging the environment or harming to customers, which was launched only in the first half but which now the suppliers and workers who produce the goods we sell.
So we take a represents 40% of all orders.
We have also seen an improvement in delivery partnership approach to working with suppliers sharing our knowledge slot availability of more than 10% and our Croydon dotcom-only store is and listening to suppliers feedback.
This includes providing technical now profitable and handling orders with a value of over 1m per week.
expertise, advice and insight into customer trends and making regular payments, on time.
Tesco Telecoms Our telecoms business made very good progress, with promising growth in sales across our mobile, home phone and branded We are one of four signatories to the UK Governments statutory phone operations.
Tesco Mobile, our joint venture with O, moved from Supermarkets Code of Practice.
Since the Codes introduction we have 2 a small loss in 2006 7 to an encouraging level of profitability in its fifth run tailored training for all Tesco buyers to promote understanding and year of operation.
Sales were up 39% mainly as a result of strong growth compliance.
If problems do arise in supplier relationships we aim to air and in its customer base, which grew by a quarter of a million during the year: resolve them through constructive discussion.
To aid this process, three years the second highest net subscriber increase in its market.
Mobile also ago we appointed a Code Compliance Officer to hear formal complaints, remained the best service for overall customer satisfaction throughout confidentially if requested, and we hope that our annual Supplier Viewpoint 2007.
Hardware sales, including handsets, grew well in the year, driving Survey encourages suppliers to give us more feedback on our relationships.
over 35% growth in our branded telecoms hardware business.
Our target is for feedback to show that at least 90% of our UK suppliers view Tesco as being trustworthy, reliable, consistent, clear, helpful and fair.
Resources and relationships Customers Our customers have told us what they want from an Every We carry out ethical audits and target ourselves to cover 100% of our high little helps shopping trip and this year 300,000 shared their ideas on risk own brand suppliers and ensure all commercial teams have received how to improve the shopping trip for all customers, including those training on supply chain labour standards.
This year we carried out who attended our in-store Customer Question Time sessions.
Clubcard significantly more audits than the previous year 455 compared to 221. also helps us to understand what our customers want, whilst allowing us However the number of sites to be audited also increased significantly to to thank them for shopping with us this year we gave away over 380m 623 and were disproportionately allocated a high risk rating as the business in Clubcard vouchers.
In the next year we plan to launch versions of continues to expand into non-food areas.
The introduction of the Sedex Clubcard in Thailand, Hungary, Turkey, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.
risk assessment tool in September 2007 also had an impact as a proportion of medium risk suppliers were reclassified as high risk.
As these changes We dont always get it right but we try to make our customers shopping did not occur until late in the financial year and resources had already been trip as easy as possible, reduce prices where we can to help them spend allocated to improving our auditing programme, we failed to meet our less and give them the convenience of shopping when and where they target.
To help us meet our target in future years, we have increased the want in small stores, large stores or online.
resource in our ethical trading team to cope with the higher number of suppliers as our business grows.
Employees With over 440,000 staff in 13 countries, we play an important role in creating employment, fostering skills and generating economic Community, environment and corporate responsibility development.
Our people are our most important asset.
Looking after People tell us they want us to use our size and reach to be a force for good our staff so that they can look after our customers is one of the core values in society.
To help us meet this challenge we decided in 2006 to introduce of the business.
We are committed to providing market-leading working a new Community Plan.
This is part of our Steering Wheel, setting out conditions for our staff and we encourage our suppliers to do the same.
objectives that the business will deliver.
It will ensure we provide the right resources, energy and focus to meet the expectations of our customers and other stakeholders in this area.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 13 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 14 Business Review continued We have made significant progress this year on the Community Plan We also continue to make a difference locally through our Computers for and on our key objectives of being a good neighbour in the communities Schools programme which now offers eco-quiet PCs as part of a catalogue we serve and being fair, responsible and honest, particularly on the of over 700 products.
Since the start of the scheme 16 years ago we have environment.
This has been recognised through our continued inclusion given away over 118m worth of equipment.
Through new store openings in FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability indices.
and refits in China we have sponsored more than 7,000 disadvantaged students to cover their schooling and textbooks.
In Poland, half the schools Environment We have made strides towards a revolution in green 15,000 took part in their sixth year of Tesco for Schools, whilst in Hungary, consumption incentivising the environmental option and making we set up local partnerships with schools and colleges, donating around it affordable.
Through our unique Green Clubcard scheme, we have reduced carrier This year, we have launched Community Plans in eight countries bringing bag use by over one billion, more than any other retailer, and we are on together a range of community, environmental and health projects, track to save an extra billion bags in the next year.
We are also on target tailored to local market needs and the remaining three will be starting to sell ten million energy-efficient lightbulbs in a year as part of the soon.
A number of our more mature markets now have comprehensive Climate Groups Together campaign.
In South Korea, for example, We have halved our energy use per square foot since 2000, two years we have 50 culture centres in our stores which offer up to 350 different ahead of target.
In the UK, the carbon intensity of our new stores opened educational and cultural programmes ranging from dance to cookery after 1 March 2006 has been reduced by 22% since last year.
through innovations like transporting wine by canal, we have cut our UK CO2 emissions per case delivered by over 10% over the past year.
The year ahead We will take the reduction of single-use carrier bags to the next level, We have invested 25m to create a Sustainable Consumption Institute at achieving a 50% reduction compared to 2006 by continuing to focus Manchester University.
Bringing together world-leading experts from various on incentives rather than penalties.
disciplines, the Institute will help lead the way to a low-carbon economy.
We will launch the first phase of our trial for carbon labelling our products We opened our fourth UK environmental store in Shrewsbury in 2007, in the coming weeks, in conjunction with the Carbon Trust, and will help and have now built environmental stores in six countries outside the UK.
customers become familiar with the new currency of CO2.
Our Shrewsbury store has a carbon footprint 60% lower than a standard store of a comparable size.
It makes use of more natural light, recycled We will appoint Community Champions to 50 stores.
These members and re-useable materials and the UKs first fleet of battery-powered of staff are dedicated to making sure that our stores reach out to more home delivery vans.
We have also invested significantly in energy-saving people in local communities.
technology in China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Poland, We will support our new Charity of the Year, Marie Curie Cancer Care, Slovakia, South Korea, Turkey, Thailand and the US.
to fund an additional 125,000 hours of nursing care for terminally ill patients.
Nutrition We continued our roll-out of front-of-pack GDA nutritional labelling across the group including Turkey, South Korea and Poland, where We will build the largest privately-funded solar facility in the 33% of our products are now labelled, and Ireland, which now includes Czech Republic at our Postrizin distribution centre.
Customers tell us they find these labels very helpful in making informed choices.
In the UK, we are still the only supermarket Alcohol Earlier this year we made an offer to government that we would where all relevant products carry the labels over 7,000 in total with play a positive part in any discussions initiated by them on measures a further 13,000 now also carried on manufacturer-branded goods.
to ensure a responsible approach to alcohol pricing and promotions.
Competition law prevents the industry from taking this forward in Community Our staff achieved our most successful Charity of the Year collaboration.
We maintain this offer and have in the meantime reinforced ever, raising 4.4m for the British Red Cross.
As well as donating 100,000 our responsible Think 21 approach by giving staff further dedicated to the British Red Cross flood appeal last summer, our staff provided training on responsible alcohol sales, with a particular focus on the social essential hygiene, food items and much of the bottled water for affected and health impacts of under-age drinking.
We are also talking to customers communities in key parts of the South-West.
about the role we can play in tackling problem drinking and how we can better help them make responsible choices.
We have opened five new regional buying offices in England, joining the existing offices in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
We introduced Risks and uncertainties 1,000 new local lines last year taking the total to over 3,000.
We now sell Introduction Risk is an accepted part of doing business.
The real 200,000 litres of localchoice milk each week in the UK, helping customers challenge for any business is to identify the principal risks it faces and to to support small dairy farmers in their local area.
develop and monitor appropriate controls.
A successful risk management process balances risks and rewards and relies on a sound judgement of We have helped 1.5m people to get active this year, including through their likelihood and consequence.
Cancer Research UKs Race for Life, which saw 665,000 people taking part in 5km runs, including over 21,000 Tesco staff.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal control within the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
Our process We launched a new partnership with the Football Association FA as for identifying and managing risks is set out in more detail from page 22 part of our plan to help two million people get active in the run up to the of the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report and Financial London 2012 Olympics.
The FA Tesco Skills Programme supports grassroots Statements.
The key risks faced by the Group and relevant mitigating football, inspiring children between ages 5 and 11 to get active in their factors are set out below.
We have already delivered football coaching to over 250,000 children.
Business strategy If our strategy follows the wrong direction or is not effectively communicated then the business may suffer.
We need to understand and properly manage strategic risk in order to deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Our strategy is based on five elements: to grow the core UK business, be as strong in non-food as in food, develop retailing services, become a successful international retailer Tesco PLC Annual Report and www.
com annualreport08 14 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 15 and put the community at the heart of what we do.
Pursuit of this five-part We aim to have a broad appeal in price, range and store format in a way strategy has allowed the business to diversify and, at a strategic level, that allows us to compete in different markets.
We track performance diversification and pursuit of growth in emerging markets have the effect against a range of measures that customers tell us are critical to their of reducing overall risk by avoiding reliance on a small number of business shopping trip experience and we constantly monitor customer perceptions areas.
However, by its very nature, diversification also introduces new of ourselves and our competitors to ensure we can respond quickly if we risks to be managed in areas of the business that are less mature and need to.
People capabilities Our greatest asset is our employees.
It is critical to To ensure the Group continues to pursue the right strategy, the Board our success to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best people with the discusses strategic issues at every Board meeting, and dedicates two full right capabilities at all levels of operations.
We review our people policies days a year to reviewing the Groups strategy.
The Executive Committee regularly and are committed to investing in training and development and also holds specific sessions to discuss strategy on a regular basis.
We have incentives for our people.
Our Talent Planning process helps individuals structured programmes for engaging with all our stakeholders including achieve their full potential.
We also carry out succession planning to ensure customers, employees, investors, suppliers, government, media and that the needs of the business going forward are considered and provided non-governmental organisations.
We also invest significant resources in for.
There are clear processes for understanding and responding to ensuring our strategy is communicated well and understood by the parties employees needs through our People Matters Group, staff surveys, who are key to delivering it.
The business operates a Steering Wheel regular performance reviews, involvement of trade unions in relevant a balanced scorecard process whereby we set goals for different areas of markets and regular communication of business developments.
the business and assess our overall progress on a quarterly basis in all countries and significant business units such as Dotcom to help manage Reputational risk As the largest retailer in the UK, expectations of the performance and deliver business strategy.
Failure to protect the Groups reputation and brand could lead to a loss of trust and confidence.
This could result in a decline in the Financial strategy and Group treasury risk The main financial risks customer base and affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
of the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions, and Like other companies we must consider potential threats to our reputation fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
and the consequences of reputational damage.
Emotional loyalty to the Tesco brand has helped us diversify into new areas like retail services and The Treasury function is mandated by the Board to manage the financial non-food and we recognise the commercial imperative to do the right thing risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs.
The function has for all our stakeholders and avoid the loss of such loyalty.
The Tesco Values clear policies and operating parameters, and its activities are routinely are embedded in the way we do business at every level and our Code of reviewed and audited.
The function does not operate as a profit centre and Ethics guides our behaviour in our dealings with customers, employees the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
of the role of the Finance Committee and Internal and External Audit is set out in the Corporate Governance section on page 23.
We engage with stakeholders in every sphere to take into account their views and we try to ensure our strategy reflects them.
The launch of the Operational threats and performance risk in the business There is a Community Plan in 2006 has demonstrated our commitment to tackling risk that our business may not deliver the stated strategy in full, particularly a wide range of societal and environmental issues.
We have high level since, like all retailers, the business is susceptible to economic downturn committees, including the Executive Committee, Corporate Responsibility that could affect consumer spending.
The continuing acquisition and Committee and Compliance Committee, to help guide and monitor development of property sites also forms an intrinsic part of our strategy our policies.
and this carries inherent risks.
Environmental risks Our key environmental risks are related to We try to deliver what customers want better than our competitors by minimising energy usage in stores and transportation, waste management understanding and responding to their behaviour.
All of our business units and our ability to respond to consumer concerns in this area.
We develop have stretching targets based on the Steering Wheel and the performance environmental policy through engaging with key stakeholders and experts of business units is monitored continually and reported regularly to the in this field to achieve sustainable growth and minimise our environmental Board.
We manage the acquisition and development of our property assets impacts.
The Groups approach is brought together in a consistent manner carefully.
We consider and assess in detail every site at each stage of by the Executive Committee.
acquisition and development and ensure that relevant action is taken to minimise any risks.
Policy is reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee, Compliance Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
We recognise the Our aim is to have broad appeal to all customers in our different markets, opportunities for competitive advantage through energy efficiency and minimising the impact of changes to the economic climate.
look for continuous improvement through innovations and better ways to help customers act responsibly towards the environment.
Competition and consolidation The retail industry is highly competitive.
The Group competes with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes and Product safety The safety and quality of our products is of paramount faces increased competition from UK retailers as well as international importance to Tesco as well as being essential for maintaining customer operators in the UK and overseas.
A breach in confidence could affect the size of our customer base and hence financial results.
Failure to compete with competitors on areas including price, product range, quality and service could have an adverse effect on the Groups We have detailed and established procedures for ensuring product integrity financial results.
at all times, especially for our own-label products.
There are strict product safety processes and regular management reports.
We work in partnership with suppliers to ensure mutual understanding of the standards required.
We also monitor developments in areas such as health, safety and nutrition in order to respond appropriately to changing customer trends and new legislation.
We have clear processes for crisis management, pulling together expert teams should we need to respond quickly on issues.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 15 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 16 Business Review continued Health and safety risks While the safety of our staff and customers is of Property We have stretching targets for delivering new space in the the utmost importance to us, if we are unable to provide safe environments UK and overseas, and may face challenges in finding suitable sites and for our staff and customers this could lead to injuries or loss of life.
obtaining planning or other consents to enable sites to be acquired and developed.
The complexity of many of our property developments is We operate stringent health and safety processes in line with best practice increasing, especially the growing number of mixed-use schemes.
in our stores, distribution centres and offices, which are monitored and We also have to comply with design and construction standards which audited regularly.
KPIs for preventing health and safety incidents form an vary significantly from country to country.
intrinsic part of our Steering Wheels across the business, and performance against these KPIs is reported quarterly.
Our Group Compliance Committee Our Property Acquisition Committees and other related committees in and the compliance committees in our international businesses monitor the the UK, Europe, Asia and the US closely control all aspects of the property level of compliance with health and safety laws and our internal policies on acquisition, planning and construction processes, to ensure that applicable a regular basis.
standards are met and financial risks are minimised.
Our Group and country compliance committees also monitor compliance with applicable Ethical risks in the supply chain More than 1.8 million people in over legal and regulatory requirements in all aspects of our property activities.
90 countries work for direct suppliers to Tesco and the supply chain is made of complex relationships from individual farmers and growers through to Non-food risks As the proportion of our business represented by processors, manufacturers and distributors.
At the heart of our values is our non-food products increases, there is a risk that a downturn in consumer belief that we should treat people as we like to be treated and we have a confidence may affect the level of demand for products which consumers responsibility to help workers in our supply chain enjoy fair labour standards.
We therefore require our suppliers to meet strict criteria on labour standards, and as a founder member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI we expect We make every effort to ensure that our non-food products are all our suppliers to follow the ETI base code and guarantee their workers the competitively priced to offer a broad range of products ranging from value rights set out within it.
There is, however, a risk that any part of the supply to the luxury end of the market, in order to cater for the needs of as wide chain might not adhere to these high standards.
a range of customers as possible.
To minimise this risk we only work with suppliers who can demonstrate that IT systems and infrastructure The business is dependent on efficient they are committed to the ETI code and share our values.
We use Supplier information technology IT systems.
Any significant failure in the IT Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX to carry out risk assessment of all our processes of our retail operations e. g. barcode scanning or supply chain direct suppliers and all medium and high-risk suppliers must undergo an logistics would impact our ability to trade.
We recognise the essential role extensive, independent ethical audit.
We have in the last year introduced that IT plays across our operations in allowing us to trade efficiently and a comprehensive programme of audit improvements, including more so that we can achieve commercial advantage through implementing unannounced audits, a new Trading Fairly strategy and an industry-leading IT innovations that improve the shopping trip for customers and make life Auditor Recognition programme, which involves our use only of individual easier for employees.
We have extensive controls in place to maintain the auditors who have been assessed for competence.
We have also sought to integrity and efficiency of our IT infrastructure and we share systems from involve more multi-stakeholder representatives on our audits to improve across our international operations to ensure consistency of delivery.
workforce engagement and enable activists to see and feedback on our approach.
We work with suppliers to identify any problems and, where they Regulatory and political environment We are subject to a wide variety exist, support them in taking action to improve standards for their workers.
of regulations in the different countries in which we operate because of the diverse nature of our business.
Tesco may be impacted by regulatory We have also invested heavily in building the labour standards capabilities changes in key areas such as planning laws, trading hours, and tax rules as of our suppliers and our own commercial teams in the last year, including well as by scrutiny by the competition authorities, who have been carrying rolling out extensive training, to help them identify and avoid issues before out enquiries in the UK, Ireland and elsewhere.
We may also be impacted they arise.
We also work with businesses, governments, Non-governmental by political developments in the countries in which we operate.
We consider organisations NGOs and others to tackle complex and systemic problems these uncertainties in the external environment when developing strategy that we cannot solve on our own.
As well as having a key role in the ETI we and reviewing performance.
We remain vigilant to future changes.
As part also work closely with the Global Social Compliance Programme and other of our day-to-day operations we engage with governmental and nongroups in specific industries or regions, including the Wine and Agriculture governmental organisations to ensure the views of our customers and Ethical Trade Association in South Africa and the Environmental Justice employees are represented and try to anticipate and contribute to Foundation in Uzbekistan.
important changes in public policy wherever we operate.
Fraud and compliance As the business grows in size and geographical Activism and terrorism A major incident or terrorist event incapacitating spread, the risk of occurrence of fraudulent behaviour by our employees management, systems or stores could impact on the Groups ability to increases.
Whilst the vast majority of our staff are completely honest, there trade.
In addition to contingency plans, we have security systems and remains the potential for fraud and other dishonest activity at all levels of processes that reflect best practice.
the business from the shop floor to senior management.
Pension risks The Groups pension arrangements are an important part The Group takes extensive steps to reduce this risk.
Relevant accounting of our employees overall benefits package especially in the UK.
We see and other procedures and controls at all levels are clearly set out and them as a strong contributor to our ability to attract and retain good people, audited across the business to reduce the risk of fraud.
The Group gives our Groups greatest asset.
Since the implementation of IAS 19 there is a clear guidance on behaviour to employees through the Tesco Values and risk that the accounting valuation deficit which is recorded as a liability on the Code of Ethics.
Internal Audit undertakes detailed investigations into all the Group Balance Sheet could increase if returns on corporate bonds areas of the business and highlights its findings to the Audit Committee.
are higher than the investment return on the pension schemes assets.
The Compliance Committee formulates and monitors the implementation The Group has considered its pension risks and has taken action by reducing of, and compliance with appropriate policies on key areas of ethical risk in its investment strategy.
com annualreport08 16 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P1 17 1 5 08 19:34 Page 17 Joint venture governance and partnerships As we continue to enter Credit risk The objective is to reduce the risk of loss arising from default into new partnerships and joint ventures as well as developing existing by parties to financial transactions across an approved list of counterparties arrangements, there remains an inherent risk in managing these of high credit quality.
The Groups positions with these counterparties and partnerships and joint ventures.
It is more difficult to guarantee the their credit ratings are routinely monitored.
achievement of joint goals that affect our partners and we rely on partners to help achieve such goals.
We may also be impacted by reputational issues Tesco Personal Finance TPF TPF lending is predominantly to which affect our partners.
We choose partners with good reputations individuals through its credit card and unsecured personal loan products.
and set out joint goals and clear contractual arrangements from the TPF has also developed a significant insurance business, with motor outset.
We monitor performance and governance of our joint ventures insurance a major component.
TPF risk is managed by observing and and partnerships.
adopting industry best practices and drawing upon the expertise and systems of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group, including its subsidiary Financial review Direct Line.
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to the availability of funds to meet business needs, the risk of default by counterparties to All policies pertaining to risk within TPF are subject to the governance financial transactions, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange procedures of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group and ratified by the TPF rates.
These risks are managed as described below.
The Group Balance Board, which has representation from both Tesco and the Royal Bank of Sheet position at 23 February 2008 is representative of the position Scotland Group.
This has delivered a portfolio of products with strong asset throughout the year.
This asset quality is maintained through proactive risk management, both at the time of acquisition and ongoing account maintenance.
Funding and liquidity The Group finances its operations by a combination of retained profits, long and medium-term debt, capital market issues, The Tesco Group would support its 50% share of any further funding TPF commercial paper, bank borrowings and leases.
The objective is to ensure might require to sustain liquidity ratios.
However, we believe that provisions continuity of funding.
The policy is to smooth the debt maturity profile, to for bad debts and insurance losses supported by re-insurance of significant arrange funding ahead of requirements and to maintain sufficient undrawn risks are at prudent levels.
committed bank facilities, and a strong credit rating so that maturing debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
Insurance We purchased Assets, Earnings and Combined Liability protection from the open insurance market at catastrophe level only.
The Groups long-term credit rating remained stable during the year.
Tesco The risk not transferred to the insurance market is retained within the Group is rated A1 by Moodys and A by Standard and Poors.
New funding business by using our captive insurance companies, Tesco Insurance Limited of 3.0bn was arranged during the year, including a net 0.9bn from in Guernsey and Valiant Insurance Company Limited in the Republic of property transactions, 1.1bn from an issue of US denominated senior Ireland.
Tesco Insurance Limited covers Assets and Earnings, while Valiant notes and 1.0bn from medium-term notes MTNs.
At the year end, net Insurance Company Limited covers Combined Liability.
Statement of compliance Interest rate risk management The objective is to limit our exposure to This Business Review has been prepared in accordance with the increases in interest rates while retaining the opportunity to benefit from requirements for a business review under the Companies Acts 1985 interest rate reductions.
Forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, and 2006. caps and collars are used to achieve the desired mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
The Business Reviews intent is to provide information to shareholders and should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
The policy is to fix or cap a minimum of 40% of actual and projected debt interest costs.
At the year end, 2.5bn of debt was in fixed rate Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information form last year 2.3bn with a further 0.9bn of debt capped or collared, Where this review contains forward-looking statements, these are made therefore 55% 2007 67% of net debt is fixed, capped or collared.
The by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them remaining balance of our debt is in floating rate form.
The average rate of at the time of their approval of this report.
These statements should be interest paid on a historic cost basis excluding joint ventures and associates treated with caution due to the inherent risks and uncertainties underlying this year was 4.5% last year 4.8%.
Foreign currency risk management Our principal objective is to reduce The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including the effect of exchange rate volatility on short-term profits.
Transactional those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from currency exposures that could significantly impact the Group Income those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, Statement are hedged, typically using forward purchases or sales of foreign but are not limited to, those discussed under Risks and uncertainties currencies and currency options.
At the year end, forward foreign currency on pages 14 to 17 of this document.
transactions, designated as cash flow hedges, equivalent to 1,198m were outstanding 2007 764m as detailed in note 20.
We hedge the majority Other information of our investments in our international subsidiaries via foreign exchange Additional financial and non-financial information, including press transactions in matching currencies.
Our objective is to maintain a low cost releases and year end presentations, can be accessed on our website of borrowing and hedge against material movements in our Group Balance www.
com annualreport08 and also in our Corporate Responsibility Sheet value.
During the year, currency movements increased the net value Review 2008. of the Groups overseas assets by 284m last year increase of 77m.
We translate overseas profits at average foreign exchange rates which we do not currently seek to hedge.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 17 212584 TESCO REP P18 24 1 5 08 19:34 Page 18 General information Principal activity, business review and future developments The Directors and their interests The Directors who served during the principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated activities in the year were: UK, the Republic of Ireland, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Turkey, Thailand, South Korea, Malaysia, Japan, China and the US.
Mr D E Reid: Mr D T Potts: Mr R F Chase CBE: Mr C L Allen CBE: For a review of the business of the Group including: a description of the Sir Terry Leahy: Mrs K Cook: key activities, future developments and an analysis of the key risks and Mr R Brasher: Mr E M Davies CBE: uncertainties including financial risk management strategy, see the Mr P A Clarke: Dr H Einsmann: Business Review on pages 3 to 17 of this document.
Mr A T Higginson: Mr K J Hydon: Mr T J R Mason: Ms C McCall: and Group results Group revenue rose by 4.7bn to 47.3bn, representing Miss L Neville-Rolfe CMG.
Group profit before tax increased by 150m, to 2,803m.
Profit for the year was 2,130m, of which 2,124m was Ms McCall resigned from the Board on 10 April 2008. attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company.
The biographical details of the present Directors are set out in the Dividends The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend separately published Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008. of 7.70p per ordinary share, to be paid on 4 July 2008 to members on the Register at the close of business on 25 April 2008.
Together with the Mr Allen, Mr Chase, Mrs Cook, Dr Einsmann, Sir Terry Leahy and Mr Mason interim dividend of 3.20p per ordinary share paid in December 2007, the retire from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for total dividend for the year will be 10.90p compared with 9.64p for the re-election.
The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the previous year, an increase of 13.1%.
shares of Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share options, are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 25 to 38.
Fixed assets Capital expenditure excluding business combinations amounted to 3.9bn compared with 3.0bn the previous year.
In the At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest Directors opinion, the properties of the Group have a market value in in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
excess of the carrying value of 16.9bn included in these financial statements.
In the year we received net proceeds of approximately 860m A qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined in Section 309 B 1 from our new property joint venture with The British Land Company PLC of the Companies Act 1985 is in force for the benefit of each of the and property disposals to Prudential plc.
Directors and the Company Secretary who is also a Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result Share capital The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
In respect of those liabilities together with details of the shares allotted and bought back during the for which Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a year, are shown in note 25 of the financial statements.
Details of treasury Directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
shares held by Tesco PLC are shown in note 26 of the financial statements.
Employment policies The Group depends on the skills and commitment Companys shareholders The Company has been notified that as at of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
Staff at every level are the date of this report, the following shareholders own more than 3% encouraged to make their fullest possible contribution to the success of of the issued share capital of the Company: Tesco.
A key business priority is to deliver an Every little helps shopping experience for customers.
Ongoing training programmes seek to ensure Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited 4.97% that employees understand the Groups customer service objectives and Barclays 4.29% Barclays Global Investors 1.72%, Barclays PLC 2.57% strive to achieve them.
The Groups selection, training, development and promotion policies ensure equal opportunities for all employees regardless Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any ordinary of factors such as gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference and shareholders with interests of 3% or more in the issued share capital orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief, or disability.
All decisions are based on merit.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only Internal communications are designed to ensure that employees are well be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of the shareholders.
informed about the business of the Group.
These include a new staff newspaper The One and the equivalents in our overseas businesses, videos and staff briefing sessions.
Staff opinions are frequently researched through surveys and store visits.
We work to deliver Every little helps for all our people across the Group.
Employees are encouraged to become involved in the financial performance of the Group through a variety of schemes, principally the Tesco employee profit-sharing scheme Shares in Success, the savings-related share option scheme Save As You Earn and the partnership share plan Buy As You Earn.
com annualreport08 18 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P18 24 1 5 08 19:34 Page 19 Political and charitable donations Cash donations to charities Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors amounted to 22,655,173 2007 17,698,393.
Contributions to Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the date community projects including cause-related marketing, gifts-in-kind, of this Annual Report and Financial Statements have each confirmed that, staff time and management costs amounted to 54,542,913 2007 so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined 43,412,965.
There were no political donations 2007 nil.
During the by Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Groups year, the Group made contributions of 45,023 2007 41,608 in the auditors are unaware, and each of the Directors has taken all the steps form of sponsorship for political events: Labour Party 13,040: Liberal he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware Democrat Party 5,850: Conservative Party 5,786: Scottish Labour Party of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups 500: Scottish National Party 2,000: Fine Gael 1,397: Plaid Cymru 450: auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Supplier payment policy Tesco PLC is a signatory to the CBI Code the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985. of Prompt Payment.
Copies of the Code may be obtained from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
Payment terms Annual General Meeting AGM A separate circular explains and conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance.
Tesco PLC has no the special business to be considered at the Annual General Meeting trade creditors on its Balance Sheet.
The Group pays its creditors on a on 27 June 2008. pay on time basis which varies according to the type of product and territory in which the suppliers operate.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As with all business forecasts, the Directors statement cannot guarantee that the going concern basis will remain appropriate given the inherent uncertainty about future events.
Events after the Balance Sheet date On 9 April 2008, Dobbies Garden Centres PLC, a majority owned subsidiary of the Group, announced plans to raise 150m through an open offer of shares.
Dobbies Garden Centres PLC will seek shareholder approval at an Annual General Meeting on 21 May 2008 to issue up to 12.45 million shares on a six for five basis at 1,200p per share.
Tesco PLC will underwrite the offer.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company and the Group will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 19 212584 TESCO REP P18 24 1 5 08 19:34 Page 20 Corporate governance Directors report on corporate governance All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and Tesco PLC recognises that good governance helps the business to deliver may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense strategy, generate shareholder value and safeguard shareholders long-term in conducting their duties.
The Company provides insurance cover and interests, and we are committed to the highest standards of corporate indemnities for its Directors and officers.
The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in all respects with the Combined Code Principles of Corporate Governance and Code All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored of Best Practice for the year ended 23 February 2008. to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups This section describes the Boards approach to corporate governance.
The programme will usually include an overview of the business model and Board processes, meetings with the Executive Board composition and independence team and senior managers, site visits at home and abroad and briefings As at 23 February 2008, the Board of Tesco PLC comprised seven Executive on key issues including social, ethical and environmental SEE issues.
Directors, seven independent Non-executive Directors and Mr D E Reid, Directors will also receive an induction to those Board Committees he or Non-executive Chairman.
Mr R F Chase is Deputy Chairman and Senior she will serve on.
The need for Director training is regularly assessed by the Board and regular All Directors have to submit themselves for re-election at least every three training sessions are arranged to provide an opportunity for upskilling years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board of the Directors on a variety of areas relevant to the Groups business, to be eligible.
New Directors are submitted for election by shareholders including SEE issues.
In the coming year the Board proposes to hold in their first year following appointment.
training sessions focusing, inter alia, on the Tesco Operating Model and the implications of climate change on the business.
Both Mr C L Allen and Dr H Einsmann have served on the Board for nine years.
The Chairman has conducted a thorough review with each The Board usually holds at least one meeting overseas each year to facilitate Director to assess his independence and contributions to the Board the Directors understanding of the Groups international operations.
and confirmed that they both continue to be effective independent Non-executive Directors.
Mr Allen brings extensive corporate operational Board processes experience and knowledge of the media industry and provides leadership The Board governs through a number of statutory Board Committees for the Remuneration Committee.
Through his wealth of business the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to which certain experience Dr Einsmann contributes a valued dimension to the Board responsibilities and duties are delegated.
These Committees are properly in terms of international marketing, brand building and human resource authorised under the constitution of the Company to take decisions and development.
Both Mr Allen and Dr Einsmann will retire and offer act on behalf of the Board within the parameters laid down by the Board.
themselves for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting and The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these Committees and any annually thereafter.
issues requiring resolution will be referred to the full Board as appropriate.
A summary of the operations of these Committees is set out below.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Chief Executive, Sir Terry Leahy, has executive responsibilities for the operations The effectiveness of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations and results of the Group and making proposals to the Board for the Committees is underpinned by their Non-executive Director membership, strategic development of the Group.
Clear divisions of accountability which provides independent insight on governance matters.
Copies and responsibility exist and operate effectively for these positions.
of each Committees Terms of Reference are available on our website www.
The Board is serviced by The Board requires all Non-executive Directors to be independent in the Company Secretary, who reports to the Chairman in respect of his their judgement.
The structure of the Board and the integrity of the core duties to the Board.
individual Directors ensure that no single individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments and the re-election and succession of Directors, Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 26 and 27 of the as well as making recommendations for the membership of statutory Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008. committees.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Reid and its members during the year were Mr Allen, Mr Chase, Mrs Cook, Mr Davies, Board responsibilities Dr Einsmann, Mr Hydon, Ms McCall and Sir Terry Leahy.
The Company The Board normally meets eight times a year, as well as annually devoting Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
two days to a Board strategy conference.
The Board has set out a clear Where matters discussed relate to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Schedule of Matters Reserved for Board Decision in order to ensure its Non-executive Director chairs the meeting.
The Nominations Committee overall control of the Groups affairs.
These include the determination met in April 2008 to discuss the ongoing shape and capability of the of strategy, the approval of financial statements, major acquisitions and Board.
As well as reviewing the performance and development of the disposals, authority levels for expenditure, treasury policies, risk management, Executive Directors and the senior executive levels below the Board, Group governance policies and succession planning for senior executives.
the Committee also regularly reviews board structure, size, composition, working arrangements and capability, and considers succession plans for Executive and Non-executive Directors.
com annualreport08 20 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P18 24 1 5 08 19:34 Page 21 Board Nominations Remuneration Audit 1 Members attendance during the year ended 23 February 2008 meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 817 5 Non-executive Directors Mr D E Reid Chairman 81 Mr C L Allen CBE 817 Mr R F Chase CBE Senior Independent Director 8165 Mrs K Cook 816 Mr E M Davies CBE 6153 Dr H Einsmann 716 Mr K J Hydon 81 5 Ms C McCall 8 2 Executive Directors Sir Terry Leahy 81 Mr R W P Brasher 8 Mr P A Clarke 8 Mr A T Higginson 8 Mr T J R Mason 8 Miss L Neville-Rolfe CMG 8 Mr D T Potts 7 Note: Directors leave the meeting where matters relating to them are being discussed.
It is expected that all Directors attend Board and Committee meetings unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments and that all Directors will attend the AGM.
1 The Nominations Committee meeting for 2007 8 was held on 9 April 2008.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees role is to The Committee has regular private meetings with the external auditors determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Executive during the year.
The need for training is kept under review and the annual Directors.
It monitors the levels and structure of remuneration for senior agenda ensures time is dedicated to technical updates which are generally management and seeks to ensure that they are designed to attract, provided by external experts.
This year training was provided on accounting retain and motivate the Executive Directors needed to run the Company and reporting developments in IFRS, IFRIC, IAS, FRS, UITF and Audit successfully.
Mr Allen chairs the Committee, which is composed entirely Standards.
Training is also provided to meet specific individual needs of of independent Non-executive Directors.
The other Committee members Committee members.
for the year ended 23 February 2008 were Mr Chase, Mrs Cook, Mr Davies and Dr Einsmann.
At the invitation of the Committee the Chairman of the Board performance evaluation The Board regularly reviews its own Board normally attends meetings and the Chief Executive attends performance.
During the year ended 23 February 2008, a formal evaluation as appropriate.
Representatives of the Groups Personnel and Finance of the performance of the Board was conducted with the assistance of an functions also attend as appropriate to provide support.
The Company external independent consultant.
The process included in-depth interviews Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
with each Director and the Company Secretary and a detailed review of The Committee met seven times this year.
Each year it conducts a review the minutes and supporting papers for the meetings of the Board and its of the Committees own effectiveness and its Terms of Reference.
The review confirmed the high level of professionalism responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and an explanation of in the strategic and entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, a sound how it applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Combined governance framework and practices compliant with the Combined Code.
Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 38.
The Chief Executive reviews the performance of each Executive Director.
Audit Committee The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are The Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive and each to review the financial statements, to review the Groups internal control Non-executive Director.
During the year, the Chairman met with the Nonand risk assurance processes, to consider the appointment of the external executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present, to discuss auditors, their reports to the Committee and their independence, which Board issues and how to build the best possible team.
The Senior includes an assessment of their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit Independent Non-executive Director met with the Non-executive Directors work, as well as to review the programme of Internal Audit.
The membership in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness.
of the Committee is composed entirely of independent Non-executive Directors.
Mr Hydon, who has recent and relevant financial experience, The Board scheduled eight meetings in the year ended 23 February is the Chairman of the Committee.
The other Committee members for the 2008 and ad hoc meetings were also convened to deal with matters year ended 23 February 2008 were Mr Chase, Mr Davies and Ms McCall.
between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
The table above shows the At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at meetings of Finance Director and his representatives, the Head of Internal Audit, the the Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year.
Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, other relevant Executive Directors and representatives of the external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee met five times this year.
Each year the Committee conducts a review of its own effectiveness and its Terms of Reference.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 21 212584 TESCO REP P18 24 1 5 08 19:34 Page 22 Corporate governance continued Management of the Group Executive Committee We recognise that our people may face ethical dilemmas in the normal The Board delegates responsibility for formulating and implementing the course of business so we provide clear guidance based on the Tesco Values.
Groups strategic plan and for management of the Group to the Executive The Values set out the standards that we wish to uphold in how we treat Committee, which comprises the seven Executive Directors and is chaired people.
These are supported by the Group Code of Ethics which offers by the Chief Executive.
The Committee, which is not a statutory committee, guidance on relationships between the Group and its employees, suppliers has authority for decision-making in all areas except those set out in the and contractors.
The Company is a signatory to the DTI Code of Conduct Schedule of Matters Reserved for Board Decision and meets formally and met its obligations for implementing the Code for the financial year every week.
A number of senior executives also attend the Committee ended 23 February 2008. and their valuable operational experience helps broaden the debate.
Their attendance also facilitates the communication of the Committees decisions We operate a balanced scorecard approach that is known within the to the rest of the Group.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity Group as our Steering Wheel.
This unites the Groups resources around as Secretary of the Committee.
our customers, people, operations, community and finance.
The scorecard operates at every level within the Group, from ground level business units, The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group strategy through to country level operations.
It enables the business to be operated and policy and for monitoring the performance and compliance of the and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.
business, drawing on the work of relevant Committees, and reporting on these matters in full to the Board.
Risk management The Group maintains a Key Risk Register.
The Register contains the key risks faced by the Group including their impact and The Committee has set up further non-statutory Committees including likelihood as well as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate the Finance, Compliance and Corporate Responsibility Committees which these risks.
The content of the Register is determined through regular are described in more detail below and operational groups which have discussions with senior management and review by the Executive Committee responsibility for implementing the key elements of the Groups strategic and the full Board.
A balanced approach allows the degree of controllability plan and managing its UK and international operations, joint ventures, to be taken into account when we consider the effectiveness of mitigation property acquisitions, finance, funding and people matters.
These recognising that some necessary activities carry inherent risk which may Committees and groups have as members an appropriate mixture of be outside the Groups control.
Our risk management process recognises Executive Directors and senior management from relevant functions.
there are opportunities to improve the business to be built into our future plans.
The key risks and uncertainties we face are summarised on Risk management and internal controls pages 14 to 17 of the Business Review.
Accountabilities Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, our risk management systems are designed both to encourage entrepreneurial The risk management process is cascaded through the Group with every spirit and also provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
international CEO and local boards maintaining their own risk registers and The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal assessing their control systems.
The same process also applies functionally control within the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
Executive in those parts of the Group requiring greater overview.
For example, the management is responsible for implementing and maintaining the Audit Committees Terms of Reference require it to oversee the Finance necessary control systems.
The role of Internal Audit is to monitor the Risk Register.
We also have a Corporate Responsibility Risk Register which overall internal control systems and report on their effectiveness to specifically considers SEE risks.
Oversight of these risks is the responsibility Executive management, as well as to the Audit Committee, in order to of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Board assesses the facilitate its review of the systems.
significant SEE risks to the Groups short-term and long-term value, and incorporates SEE risks on the Key Risk Register where they are considered Background The Group has a five-year rolling business plan to support material or appropriate.
the delivery of its strategy of long term growth and returns for shareholders.
Every business unit and support function derives its objectives from the We recognise the value of the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment five-year plan and these are cascaded to managers and staff by way of Disclosure and confirm that, as part of its regular risk assessment procedures, personal objectives.
Key to delivering effective risk management is ensuring the Board takes account of the significance of SEE matters to the business our people have a good understanding of the Groups strategy and of the Group.
We recognise that a number of investors and other stakeholders our policies, procedures, values and expected performance.
We have a take a keen interest in how companies manage SEE matters and so we structured internal communications programme that provides employees report more detail on our SEE policies and approach to managing material with a clear definition of the Groups purpose and goals, accountabilities risks arising from SEE matters and the KPIs we use both on our website and the scope of permitted activities for each business unit, as well as www.
com tescoplc and in our Annual Corporate Responsibility individual line managers and other employees.
This ensures that all our Review 2008 www.
To provide further assurance, the people understand what is expected of them and that decision-making Groups Corporate Responsibility KPIs are audited on a regular basis takes place at the appropriate level.
com annualreport08 22 Financial Statements 2008 212584 TESCO REP P18 24 1 5 08 19:34 Page 23 Internal controls Accountability for managing risk at an operational The engagement and independence of external auditors is considered level sits with management.
We have a Group-wide process for clearly annually by the Audit Committee before it recommends its selection to the establishing the risks and responsibilities assigned to each level of Board.
The Committee has satisfied itself that  LLP management and the controls which are required to be operated is independent and there are adequate controls in place to safeguard its and monitored.
One such measure is the requirement to rotate audit partners every five years.
This year the audit engagement partner, having served five The CEOs of subsidiary businesses are required to certify by way of annual years on the Tesco audit, has been rotated.
We have a non-audit services statements of assurance that the Boards governance policies have been policy that sets out criteria for employing external auditors and identifies adopted both in practice and in spirit.
For certain joint ventures, the Board areas where it is inappropriate for  LLP to work.
places reliance upon the internal control systems operating within our Non-audit services work carried out by  LLP is partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners boards relating predominantly the review of subsidiary undertakings statutory accounts, to the effectiveness of their own systems.
transaction work and corporate tax services.
 LLP also follow their own ethical guidelines and continually review their audit The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Companys system team to ensure their independence is not compromised.
of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Finance Committee Membership of the Finance Committee, which is failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable not a statutory committee, includes Non-executive Directors with relevant and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
financial expertise, Executive Directors and members of senior management.
The Committee usually meets twice a year and its role is to review and The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of internal controls agree the Finance Plan on an annual basis, to review reports of the Treasury and is satisfied that the controls in place remain appropriate.
and Tax functions, and to review and approve Treasury limits and delegations.
Monitoring The Board oversees the monitoring system and has set Compliance Committee Membership of the Compliance Committee, specific responsibilities for itself and the various Committees as set out which is not a statutory Committee, includes three Executive Directors and below.
The minutes of the Audit Committee and the various non-statutory members of senior management.
The Committee normally meets six times Committees Finance, Compliance and Corporate Responsibility Committees a year and its remit is to ensure that the Group complies with all necessary are distributed to the Board and each Committee submits a report for laws and regulations in all of its operations worldwide.
The Committee formal discussion at least once a year.
These all provide assurance that the has established a schedule for the regular review of operational activities Group is operating legally, ethically and in accordance with approved and legal exposure.
Each international business in the Group has a local financial and operational policies.
We noted the updates to the Turnbull compliance committee designed to ensure compliance with local laws Guidance and keep under review how the Turnbull Guidance has been and regulations as well as Group compliance policies, and each country applied.
In addition, both Internal Audit and our external auditors play key compliance committee reports to the Group Compliance Committee on roles in the monitoring process, as do several non-statutory Committees: a regular basis.
the Finance Committee, Compliance Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee, which is not a statutory committee, is chaired by the Corporate and Legal Affairs Director Audit Committee Annually, the Audit Committee reports to the Board and membership is made up of senior executives from across the Group.
on its review of the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the It meets at least four times a year to support, develop and monitor policies accounting year and the period to the date of approval of the financial on SEE issues, reviewing threats and opportunities for the Group.
Throughout the year the Committee also receives regular in developing Community initiatives is monitored by the use of relevant reports from its external auditors covering topics such as quality of KPIs in the UK and our international businesses.
The Board formally earnings and technical accounting developments.
The Committee discusses the work of the Committee on a regular basis, including progress also receives updates from Internal Audit and has dialogue with senior in implementing our Community Plan.
managers on their control responsibilities.
It should be understood that such systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, The Corporate and Legal Affairs department and the Trading Law and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Technical department provide assurance and advice on legal compliance, health and safety, and SEE matters.
These functions report on their work Internal Audit The Internal Audit department is fully independent of on a regular basis and escalate matters as appropriate.
business operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
It operates a riskbased methodology, ensuring that the Groups key risks receive appropriate Management In our fast moving business, trading is tracked on a daily and regular examination.
Its responsibilities include maintaining the Key Risk and weekly basis, financial performance is reviewed weekly and monthly, Register, reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness of risk management and the Steering Wheel is reviewed quarterly.
Steering Wheels are systems and internal control with the Executive Committee, the Audit operated in business units across the Group, and reports are prepared Committee and ultimately to the Board.
Internal Audit facilitates oversight of performance against target KPIs on a quarterly basis enabling of risk and control systems across the Group through audit and compliance management to measure performance.
Committees in each of our international businesses and our joint ventures.
The Head of Internal Audit also attends all Audit Committee meetings.
All major initiatives require business cases normally covering a minimum period of five years.
Post-investment appraisals, carried out External Audit  LLP, the Companys external by management, determine the reasons for any significant variance auditor, contributes a further independent perspective on certain aspects from expected performance.
of our internal financial control systems arising from its work, and reports to both the Board and the Audit Committee.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 23 212584 TESCO REP P18 24 1 5 08 19:34 Page 24 Corporate governance continued Relations with stakeholders The Annual General Meeting offers the opportunity to communicate We are committed to having a constructive dialogue with all stakeholders directly with all shareholders.
The whole Board attends the meeting and to ensure we understand what is important to them and allow ourselves is available to answer questions from shareholders present.
To encourage the opportunity to present our position.
Engagement helps us identify new shareholder participation, we offer electronic proxy voting and voting risks and opportunities to ensure that our long-term strategy is sustainable.
through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
At our last In some instances we find that working with stakeholders in partnership Annual General Meeting in June 2007, all resolutions were voted by way can help deliver shared goals.
We might not be able to satisfy all stakeholder of electronic poll.
This follows best practice guidelines and allows the concerns all the time but through engagement we can do our best to Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders attending balance competing demands.
We know that customers need to be able to the meeting.
trust our business and they will only trust us if we do the right thing by all our stakeholders.
Our programme of engaging with stakeholders including Every shareholder may choose to receive a full Annual Report and customers, staff, suppliers, investors, non-governmental organisations and Financial Statements or the Annual Review and Summary Financial others, is set out in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility Review and Statement, either in paper or electronic form.
These reports, together on our website.
The addition of Community to our strategy this year and with publicly made trading statements, are available on the Groups our Community Plans in each country have helped to demonstrate our website, www.
commitment to tackling a wide range of societal and environmental issues.
We also carry out external research to help us understand how well we are By Order of the Board addressing stakeholder concerns.
Jonathan Lloyd Company Secretary We are committed to maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders through proactively organising meetings and presentations as well as 28 April 2008 responding to a wide range of enquiries.
We seek shareholder views on a range of issues from strategy to corporate governance and SEE issues.
Tesco PLC We recognise the importance of communicating appropriately any Registered Number: 445790 significant Company developments.
This shareholder communication Registered in England and Wales is mainly co-ordinated by the Investor Relations department.
During the Registered Office: Tesco House, Delamare Road, year, the Group met with most of our leading shareholders representing Cheshunt, over 70% of the issued shares of the Company.
To complement this Hertfordshire EN8 9SL programme, the Chairman meets with major shareholders independently VAT Registration Number: GB 220 4302 3 from the Executive team.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to meet with the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The Board is kept updated of the views of stakeholders.
It is normal that institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Group than others, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to both institutional and private shareholders at the same time, in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
