Directors Report Board of Directors Prior to joining Arcandor AG he was Head of Dr Thomas Middelhoff 55 Europe for Corporate Investment at Investcorp Title: Non-Executive Chairman International and Chairman and Chief Executive Appointment: March 2007 Officer of Bertelsmann AG.
Committee memberships: Member of Audit & External appointments: Chairman of Senator Risk Management Committee, Nominations Entertainment AG, moneybookers.
com Ltd and CoCommittee, and Management Development Chairman of Germany1 Acquisition Limited.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Arcandor AG and Director of New York Times Company.
Skills & experience: Thomas Middelhoff is Chairman of the management board of Arcandor AG, and was previously Chairman of the supervisory board of Thomas Cook AG.
Skills & experience: Michael Beckett was Chairman Michael Beckett 72 of MyTravel Group plc between 2004 and 2007.
He Title: Non-Executive Deputy Chairman & Senior was Chairman of Coalcorp Mining Inc. Colombia, Independent Director London Clubs International plc, Ashanti Goldfields Appointment: March 2007 Company Limited and Clarkson plc, and was formerly Managing Director of Consolidated Gold Fields plc.
Committee memberships: Chairman of Nominations Committee, Chairman of External appointments: Non-Executive active Management Development & Remuneration Chairman of Endeavour Financial Corporation Committee, Member of Audit & Risk Management Canada.
Non-Executive Director of Northam Committee, Member of Health, Safety & Platinum Ltd South Africa, Orica Ltd Australia, Environmental Committee.
The Egypt Trust Luxembourg, Mvelaphanda Resources Limited South Africa and Medoro Resources Limited Canada.
He has held senior management positions within the Manny Fontenla-Novoa 54 Group, latterly as Chief Executive Officer of Thomas Title: Chief Executive officer Cook AG.
Appointment: July 2007 External appointments: Director of Arcandor AG Committee memberships: Chairman of Group and Mediterranean Touristic Management, a joint Executive Board, Member of Health, Safety & venture between Thomas Cook Destinations GmbH Environmental Committee.
and Iberostar Hoteles y Apartamentos S. L. Skills & experience: Manny Fontenla-Novoa joined the Company in 1996 following the acquisition of Sunworld, which was then the UKs fourth largest tour operator.
He was a founding director of Sunworld and has 30 years experience in the travel industry.
Before joining Thomas Cook, Dr Jrgen Bser 42 he held senior positions within Siemens Financial Title: Chief Financial officer Services international consulting firm, Booz Allen Appointment: July 2008 & Hamilton and Westdeutsche Landesbank, Germanys largest public sector bank.
Committee memberships: Member of Group Executive Board.
External appointments: None Skills & experience: Prior to his current role, Jrgen Bser was Chief Financial Officer for the UK & Ireland Division and spent three years before that as Head of Controlling & M&A for Thomas External appointments: Chairman of Costain David Allvey 63 Group PLC and Arena Coventry Ltd: Senior Title: Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Director of Intertek Group plc and Appointment: March 2007 Non-Executive Director of William Hill plc.
He is a trustee of the William Hill Pension Fund.
Committee memberships: Chairman of Audit & Risk Management Committee, Member of Health, Safety & Environmental Committee.
Skills & experience: David Allvey was NonExecutive Director of MyTravel Group plc between 2003 and 2007.
Prior to this he was Group Finance Director of Barclays Bank plc, B.
A. T Industries plc and Allied Zurich plc and held senior finance positions with Zurich Financial Services AG.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operating Officer and a Director of Thomson Roger Burnell 58 Travel Group plc.
Other board experience includes Title: Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of The First Resort Limited, Chairman Appointment: March 2007 of International Life Leisure Group Limited and Chairman of HomeForm Group Limited.
Committee memberships: Chairman of Health, Safety & Environmental Committee, Member of External appointments: Director of Coventry Audit & Risk Management Committee, Building Society and Clarence Mansions Nominations Committee and Management Management Company Limited.
Skills & experience: Roger Burnell was a NonExecutive Director of MyTravel Group plc from April 2003.
Before joining MyTravel, he was Chief 1 Skills & experience: Peter Diesch is Chief Financial Dr Peter Diesch 54 Officer of Arcandor AG.
Before joining Arcandor, Title: Non-Executive Director he was CFO and HR Director of Linde AG, CFO Appointment: March 2007 and HR Director of Tchibo Holding AG and CFO of Airbus GmbH.
Committee memberships: Member of Audit & Risk Management Committee, Nominations External appointments: Director of Arcandor AG Committee and Management Development and Delton AG.
1 Peter Diesch will resign from the Board on 22 December 2008, and Karl-Gerhard Eick will be appointed as a Non-Executive Director as mentioned in the Chairmans statement on page 3.
Reisebro GmbH and Condor Flugdienst GmbH.
Hemj Klein 67 He was previously Chairman of Amadeus SA and Title: Independent Non-Executive Director a member of the Supervisory Board of TUI AG.
Appointment: July 2007 He was Chairman and president of the German National Tourist Board.
Committee memberships: Member of Management Development & Remuneration External appointments: Chairman and Chief Committee and Health, Safety & Environmental Executive Officer of Live Holding AG.
and Chief Executive Officer of Telefunken Holding AG.
Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of Skills & experience: Hemj Klein was formerly a HumanOptics AG and Payment Solution AG, member of the Executive Board of Lufthansa AG Chairman of Mountain Partners AG, Director and was a member of the Executive Board of of Convergence CT Inc and Supervisory Board Deutsche Bundesbahn and Deutsche Reichsbahn.
He has also held the position of Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Sixt AG, DER Deutsches Swedish listed building materials group, Bo Lerenius 62 Ernstromgruppen.
He was Group Chief Executive Title: Independent Non-Executive Director of Associated British Ports Holdings Plc between Appointment: July 2007 1999 and 2007.
Committee memberships: Member of Audit & External appointments: Chairman of the Swedish Risk Management Committee.
Chamber of Commerce for the UK: Non-Executive Director of G4S plc, Land Securities Group plc, Skills & experience: Between 1992 and 1998 Ittur Group Sweden and Rorvik Timber Sweden.
Bo Lerenius was Chief Executive of the then listed He is an advisor to the infrastructure fund of company, Stena Line, and between 1998 and 1999 Swedish venture capital group, EQT.
he was Vice Chairman of Stena Line and Director of New Business at Stena AB.
From 1985 to 1992 he was Group President and Chief Executive of External appointments: Senior Independent Nigel Northridge 52 Director of Aggreko plc, Senior Independent Title: Independent Non-Executive Director Director of Paddy Power plc and assumes the Appointment: August 2008 role of Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2009.
He is also Non-Executive Director of London Committee memberships: Member of Irish Rugby Club and PGA European Tour.
Nominations Committee and Management Development & Remuneration Committee.
Skills & experience: Nigel Northridge was Chief Executive of Gallaher Group Plc for seven years until April 2007.
Over his 30-year career with the Gallaher Group he held a range of senior positions in general management and sales & marketing roles.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49
