Directors Report Chief Executive Ofcers review of strategy and performance Our marketplace Leisure travel has grown strongly in the past, and will continue to do so in the future.
Over the long term, international leisure In this context, it is unsurprising that much of travel has grown strongly, at roughly twice the growth in the market has been accounted the growth rate of the economy as a whole, for by a sustained increase approximately 5% and it has proved resilient to major short-term per annum in independent travel, where shocks, such as the early 1990s recession, 9 11 consumers buy the elements of a holiday and the 2003 SARS health scares gure 1. separately gure 2.
The simple fact is that people enjoy holidays, Resilience of package holidays and the generation which first ventured However, this growth in independent travel abroad for two weeks in August has matured has not been at the expense of the package into one which is more confident, has more holiday, where demand remains robust as a free time and disposable income, and a consequence of consumers appreciation of growing appetite for adventure.
They the convenience, quality and great value for have been joined, as their children reach money such packages bring.
Indeed, the fact adulthood, by a new generation which that someone is there to sort things out if regards international travel as a top spending something goes wrong whether it be a major priority: many of them supplementing crisis or something as simple as a ight delay a main summer holiday with a second leading to a missed connection is something winter break and weekends abroad.
many independent travellers have learned Growth in independent travel to appreciate only when they have found Many more choices are available to the themselves without that reassurance.
modern traveller than existed even five Addressing our challenges years ago.
New destinations are opening Although there are concerns about the up all the time: the internet provides almost sustainability of long distance mass market innite sources of information, inspiration leisure travel, which has provided political and opportunities to make travel arrangements: cover for increased taxation of aviation, much greater exibility exists in tailoring these concerns have not as yet had any holidays to individual requirements: and discernible effect on demand and seem low-cost airlines have opened up new destinations at affordable prices.
unlikely to do so for the foreseeable future.
Figure 1 Tourism is a robust and growing industry that has quickly rebounded from external shocks International tourist arrivals and real world GDP, indexed to 1980, plus trends 340 320 300 SARS 280 9 11 Financial crisis in Japan 260 240 220 Global economic slowdown and financial crises in countries 200 such as Sweden and Norway 180 160 International tourist arrivals 140 Tourist arrivals trend 120 Real world GDP 100 Real GDP trend 80 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Year Source: UNWTO World Tourism Barometer, IMF World Economic Outlook 12 www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW While the long-term trends are clear, before the recession bit.
In addition, recent counterparts in the West.
In those developed the current global economic crisis creates company failures have reminded people of markets, travel companies will be challenged the security provided by the UK Government significant uncertainties in the short term, by the need to satisfy the growing demand consumer protection schemes benefiting and we have already seen the failure of for holidays tailored to personal needs and those who book packages with a tour a number of airlines and smaller tour wants, while still delivering convenience, operator: a compelling reason for many operators.
However, the lessons of the reassurance and service.
independent travellers to think again.
recession of the early 1990s are important here.
At that time, UK unemployment At times like this, there is no question that approached three million, and a major consumers seek comfort in the reassurance UK tour operator, ILG, failed.
The reduction of buying from established and trusted in market capacity resulting from the failure brands and in that respect, Thomas Cook of ILG even after other tour operators added is clearly the number one brand in the UK, further ights to exploit the opportunity led and a brand which has considerable equity to a period in which, despite recessionary worldwide, thanks to its history and financial pressures, tour operators delivered very services business.
UK consumer research strong financial results.
consistently shows the Thomas Cook brand as enjoying a significant advantage over its rivals While the situation in 2008 is very different in in terms of consumer trust and travel expertise.
some respects, the consolidation we have seen in the market following the mergers Outlook of Thomas Cook and MyTravel, and TUI In the medium term, there is every reason to and First Choice, has led to similar levels of believe that the longer-term trend of strong capacity reduction, and makes the immediate growth in demand for international travel prospects for the industry more positive than will continue, and even accelerate, as the for some other market sectors.
fast-growing BRIC Brazil, Russia, India and China markets develop, and their huge Furthermore, a number of consumer studies populations take advantage of their conducted during the final quarter of 2008 increasing prosperity to experience the have confirmed that people are as committed same joys of international travel as their to their main annual holiday as they were Figure 2 The UK leisure travel market continues to grow UK leisure travel market 2000-13, number of passengers million No.
