DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW We will also add further impetus to our efforts to work together more effectively as Our strategy in action a Group, complementing our strategies in each of our geographic segments with new initiatives designed to extract further value through collaboration for example across our airlines and with appropriate group-wide Maximise value procurement initiatives.
We will also pay of mainstream particular attention to the e-commerce Our integrated business model ensures opportunity, where up to now we have we maximise earnings from transport, focused on building websites which are accommodation and distribution integral to our local multi-channel strategies, through retail and online outlets.
but where we see a global opportunity for the Thomas Cook brand.
page 18 Finally, we will examine our brand portfolio, where we believe we have a number of strong Leading independent brands, but more than we can support travel provider effectively.
Central to our future is the We continue to develop our independent Thomas Cook brand.
It has been the leading travel business and are benefiting from brand in the leisure travel market for over the rapid growth in this area.
160 years and remains along with our people our most valuable asset.
page 20 Leading travel-related financial services provider The development of our financial services business is underpinned by the strength of the Thomas Cook brand.
page 22 Capture growth through mergers and acquisitions We made a number of key acquisitions in 2008 and all are performing well and providing the synergies expected.
page 24 Our people, our key differentiator From booking a holiday, through to the airline and in-resort service they provide, it is our people who make the difference to our customers holiday experience.
page 26 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17 Our strategy in action Maximise value of mainstream We continue to focus on maximising the value of mainstream package holidays.
Our integrated business model ensures we maximise earnings from transport, accommodation and distribution through retail and online outlets.
Setting the standard for e-commerce This year has seen a step-change in our e-commerce performance, spearheaded by Northern Europe, where recent months have seen over 50% of bookings being made online.
In the UK, 27% of total bookings are now made online, while in Germany, where the internet market has developed more slowly, 7% of our customers now book online an increase of 14% year on year, although a much higher number research online and then book through an agent.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Delivering the future of package holidays A new franchising hotel concept SENTIDO, the new hotel franchise, gives us access to 17 hotels, principally in Spain, Egypt, Cyprus, Greece, Turkey and Kenya, and two Nile river boats, without increasing our risk prole.
At the same time, we have the control to ensure they are high quality resorts, and the opportunity to develop this business further.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19 Our strategy in action Leading independent travel provider We continue to develop our independent travel business and are benefiting from the rapid growth in this area.
Accessing the UKs largest hotel network The acquisition of Hotels4U.
com, the UKs largest independent bed bank, enhanced the Groups independent travel offering considerably.
Hotels4U sells exclusively over the internet, providing accommodation and resort transfers to over 500,000 customers per annum.
It has access to more than 30,000 hotels internationally.
Our recently acquired business in India has been among the first to take advantage of including Hotels4U stock in their European holiday programmes.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Exploring the world with Thomas Cook Leading the Canadian independent travel market By acquiring TriWest Travel with its two principal brands, Fun Sun, an independent travel wholesaler, and Intair, a leading airline consolidator, we are creating a leading Canadian independent travel business with signicantly enhanced customer reach and product offerings.
The business will increase our independent travel profits and improve our year-round profitability, which is currently skewed towards the winter.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21 Our strategy in action Leading travel-related financial services provider The development of our financial services business is underpinned by the strength of the Thomas Cook brand.
Leading the financial services market in India India is one of the fastest growing travel and travelrelated foreign exchange markets in the world, expanding by 15% per annum.
Our acquisition of 74.9% of Thomas Cook India gives us the opportunity to drive this expansion.
We are confident the strength of the foreign exchange business will provide a strong platform for profit growth.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW More than just a travel agent Thomas Cook in Terminal 5 In line with our strategy to grow our financial services offering, we have expanded our foreign exchange franchise in airports.
This has included our high prole appointment as a partner in Heathrow Terminal 5 and Manchester Airport.
The strength of the Thomas Cook brand and the customer service we offer have combined to allow us to establish ourselves as the market leader in both locations.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 23 Our strategy in action Capture growth through mergers and acquisitions We continue to look for expansion opportunities through acquisition.
We made a number of key acquisitions in 2008 and all are performing well and providing the synergies expected.
Number one in luxury travel The acquisition of Elegant Resorts, the number one UK-based luxury travel company, supports our strategy of strengthening our independent travel position and builds on our current expertise in high-value luxury holidays.
Elegant Resorts takes more than 20,000 customers each year to luxury destinations including the Caribbean, the Indian Ocean, the Arabian Gulf and luxury European resorts.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW New companies New opportunities Transforming our French business While Thomas Cook France already enjoys the position of being the countrys largest travel retailer, the combination of its tour operating business with Jet Tours, the Paris-based, premium tour operator, ensures we are now also the countrys third largest tour operator, with a combined market share of around 10%.
Jet Tours, with its principal brands Jet Tours, Club Eldorador and Austral Lagons, serves approximately 270,000 customers per year and complements Thomas Cooks existing offering.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25 Our strategy in action Our people, our key differentiator We recognise that it is our people who will be our key differentiator.
From buying a holiday, through to the airline and in-resort service they provide, it is our people who are making the difference to the customers holiday experience.
We are therefore committed to hiring the best people, training and developing them to full their potential, and providing career opportunities that keep them within the Thomas Cook Group.
All of our businesses operate recruitment, training and development and reward policies appropriate to their local markets.
Over and above this, the new Thomas Cook Group has launched some ambitious initiatives to keep the Groups people at the forefront of its businesses.
Values United as one team we support and respect each other and work The Group has adopted the PROUD values as the cornerstone of openly and collaboratively with our colleagues as a single, world-wide employee behaviour.
All Thomas Cook businesses now encourage team.
We trust each other and always demonstrate integrity and honesty.
their employees to aspire to this way of working.
Driving robust decisions we strive for quality, speed and clarity of Pioneering our future we inspire energy and enthusiasm.
We ensure our decisions are based constantly to be creative and innovative and challenge constructively on facts and are fair.
We thrive in an ever-changing and dynamic world.
Employee engagement Results orientated we take responsibility for achieving results.
Thomas Cook places a great deal of importance on internal We are reliable and always deliver our promise.
The Groups Chief Executive officer visits each of and determined to challenge and overcome barriers and solve the operating markets at least once a year and communicates on a problems.
We always work to improve our own and others monthly basis to update Group employees on the Companys progress performance and capabilities.
Many regular communication vehicles are produced by the Group and its segments with the aim of keeping all employees Obsessed with customer service we deliver the best possible up-to-date on the latest business and market developments.
In experience for our customers at all times.
We listen and respond addition, many of our key markets also host annual conferences to their personal needs.
to review the previous years performance and set out the priorities for the coming year.
Denise Williams and Anthony Manning were announced UK & Ireland Chief Executive officer employees of the year for 2007 08.
Their reward included: a cruise to New York on the QE2: a 4,000 shopping allowance at Londons Harvey Nichols and, throughout the year, they attended all of the Companys key external events as guests of honour.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Succession planning This is just the beginning.
We will continue to build our people policies In January 2009, the Board will, for the first time, be able to view to support the Thomas Cook brand as it expands across the world.
succession plans for all senior positions across the Group and will Employment policies manage talent at a Group level.
Thomas Cook Group is committed to treating everyone fairly and reasonably according to their individual merits and abilities measured Development against our justifiable business needs.
Therefore, any form of unlawful Thomas Cook has created a fast-track development programme at discrimination directly or indirectly on the grounds of sex, gender Group level for high-potential employees from all of its businesses, reassignment, pregnancy, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national as well as a handful of high-potentials hired into Thomas Cook from origins, sexual orientation, disability, age, religion or belief, or because outside the sector.
These individuals will receive business and someone is married or is a civil partner, will not be tolerated.
leadership development to prepare them to be the Groups senior managers of the future.
Thomas Cook Group also aims to reect the diversity of the community in which it operates because it values the individual contribution Reward of all employees and recognises its legal and social responsibilities.
As well as aligning reward for senior managers across the Group, Thomas Cook launched an international Save As You Earn Share Thomas Cook Group is committed to promoting equality and all Scheme for all its employees within a year of the merger.
Some 3,500 employees have a duty to contribute towards ensuring that the employees across all our businesses are now saving to become PROUD values are upheld and that the culture, climate and working shareholders in Thomas Cook Group plc.
environment are free from harassment and discriminatory treatment.
Gisela Soekeland, Managing Director of Thomas Cook Reisen, was voted one of the top 25 businesswomen in Germany by Financial Times Deutschland.
Dr Veronika Bke, Chief Executive officer of Neckermann Hungary, was voted one of the 100 most successful businesswomen in Hungary in 2007 by the Hungarian Marketing Federation.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27
