DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Other disclosures Share capital number of Relevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur or The authorised share capital of the Company is divided into two classes of the ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening Act share.
The Companys authorised ordinary share capital is 200,000,000 may occur, the Directors may, among other things: divided into 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.10 each and 50,000 identify those shares which give rise to the need to take action and divided into 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each.
The ordinary shares carry treat such shares as affected shares Affected Shares see below : or the right to the profits of the Company available for distribution and set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares which to the return of capital on a winding up of the Company.
The ordinary may subsist at any time which may not, save in the circumstances shares carry the right to attend and speak at general meetings of the referred to below, be lower than 40% of the total number Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
The ordinary shares of issued shares and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this are admitted to trading on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Permitted Maximum as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors The deferred shares carry no right to the profits of the Company.
On may serve a notice an Affected Share Notice in respect of any a winding up, the holders of the deferred shares would be entitled to Affected Share.
An Affected Share Notice can, if it so specifies, have receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each deferred share.
the effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, The holders of the deferred shares are not entitled to receive notice, vote and speak at general meetings which he would otherwise have attend, speak or vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll at had as a consequence of holding such shares.
Such an Affected Share general meetings of the Company.
Notice can, if it so specifies, also require the recipient to dispose of Authority to purchase shares the Affected Shares so that the Relevant Shares will then cease to be At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 12 March 2008, the Affected Shares within 21 days or such longer period as the Directors Company was authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares may determine.
The Directors are also given the power to sell such up to a maximum number of 70,386,610 shares.
During the eleven month Affected Shares themselves where there is non-compliance with an period ended 30 September 2008, the Company acquired 58,529,399 Affected Share Notice at the best price reasonably obtainable at the of its own ordinary shares nominal value 0.10, as part of the relevant time on behalf of the shareholder.
290m 375m share buyback programme announced on In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares the Directors, 30 January 2008.
The total consideration paid for these shares in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant Shares may give rise was 147.3m.
As a result of these market purchases the Company to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring and, subject to any such purchased 48,595,331 shares from Arcandor AG and KarstadtQuelle determination, will have regard to the chronological order in which Freizeit GmbH, at a cost of 116.2m.
particulars of Relevant Shares have been, or are to be, entered in the Share transfer restrictions Separate Register unless to do so would in the sole opinion of the Directors The Articles of Association the Articles are designed to ensure that be inequitable.
If there is a change in any applicable law or the Company the number of the Companys shares held by non-EEA nationals does or any subsidiary receives any direction, notice or requirement from any not reach a level which could jeopardise the Companys entitlement to state or regulatory authority, which, in either case, necessitates such continue to hold or enjoy the benefit of any authority, permission, licence action to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act, then the or privilege which it, or any of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and which Directors may either: enables an air service to be operated each an Operating Right.
In lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they particular, EC Council Regulation 1008 08 on licensing of air carriers consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening requires that an air carrier must be majority-owned and effectively Act: or controlled by EEA nationals.
resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected Shares The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a Permitted and the Conversion Permitted Maximum.
The rights of the Directors Maximum on the number of the Companys shares which may be owned referred to above apply until such time as the Directors resolve that by non-EEA nationals at such level as they believe is in compliance with grounds for the making of a determination have ceased to exist, the Operating Rights, provided that the Permitted Maximum shall not whereupon the Directors must withdraw such determination.
The be less than 40% of the total number of issued shares.
Permitted Maximum is set at 40%.
This Permitted Maximum may be varied by the Directors.
If the Directors resolve to vary the Permitted The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register of Maximum to deal with shares as Affected Shares or relax the shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies corporate ownership limitations, they shall publish in at least one national or other entities have an interest such shares are referred to as Relevant newspaper in the United Kingdom and in any other country in Shares in the Articles.
An interest in this context is widely defined see which the shares are listed notice of the determination and of below.
The Directors may require relevant members or other persons any Permitted Maximum.
to provide them with information to enable them to determine whether shares are, or are to be treated as, Relevant Shares.
If such information The Directors shall publish, from time to time: is not provided then the Directors will be able, at their discretion, to information as to the number of shares particulars of which have determine that shares to which their enquiries relate be treated as been entered on the Separate Register: and Relevant Shares.
Registered shareholders will also be obliged to notify the any Permitted Maximum which has been specified.
Company if they are aware either a that any share they hold ought to be treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose: or b that any share they The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares unless hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be so treated.
such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, together with In this case, the Directors shall request such information and evidence as such evidence as the Directors may require, stating a the name and they require to satisfy themselves that the share should not be treated as nationality of any person who has an interest in any such share and, if a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such evidence, shall remove the Directors require, the nature and extent of such interest: or b such particulars of the share from the Separate Register.
If the Directors other information as the Directors may from time to time determine.
determine that such action is necessary to protect any Operating Right The Directors may decline to register any person as a shareholder if due to the fact that an Intervening Act an Intervening Act being the satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any Operating Right or Existing holders of Shares will be recorded on the Special Register unless the imposition of materially inhibiting conditions or limitations on any and until they have certified, to the satisfaction of the Company, that Operating Right in either case, by any state or regulatory authority has they are EEA nationals.
taken place or is contemplated, threatened or intended, or the aggregate Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 57 Other disclosures continued A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Supplier payment policy Thomas Cook Group plc shares if: It is the Companys policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Where payment terms are not negotiated, the Company such person has an interest which would subject as provided below endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
As at 30 September 2008, be taken into account, or which he would be taken as having, in the Company had no trade creditors 2007: nil.
determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 whether a person has a notifiable interest: or Major shareholdings he has any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the Companies As at 18 December 2008, the Company had been notified, in accordance Act 2006 but shall not be deemed to have an interest in any shares with rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the UK in which his spouse or any infant, child or stepchild or, in Scotland, Listing Authority, of the following major shareholdings in the ordinary pupil or minor of his is interested by virtue of that relationship or share capital of the Company: which he holds as a bare or custodian trustee under the laws of Percentage of issued England or as a simple trustee under the laws of Scotland, and Name Number of shares held capital % interested shall be construed accordingly.
Arcandor AG 226,664,045 26.41 1 Agreements governing the transfer of shares Karstadtquelle Freizeit GmbH 226,664,045 26.41 Under the Relationship Agreement, Arcandor AG has undertaken to give Standard Life Investments the Company written notice of any intention to dispose of any shares, and Limited 68,719,267 8.00 such disposal has to be carried out in consultation with the Board of the AXA S. A.
Under the Relationship Agreement, Arcandor AG has agreed to 1.
Karstadtquelle Freizeit GmbH is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arcandor AG.
certain restrictions on the ability of it and other members of the Arcandor group of companies to acquire further shares in the Company.
Under Auditors these restrictions, members of the Arcandor Group may not, subject to  LLP have expressed their willingness to be certain exceptions, acquire further shares in the Company without the reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation prior consent of the Board, provided that such consent will be given for of the Audit & Risk Management Committee, resolutions to reappoint a purchase of up to 5% of the Companys issued share capital, unless such them as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine purchase would prejudice the Companys ability to maintain the free float their remuneration will be proposed to the AGM.
required by the Listing Rules, or result in the Company becoming a close The Directors Report comprising pages 2 to 66 has been approved by company.
the Board and signed on its behalf by: Provisions on change of control The Company has a 1.8bn Group Facility Agreement the Agreement in place, which provides that, on any change of control of the Company, the Lenders under the Agreement are entitled to negotiate for a period not exceeding 30 days new terms for continuing the facilities but, where Derek Woodward agreement on new terms cannot be reached, any such Lender is entitled Group Company Secretary to: i receive a repayment of amounts owing to such Lender: and ii 19 December 2008 cancel all commitments under the Agreement.
Contractual arrangements Registered office The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in The Thomas Cook Business Park support of its business activities.
The disclosure in this report of information Coningsby Road about any of those third parties is not considered necessary for an Peterborough PE3 8SB understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups businesses.
Political donations The Company did not make any political donations during the financial period 2007: nil.
