Directors Report Chief Executive Ofcers review of strategy and performance continued Our strategy Thomas Cook has a clear strategy of strengthening its core mainstream business and investing for growth in independent travel, financial services and emerging markets.
Our strategy remains focused on four key growth drivers: maximising the value of Highlights mainstream travel: establishing Thomas Cook as a leading provider of independent travel: The entry into a key strategic Outstanding performance from building our position as a leading provider emerging market through the Condor, where, following our of travel-related financial services: and acquisition of Thomas Cook withdrawal from consolidation extending our business through mergers, India, the largest travel and negotiations, first with Air Berlin, acquisitions and partnerships, with a foreign exchange business in and then with Germanwings and particular focus on emerging markets.
At the same time, we TuiFly, we demonstrated the Measuring our performance regained the world-wide rights ability to operate successfully There is a direct link between our strategy to the Thomas Cook brand.
and profitably on a stand-alone and the key indicators of our businesses basis.
Condor has delivered A step-change in our e-commerce performance.
These indicators are regularly a strong performance in a performance, spearheaded by monitored by the management team and challenging environment for Northern Europe, where recent Board to ensure we are meeting our objectives.
airlines generally, as fuel prices months have seen over 50% of Maximise value of mainstream reached record levels, and bookings being made online.
Our integrated business model maximises more specifically, in Germany, In the UK, 27% of total bookings our earnings from transport, accommodation where the industry is extremely are now made online, while in and distribution through both retail and competitive.
Condors result Germany, where the internet online outlets.
It also gives us the exibility reects strong capacity to manage capacity and product mix, market has developed more management, cost discipline and allowing us to adapt to differing market slowly, 7% of our customers now focus on operations at a time conditions.
We therefore have considerable book online an increase of 14% when merger negotiations could exibility, giving us relative resilience in an year on year, although a much have resulted in distractions.
higher number research online and then book through an agent.
In Northern Europe, our strong market Acquisitions that have transformed position and our focus on e-commerce our market positions in France Rapid integration of our merged have allowed us to achieve another year and Canada.
UK businesses, followed by of record profits.
decisive action on capacity, In the UK, our focus on medium haul has which have allowed us to deliver proved helpful at a time when sterlings strong margin performance in decline against the euro has augmented a highly challenging market.
the demand for destinations outside of the traditional short haul destinations in the Eurozone.
Our strong positions in Turkey and Egypt give us considerable advantage.
We are also benefiting from the shift to higher margin all-inclusive resorts.
While Thomas Cook France already enjoys the position of being the countrys largest travel retailer, the combination of its tour operating business with Jet Tours, the Parisbased, premium tour operator, ensures we are now also the countrys third largest tour operator, with a combined market share 14 www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Our strategy is founded upon Thomas Cook people and values.
We focus on the enablers and growth drivers in pursuit of the strategic objectives, inspired by our vision.
The success of our strategy is measured by strong, sustainable business performance.
Our performance 11 8% 49 8% 35 5% Pro forma revenue Pro forma profit Pro forma operating from operations profit margin 2008: 8,810m 2008: 366m 2008: 4 2% See Appendix 2 on page 126 for key.
Our vision We go further, to make dreams come true Strategic objective Strengthen mainstream and build longevity in our business Growth drivers 1 2 3 4 Maximise Leading Leading Capture growth value of independent travel-related through mergers mainstream travel provider financial services and acquisitions provider Product Technology Customer Brands Financial Enablers insight rigour Obsessed Driving People and the Pioneering Results United as with customer robust PROUD values our future orientated one team service decisions Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 Directors Report Chief Executive Ofcers review of strategy and performance continued of around 10%.
Jet Tours, with its principal work together to ensure continued overall Thomas Cook India gives us the opportunity brands Jet Tours, Club Eldorador and Austral development in the UK.
We are confident Lagons, serves approximately 270,000 the strength of the foreign exchange The acquisition of Hotels4U.
com, the UKs customers per year and complements business will provide a strong platform largest independent bed bank, enhanced Thomas Cooks existing offering.
the Groups independent travel offering considerably.
Hotels4U sells exclusively over The acquisition of 57 Neckermann In the UK, unlike many companies, we the internet, providing accommodation Urlaubswelten retail outlets in Germany are already operating under the new and and resort transfers to over 500,000 helps strengthen our German distribution, increased regulation of the travel insurance customers per annum.
It has access to which remains key to that market.
industry, which comes into place at the more than 30,000 hotels internationally.
We have increased our stake in Iberoservice Our recently acquired business in India has from 40% to 65%, a controlling interest.
Also in the UK, we expanded our foreign been among the first to take advantage of The balance is still owned by Iberostar.
exchange franchise in airports, including including Hotels4U stock in their European Iberoservice is a ground handling agency in our high-prole appointment as the holiday programmes.
Spain and it supports both the mainstream leading partner in Heathrow Terminal 5 The acquisition of Elegant Resorts, the and the independent travel businesses.
number one UK-based luxury travel SENTIDO, the new hotel franchise based Capture growth and value through company, supports our strategy of in Germany, gives us access to 17 hotels, mergers, acquisitions and partnerships strengthening our independent travel principally in Spain, Egypt, Cyprus, Greece, The businesses acquired in 2008 are all position and builds on our current expertise Turkey and Kenya, and two Nile river performing well and we are generating in high-value luxury holidays.
Elegant boats, without increasing our risk prole.
We continue to Resorts carries more than 20,000 passengers At the same time, we have the control to each year to luxury destinations including review opportunities for expansion, but will ensure they are high quality resorts, and the the Caribbean, the Indian Ocean, the concentrate on those that are able to deliver opportunity to develop this business further.
Arabian Gulf and luxury European resorts.
earnings accretion by year two and exceed the cost of capital by year three.
In October 2008, we launched a new By acquiring TriWest Travel with its two e-commerce platform, Starsh, to enhance principal brands, Fun Sun, an independent We are focusing on those emerging markets the functionality of the thomascook.
com travel wholesaler, and Intair, a leading where tourism is growing at a faster rate airline consolidator, we are creating a website.
It is designed to enhance online than in our traditional markets, as leading Canadian independent travel search by offering greater functionality and demonstrated by our acquisition of business with signicantly enhanced exibility with higher quality information Thomas Cook India, mentioned above.
customer reach and product offerings.
The shortlist We are particularly encouraged by the The business will increase our profits from and compare capabilities, that allow opportunities in Russia and China.
independent travel and improve our yearcustomers to draw up shortlists and Through the acquisition of Thomas Cook round profitability, which is currently compare options they are considering, Egypt, we have re-acquired control over skewed towards the winter.
are proving particularly popular and the the Thomas Cook brand in the important conversion rate we are getting from visitors In December 2008, Thomas Cook and fast-growing Middle East region, as using these functions is more than three announced that it had agreed to well as gaining an established and times the rate of other users of the website.
acquire a majority interest in Gold Medal profitable business.
International Limited, one of the UKs Leading independent travel provider Strategy outlook leading independent travel companies.
We continue to develop our independent Our strategy is serving us well, and the business and are benefiting from the rapid Leading travel-related financial virtues of asset exibility, prudent capacity growth in this area.
services provider management and tight cost control are The development of our financial services We have brought new focus to the manifest in these difficult economic times.
business is underpinned by the strength of the Independent Travel business in the UK We therefore do not plan to deviate from Thomas Cook brand and, by re-establishing through a significant organisational change, that strategy, but will be fully mindful of the world-wide control over it, we have following which the UK business is now conditions in which we are operating, for considerably enhanced the potential jointly managed by Pete Constanti, who example in contemplating acquisitions to develop it in other markets.
leads the Mainstream Travel operations, where we will focus our attention on and Ian Derbyshire, who leads the India is one of the fastest-growing travel emerging markets China and Russia, which Independent Travel business.
This allows us and travel-related foreign exchange have clear strategic importance, and on deals to maximise the opportunities in each of markets in the world, expanding by 15% where we see the opportunity to create these areas and, where appropriate, to per annum.
Our acquisition of 74.9% of exceptional value for shareholders.
