Directors Report Group Executive Board Alexis Coles-Barrasso 44 Pete Constanti 42 Title: Group Director, PR & Communications Title: Chief Executive officer, Mainstream Travel, UK & Ireland Skills & experience: Alexis joined the Company in 1993, prior to which she held a Skills & experience: Pete joined the Company in 1996.
He has 25 years of travel number of senior marketing positions with the car rental business, Hertz, and industry experience, previously working for ILG and Sunworld where he was HR worked for a corporate communications consultancy advising blue chip clients on Director.
Pete comes from a strong tour operating background, including his last strategic communications.
position of Executive Director of Thomas Cooks Holidays Division, where he was responsible for customer delivery and operations.
Mike Cutt 50 Ian Derbyshire 40 Title: Group Director, Human Resources Title: Chief Executive officer, Independent Travel, UK & Ireland Skills & experience: Mike has been Group HR Director at Thomas Cook Group Skills & experience: Ian joined the Company in 2000, prior to which he held plc since February 2008, prior to which he held HR Director roles for Boots, senior positions within the leisure and travel sector with companies including B&Q and Kingfisher.
Before that he spent 18 years at Nationwide Building Holiday Autos, The Rank Group and Co-op Travel.
Ian has 24 years of experience Society.
Although an HR Director for the last 13 years, Mike has previously in the travel industry.
worked in operations, finance and strategy.
Mike is also a Non-Executive Director for The Land Registry.
Dr Thomas Dring 39 Dr Peter Fankhauser 48 Title: Chief Executive officer, East and West Europe Title: Chief Executive officer, Central Europe Skills & experience: Thomas joined the Company in 2001 and has been Skills & experience: Peter joined the Company in 2001 and has held a number of responsible for the Western and Eastern European markets since 2006.
He has senior roles within the Group.
Prior to joining the Company he was Director held senior positions leading the International Markets Division, Corporate General of Kuoni Reisen Holding AG in Zrich, where he managed the companys Development and Mergers & Acquisitions.
Before joining the Company he spent European division, and Chief Executive Officer of LTU Group in Dsseldorf.
seven years with Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, most recently as a Partner.
Michael Friisdahl 46 Ludger Heuberg 50 Title: Chief Executive officer, North America Title: Chief Financial officer, Continental Europe Skills & experience: Michael joined MyTravel North America as President in Skills & experience: Ludger joined the Company in 2004.
He was Chief Financial 2000 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer North America in 2005.
He has Officer of the Company until June 2008.
Prior to joining the Company he was CFO 25 years experience in the travel industry.
Prior to joining the Group, he was a of Lufthansa Cargo AG, CFO of  AG and director of Mauser partner and CEO of The Holiday Network, which was acquired by Airtours Waldeck AG.
International MyTravel Group plc in 2000.
Dr Angus Porter 51 Ralf Teckentrup 51 Title: Group Director, Strategy Title: Chief Executive officer, Airlines Germany Skills & experience: Angus was appointed to this position in June 2008.
From June Skills & experience: Ralf joined the Company in 2004 and has held a variety of 2007 he was an Independent Non-Executive Director of Thomas Cook Group plc, senior roles within the Group.
Previously he held a number of senior positions and prior to that was a Non-Executive Director of MyTravel Group plc.
most recently been Global CEO of Added Value, WPPs Brand Development Consultancy.
Before Added Value, he held senior marketing, sales and general management roles with Abbey National, British Telecom and Mars.
Sam Weihagen 58 Derek Woodward 50 Title: Chief Executive officer, Northern Europe Title: Group Company Secretary Skills & experience: Sam has 33 years experience in the travel industry and has Skills & experience: Derek joined the Company in April 2008, before which he held his current position since 2001.
He was the former MyTravel Northern spent six years as Head of Secretariat at Centrica plc.
From 1998, he was Company Europe Chief Executive and was an Executive Director of MyTravel Group plc for Secretary of Allied Zurich plc, the UK listed holding company of the Zurich three years prior to the merger.
He has served the Company in several capacities, Financial Services Group, and between 1990 and 1998 he was Assistant Secretary including Commercial Director, with responsibility for purchasing and flight of B.
He is Chairman of the Tour Operating Federation in his native Sweden.
