FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Thomson Reuters Pro Forma Results Thomson Reuters Canadian GAAP Results Revenues Operating Operating Revenues Operating Operating Ongoing profit Ongoing profit profit profit Businesses Businesses Margin Margin Underlying Underlying $13,399 operating operating profit profit margin $12,442 Operating Operating profit profit margin $11,707 20.7% 18.8% $7,296 17.8% 14.9% 14.5% 13.2% $2,773 $2,337 $2,003 $1,693 $1,646 $1,297 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 Millions of U. S. dollars except per share amounts.
For additional financial information, please see pages 2835.
Across the world 15 petabytes of new data are created every day: case law reports, medical records, patent applications, regulatory information, news, video, audio and other unstructured data from myriad sources.
Thats eight times more information than is contained in all the libraries in the United States.
Routine information technology problems like inventory management and systems automation are giving way to multi-dimensional problems of analysis like genomic pharmaceutical research or deciphering global trade patterns from foreign exchange ows.
The acceleration of technological change and the constant proliferation of new types of data create a growing need for information systems that not only help us to nd and sort information, but also help us to make precise and urgent judgments about its meaning and relevance.
At Thomson Reuters we already provide vital decision-support data, vetted by experts, delivered online and accompanied by analytical tools and other software.
But now we are making that information increasingly intelligent: self-describing, self-organizing and capable of both action and interaction.
We are building digital platforms that enable global collaboration, real-time data exchange, dynamic modeling of user behavior and context-aware applications.
Intelligent information is self-aware: it understands what it is about, whom it is for, where it came from and what its meant to do.
It knows how to communicate these things about itself to others, whether those others are human beings or other intelligent agents.
Intelligent information isnt science ction.
For the businesses and professions we serve, its a necessity.
We bring together human expertise, rich data and the technologies of the semantic web to deliver information you can trust.
Intelligent information from Thomson Reuters it provides the knowledge to act.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 7 WHO KEEPS WATCH OVER A MARKET THAT NEVER SLEEPS?
Commerce relies on currencies in motion.
Foreign exchange FX is the 24-hour global marketplace that moves dollars and dinars, pounds and pesos, rupees and rials across time and borders.
With over US$3 trillion trading on peak days, FX is now the worlds most-traded and fastest growing asset class, attracting new players all the time.
After 25 years of innovation, Thomson Reuters is at the very heart of the FX markets, bringing together more than 100,000 professionals in 128 countries.
We are a trusted connection creating transparency, providing solutions and insight, enabling decisions, and putting intelligent information to work.
8 THOMSON REUTERS WHO NAVIGATES THE LABYRINTH OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY?
Ideas are powerful but need protection.
Innovation is not only about the race against time and competition.
It is also about originality and clear ownership of the results of the significant investment enterprises make in developing intellectual property IP.
As the worlds leading provider of patent and trademark information, we provide rich and deep research and management capabilities, as well as relevant legal and regulatory information to develop and extract value from IP assets.
A database of trademark registrations in more than 200 countries.
Over 72 million unique patent documents and nearly 60 million unique inventions across all sources.
Increasing depth and breadth covering the explosive growth of IP activity in Asia.
Thomson Innovation enables users to simultaneously search global patents, scientific literature, and business and news content through an award-winning, integrated, robust platform used across the IP lifecycle.
Intelligent information provides the knowledge to act, driving innovation and value creation for our IP customers by providing the tools to develop their ideas, protect their assets and to profit commercially from their work.
ANNUAL REVIEW 2008 11 WHO TAKES THE MYSTERY OUT OF INTERNATIONAL LAW AND GLOBAL BUSINESS?
The Islamic Finance Initiative IFI has considerable potential for Thomson Reuters, bringing culture and commerce into coherence for clients around the world who work within one of the three most prevalent legal systems of the world, alongside common law and civil law.
Bringing together assets from our Markets division and Legal businesses to facilitate Sharia-compliant commercial activity, contracts and transactions, the IFI will operate in the international hubs of Islamic finance: Dubai, Kuala Lumpur, London, and other centers around the world.
From project finance to high-value negotiations, transactions of unusual complexity require the proper balancing of up-to-date regulatory information with nuanced Sharia interpretation.
Intelligent information is both global and local.
It understands that business and professionals act within legal frameworks, both ancient and modern, but without borders.
That the human dimension of commerce is always part of a cultural tradition.
12 THOMSON REUTERS WHO REPORTS THE LOCAL NEWS TO THE GLOBAL VILLAGE?
More than 2,500 Reuters journalists report from 197 bureaus across the globe.
They deliver fast, accurate, objective and insightful coverage of important international and domestic news in multiple languages to more than a billion people every day.
If its happening, Reuters is covering it in online, print and broadcast formats, through award-winning text, graphics, photographs and video.
On the ground, in the know, experienced and expert reportage on the events of the day.
Real-time and 24 7, knowledge that informs the world.
While it may begin with data, it no longer ends there.
We have an unmatched capability to gather it.
A company with more than 50,000 employees in over 90 countries, serving an equally global community of professional decision makers in law, finance, tax, accounting, science, healthcare and media.
We provide the information they need to succeed in elds that are vital to developed and emerging economies alike.
Information that is accurate, objective and independent.
That is central to their ability to do their jobs, and a source of competitive advantage.
Information that is a synthesis of highly relevant content and software: that derives its singular value from human intelligence, industry expertise and innovative technology: and that enables our customers to make better decisions faster.
Information that is the knowledge to act.
Thomson Reuters: the leading provider of intelligent information.
