MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS This managements discussion and analysis is designed to provide OVERVIEW you with a narrative explanation of our financial condition and Our Business and Strategy results of operations through the eyes of our management.
We recommend that you read this in conjunction with our consolidated Who we are and what we do.
We are the leading source of financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the intelligent information for the worlds businesses and professionals, related notes to those financial statements.
We have organized our providing customers with a competitive advantage.
Intelligent managements discussion and analysis in the following key sections: information is a unique synthesis of human intelligence, industry expertise and innovative technology that provides decision-makers Overview a brief discussion of our business and how we earn with the knowledge to act, enabling them to make better decisions revenues, together with information on key factors and trends faster.
Through more than 50,000 people across 93 countries, affecting our business: we deliver this must-have insight to the financial, legal, tax and Results of Operations a discussion that compares our resultsaccounting, healthcare, science and media markets, powered from year to year, both on a consolidated and a segment basis: by the worlds most trusted news organization.
Liquidity and Capital Resources a discussion of changes in 2008 was a milestone year in which we completed our acquisition our cash ow, together with information about our outstanding of Reuters for approximately $17 billion.
As a result, we became a debt and resources available to us to finance existing and much larger and more global company.
future commitments: How we make money.
We serve a wide variety of customers Outlook our business outlook for 2009:with a single, tested business model.
We derive the majority of our revenues from selling electronic content and services to Related Party Transactions a discussion of transactions professionals, primarily on a subscription basis.
Over the years, that we have entered into with our principal shareholder and this has proven to be capital efficient and cash ow generative, and others: and it has enabled us to maintain leading and scalable positions in our Accounting Policies a discussion of changes in ourchosen markets.
Within each of the markets we serve, we bring accounting policies, as well as important accounting policies in-depth understanding of our customers needs, exible technology that require critical judgments and estimates by our platforms, proprietary content and scale.
We believe our ability management.
to embed our solutions into customers workows is a significant competitive advantage as it leads to strong customer retention.
References in this discussion to $ and US$ are to U. S. dollars, references to C$ are to Canadian dollars and references to Our operational structure.
We are organized in two divisions: are to British pounds sterling.
Unless otherwise indicated or the Markets, which consists of our financial and media context otherwise requires, references in this discussion to we, businesses: and our, us and Thomson Reuters are to Thomson Reuters Corporation, Thomson Reuters PLC and their respective subsidiaries Professional, which in 2008 consisted of our legal, tax and which operate as a unied group under a dual listed company accounting, scientific and healthcare businesses.
References to Reuters are to Reuters Group In the first quarter of 2009, we reorganized certain parts of our PLC, which we acquired on April 17, 2008.
In order to provide Professional division to reect the global nature of our business, comparable results, we include pro forma financial information in focus on key growth opportunities and increase efficiency.
the section entitled Results of Operations.
This managements discussion and analysis also contains forward-looking statements.
We created an intellectual property IP business, which became Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements part of the Legal segment, by combining all of our Professional are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual division-wide assets and capabilities related to patents, results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Some of these factors include those identied in the section We created a new strategic business unit, Healthcare and entitled Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Science, which manages all of the businesses of the previous Future Results.
This managements discussion and analysis is individual Healthcare and scientific segments.
We reorganized our Legal and Tax & Accounting businesses on a global basis to facilitate the creation of more international solutions for our customers and to follow the expansion of our customers around the world.
The description of our Professional division contained in this managements discussion and analysis reects how the division was structured and managed through December 31, 2008.
We also report a Corporate and Other category that principally includes corporate expenses, certain costs associated with sharerelated compensation, fair value adjustments associated with foreign currency embedded derivatives of customer contracts, costs associated with corporate integration and synergy programs and costs associated with the Reuters acquisition.
18 THOMSON REUTERS Our business environment.
We are a global business and Our corporate structure.
We operate under a DLC structure and many of our customers have operations around the world.
This have two parent companies, each of which is publicly listed: is an important element of our growth strategy.
As a result Thomson Reuters Corporation, an Ontario, Canada of the Reuters acquisition, we expanded our presence from corporation: and 44 countries in 2007 to 93 countries in 2008.
Accordingly, we need to ensure our offerings reect the global economy, our Thomson Reuters PLC, a UK company.
brand has international appeal, and our global footprint allows We operate as a unied group pursuant to contractual us to capitalize on new opportunities such as the growth of arrangements as well as provisions in our organizational professional workers in emerging economies and the expansion documents.
Under our DLC structure, one Thomson Reuters PLC of our existing customers into new geographic areas.
ordinary share currently has equivalent rights to distributions of As a global organization, we are affected by economic and market income and capital and voting rights as one Thomson Reuters dynamics, governmental regulations and business conditions of Corporation common share.
each market and country in which we operate.
In 2008, many of Our controlling shareholder is The Woodbridge Company Limited.
our customers were negatively impacted by a variety of factors, As of the date of this managements discussion and analysis, and the financial services industry in particular was adversely The Woodbridge Company Limited and other companies afliated affected by severe disruptions in the credit markets.
While not with it Woodbridge had a voting interest in Thomson Reuters of immune to economic cycles, the businesses in our Professional approximately 55% based on the aggregate issued share capital division have historically been more resilient than the businesses of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC.
See in our Markets division.
Further, over the last few years, our the section entitled Related Party Transactions for additional business has increasingly become more electronic than printinformation about our recent transactions with Woodbridge.
based with a greater number of customers entering into multi-year commitments for our critical workow tools and applications.
Our primary financial statements We have also become geographically diverse.
We believe these are the consolidated financial statements of Thomson Reuters factors strengthen our business and its relative position in the Corporation.
Those statements account for Thomson Reuters PLC current economic environment.
as a subsidiary and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Canada Canadian In the second half of 2008, the US dollar strengthened against GAAP.
We have received exemptive relief to present Thomson other major currencies in which we derive revenues, such as the Reuters Corporations financial statements in accordance with British pound and Euro.
This strengthening had a negative impact International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS in 2009. on the amount of revenues that we report in US dollars.
We have provided a voluntary reconciliation to IFRS in this In the Outlook section of this managements discussion and managements discussion and analysis.
See the section entitled analysis, we provided our business outlook for 2009.
We also Recently Issued Accounting Standards for more information.
provided our outlook on trends impacting each of our divisions and Results for Reuters are included in our consolidated financial reportable segments within the Results of Operations section.
statements beginning April 17, 2008, as we are accounting for Our 2008 and 2009 priorities.
In 2008, we made significant the acquisition under the purchase method.
For informational progress on our key priorities.
For 2009, we remain focused on purposes, we have also included Thomson Reuters pro forma the same priorities: results in this managements discussion and analysis, which present the hypothetical performance of our business as if Integrate the acquired Reuters businesses to drive long-term Thomson had acquired Reuters on January 1, 2007.
See the growth and capture synergies: sections of this managements discussion and analysis entitled Capitalize on a global brand and presence to drive international Acquisitions and Dispositions and Results of Operations growth: and for more information.
Achieve scale economics and make the whole of Thomson Reuters greater that the sum of its parts.
We also seek to drive shareholder value by adhering to three financial priorities in managing our business: Invest to drive long-term growth and returns: Focus on free cash ow: and Support business objectives with a robust capital strategy.
Please see the Business section of this annual report for a more detailed discussion of our priorities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 19 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS By media.
We deliver information electronically over the Internet, Revenues through dedicated transmission lines and wireless handheld Our revenues are derived from a diverse customer base.
Electronic delivery improves our ability to rapidly provide customer accounted for more than 2% of our 2008 pro forma additional products and services to our existing customers and revenues.
In 2007, none of our customers accounted for more than to access new customers around the world.
We also offer product 3% of our reported revenues.
distribution in CD and print format.
Increasingly our customers have been seeking products and services delivered electronically Below, we provide information regarding our 2008 pro forma and have migrated away from print-based products.
As a result revenues by media, type and geographic area.
Given the impact of of the Reuters acquisition, our 2008 pro forma revenues from the Reuters acquisition on our overall revenue mix, we believe that electronic, software and services were 90%, compared to 82% a pro forma presentation is most relevant to the understanding of in 2007 prior to the acquisition.
In the long term, we expect that our ongoing business model.
electronic, software and services as a percentage of our total revenues will continue to gradually increase as we continue to 1 emphasize electronic delivery, add more solution-based and REVENUE BY MEDIA 10% software-based businesses to our portfolio, and as emerging Electronic 90% economies continue to professionalize and incorporate Print........ 10% technology into their workows.
We believe that one of the competitive advantages of our business is that we derive a significant percentage of our revenues from subscription or similar contractual arrangements, which we refer to as recurring revenues.
Our subscription arrangements are most often for a term of one year or renew automatically under evergreen arrangements.
With appropriate notice, certain arrangements are cancelable quarterly, particularly within our Markets division.
A significant portion of our arrangements are for three year terms or longer, after which they automatically renew or are renewable at the customers option.
Renewal dates 1 REVENUE BY TYPE are spread over the course of the year.
Because a high proportion of our revenues come from subscriptions and similar arrangements, 86% we believe that our revenue patterns are generally more stable compared to other business models that involve the sale of products in discrete or one-off arrangements.
In the case of some of our subscription arrangements, we realize additional fees based upon usage.
We segment our revenues geographically by origin of sale.
Our geographic segments are Americas, EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa and Asia.
As a result of the Reuters acquisition, we combined Reuters strong positions in Europe and 1 REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY Asia with Thomsons strong positions in North America.
We can modify and offer globally many of the products and services we have developed originally for customers of a given market.
This represents an opportunity for us to earn incremental revenues.
For some of the products and services we sell globally, we incur additional costs to customize our products and services for the local market and this can result in lower margins if we 1 Based on pro forma results.
cannot achieve adequate scale.
Because of the dynamic nature of our products and services, management does not nd it useful to analyze our revenue base using traditional price versus volume measurements.
20 THOMSON REUTERS On April 17, 2008, we acquired Reuters for approximately Expenses $17 billion.
Under the terms of the acquisition: As an information and services provider, our most significant All of the issued and outstanding Reuters ordinary shares expense is labor.
Our labor costs include all costs related to our were cancelled: employees, including salaries, bonuses, commissions, benets, payroll taxes and stock-related compensation.
Labor represented Reuters shareholders received, for each Reuters ordinary approximately 58% of our 2008 pro forma cost of sales, selling, share held: marketing, general and administrative expenses from ongoing 352.5 pence in cash: and businesses operating costs compared to approximately 67% in 2007.
No other category of expenses accounted for more than 0.16 Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares: 15% of our operating costs in 2008 or 2007.
The reduction in the One Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary share is equivalent to overall percentage of labor costs reects more use of outsourced one Thomson Reuters Corporation common share under services by the acquired Reuters business to support operations.
the DLC structure: and Seasonality Thomson shareholders continued to hold their shares of Thomson, renamed as Thomson Reuters Corporation.
Historically, our revenues and operating profits from continuing operations were proportionately the smallest in the first quarter The components of the consideration were as follows: and the largest in the fourth quarter, as certain product releases were concentrated at the end of the year, particularly in the millions of U. S. dollars regulatory and healthcare markets.
Costs were incurred more evenly throughout the year.
Our operating margins historically Cash paid on May 1, 2008 8,450 increased as the year progressed.
For these reasons, the Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares performance of our businesses were not comparable quarter 194,107,278 issued on April 17, 2008 8,226 to consecutive quarter and were best considered on the basis Reuters Group PLC options 195 of results for the whole year or by comparing results in a quarter Transaction costs 138 with the results in the same quarter for the previous year.
As Total purchase consideration 17,009 Reuters revenues and profits have not historically uctuated as signicantly throughout the year, we anticipate that the We funded the cash consideration component of the transaction seasonality of our revenues and operating profits will now using proceeds from the sale of our Thomson Learning businesses be slightly less pronounced.
as well as borrowings under an acquisition credit facility, which we have since repaid in full.
See the section entitled Financial Acquisitions and Dispositions Position for further discussion on acquisition-related borrowings Acquisitions have always played a key role in fullling our strategy.
While the Reuters acquisition was transformational, our acquisitions Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares were valued at $42.38 are generally tactical in nature and primarily relate to the purchase per share using the average Thomson share price two days before of information, products or services that we integrate into our and after May 15, 2007, the date of the announcement of the operations to broaden the range of our offerings to better serve acquisition.
The nominal value of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary our customers.
When integrating acquired businesses, we focus shares was changed from 10 to 25 pence shortly after the on eliminating cost redundancies and combining the acquired acquisition closed.
products and services with our existing offerings.
Subject to certain exceptions, 33,670,064 options and awards The following table sets forth information about acquisitions that outstanding under Reuters share-based employee compensation we closed during the last three years.
plans vested and became fully exercisable prior to the closing of the acquisition.
Upon exercise, holders were entitled to the Net aggregate same consideration for each share of Reuters that would have cash cost been received by a holder of ordinary shares.
The fair value of Number of millions of outstanding options was $195 million and was included in the Year acquisitions U. S. dollars purchase consideration.
Unexercised options expired during 1 2008 23 8,502 the fourth quarter of 2008.
2007 33 488 2006 25 744 As part of our continuing strategy to optimize our portfolio of businesses, to sharpen our strategic focus and to ensure that we 1 Includes cash payment for Reuters noted below.
are investing in the parts of our business that offer the greatest opportunities to achieve higher growth and returns, we have sold various businesses.
Results for these businesses were classied as discontinued operations within our consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
None of these businesses was considered fundamental to our current integrated information offerings.
We did not sell any of our businesses that qualied ANNUAL REPORT 2008 21
