MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS This managements discussion and analysis is designed to provide OVERVIEW you with a narrative explanation of our financial condition and Our Business and Strategy results of operations through the eyes of our management.
We recommend that you read this in conjunction with our consolidated Who we are and what we do.
We are the leading source of financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 and the intelligent information for the worlds businesses and professionals, related notes to those financial statements.
We have organized our providing customers with a competitive advantage.
Intelligent managements discussion and analysis in the following key sections: information is a unique synthesis of human intelligence, industry expertise and innovative technology that provides decision-makers Overview a brief discussion of our business and how we earn with the knowledge to act, enabling them to make better decisions revenues, together with information on key factors and trends faster.
Through more than 50,000 people across 93 countries, affecting our business: we deliver this must-have insight to the financial, legal, tax and Results of Operations a discussion that compares our resultsaccounting, healthcare, science and media markets, powered from year to year, both on a consolidated and a segment basis: by the worlds most trusted news organization.
Liquidity and Capital Resources a discussion of changes in 2008 was a milestone year in which we completed our acquisition our cash ow, together with information about our outstanding of Reuters for approximately $17 billion.
As a result, we became a debt and resources available to us to finance existing and much larger and more global company.
future commitments: How we make money.
We serve a wide variety of customers Outlook our business outlook for 2009:with a single, tested business model.
We derive the majority of our revenues from selling electronic content and services to Related Party Transactions a discussion of transactions professionals, primarily on a subscription basis.
Over the years, that we have entered into with our principal shareholder and this has proven to be capital efficient and cash ow generative, and others: and it has enabled us to maintain leading and scalable positions in our Accounting Policies a discussion of changes in ourchosen markets.
Within each of the markets we serve, we bring accounting policies, as well as important accounting policies in-depth understanding of our customers needs, exible technology that require critical judgments and estimates by our platforms, proprietary content and scale.
We believe our ability management.
to embed our solutions into customers workows is a significant competitive advantage as it leads to strong customer retention.
References in this discussion to $ and US$ are to U. S. dollars, references to C$ are to Canadian dollars and references to Our operational structure.
We are organized in two divisions: are to British pounds sterling.
Unless otherwise indicated or the Markets, which consists of our financial and media context otherwise requires, references in this discussion to we, businesses: and our, us and Thomson Reuters are to Thomson Reuters Corporation, Thomson Reuters PLC and their respective subsidiaries Professional, which in 2008 consisted of our legal, tax and which operate as a unied group under a dual listed company accounting, scientific and healthcare businesses.
References to Reuters are to Reuters Group In the first quarter of 2009, we reorganized certain parts of our PLC, which we acquired on April 17, 2008.
In order to provide Professional division to reect the global nature of our business, comparable results, we include pro forma financial information in focus on key growth opportunities and increase efficiency.
the section entitled Results of Operations.
This managements discussion and analysis also contains forward-looking statements.
We created an intellectual property IP business, which became Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements part of the Legal segment, by combining all of our Professional are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual division-wide assets and capabilities related to patents, results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
Some of these factors include those identied in the section We created a new strategic business unit, Healthcare and entitled Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Science, which manages all of the businesses of the previous Future Results.
This managements discussion and analysis is individual Healthcare and scientific segments.
We reorganized our Legal and Tax & Accounting businesses on a global basis to facilitate the creation of more international solutions for our customers and to follow the expansion of our customers around the world.
The description of our Professional division contained in this managements discussion and analysis reects how the division was structured and managed through December 31, 2008.
We also report a Corporate and Other category that principally includes corporate expenses, certain costs associated with sharerelated compensation, fair value adjustments associated with foreign currency embedded derivatives of customer contracts, costs associated with corporate integration and synergy programs and costs associated with the Reuters acquisition.
