EMPLOYEE FUTURE BENEFITS Prior to the issuance of our second quarter 2009 report, we expect to amend our first quarter 2009 report to present our interim The determination of the cost and obligations associated with our financial statements and footnotes in accordance with International employee future benets requires the use of various assumptions.
Accounting Standard 34, Interim Financial Reporting IAS 34.
In We must select assumptions such as the expected return on assets addition, the amended report will include restated 2008 annual available to fund pension obligations, the discount rate to measure and quarterly financial statement information to be consistent obligations, the projected age of employees upon retirement, the with our new IFRS basis, as well as reconciliations of equity and expected rate of future compensation and the expected healthcare net earnings for the previously reported Canadian GAAP amounts.
These assumptions are re-evaluated each year, and variations between the actual results and the results based IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting on our assumptions for any period will affect reported amounts Standards, sets forth that the adoption of IFRS occurs in the first in future periods.
We retain an independent actuarial expert to annual financial statements in which the entity adopts IFRS by prepare the calculations and to advise us on the selection of making an explicit and unreserved statement in those financial assumptions.
Additional information is provided in Appendix C statements of compliance with IFRS.
IFRS 1 requires that of this managements discussion and analysis.
comparative financial information be provided and that the same accounting policies be applied throughout all periods presented.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards As the IFRS and IFRIC interpretations that will be applicable at December 31, 2009 are not known with certainty at this time, our CICA 3064, GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2008 and interim 2009 IFRS financial statements may be In February 2008, the CICA issued CICA 3064, Goodwill and adjusted for the impacts of new standards that become effective Intangible Assets, which replaces CICA 3062 and establishes for us prior to December 31, 2009.
At present, we do not expect standards for the recognition, measurement, presentation and that there will be any additional IFRS or IFRIC pronouncements disclosure of goodwill and intangible assets.
The new standard issued that will have an effective date before December 31, 2009. expands on the criteria of when intangible assets can be Our date of transition to IFRS will be January 1, 2008 Transition recognized to include internally developed intangible assets Date.
IFRS 1 provides for certain optional exemptions and certain and is effective for us as of January 1, 2009.
We believe there mandatory exceptions for first time IFRS adopters.
will not be a significant impact on our financial statements upon adoption.
Please see Appendix D of this managements discussion and analysis for additional information on our IFRS adoption.
EIC-173, CREDIT RISK AND THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION On January 20, 2009, the Emerging Issues Committee of the Disclosure Controls and Procedures CICA issued Abstract No.
173, Credit Risk and the Fair Value of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities EIC-173, which provides Our Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer, after further guidance on the determination of the fair value of financial evaluating the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and assets and financial liabilities under Section 3855, Financial procedures as dened in applicable U. S. and Canadian securities Instruments Recognition and Measurement.
EIC-173 concluded law as of December 31, 2008, have concluded that our disclosure that when determining the fair value of financial assets and controls and procedures are effective to ensure that all information financial liabilities, the entity should consider its own credit risk that we are required to disclose in reports that we le or furnish as well as the credit risk of the counterparty.
This abstract should under the U. S. Securities Exchange Act and applicable Canadian be applied retrospectively, without restatement of prior periods, to securities law is i recorded, processed, summarized and reported all financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in interim within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC and annual financial statements for periods ending on or after and Canadian securities regulatory authorities and ii accumulated January 20, 2009.
We believe there will not be a significant and communicated to our management, including our Chief impact on our financial statements upon adoption.
Executive officer and Chief Financial officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Transition to IFRS from Canadian GAAP Internal Control over Financial Reporting In 2008, the Canadian Accounting Standards Board confirmed that Canadian publicly accountable enterprises will be required to As a result of our acquisition of Reuters, we expanded our internal adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS by 2011 controls over financial reporting to include consolidation of the to replace Canadian GAAP.
The Canadian securities regulatory Reuters results of operations, as well as acquisition accounting authorities have approved our application to early adopt IFRS and disclosures.
Additionally, as part of our integration and in 2009.
We wish to adopt IFRS earlier than required, because synergy program, during the first and third quarters of 2008, we we can fulll all of our public company reporting requirements migrated certain legacy financial processing systems to companyusing this single set of accounting standards.
wide software as well as transferred various workows to shared service centers.
In connection with the software implementation We will initially le our first quarter 2009 report under Canadian and transfer of workows from the legacy systems, we modied GAAP and will continue to provide a voluntary reconciliation of the design and documentation of our internal control processes earnings and equity from Canadian GAAP to IFRS for the and procedures.
