ANNUAL REPORT 2008 MARCH 26, 2009 Information in this annual report is provided as of March 26, The following terms in this annual report have the following 2009, unless otherwise indicated.
meanings, unless otherwise indicated: This annual report includes forward-looking statements that Common shares refers to common shares of Thomson are based on certain assumptions and reect our current Reuters Corporation: expectations.
Forward-looking statements are those that are DLC structure refers to the dual listed company structure not historical facts and also include our expectations about under which Thomson Reuters Corporation, Thomson Reuters future prospects.
Forward-looking statements are subject to a PLC and their respective consolidated subsidiaries operate number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results as a unied group: or events to differ materially from current expectations.
Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially Ordinary shares refers to ordinary shares of Thomson from current expectations are discussed in the Risk Factors Reuters PLC and references also include American Depositary section of this annual report as well as in materials that Shares ADSs, each of which represents six ordinary shares: Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC Reuters refers to Reuters Group PLC before its acquisition from time to time le with, or furnish to, securities regulatory by Thomson on April 17, 2008: authorities.
We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result Thomson refers to The Thomson Corporation now Thomson of new information, future events or otherwise, other than Reuters Corporation before its acquisition of Reuters on as required by applicable law, rule or regulation.
April 17, 2008: Thomson Reuters, we, us and our each refers collectively to Thomson Reuters Corporation, Thomson Reuters PLC and their respective consolidated subsidiaries operating as a unied group pursuant to the DLC structure: Thomson Reuters board or board refers to the board of directors of each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC: Woodbridge refers to The Woodbridge Company Limited and other companies afliated with it: and $, US$ or dollars are to U. S. dollars.
For information regarding our disclosure requirements under applicable Canadian, U. K. and U. S. laws and regulations, please see the Cross Reference Tables section of this annual report.
Information contained on our website or any other websites identied in this annual report is not part of this annual report.
All website addresses listed in this annual report are intended to be inactive, textual references only.
The Thomson Reuters logo and our other trademarks, trade names and service names mentioned in this annual report are the property of Thomson Reuters.
TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Business 12 Risk Factors 18 Managements Discussion and Analysis 60 Financial Statements 110 Senior Management and Directors 116 Additional Information 136 Cross Reference Tables 140 Corporate Information
