MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS APPENDIX D 6.
Changes in existing decommissioning, restoration and IFRS ADOPTION similar liabilities included in the cost of property, plant and The following is provided in connection with our expected equipment IFRS 1 allows for either the retroactive adoption adoption of IFRS in 2009. or prospective adoption from the transition date of IFRIC 1, Changes in Existing Decommissioning, Restoration and Similar Initial Elections upon Adoption.
Set forth below are the IFRS 1 Liabilities.
We will elect not to retrospectively recognize changes elections we expect to make to convert our Canadian GAAP to liabilities under IFRIC 1 which may have occurred before the results to IFRS.
IFRS Exemption Options IFRS Mandatory Exceptions 1. Business combinations IFRS 3, Business Combinations, may 1.
Hedge accounting Hedge accounting can only be applied be applied retrospectively or prospectively.
The retrospective prospectively from the Transition Date to transactions that basis would require restatement of all business combinations satisfy the hedge accounting criteria in IAS 39 at that date.
that occurred prior to the transition date.
We will not elect Hedging relationships cannot be designated retrospectively and to retrospectively apply IFRS 3 to business combinations that the supporting documentation cannot be created retrospectively.
occurred prior to the Transition Date and such business As a result, only hedging relationships that satisfied the hedge combinations will not be restated.
Any goodwill arising on such accounting criteria as of the Transition Date will be reected business combinations before the Transition Date will not be in our IFRS results.
adjusted from the carrying value previously determined under Canadian GAAP as a result of applying these exemptions except 2.
Estimates Hindsight is not used to create or revise estimates.
Further, we will not early adopt IFRS 3 The estimates we previously made under Canadian GAAP Revised, and instead will adopt that standard upon its effective cannot be revised for application of IFRS except where date which, for us, will be January 1, 2010. necessary to reect any difference in accounting policies.
Fair value as deemed cost IFRS 1 provides a choice between significant Changes in Accounting Policies measuring property, plant and equipment at its fair value at upon Conversion to IFRS the date of transition and using those amounts as deemed cost or using the historical valuation under the prior GAAP.
We In addition to the IFRS 1 elections, we expect to make changes will continue to apply the cost model for property, plant & in our accounting policies to be compliant with IFRS.
Our IFRS equipment and will not restate property, plant & equipment to policies are expected to be consistent with the policies we applied fair value under IFRS.
We will use the historical bases under in preparing the Voluntary Reconciliation.
As such, the descriptions Canadian GAAP as deemed cost under IFRS at Transition Date.
contained within the reconciliation are anticipated to be reective of the changes we plan to make in our adoption of IFRS with the 3.
Employee benets IAS 19, Employee Benets, allows certain exception of certain immaterial changes to revenue recognition, actuarial gains and losses to be either deferred and amortized, as described below.
subject to certain provisions corridor approach, or immediately recognized through equity.
Retrospective application of the In reviewing IAS 18, Revenue, we have determined that certain corridor approach for recognition of actuarial gains and losses changes will be made in the manner in which we recognize in accordance with IAS 19 would require us to determine revenue in arrangements that have multiple deliverables.
We actuarial gains and losses from the date benefit plans were will also make changes for certain arrangements in which we had established.
We will elect to recognize all cumulative actuarial previously deferred revenue recognition until the completion of the gains and losses that existed at the Transition Date in opening contract.
The aggregate impact of such changes is not significant retained earnings for all of its employee benefit plans.
to our operations or financial position and will have no impact on our cash ow.
Cumulative translation differences Retrospective application of IFRS would require us to determine cumulative currency Impact of Adoption on Our Organization translation differences in accordance with IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, from the date a subsidiary The conversion to IFRS will impact the way we present our or associate was formed or acquired.
IFRS 1 permits cumulative financial results.
We have obtained an understanding of IFRS translation gains and losses to be reset to zero at the Transition from intensive training and preparation of reconciliations of Date.
We will elect to reset all cumulative translation gains historical Canadian GAAP financial statements to IFRS.
Further, and losses to zero in opening retained earnings at the our accounting staff includes former Reuters employees who Transition Date.
prepared financial statements under IFRS for the past three years.
At present, we are engaging in the process of communicating 5.
Share-based payments IFRS 2, Share Based Payments, the changes required by IFRS to the relevant personnel in the encourages application of its provisions to equity instruments organization, including those in subsidiary accounting functions, granted on or before November 7, 2002, but permits the our shared service functions, other functional areas such as real application only to equity instruments granted after November 7, estate, human resources and business development as well 2002 that had not vested by the Transition Date.
We will elect to as management of our key subsidiaries.
avail itself of the exemption provided under IFRS 1 and will apply IFRS 2 for all equity instruments granted after November 7, 2002 that had not vested by January 1, 2008.
Further, we will apply IFRS 2 for all liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions that existed at January 1, 2008.
