BUSINESS Sales & Tradings suite of products allow customers to trade MARKETS DIVISION with each other and connect their systems to electronic markets.
The Markets division serves financial services and corporate Products include Dealing on Reuters, Spot Matching on Reuters, professionals globally, with Reuters Media serving a broader Reuters Trading for Foreign Exchange, Reuters Trading for Fixed professional and consumer media market.
The Markets division Income and Reuters Trading for Exchanges.
delivers intelligent information, supporting technology and Reuters Messaging is an online messaging and chat room service infrastructure to a diverse set of customers.
These solutions are which facilitates business activity by exchanging real-time market designed to help our customers generate superior returns, insight.
Reuters Messaging included over 130,000 market improve risk management, increase access to liquidity and create professionals as of December 31, 2008. efficient, reliable infrastructures in increasingly global, electronic and multi-asset class markets.
Reuters Trader is a financial desktop that provides analytics and trade connectivity for sales and trading professionals who need The Markets division consists of our Sales & Trading, Investment cross-asset data for global markets, but are primarily focused on & Advisory, Enterprise and Media businesses.
Sales & Trading Tradewebs global  trading platform connected more than 35 major investment banks with over Sales & Trading provides a combination of information, trading 2,500 institutional clients as of December 31, 2008.
During and post-trade connectivity requirements for the trading oor 2008, clients traded an average of more than $330 billion activities of buy-side and sell-side clients in foreign exchange, daily using Tradeweb.
xed income, equities and other exchange-traded instruments, as well as in the commodities and energy markets.
As of December 31, Our suite of electronic trading solutions for equities includes 2008, Sales & Trading provided services to approximately AutEx, which is used globally for communicating pre-trade and 200,000 professionals in over 34,000 locations worldwide.
order execution services between brokers and their buy-side trading partners.
Sales & Tradings premium desktop information product is Reuters 3000 Xtra.
Reuters 3000 Xtra users are financial markets COMPETITION professionals who require a powerful combination of deep, global, cross-asset news and content combined with sophisticated Sales & Trading information products compete with Bloomberg, pre-trade decision-making, analytics and trade connectivity tools.
Sungard, Telekurs and IDC as well as local, regional and niche As at December 31, 2008, there were approximately 125,000 competitors ranging from Markit and SuperDerivatives to Quick, Reuters 3000 Xtra accesses.
In the electronic trading business, Sales & Trading competes with Fidessa and the large inter-dealer brokers, such as ICAPs EBS platform.
In addition, Sales & Trading competes with single-bank and multi-bank portals such as FXall and MarketAxess.
Major Brands Type of Product Service Target Customers Reuters 3000 Xtra Premium desktop product providing pre-trade decision-making Trading professionals, salespeople, tools, news, real-time pricing and trading connectivity brokers and financial analysts Dealing on Reuters Peer-to-peer conversational trading product primarily related to FX and money market traders, sales foreign exchange FX and money markets desks, hedge funds and voice brokers Matching on Reuters Electronic FX trade matching system FX traders, sales desks and hedge funds Reuters Messaging Collaboration messaging service Financial professionals Tradeweb Online multi-dealer marketplace for xed income securities Institutional traders and derivatives AutEx and Tradeweb Electronic database and real-time network for trade order Equity traders Routing Network indications and trade executions 2 THOMSON REUTERS analysis, investment decisions and stock selection.
We provide Investment & Advisory our customers with tools to power their quantitative workows, Investment & Advisory offers differentiated analytics, content extract more value from sell-side research, anticipate trends and workow tools that drive complex financial decision-making, in analyst sentiment and predict surprises, benchmark funds, performance and efficiency of customers in corporate services, track competitors, meet duciary obligations and quickly identify investment management, investment banking and wealth market liquidity and potential trading partners from the largest management.
Investment & Advisorys global content includes global network.
We provide a large amount of reference and fundamentals, estimates, economics, broker research, deal data, fundamental data, including through I B E S, First Call, Reuters xed income and mutual fund data.
Estimates, StarMine, Investext, Worldscope, Lipper, StreetEvents and SDC Platinum.
Our Corporate Services business provides companies worldwide with access to  information from across the Our Investment Banking business delivers products and services Markets division, such as Reuters News, First Call, StreetEvents, to investment bankers, advisors, private equity and venture capital AutEx and Datastream.
Our workow solutions combine our professionals.
Our agship products are Thomson ONE.
com content with sophisticated analytics and tools.
Investment Banking and SDC Platinum.
As of December 31, 2008, we provided information and research from over 1,400 sources, a We provide Investor Relations IR professionals with an integrated global transactions database covering over two million financial platform that includes market and competitive analysis, ownership market transactions and comprehensive fundamentals data analysis, communications, disclosure and access to their community covering 66,000 companies in 110 markets.
We also offer online communications solutions that increase the global reach of our clients messages.
Our Wealth Management business provides workow solutions to retail brokerage rms, financial advisors and individual Our Business Intelligence solutions are used by corporate investors.
BETA Systems, our brokerage processing solution, development, strategy, corporate finance, treasury and information streamlines back ofce processes and workows to help advisors professionals to analyze markets, industries and their peers.
serve their customers more efficiently.
eXimius offers portfolio Our Investment Management business provides investment rms management, asset allocation, financial planning, alerting, and hedge funds around the world with a range of customizable investment selection tools and performance reporting to ultra products and services that enable them to manage and execute high net worth professionals.
each phase of the investment process, including research and Major Brands and Product Categories Type of Product Service Target Customers ThomsonONE.
com Market prices, Reuters News and comprehensive reference data Investment bankers, consultants, Investment Banking on companies, industries and events lawyers and private equity professionals SDC Platinum Database for analyzing investment banking and deal trends Investment bankers, consultants, lawyers and private equity professionals Thomson ONE Timely and accurate fundamental information with real-time Portfolio managers, portfolio Investment Management pre-trade analytics to help understand a rms relative valuation analysts, buy-side traders and and times market entry and exit points research analysts Investor Relations IR Online desktop solution advisory services and online Investor relations professionals solutions communications tools and corporate financial executives Business Intelligence Institutional quality information and analytics for company Corporate clients including solutions and market valuation analysis strategy and research professionals, treasurers and finance professionals Corporate Communications Webcasting solutions Corporate communications, services employee communications, marketing and PR professionals Thomson ONE Wealth Wealth management tools, real-time market data and Wealth management professionals Management back-ofce data processing and high net worth professionals Reuters Knowledge Direct Premium content including exchange data, news, company Wealth management professionals API for Wealth Management fundamentals, broker research and consensus reports and individual investors eXimius Client relationship system with portfolio management capabilities Ultra high net worth professionals BETA Systems Brokerage processing system Retail and institutional wealth management professionals Lipper Mutual fund information, benchmarking data, performance Asset managers, financial information and analysis intermediaries and individual investors ANNUAL REPORT 2008 3 BUSINESS COMPETITION latency news alerts and a growing range of elded news feeds that enable machine processing of news events in real time.
Investment & Advisory competes with Bloomberg, Factset, S&P Capital IQ, Morningstar, GL Trade Infotec, Telekurs Fininfo, PRICING AND REFERENCE DATA SunGard Data Systems, Broadridge Financial Solutions and other companies.
Through Datascope, we provide pricing and reference data to the buy-side, sell-side, global custodians, fund managers, hedge Enterprise funds and data management solutions providers.
Our data is used by middle and back ofces for trade matching and settlement, Our Enterprise business enables automation for financial risk management and analysis and portfolio evaluation, as well institutions globally, targeting the full trade lifecycle, trade and as to power applications used for corporate actions processing, risk management and portfolio accounting.
Enterprise information reconciliation, and compliance accounting and audit.
Our products include real-time instrument prices, price histories, comprehensive datasets include coverage of over four million high-volume tick-by-tick trading data, evaluated pricing, terms xed income instruments as of December 31, 2008. and conditions, corporate actions and analytics.
Our database includes coverage of over 12 million instruments and is backed by Our Reuters Market Data System RMDS is a middleware product exible distribution and management infrastructure that ensures for trading rooms.
It is a resilient content management and consistency of data.
Enterprise information products are broadly distribution software platform that enables banks to deliver high segmented into two categories real-time datafeeds and pricing volume and low latency data into a wide variety of front ofce and reference data.
In the global risk management market, our agship product, REAL-TIME DATAFEEDS Kondor, provides an integrated and exible real-time straightReuters DataScope Real-Time provides real-time data that is through-processing environment that includes front ofce used by electronic and algorithmic traders, brokers, hedge funds, pricing and trading, middle ofce risk, profit and loss, collateral fund managers and risk and compliance ofcers.
We estimate that management, and back-ofce netting, clearing and settlement.
50,000 client applications had been written for our datafeeds as Kondor also provides cross-asset coverage, including foreign of December 31, 2008.
We combine electronic pricing data from exchange, money markets, securities, OTC derivatives and over 300 exchanges and electronic trading platforms globally with structured products.
over-the-counter OTC and broker-contributed content, which PORTIA allows money managers, hedge funds, insurance is distributed in a single consolidated feed to front, middle and companies, bank trusts, plan sponsors, and corporate treasury back-ofce desktop applications.
These applications range from departments to manage their middle and back ofce reporting trading tools and matching engines to portfolio pricing and risk and decision support requirements.
Omgeo, our joint venture with The Depository Trust & Clearing For high-speed trading, Reuters Datafeed Direct provides ultraCorporation, enables accuracy in post-trade operations by low latency full-tick feeds, direct from exchanges to customers.
automating and timely conrming trade details executed between This service complements and extends our DataScope Real-Time investment managers and broker-dealers.
As of December 31, service, and is used by algorithimic trading programs and other 2008, Omgeo served over 6,000 financial services customers high-speed machine trading applications.
further extends the breadth of our real-time feed offers, with low Target Customers Major Brands Type of Product Service Reuters DataScope Real-Time Real-time market information targeting Traders, brokers, hedge funds, programmatic automated trading, market credit asset managers, program traders, risk, instrument pricing and portfolio management quantitative analysts, global custodians and valuations and credit and risk managers Reuters Data Feed Direct Ultra high-speed datafeeds, direct from exchanges Algorithmic traders, program traders to the customer and quantitative funds Reuters NewsScope Reuters News for use in trading applications Algorithmic traders, program traders and quantitative funds Reuters Market Data System Software platform for integrating and distributing Financial institutions requiring a data real-time and historical financial information integration platform Kondor Position keeping and risk management applications Banks, broker-dealers and hedge funds PORTIA Portfolio accounting and reporting application Money managers, hedge funds, insurance companies, bank trusts, plan sponsors and corporate treasury departments Omgeo Post-trade processing, portfolio reconciliation and Investment managers, hedge funds, collateral management broker dealers, custodian banks and investment management outsourcers Joint venture with The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation 4 THOMSON REUTERS COMPETITION Our digital multimedia products offer prioritized online reports, online video and online pictures for digital platforms.
Our teams Our real-time datafeeds and pricing and reference data offerings of specialized editors bring together the latest breaking news compete with Bloomberg, S&P, IDC and Telekurs.
In addition, our in ready-to-publish and multimedia formats organized by market data delivery offerings compete with specialty technology independent news category modules.
providers, exchanges such as NYSE Euronext and large IT vendors such as IBM.
Competitors in the risk management segment include Our Consumer Publishing products include the advertisingSungard, Algorithmics, Murex, Misys and Calypso.
In the portfolio supported, direct-to-consumer publishing activities of accounting market, competitors include Eagle, Simcorp Dimension, Reuters.
com and its global network of websites, mobile services, PAM, Beauchamp and DST.
online video and electronic out-of-home displays.
com family of websites attracted an average Media of 51 million visitors per month.
Our Consumer Publishing provides Reuters, our news and media brand, reaches an estimate of more in-depth information through online, traditional magazines, over one billion people every day.
Reuters Media provides conferences and networking events for financial professionals.
indispensable news and information tailored for media and Our Professional Publishings suite of products and services business professionals.
Reuters Media drives decision-making address capital markets information needs, including the weekly around the globe with speed, accuracy and independence.
in-depth coverage of International Financing Review IFR, the Reuters News is powered by more than 2,500 journalists reporting searchability and functionality of our online products, and realfrom 197 bureaus around the world.
Reuters News provides the time, minute-by-minute commentary and analysis of IFR Markets.
worlds largest media companies with text, pictures and video All of these are complemented by a highly-targeted range of through our wholesale news service, delivering fast, accurate, market intelligence reports and conferences.
objective coverage of important international and domestic news in 20 languages.
COMPETITION As of December 31, 2008, our team of more than 600 photographers Major competitors of Media include the Associated Press, Agence and editors worked around the globe and distributed up to France-Presse, Dow Jones and Bloomberg News.
Competitors 15,000 pictures every day, covering breaking news, features, of Medias consumer products and services include WSJ.
com, entertainment, business and sports.
This agship service is Bloomberg.
Finance, CNNMoney, indispensable for newspapers and broadcasters seeking a fast FT. com, Euromoney and Informa Global Markets.
Target Customers Major Product Categories Type of Product Service Text newswires Instant coverage of global news and events plus feature Newspapers, television and cable networks, stories, analyses and essential news planning tools radio stations and websites Video Video relating to breaking news, sports, financial and Newspapers, television and cable networks general news and websites Pictures and graphics Up-to-the-minute news photographs and an online Newspapers, websites, advertising photo archive agencies, television and cable networks Digital multimedia Prioritized, ready-to-publish online reports, online video Websites and online pictures Reuters.
com Direct-to-consumer publishing and network of regional Business professionals sites, online video and electronic out-of-home display Real-time financial markets IFR Markets, Dealwatch Trading professionals, research analysts commentary and analysis and portfolio managers Magazines and online International Financing Review IFR, Project Finance Investment bankers, corporate finance and publications International, Buyouts, PE Week, Acquisitions private equity professionals Monthly and Venture Capital Journal Conferences and events Annual awards, editorially-driven conferences and Advisors, companies and investors roundtables ANNUAL REPORT 2008 5
