MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS any material impact will result from this challenge.
Contingent tax Contingencies liabilities are reversed to income in the period in which we assess LAWSUITS AND LEGAL CLAIMS that they are no longer required, when they are no longer required by statute, or when they are resolved through the normal tax In July 2008, the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit dispute process.
Our contingency reserves principally represent ruled in our favor by reversing a decision in a patent infringement liabilities in respect of the years 2002 to 2008.
It is anticipated case related to a business formerly owned by Thomson Financial.
that these reserves will either result in a cash payment or be Following the initial courts decision, we had posted a $95 million reversed to income between 2009 and 2012. letter of credit in connection with our appeal, which was cancelled following the subsequent ruling in our favor.
Financial Risk In February 2007, we entered into a settlement agreement related See the section entitled Risks arising from Financial Instruments to a lawsuit involving our BAR BRI business that alleged violations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for the of antitrust laws Rodriguez v. West Publishing Corp. and Kaplan year ended December 31, 2008, for a discussion of the risks that Inc.. Our part of the settlement was $36 million, which was we face with respect to financial instruments.
accrued for in the fourth quarter of 2006 and paid in June 2007.
In November 2007, we entered into a settlement agreement in a separate lawsuit involving our BAR BRI business, Park v. The OUTLOOK Thomson Corporation and Thomson Legal & Regulatory Inc. which The information in this section is forward-looking and should be was led in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of read in conjunction with the section below entitled Cautionary Note New York.
The Park lawsuit alleged primarily violations of the U. S. Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results.
In the third quarter of 2007, we accrued $13 million in connection with this settlement.
In October 2008, Based on the current environment in the markets we serve, we the court issued its final approval of this settlement.
expect our revenues to grow in 2009.
We also expect underlying operating margin to be comparable to 2008, supported by In February 2008, another purported class action complaint revenue growth and the expected savings from integration and alleging violations of U. S. federal antitrust laws was led in the synergy programs.
Underlying free cash ow is expected to be United States District Court for the Central district of California comparable to 2008, adjusted for certain timing related items.
against West Publishing Corporation, d b a BAR BRI and Kaplan Inc.
In April 2008, this case was dismissed with prejudice.
The Our outlook excludes the impact of changes in foreign currency plaintiffs have appealed this dismissal.
In addition to the matters described above, we are engaged in various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS ordinary course of business.
The outcome of all of the proceedings As of March 20, 2009, Woodbridge had a voting interest in and claims against us, including those described above, is subject Thomson Reuters of approximately 55%, based on the issued share to future resolution, including the uncertainties of litigation.
Based capital of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC.
on information currently known by us and after consultation with Under the DLC structure, holders of Thomson Reuters Corporation outside legal counsel, management believes that the probable common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares ultimate resolution of any such proceedings and claims, ordinarily vote together as a single decision-making body, including individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse in the election of directors, and in that sense have voting interests effect on our financial condition, taken as a whole.
TAXES Transactions with Woodbridge We are subject to taxation in numerous jurisdictions, and From time to time, in the normal course of business, Woodbridge significant judgment is required in determining our tax liabilities.
and certain of its afliates purchase some of our products and There are many transactions and calculations for which the service offerings.
These transactions are negotiated at arms ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
We maintain contingent length on standard terms, including price, and are not significant liabilities that we believe appropriately reect our risk with respect to our results of operations or financial condition either to tax positions under discussion, audit, dispute, or appeal with individually or in the aggregate.
tax authorities, or otherwise considered to involve uncertainty commonly referred to as uncertain tax positions.
We regularly In the normal course of business, certain of our subsidiaries charge assess the adequacy of these liabilities.
However, it is possible a Woodbridge-owned company fees for various administrative that at some future date an additional liability could result from services.
Additionally, up until June 2007, a Woodbridge-owned audits by the relevant taxing authorities.
In April 2008, upon the company rented ofce space from one of our subsidiaries.
In 2008, completion of a routine tax audit for the years 2003 to 2005, the total amount charged to Woodbridge for these services was the Internal Revenue Service notied us that it would challenge approximately $330,000 2007 $1 million, 2006 $2 million.
certain positions taken on our tax returns.
We do not believe that 42 THOMSON REUTERS
