MANAGEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENTS REPORT FOR THE CONSOLIDATED ON INTERNAL CONTROL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of Thomson Reuters Corporation the Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining Company is responsible for the accompanying consolidated adequate internal control over financial reporting.
financial statements and other information included in this annual Internal control over financial reporting is a process that was report.
The financial statements have been prepared in conformity designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability with Canadian generally accepted accounting principles using of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements the best estimates and judgments of management, where for external purposes in accordance with Canadian generally appropriate.
Information presented elsewhere in this annual accepted accounting principles with accompanying reconciliation report is consistent with that in the financial statements.
to U. S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Internal control The Companys board of directors is responsible for ensuring over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that management fullls its responsibilities in respect of financial that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable reporting and internal control.
The Audit Committee of the board detail, accurately and fairly reect the transactions and dispositions of directors meets periodically with management and the of the assets of the Company: ii provide reasonable assurance Companys independent auditors to discuss auditing matters that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation and financial reporting issues.
In addition, the Audit Committee of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted recommends to the board of directors the approval of the interim accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the and annual consolidated financial statements and the annual Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations appointment of the independent auditors.
The board of directors of management and directors of the Company: and iii provide has approved the information contained in the accompanying reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of consolidated financial statements.
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because Thomas H. Glocer of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with Chief Executive officer the policies and procedures may deteriorate.
Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of its system of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework and criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations Robert D. Daleo of the Treadway Commission.
Based on this evaluation, management Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer concluded that the Companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.
March 20, 2009 The effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by  LLP, an independent registered public accounting rm, as stated in their report which appears herein.
Thomas H. Glocer Chief Executive officer Robert D. Daleo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial officer March 20, 2009 60 THOMSON REUTERS
