BUSINESS Legal PROFESSIONAL DIVISION Our Legal segment is a leading provider of critical information, In 2008, the Professional division consisted of our businesses in decision support tools and services to legal, intellectual property IP, the Legal, Tax & Accounting, scientific and Healthcare sectors.
compliance, business and government professionals throughout the In the first quarter of 2009, we reorganized certain parts of our world.
We offer a broad range of products and services that utilize our Professional division to reect the global nature of our business, electronic databases of legal, regulatory and business information.
focus on key growth opportunities and increase efficiency.
Westlaw is the Legal segments primary online delivery platform.
We created an intellectual property IP business, which became Westlaw offers powerful search features and navigation tools that part of the Legal segment, by combining all of our Professional enable customers to search relevant databases to nd specic division-wide assets and capabilities related to patents, points of law, build tables of authorities or search for topically trademarks and standards.
This includes products such as the related commentary.
Derwent World Patents Index, CompuMark and Thomson Westlaw includes KeyCite, an online citation research service Innovation.
that traces the history of a case, statute, administrative decision We created a new strategic business unit, Healthcare and or regulation to determine if it is still authoritative.
Science, which manages all of the businesses of the previous Westlaw Litigator assists a ttorneys with all phases of litigation individual Healthcare and scientific segments.
by combining relevant case law research materials with We reorganized our Legal and Tax & Accounting businesses practical tools for case evaluation, pre-trial investigation, on a global basis to facilitate the creation of more international settlement negotiation and trial preparation and presentation.
solutions for our customers and to follow the expansion of our Through Westlaw Business, we provide corporate and customers around the world.
transactional lawyers with value-added services for preparing The description of our Professional division contained in this and completing commercial transactions, such as securities annual report reects how the division was structured and offerings, mergers and acquisitions and investment management.
Westlaw Business includes LIVEDGAR securities ling content.
Major Brands Type of Product Service Target Customers West Legal, regulatory and compliance informationLawyers, law students, law librarians and Westlaw based products and services other legal professionals Westlaw Litigator Westlaw Business Foundation Press Textbooks, study aids, bar review courses, Law students, lawyers and legal West Law School Publishing continuing education materials and seminars professionals BAR BRI West LegalEdcenter Legalworks Sweet & Maxwell U. K. Asia Legal information-based products and services Lawyers, law students, law librarians, IDS U. K. corporate legal professionals, government Aranzadi Spain agencies and trademark professionals Karnov Denmark and Sweden Lawbook Australia Brookers New Zealand La Ley Argentina Lawtel U. K. Carswell Canada Legal, regulatory and compliance informationLawyers, law students, law librarians and based products and services other legal professionals Thomson CompuMark Trademark search and protection information Business, legal and trademark professionals SAEGIS North America, EMEA services Elite Law rm operations and financial management Lawyers, law rm finance and operations Elite 3E software, business intelligence FindLaw Online legal directory, website creation and Lawyers and legal professionals HubbardOne hosting services and law rm marketing solutions LiveNote Deposition, transcript and court reporting Lawyers, courts and court reporters software and services and investigators Hildebrandt International Strategic, technology, operations and Lawyers, law rm finance, operations and Baker Robbins information consulting advisory services business development professionals 6 THOMSON REUTERS We also provide country-specic versions of Westlaw in Canada, and hosting services to more than 9,900 law rms in 2008.
Our China, Denmark, Ireland, Japan, Hong Kong, Spain and the Hubbard One business is a leading provider of websites and United Kingdom.
online client development offerings to large law rms.
Through Westlaw International, we are able to offer our online Hildebrandt International is a leading provider of strategic consulting products and services to customers in markets where we may not and law rm operations advisory services.
Hildebrandt also provides have an existing publishing presence or have not yet developed a lawyers with technology and  consulting.
As of December 31, 2008, Westlaw LiveNote is a leading provider of transcript and evidence International was used by practitioners in over 70 countries.
management software to litigators and court reporters, which We also provide country-specic online legal services, some of include access to case law, briefs, depositions, litigation proles, which are sold under brand names other than Westlaw.
As of dockets and court testimony.
December 31, 2008, we provided these services in Argentina, Australia, Denmark, France, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden and COMPETITION the United Kingdom.
Legals primary global competitors are Reed Elsevier which Our West business publishes cases, statutes and other legal operates Lexis-Nexis and Wolters Kluwer NV, with which Legal information and enhances them with headnotes, synopses, key competes in the United States and in most of the other countries numbers and other editorial annotations prepared by our staff in which it operates.
Legal also competes with other companies of attorneys and editorial professionals.
that provide legal and regulatory information, as well as practice management and client development services, in the United West Education Group is a leading provider of educational States and in its international markets which provide legal and solutions to legal professionals and law students in the United regulatory information, practice management and client States.
Through BAR BRI, we provide bar examination review development services.
We also have a legal textbook publishing business with over 1,800 titles as of December 31, 2008, making us Tax & Accounting a leading provider of casebooks and other learning materials to law students in the United States.
Our West LegalEdcenter offers one Tax & Accounting is a leading provider of technology and of the largest online selections of continuing legal education CLE information solutions, as well as integrated tax compliance programs, including over 18,000 hours of U. S. -accredited content software and services to accounting, tax and corporate finance as of December 31, 2008. professionals in accounting rms, law rms, corporations and government agencies.
CompuMark maintained trademark databases for over 200 countries as of December 31, 2008.
CompuMarks products and services also RESEARCH & GUIDANCE cover development and protection of trademarks.
Research & Guidance delivers integrated information-based Elite offers a range of software that assists law rms, professional solutions, expert guidance, workow tools and continuing services rms and government agencies with front-ofce and professional education CPE to tax and accounting professionals back-ofce management functions, including document in the professional, corporate, legal, government and management, case management, general ledger accounting, academic markets.
timekeeping, billing and records management.
Checkpoint provides information-based solutions, expert FindLaw is a leading provider of online legal information and law guidance, workow tools and CPE courses on one integrated rm marketing solutions.
Checkpoint provides expert analysis from other Tax & highest-trafcked legal website in 2008, with nearly four million Accounting businesses, such as RIA, WG&L and PPC.
com has one of the largest Accounting & Auditing Guidance on Checkpoint provides online legal directories available and provided website development professionals with access to PPC guidance and practice aids, Major Brands Type of Product Service Target Customers Research & Guidance: Integrated information-based solutions, Professional accounting rms, RIA expert guidance, workow tools and corporate, finance and accounting PPC continuing professional education CPE departments, law rms and Checkpoint governments AuditWatch Quicknder Warren Gorham & Lamont Paisley Professional Software & Services: Software and online products and services Professional accounting rms CS Professional Suite that provide business automation solutions Enterprise Suite for tax compliance, rm management and myPay Solutions client services Corporate Software & Services: Integrated online software and managed Corporate, legal, bank and trust market ONESOURCE services that help automate various areas of taxation and corporate compliance ANNUAL REPORT 2008 7 BUSINESS all linked with RIA and WG&L editorial materials and news.
scientific Research & Guidance also offers a full range of customized CPE Scientics information-based solutions provide academic, and training solutions, including PPC, RIA, WG&L, GearUp, government, corporate and pharmaceutical research and MicroMash, Reqwired, AuditWatch and Quicknder.
development R&D professionals with content and technologies that assist them in all stages of the R&D cycle from scientific PROFESSIONAL SOFTWARE & SERVICES discovery to product release.
Professional Software & Services delivers software and online scientific enhances the value of primary publication information products and services that provide business automation solutions by abstracting, indexing, integrating and ranking the information for accounting rms in the areas of tax compliance, rm to make it more accessible to customers.
Scientics products and management and client services.
services add further value by providing integrated solutions that CS Professional Suite is a suite of products and services designed enable access and management of high-quality and relevant by accountants for accountants to manage workow processes published materials for researchers, information specialists and in professional accounting rms.
Enterprise Suite is an integrated administrators in diverse elds.
scientific provides complementary family of tax preparation, engagement, practice management, products and services, such as bibliographic software programs, and document and workow management solutions developed manuscript authoring and submission workow solutions, and IP exclusively for large rms.
myPay Solutions is a service-bureau portfolio management and annuity services.
payroll offering specifically designed for accounting rms.
ACADEMIC AND GOVERNMENT CORPORATE SOFTWARE & SERVICES ISI Web of Knowledge provides researchers and scholars with Corporate Software & Services delivers integrated online software access to an integrated collection of databases which, as of and managed services that helps automate taxation and corporate December 31, 2008, covered more than 23,000 peer-reviewed compliance for corporate, legal, bank and trust markets regarding professional journals, leading scientific and patent information income tax, property tax, trust tax and sales and use tax.
Our databases, journal citation reports, approximately 110,000 meetings agship product, ONESOURCE, is an online portal that enables and conference proceedings and over 5,500 evaluated scientific corporate tax departments to access tools, manage their workow websites.
As of December 31, 2008, the bibliographic references in and keep track of vital information.
our databases covered the period from 1900 to the present.
ScholarOnes products are used by scientific, technical and COMPETITION medical journal publishers and scientific conference organizers Tax & Accountings primary competitor across all customer and allow research authors, peer reviewers and journal editors to segments is CCH owned by Wolters Kluwer NV.
Other major streamline and accelerate processes for article and  include Intuit in the professional software and related submissions, reviews and evaluation.
services market, CORPTAX owned by MLM Information Services, LLC in the corporate software and services market and BNA in the information market.
Tax & Accounting also competes with a number of smaller rms.
Major Brands Type of Product Service Target Customers ISI Web of Comprehensive and integrated platform that includes Research scientists and scholars, government Knowledge the Web of Science as well as third-party-hosted content, agencies, research libraries and universities and editorially selected websites, and tools to access, analyze colleges and manage research information Web of Science Comprehensive database providing a source for journal Research scientists and scholars, government article-cited references and access to abstracted and agencies, research libraries and universities and indexed journals colleges Thomson Pharma Integrated online platform that delivers scientific literature, Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies patents, commercial and regulatory information, company news communications, professional meeting reports and other relevant content Thomson Integrated online platform providing a global collection IP professionals, R&D professionals, lawyers and Innovation of IP content, scientific literature, analytical and business intelligence staff visualization tools and document services Derwent World Comprehensive database of English language patent IP professionals, R&D professionals, lawyers and Patents Index abstracts from patent authorities around the world business intelligence staff Prous Integrity Integrated online platform delivering drug discovery Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, content and analytic functionality for biologists academic centers and research institutes and chemists 8 THOMSON REUTERS PHARMA PAYERS Scientics Pharma businesses provide extensive drug-specic Through Medstat Advantage Suite, Healthcare provides decision information for all stages of the product lifecycle to customers support systems, market intelligence, benchmarking databases in the elds of biology, chemistry, licensing, business development and research for managing the purchase, administration and and competitive intelligence.
As of December 31, 2008, Pharma delivery of health services and benets.
Healthcare also develops supplied information about the R&D portfolios of more than and provides products and methodologies for organizing and 16,000 entities involved in drug development, information about understanding the data.
Our decision support solutions and therapeutic patents, including links to the full text of the original research provide an extensive collection of healthcare information patent, the pipeline status of investigational drugs, searchable for corporate and governmental healthcare purchasers, the chemical structures, meeting reports and bibliographic references.
managed care and health insurance industry, hospitals and integrated delivery networks, the pharmaceutical industry and In 2008, scientific acquired Prous Science, a leading provider the health services research community.
of life sciences information that provided access to more than 265,000 biological compounds and 100,000 patent family CLINICAL DECISION SUPPORT records as of December 31, 2008.
Micromedex healthcare solutions helped ensure medication safety CORPORATE MARKETS in more than 3,200 U. S. hospitals in 83 countries around the world as of December 31, 2008.
Solutions include evidence-based drug, scientific also has a leading collection of assets that serve the IP disease, toxicology reference and patient education information lifecycle, from ideation to maintenance and protection.
As of developed from scientific and clinical literature by expert editors, December 31, 2008, the Derwent World Patents Index assessed, and deployed direct to clinicians at the point of care.
classied, summarized and indexed 1.3 million records which contain patent documents from approximately 41 international patentClinical Xpert delivers real-time aggregation, evaluation and issuing authorities.
Our databases covered the period from 1963 delivery of hospital patient information direct to clinicians through to the present.
Thomson Innovation, Delphion, Patentweb and the Internet, mobile devices or smart phones.
These solutions are Aureka provide researchers with access to full text international deployed in hospitals throughout the United States.
Clinical Xpert patent documents supported by search, retrieval, analysis and other solutions help streamline clinician workow, reduce paper-based workow productivity tools.
Thomson IP Management Services errors and automate the identication of high-risk patients.
provides IP portfolio management software and annuity services.
MANAGEMENT DECISION SUPPORT COMPETITION Solucients public and proprietary data helps healthcare providers Scientics principal competitors are Reed Elsevier, Wolters Kluwer identify significant trends inside their organizations and benchmark NV and Chemical Abstracts Services CAS.
their performance against similar organizations and national standards.
Solucient provides healthcare decision-makers with one of the most comprehensive and valuable sets of decision Healthcare support capabilities for managing both healthcare costs and Our Healthcare business is a leading provider of decision support quality of care.
solutions that help organizations across the healthcare industry improve clinical and business performance.
Our solutions, COMPETITION information, insight and analysis enable our customers to more effectively manage cost, quality, market positioning and Healthcares principal competitors in the clinical and drug enterprise growth.
information segment are Reed Elsevier Science and Wolters Kluwer NV.
Within provider management decision support, Premier is a principal competitor.
Within the payer management decision support market, principal competitors are Ingenix a division of UnitedHealth Group, Inc. and McKesson Health Solutions a division of McKesson Corporation.
Type of Product Service Major Brands Target Customers Micromedex Comprehensive database set of drugs, disease Physicians, pharmacists, health professionals, information, medical emergency and poison pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, poison control procedures, patient education and other control centers, corporations, government relevant clinical, toxicological and environmental agencies and insurance companies health and safety information Medstat Decision support products integrating Large and mid-size employers, governmental Advantage benchmarks and analytics, designed for healthcare purchasers, managed care and Suite managing healthcare costs and quality and insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies employee wellness and productivity and health services research providers Solucient Benchmark, comparative and market databases, Hospitals, researchers, service planners, patient integrated with analytics to support marketing safety and quality managers and financial and and planning, operational improvement and administrative staff clinical performance improvement ANNUAL REPORT 2008 9
