06 Industrial & Automotive The Industrial & Automotive business group manufactures a wide range of systems and components for the industrial and automotive markets through four operating segments: Power Transmission, Fluid Power, Fluid Systems and Other Industrial & Automotive.
The business group manufactures a range of belts, fluid transfer products, hydraulic hoses, couplings, pressure monitoring products, valves and axles.
I&A has corporate offices in the US and Canada.
It supplies a wide variety of industries, including the industrial and automotive OE and replacement markets, transportation, energy and natural resources and agricultural markets.
Products are sold through a range of distribution channels: direct to customers principally for the OE market and through distributor channels principally for the aftermarket business.
The primary raw materials used by I&A are aluminium, steel and rubber materials, which are principally sourced locally.
I&A spends approximately $1,600 million each year on raw materials.
Industrial sales Automotive OE sales Automotive aftermarket sales by destination 2008 by destination 2008 by destination 2008 8.3% 5.3% 7.5% 8.1% 2.1% 22.2% 2.8% 41.7% $1,658.8m $1,283.2m $1,030.1m 18.8% 5.4% 55.3% 30.8% 62.0% 25.4% North America Europe North America Europe North America Europe China China China Rest of Asia Rest of the world Rest of Asia Rest of the world Rest of Asia Rest of the world Power Transmission Fluid Systems Power Transmission provides solutions for the transfer of Fluid Systems provides fluid and gas monitoring and control energy.
Products range from highly-engineered belts solutions.
Products are sold primarily into the automotive accessory drive and synchronous timing belts and accessories OE and aftermarket for repairs and accessories.
Schrader pulleys and tensioners to energy-saving oil pumps and Electronics is the technology leader in RTPMS, and is carrier systems.
Power Transmission is a globally integrated currently working with other Group companies to develop business, sharing technology, research and development further applications of its sensing capabilities.
In June 2008, and resources across the world.
It is managed through local Stant and Standard-Thomson, part of the Fluid Systems offices in North and South America, Europe and Asia.
segment, were sold as part of the Groups plan to dispose of non-core businesses.
Gates is the worlds largest manufacturer of power transmission belts for problem-solving applications, with Other I&A manufacturing and research facilities in 20 countries.
Its Other I&A includes: Dexter Axle, which produces axles and products are sold direct to industrial and automotive OEMs chassis for the utility trailer, recreational vehicle and and through a global network of dealers.
highway trailer markets: Ideal, a manufacturer of speciality Gates Mectrol manufactures polyurethane timing belts and hose clamps: Plews, a manufacturer and distributor of motion control components for the industrial market, lubrication, air hose and other aftermarket accessories: and operating manufacturing and sales facilities in the US, Gates Winhere, a manufacturer of pumps primarily for the Germany and Mexico.
Dexter Axle and the Dexter Chassis group manufacture and market their products primarily in Stackpole is a Canadian-based manufacturer of powertrain the US directly to OEMs and through distributors.
Ideal and components, systems and assemblies primarily for use in Plews sell products primarily into the aftermarket under a automotive engines and transmissions.
The business has variety of brands.
Ideal designs and manufactures clamps manufacturing facilities in Canada and the UK.
principally for markets in the US, Mexico and China.
Plews is a designer, manufacturer and distributor of a broad range Fluid Power of automotive parts and tools, sold principally in the US.
Fluid Power provides fluid transfer and hydraulic solutions, Dearborn Mid-West, a manufacturer of conveyor systems predominantly to the industrial OE and replacement for the automotive, industrial and utilities industries markets.
In addition to its manufacturing and distribution that was part of the Other I&A segment, was sold in capabilities, Fluid Power provides on-site servicing and November 2007. maintenance solutions, mainly to the oil and gas industry through Gates Fleximak acquired in 2006, A. E. Hydraulic acquired in 2008 and Gates Productivity & Reliability Services established in 2008.
Fluid Power serves customers across North and South America, Europe and Asia.
4.3% Overview 07 Our businesses Financial highlights: Key products: Key brands: Power Transmission Sales: $2,106.4m Belts, pulleys, tensioners and idlers, Gates Operating margin: 10.9% powder metal components, electroGates Mectrol % of Group sales: 38.2% mechanical drive systems, power Stackpole transmission and pump components, engine and transmission oil pumps Fluid Power Sales: $832.3m Hydraulics, hoses, belts, coupling Gates Operating margin: 5.6% systems EMB % of Group sales: 15.1% Gates Fleximak A. E. Hydraulic Gates E&S Fluid Systems Sales: $501.2m RTPMS, wheel and tyre valves, Schrader Electronics Operating margin: 8.0% inflating gauges Schrader Bridgeport % of Group sales: 9.1% Other I&A Sales: $620.9m Axles and wheels, trailer chassis and Dexter Axle Operating margin: 7.1% components, fabricated metal parts, Ideal % of Group sales: 11.2% clamps, water and oil pumps Plews & Edelmann Tridon Gates Winhere Industrial Key markets served: Key market drivers: Top five customers Industrial machinery and Industrial activity % of Group sales equipment Commodity prices Motion Industries 2.0% Processing industries John Deere 1.0% Industrial capital expenditure Redneck Trailer Supplies 0.9% Earthmoving equipment Agricultural activity Jayco 0.7% Agricultural equipment Industrial construction JCB 0.6% Mining Automotive production Automotive Oil and gas Number of cars in use Top five customers Leisure equipment % of Group sales Average age of cars in use Consumer equipment General Motors 6.1% Car usage measured by NAPA 3.1% Automotive OE miles driven Ford 2.0% Automotive aftermarket Oil and fuel prices Hyundai 1.6% Chrysler 1.6% GATES ENGINEERING & SERVICES Gates E&S distributes and services hose and hydraulic systems in the industrial and oil and gas sectors.
It achieved double-digit growth and opened four new service centres in 2008.
Gates Productivity & Reliability Services, a division of Gates E&S, provides on-site services to the oil and gas sector.
The acquisition of a distributor in Singapore, A. E. Hydraulic, provides geographic expansion of the Gates E&S business.
08 Building Products The Building Products business group manufactures a wide range of air diffusion products and systems, bathware baths, shower cubicles and luxury whirlpools, and uPVC doors and windows for the residential construction, commercial construction, manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries.
Its range of products places the business group as one of the largest manufacturers of air distribution products in the US.
Building Products sells its products through a range of distribution channels, principally to suppliers to the construction industry, building contractors and retailers for both the new build and refurbishment sectors.
Building Products sells principally in the US, but also in Canada, Mexico, India, Thailand, China and Europe.
In 2008, the business group expanded its range of indoor air quality products through the acquisition of Trion, adding manufacturing and distribution capabilities in the US and China, and expanded its product offering in India through the acquisition of Rolastar, a manufacturer, distributor and installer of off-site ducting.
Further geographic expansion was achieved through the signing of a joint venture to manufacture and distribute air systems components products in the Middle East.
The primary raw materials used by Building Products are steel, aluminium and vinyl.
Building Products spends approximately $600 million each year on raw materials.
Sales by destination 2008 Sales by end market 2008 Construction sales by end market 2008 0.1% 0.6% 6.5% 2.7% 20.4% $1,112.3m $1,455.1m $1,455.1m 34.2% 59.3% 79.6% 94.7% New build North America Europe China Commercial construction Remodelling Residential construction Rest of the world Rest of Asia Other Air Systems Components Other Building Products The Air Systems Components operating segment Other Building Products comprises Lasco Bathware, provides air distribution solutions for the HVAC industry.
a leading manufacturer of bath tubs and shower Products include ducting, louvres, grilles, registers, enclosures and pans in the US, and Philips Products, diffusers, dampers, smoke vents and chimney products.
a manufacturer of doors, windows and ventilation Products are sold primarily in the US, Canada, Mexico, products.
Lasco Bathware manufactures around one India, Thailand, China and Europe.
The majority quarter of all baths in the US as well as an extensive of this segments sales pass through manufacturers range of luxury whirlpools.
It operates from facilities representatives or are sold through wholesalers.
The across the US with national distribution to home centres balance of sales are made direct to OEMs, national and wholesalers.
Products are also sold direct to builders accounts and retail customers.
who use the company installation services.
Aquatic Industries, a division of Lasco Bathware, produces Air Systems Components designs and manufactures a up-market acrylic whirlpools, principally for the range of air system products for industrial, institutional dealer distributor market in the US and also supplies and commercial applications.
Hart & Cooley and Selkirk standard and customised products for hotel and supply the residential and light commercial markets in resort developments internationally.
the US, Canada and Mexico, marketing their products primarily through wholesale distributors and retail customers.
Ruskin produces and markets commercial and industrial air system components while Ruskin Air Management, a UK business, markets its products principally in the UK and continental Europe.
1.9% Overview 09 Our businesses Financial highlights: Key products: Key brands: Air Systems Components Sales: $1,112.3m Grilles, registers, diffusers, dampers, PennBarry Operating margin: 9.4% venting and ducts, fans, louvres Actionair % of Group sales: 20.2% and screens Titus Rooftop Systems Ruskin Reliable Tuttle & Bailey Krueger Lau Milcor AMPCO Selkirk Other Building Products Sales: $342.8m Baths, showers, whirlpools, Lasco Bathware Operating margin: 7.0 % aluminium and vinyl windows and Aquatic % of Group sales: 6.2% doors Philips Trion Air Systems Components Key markets served: Key market drivers: Top five customers Residential construction Housing starts % of Group sales Commercial construction Square feet of construction York International 0.5% Tom Barrow 0.5% Recreational vehicles Construction value Watsco 0.5% Manufactured housing Recreational vehicle Carrier Group 0.5% production Remodelling and repair Norman S Wright 0.5% Manufactured housing shipments Other Building Products Architectural billings Top five customers % of Group sales Home Depot 0.9% Ferguson Enterprises 0.6% Thor Industries 0.2% Fleetwood Enterprises 0.2% Dapsco 0.2% RUSKIN Green initiatives in Building Products In 2008, Ruskin introduced its energy recovery ventilator, which achieves energy savings through recycling conditioned air.
