Overview 03 Group strategy Maximisation of shareholder value through long-term sustainable growth Strategic approach with four key elements: Managing the cost base Driving top-line growth At the start of 2008, the Group faced continuing headwinds Technological innovation is a key element of our growth in a number of its end markets.
As a result, management strategy and we are focused on developing efficient, green launched Project Eagle, which was an acceleration of our products which achieve fuel and energy savings and reduce existing restructuring initiatives to address our cost base, emissions.
In I&A, we expanded development of our electroimprove our competitiveness and increase our operating mechanical drive systems and two speed variable vane oil margins.
Project Eagle is a three-year programme that builds pumps.
We introduced our RTPMS product into new markets, on our existing initiatives and should provide the opportunity including India.
to capture approximately $100 million of annual performance We are also focused on expanding our service and improvements by the end of 2010.
This initiative remains on distribution capabilities, particularly in the developing regions track, with a number of projects completed in 2008 such as of the world by capitalising on Gates global footprint and the closure of Moncks Corner, South Carolina, further strong product development capabilities.
Gates E&S completed rationalisation of the Lasco Bathware business in the US and its first year of operations and continued to expand with new the closure of Hart & Cooleys production facility at Tucson, service centres in Kuwait, the UAE and Saudi Arabia, Arizona.
A total of eight facilities were closed under these combined with achieving new contract wins throughout the initiatives, mainly in North America, with headcount reduced Middle East and Asia.
Gates E&S provides service, maintenance by around 3,500. and hose monitoring capabilities principally to the oil and gas Market conditions throughout 2008 continued to deteriorate.
A. E. Hydraulic, a distributor of hose and fluid transfer As a result, management has initiated more extensive products in Singapore, was acquired in early 2008 and has restructuring initiatives, Project Cheetah, which will more performed well, achieving strong sales growth and margins.
fundamentally refocus the Groups manufacturing in low-cost Within Building Products, we expanded our green product regions and within its most efficient facilities.
Under these offering which enabled us to outperform the US non-residential initiatives, we are considering closing 15 plants, of which four construction market.
Our acquisition of Trion added indoor air are in Europe, affecting approximately 2,500 employees with quality capabilities to our air quality range, as well as facilities whom we are consulting as appropriate.
The total expected in China, whilst the acquisition of Rolastar provided us with a cash costs of the Project Eagle and Project Cheetah initiatives leading position in the Indian off-site ducting manufacturing are $140 million, with $120 million of these costs to be market.
In 2008, we entered into a joint venture based in the incurred in 2009 and the remainder in 2010.
Non-cash costs UAE that will provide access to the Middle East non-residential are expected to be around $40 million, substantially all of construction market.
which is expected to be incurred in 2009.
These initiatives are expected to achieve annual cash benefits of approximately Should the opportunities arise, we are well positioned to $150 million by 2011. take advantage of the current downturn in the economy by acquiring strategic bolt-on businesses to assist in our Rigorous expense management throughout the Group growth strategy.
Managing the balance sheet Reshaping the portfolio We continue to focus on cash flow and capital allocation, During 2008, we completed the sale of Stant and Standardwhich resulted in good operating cash flow generation in Thomson.
We have now substantially completed the 2008 of $442.8 million.
Our 2008 capital expenditure divestment of our non-core businesses, totalling 22 of $193.8 million was $42.7 million lower than 2007. since 2002.
Working capital was reduced by $68.9 million during 2008.
In January 2008, we purchased 60% of Rolastar, which expanded our air distribution capabilities in India, that we commenced in 2006.
In the third quarter of 2008, we signed a joint venture agreement with a leading contractor in the non-residential construction market in the UAE and production is expected to start in the first quarter of 2009.
The acquisition of Trion, a leader in the manufacture of commercial, industrial and residential indoor air quality products, was completed in June 2008 and expands our green and energy-efficient product capabilities.
Trion also has two facilities in China, extending Air Systems Components geographic coverage to eight countries.
The acquisitions and new joint venture agreement we completed in 2008 further our objective of global expansion in higher growth markets, adding manufacturing, distribution and service capabilities in India, the Middle East, China and Singapore.
