Dear Autonomy Investor, At the close of 2008 Autonomy stands amongst the proud few as having excelled in an otherwise tumultuous year for the global economy and the software industry.
It is in such times that companies are proved, and I take great pleasure in presenting to you these results from an exceptional year, in which Autonomy has not only stood the test, but risen above the tumult to outperform expectations.
During the year the issues surrounding the collapse of global credit markets, counterparty litigation and the incipient regulatory response have driven unprecedented demand for Autonomys Meaning Based Computing technology.
The year saw an extraordinary number of multi-million dollar contracts signed, setting a new record with a single deal worth tens of millions.
Consequently, top line revenues, bottom line profits and EPS are all up significantly, ahead of analyst consensus expectations, with strong organic growth.
Throughout 2008 we consolidated our industry leadership position, and were acknowledged by independent observers as having won the enterprise search wars Source: Computer Business Review, December 2008.
We also launched the industrys first information governance platform for all types of information including audio and video, and witnessed Autonomys technology take centre stage in ancillary markets such as content leak prevention, where every major player now builds its products on Autonomy, but in which Autonomy itself does not compete.
All of this culminated in a tremendously proud moment as we rejoined the FTSE100.
Our growth and expansion has always been driven by the goal of establishing Autonomy as the key infrastructure for the automated handling of all forms of unstructured information such as text, audio and video.
Following this unwavering goal we have achieved sales success and proven our profitable business model, and have created a special software company which is leading the market.
In 2008 we produced record results in every area, which is enabling us to build on our position.
In this letter let me recap for you our successes during 2008, as well as comment on some of the trends we saw in our business during the year.
Financial Results: In 2008 revenues, all key financial metrics soared from our previous records in 2007, driven by strong organic growth.
2008 financial achievements included: Record revenues, up 47% from 2007 including strong organic growth Record profit from operations adjusted at $207.5 million, up 91% from 2007 Record profit from operations IFRS up 110% from 2007 Record profit before tax adjusted at $208.9 million, up 84% from 2007 Record profit before tax IFRS, up 103% from 2007 Record fully diluted EPS adjusted at $0.68, up 81% from 2007 Net profit IFRS up 111% from 2007 Gross margins adjusted at 91% R&D investment up 26% year-on-year Positive cash flow generated by operations of $178.8 million 2007: $83.1 million, up 115% Cash balance of $199.2 million at year end and no net debt For adjusted results details and reconciliations see page 26.
Autonomy Corporation plc 2 Accolades: Throughout 2008 Autonomy was recognized by industry analysts as the unmatched market leader.
Accolades included: Heralded as at the cutting edge of a new multi-trillion dollar industry sector by Gartners head of worldwide research Winner of the LSEs 2008 techMARK company of the year award Ranked as the fastest growing full-service EDD provider among the AM LAW 200 Awarded Records Management Product of the Year by Document Manager Operations: We saw growth across the globe during the year, in virtually every geographic and vertical market we serve.
We continue to win marquee customers in emerging economies across Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America.
We also closed a record number of large transactions in 2008 and the largest deals in the companys history.
Our strong R&D investment, including an increase in R&D spend in 2008 of 26% from 2007, is seeing clear returns.
2008 saw significant the continued development of industry-leading new technologies, with announcements about new technologies during the year including: Autonomy ControlPoint, which brings comprehensive information governance capabilities to Microsoft SharePoint The inauguration of the worlds largest managed data archive The next generation of our Investigator and Early Case Assessment technology A new Situational Awareness Web Portal to revolutionise the security control centre Advanced Legal Hold with automated identification, notification, preservation and collection After having cemented Autonomys position as the industry leader during the year, including as the fide facto standard in OEM market, Autonomy was recognized when it was recognized by Computer Business Review as having won the enterprise search wars Source: Computer Business Review, December 2008 and by ComputerWeekly as dominating the search space.
The results of our investment can also be seen in the continued success of our vertical divisions, including: Autonomy ZANTAZ, Autonomys award-winning division specializing in compliance, litigation and risk technology: Autonomy Virage, a leading provider of security and surveillance software and rich media content management software: and Autonomy etalk, a leading provider of nextgeneration contact center technology.
Each of these divisions is founded on Autonomys unique Intelligent Data Operating Layer, our core infrastructure for automating the handling of all forms of unstructured and structured information.
The business value of Autonomys infrastructure technology and its demonstrable ROI are ultimately borne out by our average selling price for meaning-based technologies, which remained stable throughout 2008 at approximately $393,000.
2008 activity was clearly reflected in Autonomys share price, up 9% during 2008, one of only a small handful of FTSE100 companies to show a gain in 2008, which followed a rise of 73% in 2007.
Our two year performance versus the FTSE100 and FTSE250 is in the graph below: 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 Jan-07 Apr-07 Jul-07 Oct-07 Jan-08 Apr-08 Jul-08 Oct-08 Autonomy FTSE 100 FTSE 250 Acquisitions: I am pleased to report that our acquisition of ZANTAZ in July 2007 has delivered significant results, following a rapid and successful integration.
The combination of Autonomy and ZANTAZ created the unmatched leader in the space.
In January 2009 we announced an agreement to acquire Interwoven, Inc. a global leader in content management software.
The combination of the two companies will redefine how global 2000 corporations, leading law firms and government regulators will discover, analyze and manage information and interactions.
3 Autonomy Corporation plc Share price rebased to Autonomy p Trends: 2008 was a transformational year for our markets.
Global events converged with the fundamental change of the IT world to the usage of unstructured information.
At the same time regulatory changes such as the U. S. Federal Rules of Civil Procedure resulted in a convergence of legal and operational information systems and the emergence of the drive towards manage in place.
The elevation of unstructured information issues to prime-time status also drives growth in our OEM business, where we remain the fide facto standard.
The last few years have continued to see explosive growth in the use of unstructured information, which includes documents, emails, telephone conversations and multimedia.
More than 85% of all information inside an enterprise is now unstructured and this 'humanfriendly' information has traditionally been difficult for computers to understand and use.
As always, our position in the market is underpinned by our unique value proposition: to provide the software infrastructure that automates operations on all forms of information.
The unique nature of our technology delivers the only platform truly built around Meaning Based Computing, enabling computers to understand the relationships that exist between disparate pieces of information and perform sophisticated analysis operations with real business value, automatically and in real-time.
Through the understanding of information Autonomy empowers organizations to understand and capitalize on the information that really matters to their business by enabling computers to process human-friendly unstructured information, such as text documents, emails, voice and video, without the need for manual intervention.
We are seeing continuing strength as the momentum of the revolution towards unstructured information gathers pace.
We continue to monitor the market situation closely and the incoming evidence to date confirms our previous assumptions, allowing us to be conservatively optimistic for the remainder of 2009.
I take this opportunity to thank once again our customers, shareholders, employees and partners for their continued support.
Dr. Michael R. Lynch Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder 27 February 2009 Autonomy Corporation plc 4
