Board of Directors and Management Autonomy is led by a close-knit and highly experienced management team.
They bring together extensive expertise covering every facet of information technology and its constituent sectors and markets.
Board of Directors Dr. Michael Lynch OBE FREng, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, 43, co-founded Autonomy and has served as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer since our inception in March 1996.
Dr. Lynch is also a non-executive director of the BBC, blinkx Plc, Isabel Healthcare Limited and Featurespace Limited.
Dr. Lynch holds an M. A. in electrical and information sciences, a Ph.
D in adaptive techniques in signal processing and connectionist models and held a research fellowship in adaptive pattern recognition at Cambridge University.
Dr Lynch was named the Confederation of British Industry's Entrepreneur of the Year, won an IEE Award for Outstanding Achievement and was awarded an OBE for Services to Enterprise.
Dr Lynch is also a Lady Margaret Beaufort Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, and the author of a number of academic papers on the subject of Pattern Recognition and Signal Processing.
Dr. Lynch was appointed to the Board when Autonomy was founded in 1996.
Sushovan Hussain, Board Director and Chief Financial Officer, 44, has served as Chief Financial Officer since June 2001 and was appointed a Director in June 2003.
Prior to joining Autonomy, Mr. Hussain worked for LASMO plc, one of the world's largest independent oil and gas exploration companies, where he held a number of senior international financial positions, including three years in the Corporate Development department, charged with acquisitions and divestments.
Mr. Hussain received his BA in Economics from Cambridge University, England, and became a qualified Chartered Accountant while employed at Ernst & Young in London.
Mr. Hussain was appointed to the Board in June 2003.
Richard Gaunt, Board Director, 41, co-founded Autonomy and has served as an executive and nonexecutive Director at times since our inception in March 1996.
Mr. Gaunt holds a BSc in electronic engineering and an MSc from the University of Natal in Durban.
Mr. Gaunt was appointed to the Board when Autonomy was founded in 1996.
Barry Ariko, Board Director, 63, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since January 2000.
From November 2003, Mr. Ariko has served as CEO and President of Mirapoint, Inc. a leader in messaging networks.
From January 2000, until it was acquired by Peregrine Systems in May 2001, he was Chairman, CEO and President of Extricity, Inc. a provider of software for the management of inter-company transactions and workflow.
Prior to Extricity, he was Senior Vice President of AOL, which had acquired Netscape Communications Corp. where he was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer with primary responsibility for the enterprise software business since August 1998.
From April 1994 to August 1998, Mr. Ariko was Executive Vice President in charge of the Americas operations for Oracle Corp. Mr. Ariko also serves as a director of Incyte.
Mr. Ariko holds a B. S. in Management from Golden Gate University in San Francisco and in 1992 completed the Advanced Executive Program at Northwestern University's J. L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management.
John McMonigall, Board Director, 65, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since July 1998.
Since April 1990, Mr. McMonigall has been a partner with Apax Partners Worldwide LLP, the private equity firm, where he specializes in telecommunications, software and related fields.
From 1986 to 1990, Mr. McMonigall held a variety of positions at British Telecom where he served as a member of the Management Board.
He currently serves on the board of Dialog Semiconductor Plc.
Mr. McMonigall also serves on the boards of several privately owned companies as a non-executive director.
Richard N. Perle, Board Director, 65, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since February 2000.
Mr. Perle has served as Resident Fellow of the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research since 1987.
From 1981 to 1987 he was the United States Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy, and from 2001 through 2003 served as Chairman of the U. S. Defense Policy Board.
Mr. Perle is a director of Tapestry Pharmaceuticals, Inc. a pharmaceutical company focused on the development of proprietary therapies for the treatment of cancer.
He is a director of FNSS, a joint venture between Nurol a Turkish company and British Aerospace.
He is a consultant to Clarium Capital, a U. S. based hedge fund.. Mr. Perle attended the London School of Economics with Honors Examinations, received an M. A. in politics from Princeton University and a B.
A. from the University of Southern California in international relations, and completed various fellowships at Princeton University, the Ford Foundation and the American Council of Learned Societies.
Autonomy Corporation plc 8 Board of Directors and Management Executive Management Dr. Peter Menell, D. Phil.
Oxon, Chief Technology Officer, 40, joined Autonomy's Engineering and Technology Solutions unit in 1998 and has served as Chief Technology Officer since 2004.
During that time he has overseen a number of significant advances in Autonomy technology, including key new patents filed, and been responsible for the successful deployment of Autonomy software at multi-divisional organizations across the globe.
Prior to joining Autonomy, Dr. Menell conducted computational and neuro-physiology research.
from York University and a D. Phil.
Andrew M. Kanter, Chief Operating Officer and General Counsel, 39, joined Autonomy in August 2000 as VP, International Ops.
and Legal Affairs, and has served as our COO since 2001.
Prior to joining Autonomy, through 2000 Mr. Kanter was an associate attorney with Brobeck Hale and Dorr in London, engaged in international mergers and acquisitions and corporate finance.
Through 1999, Mr. Kanter was an associate attorney at Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison in San Francisco, and prior to that was an associate attorney with Shearman & Sterling, San Francisco.
Mr. Kanter was Clerk to Hon.
Christine Miller of the U. S. Court of Federal Claims, Washington, DC.
Mr. Kanter holds a J. D. from the University of Southern California and a B.
A. from Johns Hopkins University, and also studied at Kansai University of Foreign Studies, Osaka, Japan.
Nicole Eagan, Chief Marketing Officer, 44, joined the Autonomy Group as Chief Marketing Officer in January 2006.
Prior to working for Autonomy Ms Eagan served Verity as a Senior Vice President of Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer from June 2005.
Before joining Verity, Ms. Eagan was Vice President, Global Marketing at Quest Software, an application, database and Windows management company from 2004 to 2005.
Prior to Quest, Ms. Eagan was the Senior Vice President of Global Marketing at Peregrine from 2001 to 2004.
Ms. Eagan also held senior marketing, strategy and business development positions at Extricity, a business process management company and Oracle Corporation.
Ms. Eagan holds a B. S. from Montclair University, N. J.. Stouffer Egan, CEO Autonomy, Inc. 40, joined Autonomy in March 2001 as Director of Global Accounts.
He has served as our Chief Executive Officer, Autonomy, Inc. since 2002.
Prior to joining Autonomy, from February 2000 through to March 2001, Mr. Egan was Vice President of Corporate Development for LeadingSide Inc. From January 1995 through February 2000, Mr. Egan held various positions with Dataware Technologies, most recently as Vice President, Corporate Development.
A. in Economics from Trinity College, CT. Anthony Bettencourt, Corporate Strategy, 48, has more than 20 years of senior management experience in a variety of high-tech companies and, most recently, as an  at US Venture Partners.
Previously, Anthony was the Chief Executive Officer of Verity, Inc. where he was responsible for growing the business from $15 million in annual revenues to more than $140 million from 1995 to 2005.
A veteran of the enterprise search market, Anthony led the team that set the strategic direction and execution characteristics of Verity, resulting in Verity's acquisition by Autonomy at the end of 2005.
In 2005, he was awarded the prestigious Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year award for software and technology in the Silicon Valley.
A. in English from Santa Clara University.
