82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:34 Page 59 DI R ECTORS R EPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts those Directors held office throughout the year.
Stephen Carter for the year ended 31 December 2008. and Michael Dearden served as non-executive directors during the year until 8 January and 11 November 2008 respectively.
It is intended to appoint a further non-executive director in the near PRI N CIPAL A CTIVITIES future.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of AssociaTravis Perkins is one of the largest builders merchants and tion, John Carter, Andrew Simon and Tim Stevenson will retire home improvement retailers in the UK.
The principal activities by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-elecof the Group are the sale of timber, building materials, and tion at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
John Carter has plumbing and heating products, and the hiring of tools, to the a rolling 12 month notice period in his contract.
As non-execubuilding trade, industry generally and, since the acquisition tive directors, Tim Stevenson and Andrew Simon do not have in 2005 of Wickes, to the general public, within the United service contracts.
In the light of the evaluation of their performKingdom.
The Directors are not aware, at the date of this ances as a result of the process described on page 43, Tim report, of any likely major changes in the Groups activities in Stevenson, Chairman, confirms on behalf of the Board that the next year.
Andrew Simon continues to be effective in, and committed to, his role as a non-executive director, including his chairmanship of the Remuneration and Health & Safety Committees, and Chris ENH AN CED BUSI NESS R EVIEW Bunker, the senior independent director, confirms on behalf of A review of the Groups position, developments and future the board that Tim Stevenson continues to be effective in, and prospects is contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 committed to, his role as Chairman.
and 9, the Chief Executives review of the year on pages 10 to 21, Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be the Chief Operating Officers review of the year on pages 22 to 31 indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect of any and the Finance Directors review of the year on pages 32 to 38. liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company, or any A review of the Groups environmental performance is contained associate company, to the extent the law allows.
In this regard, in the Chief Executives review of the year on pages 17 to 20. the Company is required to disclose that under article 146 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act R ESUL TS AN D DIVI D EN DS 1985 and Companies Act 2006 against liabilities incurred by The Group results and dividend for the year ended 31 December them in the execution of their duties and exercise of their 2008 are set out on page 66.
The Board is not recommending powers.
This indemnity is currently in force.
In addition, if the payment of a final dividend for 2008. proceedings against Directors are instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of the Company, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors that pursuant to article 146 D B ALAN CE SH fleet AN D POS T of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company shall B ALAN CE SH fleet EVEN TS provide a Director with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet expenditure incurred by that director in defending any The balance sheet on pages 68 and 69 shows the Groups financriminal or civil proceedings.
At the year end, in both net assets and cash terms, it is consistent with the prior year.
No significant events have A copy of the Companys Articles of Association which occurred since the balance sheet date.
contains this indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys forthcoming PRI N CIPAL RISKS AN D Annual General Meeting.
UN CER TAI N TIES None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during contained in the Finance Directors review of the year on pages the year.
The Company has undertaken to comply with the best practice on approval of directors conflicts of interests in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Under the Companies DI R ECT O RS AN D Act 2006, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can TH EI R I N TER ES TS have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may The names of the Directors at 31 December 2008, together with conflict, with the Companys interests.
their biographical details, are set out on pages 40 and 41.
All of The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2008, 59 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 2 4 09 11:42 Page 60 DIRECT ORS REPOR T Directors Remuneration Report.
including holdings, if any, of wives and of children aged under 18, were as detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52, 54 to 55 and 57.
POLITI C AL DO NATIO NS The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the SUBS TAN TIAL UK nor did it make any donations to EU political organisations or SH AR EHOLDI N GS incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
As at 18 February 2009, the Company had received notification under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules that the holdSUPPLIER PAYMEN T POLI CY ings and voting rights exceeding the 3% notification threshold were as follows: The Groups policy is to pay all of its suppliers in accordance with established terms.
Group trade creditors at 31 December 2008 Number % represented 47 days 31 December 2007: 48 days of average AVIVA Investors Global Solutions 8,467,391 6.90 purchases of goods and services.
The Company trade creditors at C. M. Travis 7,293,138 5.94 31 December 2008 represented 30 days 2007: 30 days.
Standard Life Investment Management 6,736,596 5.49 E. R. A. Travis 6,719,959 5.48 Investec Asset Management 6,091,184 4.96 AUDIT O RS Sprucegrove Investment Management 5,377,933 4.38 A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys audiLegal & General 4,893,942 3.99 tors and to authorise the Directors to fix the auditors remunerDimensional Fund Advisors Inc 4,060,811 3.31 ation will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
C. M. Travis and E. R. A. Travis have each disclosed their voting rights over the same 3,835,446 ordinary shares in aggregate, S TATEMEN T O N DISCLOSUR E by virtue of each of them being a trustee of the same Travis OF I N FO RM ATIO N T O family trusts which held ordinary shares.
AUDIT O RS Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of CLOSE C O M PANY S TATUS this report confirms that: The close company provisions of the Income and CorporationSo far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to EM PLO YEES AN D have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of C H ARITABLE DO NATIO NS any relevant audit information and to establish that the Statements on these matters are contained in the Chief OperCompanys auditors are aware of that information.
ating Officers review of the year on pages 22 to 25 and in the This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accorChief Executives review of the year on page 20, respectively.
dance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in note 7 to the financial statements.
SH AR E C APITAL AN D The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and C H AN G E OF C O N TR OL recognises the benefit of diversity within its workforce.
It has an equal opportunities policy aimed at ensuring that employment As at 31 December 2008 the Company had an authorised share decisions are based on ability and potential regardless of gender, capital of 135,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, with race, colour, ethnic origin or sexual orientation, age or disability.
an aggregate nominal value of 13,500,000 and an allotted In particular, applications for employment by disabled persons and fully paid share capital of 122,719,114 ordinary shares of are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the 10 pence each, with an aggregate nominal value of person concerned.
In the event of a member of staff becoming 12,271,911 including shares owned by the employee share disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment ownership trust.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London with the Group continues and that appropriate training is Stock Exchange.
All the shares rank pari passu.
It is the policy of the Company that the training, career obligations attaching to the Companys shares are set out in the development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far Companys Articles of Association a copy of which will be availas possible, be identical to that of other employees.
able for inspection from the date of this notice up to the time of The Groups policies and practices have been established to the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the keep employees informed on matters relevant to them as Company during usual business hours and at the place of the employees through regular meetings and newsletters.
Employee Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of during the meeting.
Fully paid shares in the Company are freely matters affecting their interests.
All employees with more than transferable.
There are no persons that hold securities carrying three months service are eligible to participate in the Companys special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Details Sharesave and Buy as You Earn plans.
Details are provided in the of the structure of the Companys share capital and changes in 60 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 2 4 09 11:42 Page 61 DIRECT ORS REPOR T the share capital during the year are also included in note 21 to representing a percentage increase of approximately 63%.
This increase is being sought in order to give the Company The Travis Perkins Employee Share Ownership Trust owns sufficient authorised share capital to take full advantage of the 5,684,680 shares in the Company 4.63% for use in connecability to allot ordinary shares under the authorities proposed tion with the Companys share schemes.
Any voting or other in resolution 9. similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of Resolution 9: the Company.
AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the Paragraph a of this resolution would give the Directors the Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal agreements between holders of securities that may result in amount equal to 4,090,637 representing 40,906,371 ordirestrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
nary shares of 10 pence each.
This amount represents approxThe rules governing the appointment and replacement of imately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the board members and changes to the Articles of Association Company as at 18 February 2009, the latest practicable date accord with usual English company law provisions.
The powers prior to publication of this Notice.
of the Companys Directors are set out in the Companys Articles In line with recent guidance issued by the Association of of Association.
In particular, the Board has the power to purchase British Insurers the ABI, paragraph b of this resolution would its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthgive the Directors authority to allot ordinary shares in connection coming Annual General Meeting within the limits set out in the with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to an notice of that meeting.
aggregate nominal amount equal to 8,181,274 representing There are a number of agreements to which the Company 81,812,742 ordinary shares of 10p each, as reduced by the is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph a of change of control following a takeover bid.
None of these this resolution.
This amount before any reduction represents agreements is considered to be significant in the context of approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as a whole.
the Company as at 18 February 2009, the latest practicable date There are no agreements providing for compensation for prior to publication of this Notice.
If this authority is exercised, the Directors or employees on change of control.
As set out in the Directors intend to follow ABI guidance issued from time to time Directors Remuneration Report on page 51, service contracts including as to the re-election of directors.
for executive directors do not specify any particular level of The authorities sought under paragraphs a and b of this compensation in the event of termination following change of resolution will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2010 the last date control of the Company.
As noted above, the Company has by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in agreed with each of the Directors that it shall provide a Director 2010 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet expenditure Company held in 2010. incurred in defending any criminal or civil proceedings if such The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of proceedings are instituted subsequent to any person acquiring the authorities sought under this resolution, except, under paracontrol of the Company.
graph a, to satisfy options under the Companys employee share option schemes.
ANNUAL G ENER AL MEETI N G Resolution 10: SPECIAL BUSI NESS LIMITED AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES FOR CASH The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at This resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot ordiNorthampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon nary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to existing Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Thursday 21 May 2009 at shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
11.45 a. m. A buffet lunch will be available.
The following items Except as provided in the next paragraph, this authority are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as items of special business, and the Board recommends that would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with preshareholders vote in favour of all resolutions put before the emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if Annual General Meeting.
required by the rights of those shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal Resolution 7: amount of 613,596 representing 6,135,956 ordinary shares.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulaof the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 18 tions 2002, this resolution seeks shareholders approval of the February 2009, the latest practicable date prior to publication of Directors Remuneration Report as set out on pages 49 to 57. this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Resolution 8: Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulaINCREASE IN AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL tive usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the This resolution proposes that the authorised share capital of Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take the Company be increased from 13.5 million to 22 million, place without prior consultation with shareholders.
61 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:34 Page 62 DIRECT ORS REPOR T minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will expire no later Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph b of resolution 10 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights than 30 June 2010. issue only subject to the right of the board to impose necesThe Directors consider that it is in the best interests of the sary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fracCompany to have available this authorisation, in case of circumtional entitlements and regulatory matters.
stances when it would be appropriate to use it.
They would only The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2010 the use it after consideration of the effect on earnings per share and last date by which the Company must hold an annual general the longer term benefit for the Company and shareholders meeting in 2010 and the conclusion of the annual general generally.
The fact that such authorisation is being sought should meeting of the Company held in 2010.
Any issue of shares for not be taken to imply that shares would be purchased at any cash will, however, still be subject to the requirements of the UK particular price or indeed at all.
Any ordinary shares purchased Listing Authority.
pursuant to this authority may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company, depending on which course of Resolution 11: action is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests CHANGE TO NOTICE PERIOD OF GENERAL MEETINGS of shareholders at the time.
The Shareholder Rights Directive is intended to be implemented As at 18 February 2009, there were options over 9,249,171 in the United Kingdom in August this year.
One of the requireordinary shares in the capital of the Company, including 24,170, ments of the Directive is that all general meetings must be held Deferred Shares, 24,841 Deferred Matching Shares, 334,317 on 21 days notice unless shareholders have agreed to a shorter Investment Matching Shares, 51,468 Deferred Bonus Share period.
We are currently able to call general meetings other than Plan shares and 355,187 Performance Share Plan shares - annual general meetings on 14 days notice.
We are proposing these are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to this resolution so that we can continue to do so after the Direc- 57, which represent 7.54% of the Companys issued ordinary tive is implemented.
share capital excluding any treasury shares.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were exercised in full, these options would represent 8.37% of the Companys issued Resolution 12: AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES ordinary share capital excluding any treasury shares.
As at 18 The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares of 10 February 2009, the Company did not hold any treasury shares pence each granted at last years Annual General Meeting will in the Company and no warrants over ordinary shares in the expire on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
capital of the Company existed.
The Directors wish to renew this authority and a special resolution, which is set out in full in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 113, will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to give the Company the authority to purchase its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
The authority limits the By order of the Board number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of Andrew Pike 12,271,911 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share Company Secretary capital of the Company as at 18 February 2009 and sets 18 February 2009 62
