82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 40 DI R ECTO RS AN D PR OFESSIO final AD VISERS C H AI RM AN C H IEF EXEC UTIVE Tim Stevenson O.
B. E. aged 60 joined the Board in September Geoff Cooper aged 54 joined the Company in February 2005 2001 and became Chairman on 1 November 2001.
He is a and was appointed Chief Executive on 1 March 2005.
He is a barrister and held a number of senior positions in Burmah chartered management accountant and worked in management Castrol plc between 1975 and 2000, including Chief Executive consultancy before joining Gateway now Somerfield plc as from 1998.
He is also non-executive Chairman of Morgan Finance Director in 1990.
In 1994 he became Finance Director Crucible plc, and Lord Lieutenant of Oxfordshire.
He is Chairman of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc which later of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remunerbecame part of Alliance Boots plc, where he was appointed ation and Health & Safety Committees.
He is non-executive Chairman of Dunelm Group Plc.
FI NAN CE DI R ECT O R C H IEF OPER ATI N G OFFI CER Paul Hampden Smith aged 48 is a chartered accountant and John Carter aged 47 joined Sandell Perkins as a management joined Sandell Perkins in 1988.
Following the merger with Travis trainee in 1978.
Having held regional management positions, & Arnold, he was appointed regional finance director.
In 1992, he was appointed as Managing Director, Operations in 1996, he became Finance Director of Travis Perkins Trading Company and became a director of Travis Perkins plc in July 2001.
He Limited and was appointed Finance Director of Travis Perkins was appointed Chief Operating Officer in February 2005, and is plc in 1996.
He was a non-executive director of The Polestar a member of the Health & Safety Committee.
40 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 41 DIRECT ORS AN D PR OFESSION AL AD VISERS Chris Bunker aged 62 was appointed as a non-executive John Coleman aged 56 was appointed as a non-executive director in January 2004.
He is a chartered management director in February 2005.
He is a chartered management accountant and was Finance Director of Thames Water plc, from accountant and Chairman of AGA Rangemaster Group plc.
He was previously Finance Director of was Chief Executive of House of Fraser plc from 1996 to 2006 Tarmac PLC and Westland Group PLC.
He is a non-executive and previously Chief Executive of Texas Homecare and of a director of D S Smith Plc and formerly was a non-executive number of businesses within Burton Group PLC.
He is a member director of Mowlem plc, Baltimore Technologies plc and Xansa of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations and RemuStephen Carter C. B. E. served as a non executive director and neration Committees.
member of the Audit Committee until his resignation on 8 January 2008.
Michael Dearden served as a non-executive director during the year until his retirement on 11 November 2008.
He was Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and Health & Safety Committees.
Secretary: A. S. Pike Audit Committee: C. J. Bunker Chairman, J. Coleman, A. H. Simon Remuneration Committee: A. H. Simon Chairman, C. J. Bunker J. Coleman, T. E. P. Stevenson Nominations Committee: T. E. P. Stevenson Chairman, C. J. Bunker, J. Coleman Health & Safety Committee: A. H. Simon Chairman, J. P. Carter, T. E. P. Stevenson Executive Committee: G. I. Cooper Chief Executive and Committee Chairman J. P. Carter Chief Operating Officer Andrew Simon O.
B. E. aged 63 was appointed as a non-execP.
N. Hampden Smith Finance Director J. Bird Managing Director, Wickes utive director in 2006.
He is non-executive Deputy Chairman of A. J. Davidson Chairman, Specialist Merchanting Dalkia Plc, and a non-executive director of Finning International C. Kavanagh Group HR Director Inc. Management Consulting Group plc and SGL Carbon AG.
He M. R. Meech Group Property Director J. Mescall Chairman, General Merchanting was previously Chairman and or Chief Executive of Evode Group A. S. Pike Company Secretary & Lawyer plc from 1980 to 1993, and has also held non-executive direcR.
D. Proctor Supply Chain Director appointed February 2009 torships with Severn Trent Plc, Ibstock PLC, Laporte Plc, AssoInvestment Bankers Advisors: HSBC Bank plc: Tricorn Partners ciated British Ports Holdings PLC, and Brake Bros Holdings Ltd. Corporate Broker: Citibank: Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Bankers: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc: Barclays Bank plc He is chairman of the Remuneration and Health & Safety Solicitors: Clifford Chance LLP, London: Linklaters LLP, London: Committees, and a member of the Audit Committee.
Hewitsons, Northampton Auditors: Deloitte LLP, Birmingham Registrars: Capita Registrars, Huddersfield 41
