82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:34 Page 47 H EALTH & SAFETY R EPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 ealth & safety H&S remains a Group priority.
The full terms of reference of the H&S have taken a further major step in improving our stanCommittee are available on the Companys website, or, on Hdards in this area by appointing an industry leading request from the Company Secretary.
H&S expert to advise the Group.
With his support, we have launched a change programme designed to win hearts and Composition of the Committee minds, as an important step in embedding a strong H&S culture Throughout 2008, Andrew Simon chaired the Group H&S at every level in the Group.
The response from the business Committee and Tim Stevenson, Mike Dearden until his retireunit management teams has been extremely positive.
Most ment and John Carter were members of it with the Company importantly, the first visible actions resulting from this Secretary, Andrew Pike, being its secretary.
The Chairman of the programme, aimed at changing attitude and behaviour in indiCommittee also invited the Group HR Director and Group Head vidual businesses, have been more wide-reaching and benefiof H&S to attend each meeting during the year.
The Board considers that the Group Head of H&S has relevant H&S knowlcial than we expected.
We recognise that we are still in the early stages of our H&S The Committee met 3 times during 2008 to execute its role, development, but we are confident we will make considerable progress in achieving our vision of making injuries a rare occurworking in tandem with the  Trading Board rence.
Our new electronic accident reporting system now Health & Safety Committee See below.
provides a much more accurate representation of our true H&S performance.
We believe this more accurate reporting has led Main Activities of the Committee During the Year initially to a worsening of our reported H&S performance, but we At its meeting on 9 April 2008, the Committee reviewed group expect that to start levelling out in 2009 and then improving as H&S performance during 2007.
The Committee noted that we move into 2010. despite a reduction in the number of lost time injuries, it was anticipated that statistics would worsen in 2008, following the introduction of an electronic accident reporting system linked to GR OUP H E ALTH & SAFETY the HR absence system.
The H&S teams objectives were C O MM ITTEE reviewed, along with the joint Institute of Directors and Health & The Role of the Committee Safety Commissions guidance on leading H&S at work.
The Group H&S Committee was established in November 2007 At this, and the subsequent meetings on 24 July and 14 to encourage and assist the Groups executive management in October, the Committee also dealt with the following issues: its drive towards achieving and maintaining  incidents or injuries reported, with various recomstandards in health & safety.
The Committee is responsible for mendations: reviewing H&S policies, practices and group performance toTrading Board Health & Safety Committee terms of reference ensure they meet or exceed legal obligations and contribute to and minutes: H&S material presented at internal business conferences: achievement of the Groups H&S objectives.
These objectives H&S performance: are designed to ensure that the business achieves its vision of Proposed group initiatives to further improve the H&S culture making injuries a rare occurrence.
and improve local ownership and management of issues: To execute its role, the Committee ensures that: Routine H&S reports and audits used by management andPlans for the creation of a single group H&S team, covering the Committee are appropriately interpreted: all brands and businesses.
Senior managers in the Group are kept informed of their H&S responsibilities and duties: TRADI N G BOAR D The Committee and the Board are kept abreast of regulatory H EALTH & SAFETY COMM ITTEE changes and their impact: Any extraordinary H&S issue or incident is reported immeThe terms of reference and membership of the Trading Board diately to the Committee, together with subsequent investiHealth & Safety Committee were revised in March 2008, so as gation findings: to reflect the increasing commitment to achieving industryWhere it considers action or improvement is needed, this is leading performance.
Membership throughout 2008 comprised reported to the Board, making recommendations as to the the Chief Operating Officer, John Carter, as Chairman, together steps to be taken.
with the Group HR Director, business unit managing directors The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate, using and the Group Head of H&S.
The Committee met 3 times during the resources of the Group Head of H&S, any activity relating to 2008 to execute its role.
47 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 1 4 09 10:47 Page 48 H E A L T H & S A F E T Y R E P O R T The Role of the Committee matters, including management refresher training, the increasing The Committee ensures that: emphasis on H&S across the Groups businesses and the introBest practice is promoted by approving appropriate actions duction of the electronic accident reporting system referred to to address H&S issues raised with the Committee: above.
The data captured has proven to be more accurate than Awareness of H&S issues is raised across business functhat previously reported using paper based systems.
tions, with discussions and decisions from the Committee There were no RIDDOR workplace fatalities during 2008, being actively reported throughout the Group, including the although 2 delivery vehicles were involved in separate road need for further investment, where necessary: traffic accidents that tragically resulted in the death of a pedesH&S performance is measured by reviewing accident statistics trian in each case.
and internal and external audits presented to the Committee, The Health & Safety Executive concluded their investigaand by agreeing actions to drive continuous improvement: tion into a 2007 fatality in Scotland, following a Keyline collecAny extraordinary H&S issue or incident is investigated and tion from a customer site.
The Keyline delivery driver was the findings reported to this Committee: individually prosecuted, and found guilty under the Health & Significant findings or proposals are reported to the ExecSafety at Work Act, along with the construction company, and utive Committee and the Group H&S Committee, to ensure Keyline was fined 2,400 for its failure to provide traffic cones that actions are taken to eliminate risks and improve on a delivery vehicle.
Enforcement officer inspections of branches showed a favourable improvement in performance and standards, with Main Activities of the Committee During the Year numerous complimentary letters received.
The total number of At each meeting, the Committee dealt with the following issues: improvement notices reduced to 8 across the whole group.
It reviewed reported lost time injuries and near misses across the Group, and made various recommendations: EHO Notices H&S performance: 2006 2007 2008 Development of group initiatives to further improve the H&S No.
culture and increase local ownership and management of Prohibition 7 8 - issues.
Improvement 29 9 8 In addition, the Committee agreed and commenced a cultural change programme to engage fully, with the hearts and minds of all colleagues.
H&S Committee meetings were held at each branch or store 4 times during the year with a centrally prescribed agenda and supporting materials such as a manual handling refresher DVD H E ALTH & SAFETY and online test.
PERFO RM AN CE A refresher DVD was launched for all lorry mounted crane 2008 H&S performance was disappointing in that both the group drivers in Travis Perkins and Keyline, reminding them of good frequency and severity rates worsened, when compared the practice during deliveries, and the need to plan the loading of the previous years statistics.
vehicle to facilitate the delivery at the customer address.
Similar RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous DVDs are being produced for CCF and CPS drivers.
Occurrences Regulation reportable injuries remained at similar A new group H&S induction DVD was produced as part of a levels to 2007, but there was a significant increase in nontotal review of induction training.
The resultant training RIDDOR lost time injuries losing 3 working days or less.
This is programme Setting Foundations is being introduced to each believed to be primarily a result of increased attention to H&S individual business and will be completed during 2009.
