82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 4 WHO WE ARE Travis Perkins, a major PLC, is a main supplier to the building and construction market, one of the largest industries in the UK.
The present day Company was formed Andrew Pike in 1988 out of a merger between Travis and Company Secretary and Lawyer Arnold plc, a company with a strong Midlands and Northern based business, and Sandell Perkins plc, a company with an equivalent strength in the Carol Kavanagh South of England.
Group Human Resources Director The origins of Sandell Perkins can be traced back over 200 years to 1797 when a carpentry company was first established in London: Travis and Arnold was Martin Meech Group Property Director initially formed as a partnership in 1899.
During the early to mid 20th century both businesses expanded before eventually becoming listed public companies, Travis and Arnold was the first to the market in 1964, followed 22 years later by Sandell Perkins.
4 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 5 G ENERALIST MERC H ANTI N G he core businesses of Travis and Arnold plc and Sandell Perkins plc formed, following the merger in T1988, what is now the general merchanting business within the trade division.
It trades nationally through the Travis Perkins brand and comprises four individual businesses.
Joe Mescall, who has been with the Group since 1974, leads the business in his role as Divisional Chairman.
The Managing Directors of the four Joe Mescall regional businesses are Ian Divisional Chairman Church Travis Perkins Midlands, Phil Grandsen Travis Perkins South East, Norman Bell Travis Perkins South West and Mark Nottingham Travis Perkins Northern.
Mark Nottingham The customers of the MD Northern general merchanting business are primarily professional tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to national housebuilders, whose key requirements are product range and availability, pricing clarity and Ian Church MD Midlands customer service.
The general merchanting business, through the Travis Perkins brand, operates to high standards in each of these requirements and continues to improve to meet customer needs.
The strategy of the general merchanting division aims to Phil Grandsen MD South East increase market share through implementation of our Best Practice programme and ongoing branch network expansion.
The Best Practice programme is designed to enhance our overall service to trade customers and covers all of their key requirements: all four general merchanting businesses are operating to high standards in these areas and also have stretching targets in place to deliver further improvements.
Norman Bell MD South West Network expansion will be concentrated on Local Authority and Housing Association store projects in the short term: potential exists to double the number of such outlets over the next few years.
5 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 31 3 09 16:33 Page 6 SPECIALIST MERC H ANTI N G he Specialist Merchanting division was formed in 2007 and is led by the Divisional Chairman, Arthur TDavidson.
He has worked in merchanting for over thirty years having joined Keyline prior to its acquisition by the Travis Perkins Group.
The Specialist Merchanting division consists of four separate businesses trading under the following brands, Keyline, City Plumbing Supplies, CCF and Benchmarx.
Arthur Davidson Keyline is a specialist Divisional Chairman merchant supplying heavy building materials and civils and drainage solutions to the construction industry throughout the UK.
Keyline is known for its knowledgeable staff and David Stewart excellent delivery service and MD Keyline is led by Managing Director, David Stewart, who was formerly Operations Director for Keyline in Scotland.
City Plumbing Supplies is a major nationwide plumbing and heating merchant serving John Frost MD City Plumbing Supplies both the contract market and the general plumbing and heating market.
The Company offers high quality products and expert service to the trade.
The Managing Director of City Plumbing Supplies is John Frost who joined the Travis Perkins Group in 1983.
Andrew Harrison MD Benchmarx CCF is a leading supplier of interior building products to the construction industry.
It operates throughout the UK, offering a one-stop-shop to its customers from its nationwide branch network.
CCFs Managing Director is Kieran Griffin who joined the group in 1995 and progressed via its management trainee scheme, branch management and regional management roles to the position of managing director.
Kieran Griffin MD CCF In 2006, Benchmarx became the first group brand to be created as a completely new business within a market adjacent to an existing Travis Perkins market.
Based mainly in the South East, the business is a leading supplier of kitchen and joinery products to the trade through its competitive pricing, quality products and knowledgeable staff.
Benchmarx is led by Andrew Harrison, who joined the Travis Perkins Group following the acquisition of Sharpe and Fisher in 1999.
6 82987 TRAVIS PRE:Layout 1 1 4 09 09:37 Page 7 R ETAI L DIVISION he Retail division comprises two businesses Wickes, a national chain of DIY retail outlets and Tile Giant a Tceramic tile merchant acquired in 2007.
Wickes stores are designed to appeal to tradesmen who undertake general repairs, maintenance and improvement projects for households and small businesses and to serious DIY customers who carry out more complete DIY projects.
These customers are more Jeremy Bird demanding in terms of service, Divisional Chairman and MD Wickes quality and price.
The Company meets these expectations by offering a focussed range of high quality, primarily own brand, competitively priced home improveMo Iqbal ment products, such as MD Tile Giant timber, building materials, tools and decorative materials.
In addition, Wickes stores offer a range of kitchens and bathrooms, which are sold through in-store showrooms.
Wickes, which opened its first store in the UK in 1972 at Whitefield in Manchester was acquired by Travis Perkins in 2005 and the Company now operates from 192 stores nationwide.
The Managing Director of Wickes is Jeremy Bird who joined Wickes sixteen years ago and has fulfilled various roles including that of Commercial Director.
In November 2007 Travis Perkins acquired its seventh brand, Tile Giant.
In 2008 the division aquired Tile Magic, a 17 store chain and Tile it All a 16 store chain.
The acquisitions are consistent with the Groups strategy for growth in the ceramic tile market.
The brand is now trading from a total of 78 stores.
Under the leadership of Mo Iqbal, the Managing Director of Tile Giant, the brand offers a strong pipeline for further expansion.
