Governance Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report to the members of Share capital TUI Travel PLC the Company for the 14-month period The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, the period ended 30 September 2008. together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 23 Principal activity to the financial statements.
The Groups principal activity is that of an international leisure travel business.
It provides a broad and diverse On 18 March 2008, 49,998 non-voting, non-dividend bearing range of leisure travel experiences to more than 30m Redeemable Preference Shares of 1 each in the share customers in 25 different source markets.
capital of the Company held by TUI AG were redeemed.
Business review People agenda The Business and financial review for the year ended TUI Travel operates a global portfolio of businesses, 30 September 2008 is set out on pages 11 to 35 and employing approximately 50,000 people across the Group forms part of the Report of the Directors.
including Europe, the USA, Canada, Asia and Australia.
Although businesses within our portfolio are at various stages Business combination of development and maturity, together we share a common On 3 September 2007, 1,118,010,650 shares were issued by vision and set of values.
Our aim is to build the most capable the Company in connection with the business combination and engaged teams to deliver optimum business performance of the Tourism Division of TUI AG excluding certain hotel and thereby support the goals of delivering high performance assets TUI Tourism group of companies and First Choice to create superior shareholder value and career fulfilment for Holidays PLC the Business Combination.
The Business all of our colleagues.
Combination completed on 3 September 2007 and, on that date, the Companys ordinary shares were admitted to the Our commitment to our colleagues is to: Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges Engage them in our aims and success and in matters main market for listed securities.
In September 2007, the Company extended its accounting Reward them in a way which is right for them and reflects reference date from 31 July to 30 September 2008. their contribution to the Groups success.
The previous accounts for the Company were made up to 31 July 2007 - prior to the Business Combination.
Our commitment to attracting, developing and In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 Business retaining talent Combinations an acquirer must be identified in the We are proud of the commitment and dedication of our combination of the two groups.
The identified acquirer colleagues in delivering the levels of service and efficiency is the TUI Tourism group of companies.
Therefore the which make us stand out from our competitors.
Everyone is consolidated financial statements of the TUI Travel PLC valued for their skills and talents and every effort is made Group of Companies the Group are prepared for the year to support them to achieve their full potential.
We are ended 30 September 2008 with statutory comparative committed to using the most effective recruitment methods information being given for the 9-month period ended in the countries in which we operate and to building skills 30 September 2007 which is the accounting reference and knowledge in ways which suit both the business and our date for the former TUI Tourism group of companies.
consolidated financial statements are prepared on the basis set out in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Our leadership capability is key to our success and we therefore continue to invest in developing our leaders.
A Results and dividends number of our senior managers have had the opportunity of The Group loss before taxation for the year ended 30 attending a leadership programme working in a community in September 2008, was 266.6m 2007: 9-month statutory Costa Rica.
This is a Groupwide programme, which builds the profit before taxation 18.4m.
skills and capability of those with the greatest responsibility for leadership and strategy, as well as supporting our On 7 April 2008, an initial interim dividend of 5.90p per sustainable tourism goals.
There is also a Groupwide ordinary share was paid.
management programme targeted at middle management and an international trainee programme through which we The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.90p per recruit and develop young talent.
Investment in the capability ordinary share, payable on 6 April 2009 to holders on of our colleagues is a priority and they get the opportunity the register at the close of business on 13 March 2009. for dialogue on their training needs each year.
When taken with the interim dividend of 2.80p per ordinary share paid on 1 October 2008, this gives a total dividend Everyone also has the opportunity to meet their line manager of 9.70p paid by the Group relating to the year ended at least once annually to discuss their performance and to 30 September 2008. make plans for development in the coming year.
A range of performance and development tools enable individuals to identify training opportunities, understand the role they play in our success and support the setting of personal objectives linked to our business plans.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 38 Retaining key people is critical to our continued business Sustainable Development success particularly in times of change.
Talent across the We recognise our responsibility to monitor and manage Group is reviewed regularly at Board level and our focus is to any negative impacts on the environment and people and to retain and develop individuals to drive the business forward.
We seek to make sustainable We actively promote people to career opportunities across development central to the way we run and manage the the Group to enhance the mix of professional, entrepreneurial Group.
We aspire to lead in sustainable development within and general management skills.
To meet seasonal demands, the leisure travel industry and beyond.
where possible, we move our top performing frontline colleagues between retail, overseas representation and airline In early 2008, the managing directors of all Group cabin crew roles.
This develops a multi-skilled workforce with businesses were asked to take into consideration sustainable year-round experience of delivering service to our customers.
development issues with particular reference to climate change when developing their business strategies.
Rewarding people and valuing their contribution We have a reward strategy developed around Groupwide This year, we have established a new governance structure principles ensuring alignment to our business objectives, with for sustainable development within the Group.
Johan flexibility to enable successful local implementation across Lundgren, Managing Director of TUI Northern Region, is many differing geographies.
Recognising and rewarding our responsible for reporting on sustainable development to the colleagues in ways that are effective for them is a key driver TUI Travel PLC Board.
Dermot Blastland, Managing Director for engagement and high performance.
Our reward strategy of TUI UK & Ireland, has responsibility for reporting on includes base pay, competency pay, incentives, benefits and sustainable development to the Group Management Board.
We make every effort to measure the input and results of individuals and teams.
Many people Our senior-level Steering Committee, chaired by Dermot participate in share-based incentives, giving them an interest Blastland, is the driving force in establishing headline policy in the financial performance of the Company.
The Committee meets twice a year and is composed of all Sector Managing Directors and a nominated We encourage participation and meet our social and formal Sector lead member responsible for driving sustainability obligations through a wide range of representation forums.
Opinion surveys, including a specific leadership survey across the Groups senior managers, are conducted to monitor The Group has maintained a dedicated Sustainable our colleagues knowledge of business direction, the level Development team of three people.
This team reports direct of engagement in our vision and values and views on the to Dermot Blastland and its role is to drive sustainability Companys practices and policies.
performance across the Group towards best practice.
Finally, each Sector has a Sustainable Development Coordinator with As a global Group, we operate in many diverse cultures a remit to promote and embed environmental and social issues and accept our responsibility to rule out discrimination on throughout their sector.
any grounds including ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, disability and age.
We continue to develop policies on nonFor information on the Groups Sustainable Development discrimination and inclusiveness in line with best practice strategy and projects see page 32. and, where possible, they are incorporated into training for line managers as a key part of induction programmes.
Unfair Policy and practice on payment of suppliers treatment of any colleague is not tolerated and confidential The Groups TUI Travel PLC and subsidiary companies reporting mechanisms are available through which colleagues operating units are responsible for agreeing the terms and can confidentially raise matters of this nature which may conditions under which business transactions with their concern them.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations and in common with the industry as a whole, Ensuring that everyone shares our aims and are involved in payments are often made in advance of the provision of matters which affect them is a key challenge to which we are goods and services.
The Group does not follow any code committed.
People work with us in many countries around or statement on payment practice but it is Group policy the world a significant number of whom are engaged on a that payments to suppliers, whether in advance or after seasonal basis.
A key priority is that we hire people who we the provision of the goods or services, are made on the believe share our passion for our customers and products.
basis of the terms that have been agreed with them.
We then build engagement through involvement, consultation and by providing regular local and global updates in ways The Company TUI Travel PLC had no trade creditors which suit our working environment and local cultures.
at 30 September 2008 31 July 2007: nil and consequently creditor days have not been presented.
Where the Company A Group extranet, Discover, enhances communications is the recipient of goods or services, payment of suppliers across the businesses within the Group.
The website provides is conducted by one of the Group companies in accordance a central source where everyone can find external and with the policy set out above.
internal information about our businesses, the Sectors and the Group.
This is in addition to, and complements, Sector communication tools and processes which are tailored to meet Sector specific needs.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 39 Governance Report of the Directors continued Directors The Directors who served during the year and at the date of this report are set out below: Appointment date Directors Name Title Resignation date Dr Michael Frenzel Non-Executive Chairman 28 June 2007 Sir Michael Hodgkinson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director 28 June 2007 Peter Long Chief Executive 28 June 2007 Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer 28 June 2007 Dr Volker Bttcher Managing Director, Central Europe 19 June 2007 Tony Campbell Non-Executive Director 28 June 2007 Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director 28 June 2007 Bill Dalton Non-Executive Director 19 March 2007 Rainer Feuerhake Non-Executive Director 28 June 2007 Jeremy Hicks Non-Executive Director 28 June 2007 Johan Lundgren Managing Director, Northern Region 21 December 2007 Christoph Mueller Aviation Director 28 June 2007 Peter Rothwell Deputy Chief Executive 16 September 2007 Resigned 21 December 2007 Dr Erhard Schipporeit Non-Executive Director 29 October 2007 Dr Albert Schunk Non-Executive Director 29 October 2007 Harold Sher Non-Executive Director 29 October 2007 Giles Thorley Non-Executive Director 19 March 2007 William Waggott Commercial Director 28 June 2007 As at 30 September 2008, the Board comprised six Executive Directors and eleven Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
There have been no changes to the Board since that date.
Biographical details of all the Directors are set out on pages 36 to 37.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, each year one-third of the Board members will retire by rotation and additional biographical details to enable shareholders to make an informed decision on the reappointment of the Non-Executive Directors are contained in the 2009 Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Directors retiring by rotation at the AGM are Sir Michael Hodgkinson, Paul Bowtell, Bill Dalton, Jeremy Hicks, Christoph Mueller and William Waggott who, all being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all six Directors retiring at the meeting on the basis that they are all effective Directors of the Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of commitment in their respective roles.
The terms of the Directors service contracts are disclosed in the Remuneration Report commencing on page 49.
Directors interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 58.
Directors Insurance The Company has purchased, and maintained throughout the year, Directors and Officers Liability insurance.
In addition, cover has also been placed for any wrongful acts that occurred prior to the merger for both the former First Choice and TUI Tourism Directors.
Substantial shareholdings As at 26 November 2008 the Company was aware of the following interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Shares millions % TUI AG 574,243,561 51.36 AllianceBernstein Investments L. P. 64,620,558 5.78 Standard Life Investments 37,707,800 3.37 Prudential Plc 33,942,313 3.03 Save as above, no other person has reported an interest, which is notifiable under the Companies Act 1985, being an interest of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 40 Significant agreements change of control foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose any the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
A further summary of funding and liquidity is included in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Relationship Agreement with TUI AG The Relationship Agreement between TUI AG and TUI Charitable and political donations Travel, dated 29 June 2007, includes the principle that TUI The Group is committed to being proactively involved in Travel will operate independently of TUI AG and records the protecting the natural environment and benefiting local understanding between TUI AG and TUI Travel regarding the communities in destination and source markets.
During the relationship between them and the governance of TUI Travel.
year, the Group made charitable donations of 236,200 The Relationship Agreement will remain in force until either 181,000 for nine months to 30 September 2007.
The Group the shares in TUI Travel are no longer admitted to trading on made no political contributions during the year 2007: nil.
the London Stock Exchange, or TUI AG has less than 10% of the rights to vote at general meetings.
In addition, in the Financial risk management event that another party acquires control of TUI AG during Details of the Groups financial risk management objectives the term of the Relationship Agreement, TUI AG will lose and framework are included in the Corporate Governance certain rights under the Relationship Agreement including report on pages 46 and 47, and in the Responsible leadership its rights in respect of the composition of the Board.
The Relationship Agreement contains restrictions on the Auditors acquisition by TUI AG of additional shares in TUI Travel which On 2 May 2008,  LLP resigned as result in the increase of its shareholding to more than 55% of auditors of the Company and the Directors appointed KPMG the voting rights save where TUI AG makes a general offer Audit Plc as auditors.
In accordance with Section 489 of the to acquire all TUI Travel shares in issue.
TUI AG has antiCompanies Act 2006, a resolution for the re-appointment dilution rights in respect of further issues of shares in TUI of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be Travel other than on a pre-emptive basis.
TUI Travel has also proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
agreed that certain matters will require the prior approval of 80% of the Directors present at the meeting of the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a copy of the Board at which such matter is considered, including material statement of circumstances connected with their ceasing changes to the business of any Group company, acquisitions to hold office was deposited with the Company on 6 May and disposals of a value which exceeds 10m, the entry 2008 by  LLP and this statement into, variation or redemption prior to their due date of any was circulated by the Company to all shareholders and other borrowing facilities and the approval of the annual budget.
persons who are entitled to receive copies of the Companys annual report and accounts.
770 million bank revolving credit facility agreement An agreement dated 29 June 2007 between a number of Statement of the Directors as to disclosure of relationship banks and the Company relating to a 770m information to Auditors bank revolving credit facility currently provided to the The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Company, contains terms which give the lending banks there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys the right to cancel all commitments to the Company and auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the to declare all outstanding credits and accrued interest steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director immediately due and payable if a change of control to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit occurs.
For the purpose of this agreement a change of information and to establish that the Companys auditors control occurs if: are aware of that information.
i any person or group of persons acting in concert gains Other matters control of the Company: or An explanation as to the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting which is to be held on Thursday ii TUI A G and any persons acting in concert with it acquires 5 February 2009 at 10.30am, is contained in the explanatory or acquire 75% or more of the voting shares in notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting which the Company.
accompanies this Report and Accounts.
No other agreements which take effect, alter or terminate By Order of the Board upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Going concern Andrew John After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have Company Secretary reasonable expectation that the Company and Group 26 November 2008 have adequate resources to continue operations for the TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 41
