Giles Thorley Non-Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 61 Age 40 Age 64 Age 41 Dr Michael Frenzel joined the Board of Paul Bowtell joined the Board of TUI Travel Rainer Feuerhake joined the Preussag Giles Thorley became a Non-Executive TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007.
He was appointed Group now TUI AG in 1968 and by 1980 Director of First Choice Holidays PLC in studied law at university and began his to the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC was responsible for group accounting.
February 2006 and joined the Board of career at Westdeutsche Landesbank in September 2004 as Group Finance Rainer was appointed as Chief Financial TUI Travel PLC on 19 March 2007.
He was Director and was previously the Finance Officer of Preussag AG in November is currently the Chief Executive Officer promoted to various managerial positions Director of British Gas, a subsidiary of 1988 and subsequently TUI AG following of Punch Taverns plc.
After qualifying and became manager of the Industrial Centrica plc, where he had been since a resolution to rename Preussag AG as a Barrister, he had an early career at Holdings Department in 1983 and overall January 2002.
Prior to that, he was with on 1 July 2002.
In this position Rainer Nomura International plc and has been manager of WestLBs Equity Holdings W H Smith plc where he held a number was responsible for the departments in his current post of Chief Executive of Division in 1985 - including holdings in of corporate centre roles before becoming of Accounting & Reporting, Finance, Punch Taverns plc since 2001.
At Punch, banking, leasing and real estate.
the Finance Director of the UK Retail Investor Relations, Tax Affairs, Mergers & he successfully led the IPO and Punchs business.
He is an Associate of the Acquisitions, Destination Management and subsequent acquisition of Pubmaster and Michael has held the position of Chief Institute of Chartered Accountants in the Shared Service Centre.
He joined the Spirit Group to its current position as the Executive & Chairman of the Executive England and Wales.
In November 2007 Board of TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007. largest pub company in the UK.
Board of TUI AG formerly Preussag Paul was appointed a Non-Executive AG since January 1994, overseeing Director of SThree PLC.
Harold Sher its extensive acquisition programme Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director in the late 1990s, which resulted in 5.
William Waggott Age 59 Age 61 the acquisitions of TUI AGs stake in Commercial Director Tony Campbell became a Non-Executive Harold Sher joined the Board of TUI Hapag-Lloyd and of leading tourism Age 46 Director of First Choice Holidays PLC Travel PLC as a Non-Executive Director businesses such as Thomson Travel and William Waggott joined the Board of TUI in April 1997 and joined the Board on 29 October 2007.
Michael is also Travel PLC on 28 June 2007.
He spent of TUI Travel PLC on 28 June 2007. commerce at university and started currently a member of the supervisory the early part of his career with Coopers He was Deputy Chief Executive of Asda his career as a Chartered Accountant.
board of a number of companies including & Lybrand and Courthaulds Textiles plc, Stores Limited until March 2001 and is Harold moved to industry early in his Norddeutsche Landesbank, AXA Konzern where he performed various senior group currently Chairman of Hobbs Headco career holding a range of executive AG and Volkswagen AG.
finance and divisional finance director Limited, Chairman of T M Lewin & positions before being appointed roles.
William joined Airtours plc in 1992 Sons Limited, Chairman of The White Chief Executive of Amalgamated Metal 2.
Sir Michael Hodgkinson as UK Leisure Group Finance Director, Company and a director of Alaska Food Corporation PLC in 1992, a position he Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and prior to joining Thomson Travel Group in Diagnostics Limited.
He has served as president of Senior Independent Director 2001.
He then went on to become Chief a major North American Steel Services Age 64 Financial Officer of TUI Tourism.
Dr Albert Schunk Group and, together with his role at Sir Michael Hodgkinson joined the Non-Executive Director Amalgamated Metal Corporation, this has Board of First Choice Holidays PLC as a 6.
Christoph Mueller Aged 67 provided him with broad international Non-Executive Director in January 2004 Aviation Director Dr Albert Schunk joined the Board of TUI commercial experience.
and became Chairman in March 2004.
Age 46 Travel PLC as a Non-Executive Director He joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC on Christoph Mueller has extensive on 29 October 2007.
Clare Chapman 28 June 2007 as Non-Executive Deputy experience within the aviation industry, economics at university and carried Non-Executive Director Chairman and is the Senior Independent having held senior positions in Daimler out a research project for the German Age 48 Director.
Following an early career in the Benz Aerospace, Lufthansa AG and the Government in Latin America.
After Clare Chapman became a Non-Executive automotive industry, he was appointed Sabena Group.
He became Chief Financial joining IG-Metall, he has served on the Director of First Choice Holidays PLC in Chief Executive of Grand Metropolitans Officer of DHL Worldwide Network SA supervisory board of Volkswagen and March 2003 and joined the Board of TUI European Food Division in 1986 and in in 2002 and became a member of the other German Companies since 1976.
She is the 1992 he joined BAA plc, becoming Chief executive committee of Deutsche Post In 1994 he became a member of the Director General of Workforce for the NHS Executive in 1999, a post from which he AG in 2004.
In January 2006, Christoph European Economic and Social Council and Department of Health and, prior to retired in June 2003. joined the Executive Committee of TUI, in Brussels and has recently been advising this, was Group HR Director of Tesco PLC.
responsible for the flight division.
From the Riu Group in Spain.
In addition, Clare serves on the Advisory Sir Michael was Senior Non-Executive September 2006 to the date of the merger Board of the Judge Business School, Director at Royal Mail and Chairman of between First Choice Holidays PLC and 12.
Bill Dalton University of Cambridge.
Post Office Limited until September 2007 the Tourism Division of TUI AG he was a Non-Executive Director and is currently a Non-Executive Director member of the Executive Board of TUI AG.
Dr Erhard Schipporeit of Transport for London Limited and Christoph joined the Board of TUI Travel Bill Dalton became a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Dublin Airport.
He was also a Director of PLC on 28 June 2007.
Director of First Choice Holidays PLC in Age 59 Bank of Ireland plc from May 2004 until October 2004 and joined the Board of Dr Erhard Schipporeit joined the Board of July 2006.
Dr Volker Bttcher TUI Travel PLC on 19 March 2007.
He was TUI Travel PLC as a Non-Executive Director Managing Director, Central Europe previously an executive director of HSBC on 29 October 2007.
Peter Long Age 49 Holdings plc, Chief Executive of HSBC in 1979 in the Bosch Group and in 1981 Chief Executive After an early career in law, Volker joined Bank plc and Global Head of Personal he joined VARTA AG VARTA Battery AG, Age 56 Touristik Union International in 1987 as Financial Services for the HSBC Group.
at that time a leading European battery Peter Long joined the Board of TUI Travel a legal advisor.
Having occupied various During his banking career, he has amassed company, where he became CFO in 1990 PLC on 28 June 2007.
In November management positions, he became head a great deal of international expertise and CEO & Chairman of the Executive 1996 he was appointed Group Managing of TUIs Special Programmes Division in and is also a non-executive director of Board in 1993.
After the successful Director of First Choice Holidays PLC and 1996 which included responsibility for a number of UK and North American restructuring of VARTA the next move became Chief Executive in September long-haul destinations, city tours and the companies including Associated Electric in his career brought him to the Munich 1999.
Prior to joining First Choice, he Eastern Mediterranean.
In 2003 Volker & Gas Insurance Services AEGIS, AEGIS based conglomerate company VIAG AG was Chief Executive of Sunworld Holidays, was appointed Chairman for Central Managing Agency Limited UK, HSBC as CFO.
VIAG merged in 2000 with VEBA having previously been Finance Director Europe for TUI AG, being responsible North America Holding Inc, Talisman AG to form the new E. ON AG, one then Chief Executive of the tour operating for all tourism activities in the source Energy Inc and US Cold Storage Inc. of the worlds leading utility companies.
division of the International Leisure Group.
markets of Germany, Austria, Switzerland Erhard was CFO and Executive Board and Poland.
Jeremy Hicks Member of E. ON from 2000 until his In October 2002 Peter was appointed a board of TUI Deutschland GmbH in Non-Executive Director resignation in November 2006.
In 2007 Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial April 2000.
Following the restructuring of Age 55 he was appointed Senior Advisor for plc and joined the board of Debenhams TUIs business model in Germany, he was Jeremy Hicks became a Non-Executive BNP Paribas SA and is also currently a PLC as a Non-Executive Director in May appointed CEO of TUI Deutschland GmbH Director of First Choice Holidays PLC Non-Executive Director of a number of 2006.
He was a Non-Executive Director in July 2001.
Volker joined the Board of in March 2005 and joined the Board of companies including SAP AG, Deutsche of RAC plc formerly Lex Service Plc TUI Travel PLC on 19 June 2007.
He is a Boerse AG, Talanx AG and Hanover from February 2001 to June 2005.
Chartered Accountant with a number of Rueckversicherung AG.
Johan Lundgren business interests particularly in the field Managing Director, Northern Region of marketing services.
He has extensive Age 42 experience in the world of finance as an Johan was appointed to the Board of Investment Banker and most recently TUI Travel PLC on 21 December 2007. as Chief Financial Officer of Aegis Group He has worked in the Nordic tourism plc, a leading UK-based multi-national industry for almost 20 years, 10 of marketing services group, from which he which have been as a Managing Director.
Between 1999 and 2001, he was President of Sunquest Vacations in Canada.
Johan went on to become Chief Executive of TUI Nordic and also took responsibility for tourism sales in the source markets of Italy and Russia.
Following a reorganisation in January 2008, Johan is now responsible for the Northern Region which includes all Mainstream tourism sales in the UK & Ireland, Canada, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 37
