Our Business Strategy and imperatives A clear strategic goal We have a clear strategic goal which is to create superior shareholder value by being a global leading leisure travel group providing customers with a wide choice of differentiated and flexible travel experiences to meet their changing needs.
To enable us to achieve this goal we have identified four key strategic imperatives which are linked to our KPIs.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 04 Strategy and imperatives Imperative 1: Product and Content Highlights Provided circa 46% differentiated content in Mainstream.
Operated a portfolio of 97 niche businesses within Activity and Specialist Sectors.
Offered 50,000 hotels in 100 countries through Online Destination Services.
Growing our portfolio of higher margin differentiated content within the Mainstream Sector underpins our plans to improve our underlying operating margin.
Approximately 46% of our Mainstream tour operator turnover is generated by differentiated content and we have specific targets to increase this in each source market.
Each source market has its own differentiated content offering specifically designed products for the requirements of their customers including concepts such as Blue in the Nordics, Sensatori and Holiday Village in the UK and Canada and Robinson Clubs, RIU and Sensimar in Germany.
These include exclusive hotels that no other company can match or easily replicate and have been tailored to include additional services and facilities to offer our customers exactly what they want on their holiday.
Our research identifies that our differentiated products are integral to customer retention, brand building and uniqueness and lead to a competitive advantage in the market.
These holidays also book earlier which enables us to generate premium margins by creating a more added-value experience for our customers.
Our specialist businesses offer significant potential for further growth.
These are high-growth, high-margin segments of the leisure travel market which present excellent opportunities for us to create leading positions in fragmented markets.
We have already completed 16 acquisitions this year where we have built upon or created new leadership positions and we will continue to identify and build new specialist segments to deliver long-term sustainable shareholder value.
P roduct and C ontent We provide our customers differentiated content that no other tour operator can match or easily replicate.
These include the Blue concept in the Nordics, Sensatori and Holiday Village in the UK and Canada, and Robinson Clubs, RIU and Sensimar in Germany.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 05 Our Business Strategy and imperatives continued T rustworthy b rands Our trustworthy brands provide excellent value for money.
We have leading power brands in the Mainstream Sector including TUI Deutschland, Thomson, First Choice and Fritidsresor, and leading niche brands in our specialist businesses including Exodus, Hayes & Jarvis, Sunsail, Turchese and Hotelbeds.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 06 5 0,000 c olleagues The motivation and retention of our 50,000 colleagues is fundamental to the success of our business.
Across the Group we have a unique breadth and depth of experience with innovative entrepreneurs in our specialist businesses, skilled tour operators in Mainstream and functional experts in the centre.
Our values are customer obsessed, value driven, playing to win and responsible leadership.
We use these values to help us create a winning Spirit throughout the business.
Imperative 2: Distribution and Brands Imperative 3: People and Operational Efficiency Highlights Highlights Controlled 53% of Mainstream Sector distribution.
Underlying operating profit margin up 90 basis points to 2.9%.
Controlled 72% of Activity Sector distribution.
Integration progressing well with synergies upgraded Controlled 66% of Specialist Sector distribution.
Number one travel website in both UK and Germany Completed sale and leaseback of 20 owned aircraft and in terms of visitor numbers.
We are continuing to invest in our direct distribution channels The cost synergies arising from the integration of the UK as a key driver for reducing our distribution cost and thereby First Choice and Thomson businesses and cost savings increasing our margin.
We gain a competitive advantage by in Online Destination Services, France, Austria, Germany selling to customers through these lower cost channels, as it and the UK scheduled and ski businesses will contribute leads to further control of the customer booking experience significantly to our short-term competitive position.
We have and the customer relationship.
By securing direct access to made excellent progress to date delivering 35m in 2008 our customers, we can manage the whole holiday process and taken actions to deliver 100m in 2009.
In addition from booking with an agent in our travel shops, online or to the delivery of these cost synergies, the businesses via one of our call centres, to in-resort and after-sales are continually working to leverage their market-leading service, whilst driving customer satisfaction and ultimately position and scale to maximise their cost competiveness and customer loyalty.
rationalise the cost base further through business processes and systems.
Across our source markets we have instigated a number of strategies to drive further direct distribution.
In the UK we Our tour operators determine their flight capacity have focused on maximising the efficiency of our channels requirements and we typically only invest in assets such as by utilising the down time in our shops to work as a virtual yachts, inland waterway cruisers and expedition cruise ships call centre.
In France we are expanding the retail estate via that provide us with greater competitive advantage and 92 franchised agencies and 60 in-house stores to support the enable us to earn premium margins.
In the Nordic source market, we are investing further in optimising our website to drive down Within our mainstream source markets, through a the cost of customer acquisition.
Our ability to transition to combination of flexible lease profiles, which allow for 15-20 a direct distribution model is underpinned by the strength aircraft operating leases to expire every year, use of third of our leading power brands in the Mainstream Sector and party flying accounting for 30% of all tour operator capacity niche brands in our Specialist Sectors.
and uncommitted bedstock accounting for 80% of bedstock, we have the ability to manage capacity in response to changes in the trading environment.
During the year, to further increase the flexibility of our business model and secure access to modern and fuel-efficient aircraft, we undertook sale and leaseback agreements for 20 owned aircraft and four new deliveries within the TUI Travel fleet.
As such, we are ideally positioned to meet the changing dynamics of the marketplace and capture the growth opportunities wherever we operate.
The motivation and retention of our people is fundamental to the success of our business and to the delivery of our goal to create superior shareholder value.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 07 Our Business Strategy and imperatives continued As a result of the synergy benefits of 175m and initiatives Imperative 4: Growth and capital allocation to deliver underlying margin enhancement through increased Highlights controlled distribution, greater differentiated content and Acquired 16 niche high-growth businesses in 2008 for 108.6m.
capacity management actions we have a clear roadmap to Working with local partner to jointly develop a Russian and an underlying operating profit margin of 4.6%.
In addition, CIS tourism presence.
we have targeted a significant increase in our return on Underlying operating profit up 53% to 398m.
invested capital and thereby deliver sustainable value to Return on invested capital up 300 basis points to 8.4%.
In the past financial year, we have already made significant progress in realising these key objectives We have identified a number of strategic imperatives that by improving our underlying operating profit margin by will deliver sustainable long-term growth.
A key element 0.9ppt to 2.9% 2007: 2.0% and our return on invested is the introduction of 23 Boeing 787s which we are keen capital to 8.4% 2007: 5.4%.
to establish as a key differentiator in Continental Europe and use to develop a pre-eminent position in the long-haul charter market.
Despite the production delays at Boeing, the Boeing 787 presents a significant opportunity to deliver growth going forward.
Further organic long-term growth will be achieved through the introduction of some of our niche specialist brands in the Specialist and Activity Sectors into new European markets utilising our pan-European retail estate of circa 3,500 branches.
For example, we recently launched our inland waterways brand Le Boat into our German retail estate, with excellent sales to date.
Our acquisition strategy is a key contributor to future growth.
Despite the current economic climate, we have a strong pipeline of potential acquisition opportunities and we will continue to acquire niche high-growth bolt-on acquisitions Emerging economies spend on tourism 2007 with a high level of expertise within the business.
As a leading international leisure travel group, we are ideally $22.3bn positioned to benefit from the growing demand in emerging Russian Federation economies that are experiencing significant growth in leisure travel.
The World Tourism Organisation now ranks China in fifth place behind Germany, United States, United Kingdom $29.8bn and France spending $29.8bn in 2007 on tourism.
Close China behind is the Russian Federation ranked ninth and spending $22.3bn in 2007.
As part of our strategy to develop our existing position in the Russian outbound market, we have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with S Group Capital Management to develop jointly a Russian and CIS leisure tourism presence.
In addition, we are also actively looking at expanding our existing position in the Chinese Source: World Tourism Organisation and Indian travel markets.
TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 08 Specialist businesses Our acquisition strategy is a key contributor to future growth.
During the year we acquired 16 niche high-growth businesses.
We will continue to acquire niche high-growth bolt-on acquisitions.
China TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09
