Our Business Source markets and sector overview Local understanding... TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 02... International scale Source markets and delivering premium margins.
From the acquisition of Global tourism in the first part of 2008 continued to grow at Sunsail in 1999 we have created the worlds largest Marine a strong rate despite the economic uncertainty and turmoil charter business.
From the acquisition of Exodus in 2002 in the financial markets.
Despite a recent deterioration in we have become the leading Adventure operator in the UK.
demand growth, tourism has resisted the downturn better From the acquisition of Peregrine in 2005 we have the most than other sectors and, history suggests, leisure travel is extensive small ship polar cruising programme.
More recently, more resilient to consumer pressures than other discretionary from the acquisition of Australian Sports Tours in 2007 purchases in times of recession.
and Gullivers Sport Travel in April 2008 we have started to establish a market-leading position in the sport and event TUI Travel has a unique combination of differentiated content travel market in the UK and Australia.
and specialist product offerings, catering to a wide range of customers across 25 source markets which means we are Destinations not overly reliant on any one source market or customer As global travel and tourism continues to expand, certain segment.
Our business model contains a high degree of destinations are set to grow faster than others.
For instance flexibility due to low bedstock commitments, third-party the first eight months of 2008 saw the Middle East 17.3%, flying arrangements and the well balanced lease-expiry Central America 9.4%, South America 7.2%, South Asia profile of our aircraft fleet and retail portfolio.
As a result 7.5% and North Africa 6.9% significantly outperform we can manage supply in line with changes in demand.
the total market, which was up 3.7% over the same period Source: United Nations World Tourism Organisation.
Our Mainstream market Online Destination Services Sector already has a considerable The mainstream market has experienced a year of presence in these emerging destinations and is consequently considerable change.
Following the mergers of the major well placed to benefit from their continued expansion.
European tour operators, consolidation across Europe has led to a less fragmented marketplace and all major The online accommodation market, both  are focused on growing profits.
Accordingly business and business-to-consumer is intensely competitive.
capacity is being managed within the marketplace to ensure Online Destination Services operates a portfolio of B2B supply matches demand.
brands - Hotelbeds and Bedsonline and B2C brands - LateRooms, Hotelopia and AsiaRooms.
These brands sell TUI Travel businesses are either the number one or number bednights directly to the consumer or through industry two operator in each key mainstream market in terms of partners such as easyJethotels.
The relatively low online market share.
This scale enables us to achieve competitive penetration of the emerging markets creates an enormous cost advantage through efficient hotel buying, high aircraft opportunity to develop the online segments especially given utilisation, maximisation of load factors and low cost transfer our presence in these countries.
By leveraging this scale we can offer significant value for money to our customers, whilst our well-known brand portfolio provides quality assurance and financial protection.
Specialist markets In contrast to the mainstream market, the specialist markets Our 25 source markets are highly fragmented, characterised by high growth and customer demographics and predominantly spread across Australia Germany Russia Europe, the United States and Australasia.
These businesses Austria Hungary Slovenia typically operate a flexible cost model with an asset-right Belgium Italy Spain strategy, whilst attracting significant brand loyalty.
Canada India Sweden China Ireland Switzerland We have developed the market-leading portfolio of specialist Czech Republic Luxembourg United Kingdom brands and have an unrivalled portfolio of specialist products Denmark Netherlands United States and experienced management teams.
We have a track record Finland Norway of building leadership positions in these fragmented markets France Poland TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 03
