Directors report: Corporate governance Other statutory information Results and dividends a dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group of specific assets.
for the year ended 31 December 2008 amounted to Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by 226,243,000 2007: 52,594,000. a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On An interim dividend of 2.0p 2007: 2.0p per share was paid on a show of hands every shareholder who is present in 6 November 2008.
The Directors recommend a final dividend person at a general meeting and every proxy appointed of 4.0p 2007: 4.0p per share which, if approved at the 2009 by a shareholder and present at a general meeting has AGM, will be paid on 21 May 2009 to shareholders whose one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the names are on the Register of Members on 17 April 2009. shareholder or represented by the proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy Subsequent events has one vote for every share held by that shareholder the In January 2009, the Group announced the successful deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in placing and subsequent issue of a total of 66,938,141 new the form of proxy.
A poll may be demanded by any of the ordinary shares with institutions at 600p per share.
This following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at least represented an increase of approximately 9.1% in Tullows five shareholders entitled to vote and present in person existing issued share capital.
These shares were credited as or by proxy at the meeting: c any shareholder or fully paid and rank pari passu in all respects with existing shareholders present in person or by proxy and ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company, representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth including the right to receive all dividends and other of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of such attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder or shares after the date of issue.
shareholders present in person or by proxy and holding shares conferring a right to attend and vote at the In March 2009, the Group announced that it had finalised meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the arrangements for US$2 billion 1.4 billion of new aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total reserve-based lend debt facilities.
sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
In the In March 2009, the Group announced a major new discovery case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands at Tweneboa, which continues the 100% exploration success or on a poll, the Chairman of the meeting is entitled to record in Ghana.
cast the deciding vote in addition to any other votes he may have.
Share capital The Company has an authorised share capital of 1,000,000,000 Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the ordinary shares of 10p each with an aggregate nominal Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions value of 100,000,000.
As at 10 March 2009, the Company taking priority, the balance of assets available for had an allotted and fully paid up share capital of 800,068,374 distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares of 10p each with an aggregate nominal value ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the of 80,006,837. shares held by them.
A liquidator may with the sanction of a special resolution of the shareholders and any other Substantial shareholdings sanction required by the Companies Acts, divide among As at 10 March 2009, the Company had been notified in the shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys accordance with the requirements of section 5.1.
Alternatively, a liquidator may, upon the passing of Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the a special resolution by the shareholders, vest the assets in following significant holdings 3% or more in the Companys whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit ordinary share capital.
of shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability.
Number % of issued Shareholder of shares capital Control rights under employee share schemes 79,397,756 9.92% BlackRock Inc The Company operates a number of employee share 72,123,865 9.01% Prudential plc schemes.
Under some of these arrangements, shares are IFG International Trust Company held by trustees on behalf of employees.
The employees are 38,960,366 4.87% Limited not entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control 31,246,116 3.91% Legal & General Group Plc rights.
The trustees will generally vote in accordance with Shareholders rights employees' instructions and either abstain or exercise their The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are discretion where no instructions are received.
Unallocated as follows: shares are generally voted at the discretion of the trustees.
Dividend rights holders of the Companys ordinary Restrictions on holding securities shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends There are no restrictions under the Companys Memorandum but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount and Articles of Association or under UK law that either restrict recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also the rights of UK resident shareholders to hold shares or limit pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other the right of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or than out of profits available for distribution.
Subject vote the Companys ordinary shares.
to shareholder approval, payment or satisfaction of 76 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on Directors indemnities the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under ordinary shares.
which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 against Material agreements containing change of control claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities provisions arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their The following significant agreements will, in the event of a powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are also indemnified against the cost of defending a criminal US$1.785 billion senior secured revolving credit facility prosecution or a claim by the Company, its subsidiaries or a agreement between, among others, the Company and regulator provided that where the defence is unsuccessful certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank the Director must repay those defence costs.
of Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Calyon and Powers of Directors the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each The general powers of the Companys Directors are set out lender thereunder may demand repayment of all in Article 100 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
outstanding amounts owed by the Company and certain It provides that the business of the Company shall be subsidiaries of the Company to it under the agreement managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers and any connected finance document, which amount of the Company whether relating to the management of the will become immediately due and payable and, in respect business of the Company or not.
This power is subject to any of each letter of credit issued under the agreement, full cash cover will be required, in the event that any person limitations imposed on the Company by legislation.
It is also or group of persons acting in concert gains control of limited by the provisions of the Memorandum and Articles the Company: and of Association of the Company and any directions given by US$100 million junior secured revolving credit facility special resolution of the members of the Company which agreement between, among others, the Company and are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the Bank of Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and exercise of power by the Directors: Lloyds TSB Bank plc and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder may demand Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company under the Articles of Association of the Company.
to it under the agreement and any connected finance However, the ability of the Directors to cause the document, which amount will become immediately due Company to issue shares, securities convertible into and payable, in the event that any person or group of shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
to an employee share scheme, is restricted under the Companies Acts which provide that the directors of a For the purposes of this provision, a control has the meaning given to it under section 416 of the Income and Corporation company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any Taxes Act 1988 and b acting in concert has the meaning equity securities without express authorisation, which given to it in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but Directors which in either event cannot last for more than five years: The biographical details of the Directors of the Company Under the Companies Acts, the Company may also not at the date of this report are given on pages 56 and 57. allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an Matthew ODonoghue retired from the Board on 31 March employee share scheme without first making an offer 2008.
Ann Grant joined the Board as a non-executive Director on a pre-emptive basis to existing shareholders, unless on 15 May 2008.
Tom Hickey resigned from the Board on this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the 1 September 2008 upon the appointment of Ian Springett to shareholders.
The Company received authority at the last the Board and as Chief Financial Officer on the same date.
Annual General Meeting to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a maximum nominal amount In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, of 3,598,331.
The authority lasts until the earlier of Paul McDade retires at this years AGM.
Being eligible, he offers himself for re-election.
In addition, as Pat Plunkett the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009 or 13 August 2009: has now been a Director for more than nine years he now retires annually and a resolution for his re-election will be Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by proposed at this years AGM.
Ann Grant and Ian Springett shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase having been appointed during the year, retire at this years its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
AGM and offer themselves for election.
Details of Directors Any shares which have been bought back may be held service contracts and letters of appointment are set out on as treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately pages 69 and 70.
Details of the Directors interests in the upon completion of the purchase.
The Company does ordinary shares of the Company and in the Groups long-term not currently have shareholder authority to buy back incentive and share option schemes are set out on pages 72 shares: and to 75 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 77 Directors report: Corporate governance Other statutory information continued Borrowing powers The net external borrowings of Supplier payment policy the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an It is Company and Group policy to settle all debts with amount equal to four times the aggregate of the Groups creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner terms of credit agreed with each supplier.
The Company prescribed in Article 101 of the Companys Articles of had no trade creditors outstanding at 31 December 2008.
Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Each person who is a Director at the date of approval Appointment and replacement of Directors of this report confirms that: The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors so far as that Director is aware, there is no relevant not less than two nor more than 15 Directors.
The appointment audit information of which the Companys auditors are and replacement of Directors may be made as follows: unaware: and the members may by ordinary resolution appoint any that Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought person who is willing to act to be a Director: to have taken as a Director in order to make himself the Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to or herself aware of any relevant audit information and be a Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then that information.
be eligible for election: This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in each Director shall retire from office at the third Annual accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at Act 1985. which he was last elected but he may be reappointed by ordinary resolution if eligible and willing: A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys the Company may by special resolution remove any auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Director before the expiration of his period of office or may, by ordinary resolution, remove a Director where Annual General Meeting special notice has been given and the necessary statutory Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting enclosed procedures are complied with: and with this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be there are a number of other grounds on which a proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held Directors office may cease, namely voluntary at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A resignation, where all the other Directors being at least 9HQ on 12 May 2009 at 12 noon.
three in number request his resignation, where he This Directors Report comprising pages 10 to 78 and the suffers mental incapacity, compounds with his creditors, information referred to therein has been approved by the is declared bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being Board and signed on its behalf by: a Director.
Charitable and political donations The Group made charitable, social and community-related donations during the year totalling 980,000 2007: 435,200.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
Graham Martin Company Secretary Corporate social responsibility 10 March 2009 The Group is fully committed to high standards of environmental, health and safety management.
A review, Registered office: together with an outline of the Groups involvement in 3rd Floor the community, is set out in the Corporate and Social Building 11 Responsibility section on pages 50 to 53.
In addition, Chiswick Park Tullow publishes annually a separate Corporate Social 566 Chiswick High Road Responsibility Report which is available on the Group London W4 5YS website: www.
com Company registered in England and Wales No.
3919249 78 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts
