qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:03 Page 14 Directors report: Business review Vision and strategy Realising our vision Tullow has a clear vision, a consistent strategy and a flexible but highly-integrated business model that continuously adapts to the prevailing external environment.
Global markets Industry challenges 2008 was a year of extreme volatility in both the equity 2009 is likely to be a difficult year for the sector: and commodity markets.
During the latter half of the year, The management of oil price volatility will be of particular the problems with the banking sector led to a reduction significance, given its impact on revenues, funding, in available capital which had dramatic knock-on investment levels and supply-side costs: consequences for all major economies.
The impact that short-term views on oil price have on The impact of this deterioration in economic prospects funding places an emphasis on exploration and appraisal was evidenced by the rapid reduction in commodity prices, programmes that target near-term production and including Brent Crude, which fell from a high of over commercial reserves: US$140 bbl in July 2008 to US$36 bbl in December 2008.
Furthermore, there have been significant movements in the A time lag remains between historic supply-side inflation major foreign exchange rates, with the Sterling US Dollar and lower oil prices: and rate moving from US$2.03 in February 2008 to its current Significant industry consolidation is likely, creating both rate of approximately US$1.40.
In addition, interest rates acquisition and disposal opportunities.
have reduced significantly in an attempt to stimulate demand.
In response, Tullow has already undertaken a strict For Tullow, oil and gas revenues are being impacted and capital allocation programme for 2009.
Capital expenditure the current downturn in the global economy presents new for the year is currently budgeted at approximately challenges as we manage the business for the longer term.
600 million, split 70% on production and development While in the short term we are carefully managing and the remainder on exploration and appraisal.
Africa investment and capital allocation, we recognise that will account for circa 85% of the total.
In the current significant value-enhancing opportunities are likely to environment, it makes good business sense for the Group arise as companies struggle in the current environment.
to focus its major spend on first production in Ghana in 2010 and to commercialise its investment in Uganda.
Looking ahead, Tullow will take a prudent but entrepreneurial approach to its growth strategy.
Our portfolio of existing In parallel, Tullow will safeguard mature production assets and new production coming on stream positions the as well as retain key future exploration prospects.
Group strongly to benefit from a recovery in oil prices.
Early in 2009, Tullow strengthened its balance sheet with a successful equity placing and major debt financing enhancing the Groups financial capacity and flexibility.
Combined, these factors will help ensure Tullow remains flexible during the year, particularly if low oil prices persist.
This will allow the Group to take advantage of opportunities that may present themselves.
Oil and gas prices Capital expenditure 160 250 600 million 128 200 This is the budgeted capital expenditure for 2009, up 25% on 2008.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:03 Page 15 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Vision and strategy Tullows business model Our vision Our vision is to be the leading global independent exploration and production company by: Building on our excellent track record through being the best in all that we do: Continuing to grow value over the long-term as partner, operator and employer of choice: and Integrated Conducting our operations with respect for the people and environments in which we work.
decision making Our strategy Tullow pursues a consistent and repeatable strategy which seeks to deliver sustainable long-term growth with a balance between funding, exploration and production spend and major activities in core areas.
We will achieve this by: Delivering major projects, with a significant focus on increasing bankable reserves: E&A has responsibility for identifying core plays, prioritising Executing selective, high-impact exploration prospective exploration options and executing exploration programmes funded by surplus cash flow or equity: and appraisal programmes within material follow-on Managing our assets to high-grade the portfolio, campaigns.
replenish upside and assist funding needs: P&D has responsibility for field appraisal, development Ensuring safe people, procedures and operations, of commercial discoveries and the management of the and minimising environmental impacts: Groups production and reserves, which are fundamental to revenue generation.
Building long-term relationships with local governments, communities and key stakeholders: and Finance has responsibility for the management of equity, debt and cash to maintain a strong balance sheet and Continuing to develop a strong team with excellent the ability to fund E&A and P&D activities with prudent, commercial, technical and financial skills.
Legal has responsibility for all governance and legal issues including regulatory compliance and delivering commercial legal solutions for Tullows business needs.
Our strategic objective Collective responsibility is held for portfolio management To deliver top quintile total shareholder returns versus including disposals, investments and mergers and our industry peer group.
At the core of Tullows business model is the Groups vision and strategy and strong discipline in planning and execution.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 15 n e D a e L n v e c l e o p m e n t e c n a n i F
