qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:07 Page 18 Directors report: Business review Key Performance Indicators KPIs Measuring our progress Tullow has seven KPIs which are closely aligned with the Groups growth strategy.
Delivering against these KPIs will ensure strong progress with our strategic objectives and creation of shareholder value.
The bonus element of the Executive Directors remuneration is directly linked to LTIFR, working interest production, reserves and resources replacement, cash operating costs per barrel of oil equivalent and TSR performance.
Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR A im: Tullows top operational priority is to keep people safe employees, contractors and local communities.
The Groups aim is to deliver a 0.49 LTIFR performance that is in the top quartile for the industry.
Three Lost Time Incidents in 6.15 Measurement: Detailed, disciplined and consistent incident reporting million hours worked across the Group procedures are in place throughout the Group, incorporating follow-up in 2008 resulted in a LTIFR of 0.49 and remedial measures as appropriate.
H&S performance measures are Tullows best ever performance.
reported to the Board monthly and annually.
Risk management: H&S management is a complex issue given the nature of the industry, the geographic location of Group activities and the scale of its operations.
Tullow has clear H&S policies and procedures supported by strong leadership, accountability and commitment at each level of the organisation.
06 07 08 Staff turnover % new A im: Tullows aim is to be the employer of choice in the industry so that the Group has the right people with the right skills in place at the right 2.3% time to support the continued growth and development of the business.
Tullow has a strong track record of Measurement: Systems are in place to identify issues early.
Detailed retention, with 2.3% staff turnover induction programmes and support are offered.
Debrief processes for and a 95% employee satisfaction leavers helps Tullow improve employee policies.
Key measures are staff rating in 2008. turnover, satisfaction ratings and the increase in number of employees.
Risk management: An open, engaging and empowering culture, career potential and reward, succession planning and the continued success of the Group are Tullows best defence against the disruption to the business of a people skills shortage or unexpected departures.
06 07 08 Working interest production boepd A im: Production is key to revenue and cash generation.
Operational excellence underpins delivery of production in line with the Groups 66,600 boepd annual budget and external market guidance.
Focused capital investment on major Measurement: Daily and weekly production is monitored from key development projects resulted in a producing assets.
Production is reported weekly and monthly to reduction of 9% in production output senior management and forecast updates are prepared regularly in 2008. during the year.
Risk management: Strong operational capabilities, detailed production planning and monitoring, and a balanced spread of key producing assets mitigate against key production risks including unplanned interruptions, over concentration of production on certain fields and the natural decline of mature fields.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:08 Page 19 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Reserves and resources replacement % A im: Replacement of reserves and resources is focused on continuing to grow the Groups production potential.
Tullow aims for 100% annual 1,232% organic reserves and resources replacement.
Exceptional exploration and appraisal Measurement: Reserves estimates for each field are reviewed by success achieved record reserves and an independent engineer, based on significant new data or material resources replacement of 1,232%.
change, with a review of each field undertaken every two years.
Reserves replacement for the year Resources are based on the Groups reserves report, also produced was 582%.
Risk management: Maximising reservoir performance in producing fields through operational and technical capability, and continued exploration success based on focused material campaigns, manages This is annual reserves and resources replacement risk.
06 07 08 revisions divided by annual production.
Cash operating costs per boe A im: Cash operating costs per barrel of oil equivalent are a function of industry costs, inflation, the Groups fixed cost base and production 5.90 per boe output.
Tullows aim is to maintain these costs within predefined limits Lower Group production and cost through strict cost management.
inflation in the industry led to a 17% Measurement: Cash operating costs are reported monthly on an increase in cash operating costs per asset basis and are monitored closely to ensure that they are within barrel of oil equivalent during the year.
Risk management: A comprehensive annual budgeting process covering all expenditure is prepared.
Monthly reporting highlights any variances and corrective action is taken to mitigate against the potential effects of cost increases.
06 07 08 Operating cash flow before working capital million A im: Tullows business is capital and cash intensive and the Groups aim is to ensure that capital expenditure together with debt and dividend 519 million commitments can be serviced from strong operating cash flow.
Record operating cash flow facilitated Measurement: Operating cash flow is reported monthly with regular the Groups 2008 capital investment, forecasting for longer periods to support long-range planning and dividend payments, debt service and investment decisions.
Detailed annual and project budgets require a reduction of over 60 million in Board approval.
Risk management: Strong financial and operating management, disciplined monitoring and reporting across the business, long-range cash flow forecasting and strong banking and equity relationships assist the Group in managing liquidity risk.
06 07 08 Total Shareholder Return % A im: Tullow has a clear vision and a consistent strategy which is set out on page 15 of this report.
The Groups strategic objective is to achieve 2% top quintile TSR growth versus its industry peer group, as set out in the Tullow was the 9th best performer Remuneration report on pages 66 to 75. in the FTSE 100 for 2008 and a clear Measurement: TSR share price movement and dividend payments leader in the oil and gas sector.
The is reported monthly and on an annual basis at year end to the Board.
Group has delivered TSR of over 700% Risk management: Excellent execution of a clear strategy achieved since 2004. through entrepreneurial leadership, combined with open and honest communication with the capital markets help in the delivery of a consistent TSR performance.
06 07 08 08 For more information on how we manage risk see pages 44 to 47 Go online at: www.
