qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:06 Page 16 Directors report: Business review Organised to deliver Executing our strategy Tullows Executive Directors, led by Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer, are tasked with executing the Groups strategy and have responsibility for delivering shareholder value.
Exploration and Appraisal Production and Development Angus McCoss, Exploration Director Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer Differentiated long-term exploration Consistent delivery of operational strategy secures the future excellence adds value Tullows exploration strategy is based on identifying Tullows P&D strategy is focused on creating value from transformational, high-value growth opportunities the Groups portfolio of assets.
This is achieved through and appropriately mitigating risks by concentrating new or incremental developments, improving operating exploration in core plays and in areas of focus for the efficiency and strategic divestments or acquisitions.
This is delivered by successful execution of Fundamental to this is conducting all business in a material commercial exploration campaigns with manner that enhances the Groups reputation and high success rates achieved through developing reinforces Tullows long-standing commitment to technical excellence.
operate in a safe and environmentally sensitive way.
The Groups exploration strategy has been recalibrated to In 2009, the Group has been particularly disciplined in adjust to the global economic downturn so that investment allocating capital and human resources to fast-track is focused on operational and financial delivery in Ghana and monetise the Jubilee field in Ghana and major and Uganda, targeting short-term production and discoveries in Uganda.
Tullow continues to invest commercial reserves, whilst nurturing long-term strongly in people including building a world-class growth options and replenishing portfolio upside.
deepwater operating capability in Accra, Ghana and enhancing the Kampala organisation in preparation for development activity in Uganda.
Read more starting on page 20 Read more starting on page 20 E&A Group strategic responsibility P&D Group strategic responsibility Executing selective, high-impact Delivering major projects, with exploration programmes funded a significant focus on increasing by surplus cash flow or equity: and bankable reserves: and Integrated Integrated decision decision Managing our assets to high-grade Ensuring safe people, procedures making making the portfolio, replenish upside and and operations, and minimising assist funding needs.
For more information on Tullows business model, see page 15 16 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts D G o l v a e r g TU017 p16-17 vAW6.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:06 Page 17 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Finance Legal Ian Springett, Chief Financial Officer Graham Martin, General Counsel and Company Secretary Financial strength and flexibility Effective governance and risk in a challenging environment management, within a clear framework Tullows financial strategy is centred on ensuring the The Board and senior management are committed Group has a strong and well-funded balance sheet and to all aspects of good corporate and ethical behaviour.
is managed in a way that is consistent with the current Corporate responsibility and accountability is reflected external reality and the Groups longer-term strategic in how the Group is organised and the policies and goals for growth.
processes in place to ensure Tullow complies fully with all its legislative and regulatory requirements.
For Tullow, this means having the capacity to fund its Where legislation is inadequate or non-existent the activity set, particularly the significant investment in Group applies responsible standards.
Ghana and Uganda developments: the ability to manage market volatility and uncertainty: the flexibility to Tullows Board operates within a clear governance and selectively acquire or divest: and an overall balance risk framework for the management of the Group, the between focused short-term activity and longer-term safety of its operations and employees and the successful investment required for continued growth.
execution of the Groups strategy.
The Group also embraces a wide range of CSR and EHS responsibilities, particularly in the context of the oil and gas industry and the location of some of Tullows operations.
Read more on page 40 to 43 Read more starting on page 54 Finance Group strategic responsibility Legal Group strategic responsibility Deliver sustainable long-term Maintaining a strong global team growth with a balance between with excellent legal and commercial funding, exploration and production skills: and Integrated Integrated spend and major activities in core decision decision Building long-term relationships making areas of the business.
making with governments, partners and key stakeholders focusing on the highest corporate and ethical standards.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 17 n e a L n c e e c n a n i F
