22 Operating and Financial Review UBM Segmental Performance continued B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting Results for 2008 B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting In 2008, B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targetings headline is one of the worlds leading commercial revenue grew 9.4% to 154.3m, with the multimedia businesses news and information distribution services.
continuing to deliver strong growth and the acquisitions made Headquartered in New York, UBMs B2B during 2007 being integrated into the core business.
As previously reported, as a result of the bureaux reorganisation Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting plan, B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting lost market business provides news distribution, targeting, share and margin in the US wire distribution business during measurement and broadcast services on behalf 2008.
However, this revenue shortfall was largely offset by growth in other multimedia products.
Performance was affected by of tens of thousands of customers, including the projects to consolidate the editorial and sales infrastructure, many of the worlds top companies, to upgrade customer support IT systems, and to enhance the organisations and agencies.
B2B Distribution, businesss online services capabilities.
The significant investment in upgrading the IT infrastructure is reflected in the operating Monitoring and Targeting routinely sends profit margins which fell to 28.1% 2007: 34.8%.
customers news to outlets in 135 countries B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targetings non-wire and in more than 40 languages.
products from which the US business derives over 25% of its profits delivered strong growth of 25% in 2008.
The new service hubs in Cleveland and Albuquerque are now fully operational and Websites market share stabilised in the latter part of 2008 and is now firm.
com During the year the US wire services business had 22,193 active www.
com customers and 3,519 new customers.
com used additional multimedia, photo or database services in the US in 2008.
Major products Changes in the traditional media environment requires US 1 premium Newsline IR Room SM ProfNet Experts U. S. Newswire B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting to maximise the eWatch MediaRoom strength and efficiency of the current business while employing MEDIAtlas Notilog resources to reshape and adapt to a social media environment.
MultiVu LatinClips During the year, B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting MediaServe PRNDirect commenced a restructuring plan of its North American wire Search Engine Optimization Disclose business, incurring an exceptional charge of approximately 6.1m, which primarily relates to redundancy costs.
Achievements in delivering UBM strategy UBMs B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting business Office locations has continued its successful strategy of focusing on higher value product sales and tight cost management, complemented by 1,600 people investment in new non-wire product development and acquisitions to facilitate further expansion into new market segments and 17countries geographical markets.
During 2008, UBM further diversified its B2B Distribution, Americas Europe Asia Pacific Monitoring and Targeting portfolio, reducing dependence Bureaux in Bureaux in Bureaux in on US disclosure and expanding the business outside the US, 5 countries 5 countries 7 countries adding multimedia to the traditional text based press release HQ in New York and expanding distribution outside the traditional print audience.
In 2005, over 75% of US revenue was derived from the distribution of text news releases: this is now less than 48% of total US revenue in 2008.
23 B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting brands UBMs B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting business outside of the US continued to expand.
The European business performed ahead of plan with revenue and operating profit growing 24% and 17% respectively.
B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targetings India operation was successfully launched and the other new territories, Dubai and Russia, gained traction.
Notilog, the Latin American news monitoring business that was acquired in 2007, performed broadly in line with expectations.
The product portfolio was expanded with the launch of Notilog 2.0 and eNotilog.
Xinhua PR Newswire was established in 2002 as a result of a marketing alliance between PR Newswire and Xinhua Finance to provide a global best practice corporate announcement, market disclosure and distribution services to customers based in China.
The business delivered another year of strong growth in 2008 with revenue growth of 9.3%.
In November 2008, UBM further expanded its presence in this region, acquiring the outstanding minority interest in Xinhua PR Newswire and full ownership of the related Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan businesses.
Strategic priorities for 20092011 The breadth of production and distribution options offers clients Through organic launches and acquisitions, B2B Distribution, the ability to not only use video messaging actively in their PR Monitoring and Targeting will continue to build its multimedia campaigns, but to also use multimedia for advertising, marketing, product portfolio, enabling the business to take advantage of the investor relations and internal corporate messaging.
MultiVu, continuing convergence between marketing and communications.
B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targetings in-house multimedia B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting will continue its agency, performed strongly in 2008, delivering growth of over geographical expansion, both organically and by acquisition, 10%.
UBMs B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting business particularly in countries and regions that are experiencing rapid continues to build on the existing multimedia offerings, enabling economic growth.
B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting will companies to better engage with investors and employees.
look to mirror the transformation of the North American business In 2009, a new digital centre an archiving and hosting solution in other geographies, developing the integrated communications for the multimedia assets of clients and a video annual report solutions that are now well established in the US.
The appointment of Ninan Chacko as the new CEO of In 2008, the data based workflow products, MEDIAtlas and B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting opens a new chapter ProfNet, delivered excellent growth with revenue up 20% and for the business and we are very pleased to welcome him.
These are subscription based tools for PR At the same time, we are saying a very warm farewell to practitioners, journalists and bloggers.
B2B Distribution, Charles Gregson, who is standing down as CEO after four years Monitoring and Targeting continues to evolve and improve these at PR Newswire and 35 years working for UBM.
products with an emphasis on both traditional and social media.
Investment in developing cutting edge solutions for distribution, optimisation and multimedia creation in both the PR and IR space continued in 2008.
Our MediaRoom and IR Room websites now create and host over 400 websites and delivered revenue growth of 40% in 2008.
These websites serve as key engagement vehicles that enable customers to interact with, and deliver messages to, their customers, shareholders and third parties.
Find out more... For more information about how these products serve their communities worldwide, visit www.
