16 Operating and Financial Review UBM Segmental Performance 16 Revenue Adjusted operating profit 17 17 2008 2007 Change Underlying 2008 2007 Change Underlying m m % % m m%% Continuing operations Events 291.8 244.8 19.2 8.9 82.2 67.0 22.7 15.0 Data, Services and Online 225.3 184.4 22.2 3.9 31.1 25.3 22.9 4.7 Print Magazines 215.6 231.3 6.8 8.4 23.9 28.2 15.2 11.1 B2B Communities 732.7 660.5 10.9 1.9 137.2 120.5 13.9 7.8 B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting 154.3 141.1 9.4 1.0 43.3 49.1 11.8 19.2 18 Corporate operations 7.0 3.5 887.0 801.6 10.7 1.4 173.5 166.1 4.5 2.3 16 Adjusted continuing Group operating profit is Group operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures and associates.
17 Underlying: adjusted for the effects of acquisitions, discontinued businesses and products, foreign exchange and biennial events.
18 Corporate operations comprises net central operating costs, together with those equity accounted investments which do not form part of one of the Groups operating divisions.
17 B2B Communities UBMs B2B Communities business operates in approximately 70 specialist B2B markets.
Each is a distinct community and the communities served includes, among others: game developer, CIO, primary care physicians, built environment, trade and transportation, pharmaceutical ingredients and fashion and lifestyle markets.
B2B Communities informs markets and brings the worlds buyers and sellers together at events, online, in print and through business information products and services.
Events Data, Services and Online Print Magazines B2B Communities provides exhibitions, B2B Communities provides data, B2B Communities continues to events, conferences, and awards services and online products to provide a number of print magazines, targeted at business professionals business professionals around the complementing the portfolios of across more than 70 professional world.
Products include end-to-end events and data based businesses.
markets such as food, pharmaceutical, services ranging from next-generation jewellery, technology and security performance marketing, custom industries.
B2B Communities operates media, research and analyst services.
around 300 events and a small number of conferences in 30 countries around the world.
Major products: Major products: Major products: Events: CPhI, Hong Kong Jewellery & Watch Fairs, Data: PIERS, Vidal, Vademecum, Semiconductor Information Week, Quotidien du Medecin, Furniture China, Interop, Game Developer Insights, Portelligent, Barbour, ABI, OAG Travel Farmers Guardian, Property Week, Electronic Conference, Interiors Birmingham, IFSEC, Planner, OAG Flight Guides, Pyramid, Engineering Times, Computer Resellers Network, Cosmoprof Asia, Hopital, Black Hat, Pysch Congress, Heavy Reading Journal of Commerce Embedded Systems Conference, Voicecon, Services: Help Desk Institute, the International Seatrade, Informex, International Confex Customer Management Institute Websites: www.
com B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting is one of the worlds leading commercial news and information distribution services.
Headquartered in New York, UBMs B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting business provides news distribution, targeting, measurement and broadcast services on behalf of tens of thousands of customers, including many of the worlds top companies, organisations and agencies.
B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting routinely sends customers news to outlets in 135 countries and in more than 40 languages.
Major products: SM US 1 premium Newsline, ProfNet Experts, eWatch, MEDIAtlas, MultiVu, MediaServe, Search Engine Optimization, IR Room, U. S. Newswire, MediaRoom, Notilog, LatinClips, PRNDirect, Disclose 18 Operating and Financial Review UBM Segmental Performance continued B2B Communities Results for 2008 UBMs B2B Communities business operates UBMs B2B Communities business delivered a robust performance in approximately 70 specialist B2B markets.
in 2008, in the face of sharply deteriorating worldwide economic Each is a distinct community and the conditions, particularly in the latter part of the year.
Headline communities served includes, among others: revenue increased by 10.9% to 732.7m and operating profit increased 13.9% to 137.2m, driven by growth in our events, game developer, CIO, primary care physicians, online data and services businesses.
built environment, trade and transportation, Despite 2008s tough economic conditions, we continued to pharmaceutical ingredients and fashion and implement our successful strategy of repositioning and expanding our businesses organically and by acquisition in markets and lifestyle markets.
B2B Communities informs geographies that provide opportunities for higher growth, markets and brings the worlds buyers and more predictable revenue streams and more reliable profitability.
sellers together at events, online, in print During the year, we made 13 acquisitions, for a total consideration of 34.4m excluding expected earn outs.
Integration is and through business information products progressing well, and we anticipate that all of the acquisitions and services.
made in 2008 will meet or surpass our target return rate.
In 2008, UBM reshaped the organisational and management Websites structures of a number of the B2B Communities operating www.
com companies to improve their market focus, create smaller and www.
com more agile businesses that are better able to serve their particular www.
com B2B communities and meet their customers needs.
com UBM Technology was reorganised into four separate marketfocused operations, followed by CMP Information in June into five businesses and Commonwealth Business Media was split in December into two separate market focused units.
During the year, we also took decisive action to reduce our cost base in anticipation of worsening trading conditions, implementing a Office locations number of restructuring and reorganisation projects across the business.
The objectives of these projects are to achieve greater 5,300 people alignment of product portfolios and organisational structure to the changing needs of customers, to better position the Worldwide businesses to take advantage of higher growth areas and to improve profitability.
This involved closure and merging of Americas Europe Asia Pacific some print titles and a headcount reduction of over 450 people.
USA UK China and Australia The exceptional charge of 27.3m includes 13.8m relating Canada The Netherlands Hong Kong New Zealand Brazil France The United Bangladesh to redundancy costs, 3.4m of restructuring and reorganisation Germany Arab Emirates Philippines costs and 10.1m of vacant property and other property costs.
Belgium India Vietnam Hungary Taiwan Poland Thailand Portugal Indonesia Russia Japan Spain Korea Find out more... For more information about how these products serve their communities worldwide, visit www.
com 19 Events Events products and brands B2B Communities provides exhibitions, events, conferences, and awards targeted at business professionals across more than 70 professional markets such as food, pharmaceutical, jewellery, technology and security industries.
B2B Communities operates around 300 events and a small number of conferences in approximately 30 countries around the world.
Major products Events: CPhI, Hong Kong Jewellery & Watch Fairs, Furniture China, Interop, Game Developer Conference, Interiors Birmingham, IFSEC, Cosmoprof Asia, Hopital, Black Hat, Pysch Congress, Embedded Systems Conference, Voicecon, Seatrade, Informex, International Confex.
com Along with expanding its geographical reach, UBM continued to www.
com build presence in existing markets and communities.
com expanded its portfolio of products for the worldwide game developer community, with the launch of GDC China and the acquisition of Global Games Media, extending its presence in the European game Results for 2008 developer market, and partnering with Reboot Communications In 2008, the events portfolio delivered strong growth, with to launch a new event, GDC Canada www.
com headline revenue up by 19.2% to 291.8m 2007: 244.8m in association with New Media BCs Vancouver Digital Week in and operating profit rose by 22.7% to 82.2m 2007: 67.0m.
The Game Developer Conference showed continued Events represent 32.9% of UBMs total revenue 2007: 30.5% resilience to the difficult economic conditions, delivering growth of and 47.3% of total operating profit 2007: 40.3%.
In addition, UBM further strengthened its leading In 2008, underlying revenue and operating profit for the position in the Jewellery market with the launch of the Jewellery, events portfolio increased by 8.9% and 15.0% respectively.
Pearl and Gem fair in Hyderabad and the Macau Jewellery Fair.
This performance reflects the continued resilience of the major The unique market facing position of its key events enabled the event franchises, despite difficult economic conditions.
In 2008, launch of a number of timely, topic-related conferences alongside key events such as the Game Developer Conference, IFSEC, CPhI its established brands as well as stand-alone conferences, increasing and the Hong Kong Jewellery and Watch Fair delivered excellent the year-long cycle of events.
Despite the conference market as a growth with acquisitions and new launches in each of their respective whole struggling towards the end of the year, UBM saw significant communities further enhancing our presence in these markets.
success in a number of markets with the strongest performers being During 2008, UBM acquired eight events for a total consideration the Food Ingredients and Property sectors.
The Food Ingredients of 9.8m, including Vision Events IT professionals, BSEC UK built industry is seeing good growth with plenty of opportunity for environment for schools and Sleep & Arc UK interior design market segmentation and geo-cloning, with conferences creating professionals.
Each event complements our existing product unrivalled networking and commercial opportunities for both portfolios for specific communities.
The conference business continues to represent Achievement in delivering UBM strategy a small proportion of total event revenue, but is key to providing In 2008, UBMs B2B Communities business continued its successful a full product offering to each of UBMs specialist communities.
strategy of geo-cloning key brands with the launch of CPhI, During 2008, the B2B Communities businesses successfully P-MEC and the Food Ingredients show in Brazil.
UBM now integrated a number of the face-to-face events with new digital has six shows in Brazil, and is planning to introduce the Health products and virtual events, addressing the smaller, lower cost Ingredients Hi brand to South America in 2009 with the launch networking opportunities and providing a year round presence to of Hi Summit.
This strategy has proved extremely successful, complement the shows.
Performance of these new digital products with combined revenue growth from events in the higher growth are discussed further in the Data, Services and Online business review.
economies of Brazil, India and China of 76% since 2006.
20 Operating and Financial Review UBM Segmental Performance continued Data, Services and Online Products and brands Data and Services B2B Communities provides data, services and online products to business professionals around the world.
Products include end-to-end services ranging from next-generation performance marketing, custom media, research and analyst services.
Major products Online Data PIERS, Vidal, Vademecum, Semiconductor Insights, Portelligent, Barbour, ABI, OAG Travel Planner, OAG Flight Guides, Pyramid, Heavy Reading.
Services Help Desk Institute, the International Customer Management Institute.
Achievement in delivering UBM strategy Websites During 2008, UBM continued to reshape its product portfolio, www.
com migrating revenues away from declining print markets to data, www.
com services and online media.
Semiconductor Insights and Portelligent, www.
com acquired in 2007, had a significant impact on the portfolio mix in 2008.
Both businesses outperformed the market and delivered results ahead of business case, with growth driven by an increase in demand Results for 2008 for patent licensing and litigation in the case of Semiconductor In 2008, the Data, Services and Online portfolio delivered Insights and by higher channel sales, sponsored teardown projects strong growth, with headline revenue up by 22.2% to 225.3m and data analysis reports in the case of Portelligent.
In December 2007: 184.4m and operating profit rose by 22.9% to 31.1m 2008, UBM further expanded its capabilities in technical intelligence 2007: 25.3m.
Data, Services and Online represents 25.4% markets with the acquisition of Sanguine Microelectronics a high of UBMs total revenue 2007: 23.0% and 17.9% of total quality provider of integrated circuit reverse engineering services operating profit 2007: 15.2%.
Sanguine also provides TechInsights with an In 2008, underlying revenue and operating profit for the established footprint in China, Korea, Japan and South East Asia, data, services and online portfolio increased by 3.9% and 4.7% and a growing presence in Europe and North America.
2008 performance has been variable with ABI UK During 2008, significant progress was made with the Built Environment, PIERS import export information and analysis conversion of data businesses from print based products to digital and RISI paper and pulp benefiting from increasing demand products.
For example, at UBM Aviation, investment in the New for detailed analysis and information on their specific markets.
Technology Platform will enable migration away from legacy Vidal drug information performed in line with expectations.
mainframe systems and support richer functionality for the data However the anticipated declines in the flight guides at systems.
Our global healthcare business CMPMedica continued to OAG continued.
invest in developing complementary digital products: for example Growth in 2008 has also been driven by the IP and service the Drug Information Systems business launched a number of based businesses Semiconductor Insights and Portelligent, subscription data products, including PharmIndex Plus in Germany acquired in the latter half of 2007.
In 2008, UBM further expanded and MIMSonline in Australia.
the data and services portfolio, with the acquisition of five During 2008, the B2B Communities business continued to build businesses for a total consideration of 24.5m.
The largest its portfolio of complementary products, investing in new portal acquisition Think Service Inc. is a highly complementary websites, providing customers with a year round online presence to addition to the existing International Customer Management complement its shows and to provide an integrated media offering.
Institute ICMI business, which focuses on call centre consulting, Examples of websites launched in 2008 include FashionNetAsia.
com membership, certification, training and events.
The portals offer market news, a trading As customers have continued to redirect marketing budgets network and provide a marketing and sourcing platform for global away from print media, the B2B Communities business has materials and components suppliers, designers, manufacturers and successfully capitalised on this shift in spending.
In addition to launching new websites, UBM also continued delivered growth of 28.5% in 2008, driven by an increase in to invest in existing digital brands, expanding from the traditional custom projects and the launch of a number of new virtual display banner advertising towards disintermediation with more tradeshows, which have successfully leveraged the online sophisticated products such as streaming and contextual search.
community strategy to promote events.
21 Print magazines Strategic priorities for 20092011 B2B Communities continues to provide a number of print The reorganisation saw the removal of three redundant magazines, complementing the portfolios of events and data intermediate divisional structures during the year: based businesses.
UBM Technology: CMP Information and Commonwealth Business Media.
Each has been broken into smaller, more market and community facing organisations with clear local leadership.
These actions, together with the restructuring plans implemented during the year have strengthened the B2B Communities position to continue to drive profitable growth and align each Major products market specific portfolio to the needs of each community.
Information Week, Quotidien du Medecin, Farmers Guardian, Property Week, B2B Communities will continue to develop a broader product Electronic Engineering Times, Computer Resellers Network, Journal of portfolio through both organic growth and acquisitions.
Investment in developing new digital media will continue, including the launch of community networking sites, virtual trade Results for 2008 shows, opt-in databases and customised solutions.
Evidently we In 2008, the print magazine reported headline revenue of anticipate further declines in our advertising based print portfolio 215.6m, down 6.8% on prior year 2007: 231.3m and are managing the portfolio with that in mind albeit that in and operating profit of 23.9m, down 15.2% on prior year some markets and in some geographies print will continue to 2007: 28.2m.
Print represents 24.3% of UBMs total revenue prosper.
Development of our presence in long term higher growth During 2007 and 2008, a number of titles were either economies will remain a strategic priority with each portfolio discontinued, consolidated or the frequency of publications was continuing the momentum from international expansion of reduced.
This has resulted in a loss of revenue and operating existing brands.
On an underlying basis, revenue decreased 8.4% on prior year, with the results of titles in a number of sectors including UK built environment, the Find out more... healthcare sector in France and the US, the IT channel and electronic engineering sectors impacted by both the current For more information about how these products serve their economic conditions and the long term structural shifts towards communities worldwide, visit www.
com digital and on-line platforms.
However, areas of strength remain where a title has a particularly strong industry position and or serves a strong sector.
Examples include Information Week in the US, where market share has increased from 20% to 25% and Farmers Guardian UK and Quotidien du Pharmacien France, where revenues in 2008 grew by 6.1% and 20.4% respectively compared to 2007.
Print magazines products and brands
