Nigel Wilson Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, Age 52 Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 1997, John Botts became Nigel Wilson joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer in 2001 and was Chairman in December 2007.
He is a Managing Director of Allen & Company appointed as Deputy Chief Executive in 2008.
He was group finance director in London.
Other directorships include Euromoney Institutional Investor plc, of Viridian Group plc from 1996 to 2000, and became managing director of Glyndebourne Arts Trust, Tate Foundation.
He is a graduate of Williams.
Nigel is a non-executive director and currently acting Chairman of Halfords Group plc.
Previous appointments include group finance 2.
David Levin Group Chief Executive, Age 47 director at Waste Management International plc, chief executive, corporate, David Levin was appointed as Group Chief Executive in 2005, having previously Guinness Peat Aviation G. P. A., head of corporate finance and group been chief executive of Symbian, a mobile phone software licensing company, commercial director of Dixons Group plc, managing director of Stanhope since April 2002.
He joined Symbian from Psion plc, the handheld computing Properties plc and a consultant at McKinsey & Co. Nigel has a PhD from company, where he was chief executive from February 1999.
Prior to that, he the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
had various roles with the international business-publishing group Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, as Group COO, Group CFO and as President of Institutional Investor magazine group in New York.
Previously he worked with the venture capital group Apax Partners, based in the UK, and with the consultancy firm Bain and Company, mostly in Asia and the USA.
David has an MBA from Stanford University and an MA from Oxford.
David is also a member of the finance committee of the Oxford University Press, a department of Oxford University.
Jonathan Newcomb Non-Executive Director Age 62 6.
Karen Thomson Non-Executive Director, Age 47 Jonathan Newcomb was appointed to the Board in 2001.
He is a board Appointed to the Board in 2006, Karen Thomson was a director of Vodafone member of Journal Communications NYSE and the BNA Corporation, UK Limited until June 2008.
Prior to that she was president of AOL Europe, and is currently a senior advisor at the New York based investment firm having been chief executive and chairman of AOL UK, with responsibility for Coady Diemar.
He was chairman and CEO of Simon & Schuster, one of the AOL and Compuserve services in the UK.
Karen was with AOL for over the worlds largest book publishers and providers of educational and training 11 years and under her leadership, AOL became one of the leading online materials, from 1994 until 2002, having been president and chief operating content providers in the UK.
Prior to AOL, Karen held roles as planning and officer from 1991.
From 2002 to 2004 he was a principal with Leeds Equity business development director in UK advertising and marketing agencies Partners, a New York based private equity firm, and between 2006 and following positions in the mobile communications industry.
She holds a 2007 he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cambium Learning, Masters degree in Philosophy from Aberdeen University and an honorary an educational services provider.
Previous employment included McGraw Hill doctorate and MBA from Middlesex University.
where he was responsible for Standard & Poors and Data Resources and 1 3 7.
Alan Gillespie Non-Executive Director, Age 58 Dun & Bradstreet.
He is chairman of UBMs Audit Committee.
Alan Gillespie CBE was appointed to the Board in April 2008.
Pradeep Kar Non-Executive Director Age 50 chairman of the International Finance Facility for Immunization IFFIm, Appointed to the Board in 2006, Pradeep Kar is the founder, chairman an intergovernmental organisation established to fund vaccination programmes and managing director of Microland, Indias leading provider of outsourced for children in many of the world's poorest countries.
Dr Gillespie has previously IT infrastructure management services.
Pradeep is the president of The Indus held posts in both the public and private sectors, including as chairman of Entrepreneurs TiE, Bangalore Chapter and Founder of the Bangalore Chapter Ulster Bank Group, partner at Goldman Sachs & Co, chief executive of the of the Young Presidents Organization.
Pradeeps leadership acumen has been Commonwealth Development Corporation, and chairman of the Northern recognized with numerous accolades, notable among these are the India Ireland Industrial Development Board.
He is chairman of UBMs Remuneration Young Business Achiever Award as well as being selected by the World Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
Economic Forum as a 'Global Leader for Tomorrow.
He sits on the Advisory Board of Leaders Quest, an international social enterprise based in London.
Pradeep holds a degree in mechanical engineering and a post-graduate degree in management.
1 Member of the Remuneration Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee
