Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Ultras objective Earnings per share 22% growth 80.1p 2007: 65.4p Douglas Caster, Chief Executive The Boards prime objective continues to be to outperform the systems, equipment or services are often mission-critical to the market in terms of annual increases in shareholder value by successful operation of the platform to which they contribute.
In delivering above average increases in earnings and by turn, this mission-criticality secures Ultras positions for the long communicating effectively with shareholders and the financial term which underpins the superior financial performance of the community generally.
Ultras ability to combine its niche capabilities enables it to win contracts as a sub-systems integrator for complex systems, The superior financial performance that is required in order to often involving a number of different Group businesses.
meet the above objective will be derived from the successful Increasingly, Ultra teams with international, world-class partners execution of both competitive and corporate strategies.
The first to access best of breed technology.
The Group has a reputation element, the competitive strategies, are implemented by each of for successful programme execution, culminating in innovative Ultras businesses and focus on winning new business in the niche solutions utilising differentiated technologies delivered on-time to markets in which the Group operates.
The corporate strategy adds its customers.
Ultras spread of businesses around the world value by focusing on Ultras investments in acquisitions and in enables it to address specific national requirements where a significant internally funded development programmes.
sovereign operational capability must be maintained.
Ultras track record of delivering above average shareholder returns since otation in 1996 is shown in the following graph: Corporate strategy Ultras success is underpinned by its investment strategy.
Ultra has Ultra share price pence demonstrated its expertise in identifying investment opportunities 1400 that deliver growth, either within existing businesses or by acquiring businesses which complement and broaden the Groups 1200 portfolio of products and services.
This includes broadening the geographic reach of the Group.
During 2008 Ultra invested a total 1000 of 125.5m 2007: 69.8m in acquisitions, research and development, capital expenditure and new business development.
800 Eight acquisitions were made in 2008.
This investment also includes both the development of systems on programmes that 600 have been won and activities that support the Groups long-term 400 positioning for contracts to be won in the future.
To ensure that this investment strategy remains affordable, Ultra 200 focuses on delivering a high quality of earnings from its operations.
Evidence of this quality is the consistently strong cash 0 generation that the Group has achieved.
Over the last five years, 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 the average conversion of operating profit to operating cash Ultra Electronics Holdings plc FTSE 100 price index flow has been 99%.
FTSE all share price index FTSE all share aerospace defence The cash generated from operations is then used to fund acquisitions Ultra seeks to maintain a broad balance over the Competitive strategy medium term between organic and acquisition growth.
To date, The resilience of Ultras financial performance is derived from the Ultras acquisitions have mainly been funded by free cash flow Groups broad mix of specialist activities within its twenty four and the level of net debt remains low.
It is foreseen that the businesses, within which the Group has over 100 distinct market acquisition strategy that has served Ultra well to date will be or technology niches.
The diversity of niches enables Ultra to continued.
In the short term, the rate of expenditure on contribute to a large number of defence, aerospace and civil acquisitions may reduce as focus is maintained on ensuring that platforms and programmes and provides resilience to the Groups the Group retains a strong balance sheet.
Ultra has world-leading positions in many of its niches and, as an independent, non-threatening partner, is able to support all of the main prime contractors with specialist capabilities and solutions.
As a result of such positioning, Ultras portfolio strength underpinning growth see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03 Chief Executives report
