Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Ultras performance in 2008 125.5m 783.5m investment by Ultra in order book value at the end acquisitions, new business of 2008 development and facilities 2007: 69.8m further 14.2m 2007: 8.6m on new fixed assets.
This Ultras 2008 results investment of Ultras funds was supplemented by further funding Ultra made further progress in the year, achieving strong revenue from customers for dedicated product development activities.
The resilience of the Groups performance in 2008, this amounted to 83.3m 2007: 74.8m and so, in total, the year demonstrated the benefit of having a broad portfolio of spending on new product and business development was niche activities.
Margins were maintained after funding an equivalent to more than 25% of Group revenues 2007: 25%.
increased investment in systems for new platforms that will support further growth of the Group.
Full year contributions The order book value at the end of 2008 was a record 783.5m, were made by the four acquisitions made in 2007, together with an increase of 26% in the year.
Consolidation of the order books part year contributions from the eight acquisitions made in 2008. of acquired businesses and currency effects each contributed 7% Ultras continuing success in winning new business on a broad growth but there was also 12% organic growth at constant range of international programmes resulted in a record order currencies.
This order book maintains historic levels of firm order book of 783.5m at the year-end.
cover for the coming year and so provides the Groups customary level of forward visibility.
Group results Revenue increased to 515.3m, a rise of 25% over the prior year of which 16% was organic.
At constant currencies growth was 20% of which 11% was organic.
Operating profit increased 23% to 77.1m 2007: 62.9m with the operating margin being maintained at 15%.
In 2008 Ultra increased its investment in the development of new business and products so the charge against operating profit rose by 6.1m to 33.1m 2007: 27.0m.
Ultra reviews all such investments to ensure that there is a robust business case leading to an acceptable return for the Group in the medium term.
Net financing charges, excluding fair value movement on derivatives, were 3.1m higher at 4.9m 2007: 1.8m due to higher borrowings through the year as a result of increased acquisition spending and the nominal pension interest charge of 0.8m 2007: credit of 0.3m.
Headline profit before tax was 72.2m 2007: 61.1m, an increase of 18%.
There was a reduction in the Groups headline tax rate from 27.5% to 24.6% in the year, reecting the tax benets of acquisitions in the USA, an associated increase in borrowings in that country and Ultra supplies systems that transmit to a Rigid Inatable Boat RIB a situational an increase in R&D tax credits.
This reduced tax rate augmented the awareness picture, centred on the RIB but using data from the mother ship strong headline operating profit growth to generate a 22% increase radar.
Ultra also supplies world-leading intercom systems for the RIB crew.
Acquisitions Operating cash ow was again strong at 79.0m 2007: 52.2m.
Ultra made eight acquisitions in 2008.
They have enhanced the The conversion of operating profit to operating cash flow in the year was 102%.
Over the last five years, the Groups average Groups portfolio of offerings and are typical of Ultra businesses in having strong positions in growing niche markets.
The total net cash cash conversion has been 99%, reflecting the high quality of Ultras earnings and effective management of working capital.
Net consideration for these acquisitions was 78.8m including expenses, nanced largely using Ultras cash resources.
The acquisitions were: debt at the end of the year was 63.9m compared to 14.2m at the end of 2007.
This increase of 49.7m was after total net cash AudioSoft, based in Cirencester, Gloucestershire, provides expenditure on acquisitions in the year of 78.8m 2007: 31.0m data recording and analysis solutions that allow organisations including the payment of deferred consideration in respect of to record, preserve and rapidly locate important information.
acquisitions made in prior years.
Ultra also invested 33.1m AudioSoft is part of the Tactical & Sonar Systems division.
2007: 27.0m on new product and business development and a 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Ultras performance in 2008 20% 99% revenue growth at constant Ultras average operating currencies cash conversion over the last five years Dascam is a leading defence consultancy in the Middle East, Nuclear Sensors & Process Instrumentation acquired as providing specialist resources which deliver customised Weed Instrument Co. Inc. is based in Round Rock near Austin, consultancy and training services for the defence, security and Texas, USA.
NSPI specialises in pressure and temperature government infrastructure markets in the region.
While Dascam sensors and fibre-optic converters and switches for use in will act as a portal for many of Ultras niche activities from across nuclear, aerospace and military applications.
It is in the Groups the Group, organisationally it is part of the Aircraft & Vehicle Information & Power Systems division.
ProLogic, operating in various states in the US, provides specialised products and solutions for mission-critical enterprise IT, tactical data communication systems and intelligence processing infrastructures, as well as independent IT consulting services to US government customers.
ProLogic is now also part of Ultras Information & Power Systems division.
Radmon provides neutron and radioactive detection sensors and systems to military and civil customers in the UK.
It is to be integrated into Ultras Command & Control Systems business in the Information & Power Systems division which is where Ultra has concentrated its nuclear systems activities, both military and civil.
Ultras Dascam business, based in Abu Dhabi, provides innovative performance consultancy and associated training solutions.
Areas of specific expertise include advanced security, safety and risk management systems.
Graytronics is a small business that specialises in the supply of marine intercom systems for customers that include the UK MoD, US Coastguard, British Petroleum and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution.
Graytronics has been relocated to become part of the SML business near Southampton in Ultras Information & Power Systems division.
Harris, based in Massachusetts, US, specialises in the design, Ultra is expert at the design, manufacture and support of high integrity control supply and support of submarine acoustic transducers and systems for nuclear reactors.
These integrated systems, both civil and military, arrays.
It is now part of Ultras Ocean Systems business, within include the specialist sensors that detect the level of activity in the reactor.
the Groups Tactical & Sonar Systems division.
MISL, based in Nova Scotia, Canada, designs, supplies and supports magneto inductive guidance, signalling and communications equipment.
It is part of Maritime Systems also in the Groups Tactical & Sonar Systems division.
portfolio strength underpinning growth see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 C Ch hiie ef f E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five es s r re ep po or rt t
