Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Ultra and its strategic positioning in growing niche markets Revenue by sector Revenue by region Battlespace IT 36% Sonar 18% United Kingdom 36% Civil equipment 14% North America 47% Defence equipment 8% Rest of World 7% Civil aircraft equipment 9% Mainland Europe 10% Military aircraft equipment 15% Ultra businesses constantly innovate to create solutions to customer specialist civil systems and equipment, including Ultras requirements that are different from and better than those of the advanced airport IT solutions.
Airline passenger growth around Groups competitors.
the world is driving long-term expansion and upgrade of airport infrastructure.
Ultra supplies trackside power equipment for rail Sectoral portfolio transit systems, for which demand continues driven by the need Across the Groups three divisions, the major market sectors in which to expand and upgrade rail networks.
The UK market for nuclear Ultra operates are: power generation is expanding and Ultras offering derived from its equivalent military capability is well positioned to benefit.
battlespace IT, summarised as being the systems and equipment that allow coalition commanders to have an integrated, real-time Regional portfolio picture of the disposition of friendly and enemy forces that is Since the Groups formation in 1993 with seven UK-based better than the one available to the enemy.
This information businesses, Ultra has pursued a strategy of gaining access to the superiority underpins rapid decision making which, together with largest two addressable defence budgets in the world.
The US effective command, control and communications, translates into spends more on defence each year than the rest of the coalition military superiority.
The use of battlespace IT is transformational nations added together.
The majority of Ultras acquisitions have in the capability to win future battles and is able to transform the been in North America and the point has now been reached where military capability of existing platforms through upgrade the Group has a transatlantic capability and derives more of its programmes.
Expenditure on battlespace IT equipment therefore revenue from the US and Canada than it does from the UK.
continues to represent an increasing share of the total defence budget in the main markets in which Ultra operates.
As depicted on the pie-chart, revenue from the rest of the world is capable of expansion as a proportion of Ultras portfolio.
In 2008 sonar systems, expanding Ultras traditional world-leading the Group took steps to initiate an increase in sales in new areas airborne anti-submarine warfare capability into broader activities of the world.
These include integrated ship and submarine sonar systems, persistent seabed-deployed sensor The acquisition of Dascam provides a route to markets in the Middle arrays, torpedo defence and sea mine disposal systems.
The fact East with a proven track record of success.
Dascam is a growing, that over forty countries have, between them, more than four profitable and cash generative business and therefore supports the hundred highly capable, stealthy submarines is continuing to continuing growth of Ultra in its own right.
Dascam will, however, focus expenditure in this sector.
be able to help exploit many of the Groups numerous niche capabilities where they align with real customer requirements.
This civil and military aircraft equipment.
Ultra provides specialist will augment Ultras rate of growth in the region.
sub-systems and equipment for military and civil aircraft.
The main military aircraft programmes on which Ultra equipment is Ultra has activities in a number of countries around the world that tted continue to have political support, underpinned by can act as the base for further growth.
The Group can and will, for consistent financial commitment.
For civil aircraft, large order example, leverage its success in winning an advanced sonar system backlogs at all the major aircraft manufacturers underpin high in Turkey.
Similarly, Ultra has won an important sonar contract in build rates for the medium term.
Australia that will require the creation of an in-country capability.
This can then be used as a route to market for other Ultra specialist defence equipment, including power conversion and specialist capabilities where they can satisfy customer needs not signature management systems for naval ships and submarines.
just in Australia but in the region more broadly.
Ultras specialist capability in high integrity controls for submarine nuclear reactors is included in this sector, for which there is continuing commitment to new platforms and the upgrade of existing boats.
Ultra also supplies advanced subsystems for modern armoured vehicles including those for electrical power management, rugged networks and weapon control.
The need for increased mobility and force protection is driving a number of large military vehicle procurements in Ultras main markets.
portfolio strength underpinning growth Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Chief Executives report
