Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Ultras strategies to achieve the Groups objective Ultras success has been achieved by positioning its products and services on a broad range of international, long-term platforms and programmes.
These positions are created by applying strategies to ensure that Ultras offerings are differentiated from those of the competition in a way that the customer values.
Focus is sustained on creating and maintaining this differentiation and on continuing to provide innovative solutions to satisfy evolving customer requirements.
The following strategies are a constant in the way that Ultra operates: 1 To concentrate on aerospace and defence 4 To grow organically and by acquisition The Groups core competencies, domain knowledge, and Each Ultra business has a contribution to make to the market positions give it particular credibility in the aerospace organic growth of the Group, as well as identifying well and defence sector worldwide.
Core competencies include matched acquisition targets.
To ensure that organic growth market positioning through a thorough understanding of is achieved, businesses produce annual five-year strategic customers operational requirements: responding to complex plans that target specific opportunities.
The focus on cash invitations to tender or requests for proposals to capture generation is a key driver to the affordability of suitable large contracts: the management of complex development acquisitions to augment the Groups growth rate.
The programmes where risks need careful identification and Groups acquisition strategy is summarised as being the control: manufacturing and aftermarket support over long pursuit of bolt-on or bolt-in acquisitions that: are defence or timescales and the discipline to meet our commitments.
The aerospace based: are in a growth market sector: augment a breadth of capabilities of the Group is increasing and allows current niche, or: add a new, related niche, or widen Ultras for adjacent markets to be served where they exhibit growth geographic reach.
and Ultras core competences match their needs well, such The ideal size of acquisitions, as measured by annual as security and energy.
revenue, is currently about 30m to 70m for bolt-ons and up to 15m for bolt-ins.
Organisation transforming 2 To be a niche player where the Group has acquisitions are unlikely owing to the risk profile of such competitive advantage through technology acquisitions.
The Group will seek to maintain a robust or market position portfolio of niche activities.
Within the Groups twenty four businesses, over one hundred niches can be identified where the aim is to sustain 5 To have an efficient organisation with committed competitive advantage and achieve a world-leading position and competent people within a reasonable time frame.
The Group values its Ultra seeks to maximise efficiency throughout its organisation.
portfolio of niches, since each offering can be defended The levels of commitment and competency of business against competition through barriers to entry resulting in management teams is continuously assessed through strategic, the potential for superior financial performance.
The broad budget, organisation and succession, and regular business spread of niches provides a high level of resilience for the performance reviews.
The Group places a high degree of trust Group in the face of technological changes or funding cut in, and has high expectations of, its senior staff and supports backs.
This spread also gives the Group low dependency on their development and improvement activities.
Ultra empowers any single programme or platform.
management teams to run their respective businesses to deliver agreed strategies, meet or beat budgets and continuously 3 To offer a through-life product and service develop their people.
Ultra constantly develops its people and portfolio that includes systems, sub-systems, structure through a rigorous, annual organisation and products and components succession planning process.
Specic personalised training programmes are identied and provided as necessary, and The Group values any position within the supply chain that good performance is rewarded through career development, is held by any particular niche.
Frequently, more attractive bonuses and share options.
margins can be generated by providing components than by supplying entire systems.
Where the Group has a number of complementary niches, it does combine these to offer sub-systems, systems and through-life management solutions to customer requirements.
Generally however, Ultra prefers to retain a leading niche position rather than constantly pursue the supply of systems with the hope of higher added value.
The scope of Ultras offering is determined after a rigorous strategic review.
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Ultras strategies to achieve the Groups objective Ultra behaviours The four cultural behaviours of its people that are highly valued and encouraged by Ultra are: Leadership Entrepreneurship Audacity Paranoia Within Ultra these are known as the LEAP behaviours Leadership 6 To be an excellent and strategic supplier to communicating inspirationally the future direction of the business our customers inspiring and energising the business team, customers, Having established an initial relationship with customers by suppliers and colleagues offering innovative solutions, the Groups businesses are expected to maximise these positions for the long term.
This is stimulating an innovative culture to release creativity achieved by nurturing relationships through sustained on-time enabling change to provide a greater and faster return delivery of high quality products and services.
Businesses often to the business create strategic relationships rather than arms-length customer-supplier relationships by offering long-term support Entrepreneurship or through-life solutions.
Many of the Groups niche offerings encouraging the whole business to be entrepreneurial involve the design and supply of complex products and seeking competitive advantage through the services which are typically safety or performance-critical in differentiation of offerings their application.
This creates a dependency from the customers perspectives and encourages a long-term strategic ensuring competitions skewed in Ultras favour, while relationship where Ultras businesses become part of the behaving ethically customers extended enterprises, to mutual benefit.
seeking to enhance the offering by teaming either internally or externally 7 To gain competitive advantage by internal and external teaming Audacity Teaming, internally within the Group or externally with other being daring or bold companies, broadens offerings by combining niche products thinking of the bigger picture or opportunity or linking domain knowledge.
It attains competitive being prepared to take a leap forward advantage by accessing off-the-shelf technology at lower cost, allowing timely delivery while avoiding expensive thinking the unthinkable to grow the business development costs and high project risk.
Increasingly, Ultra teams with international, world-class partners to access best Paranoia of breed technology and undertakes specialist system and considering risks and leaving no stone unturned to sub-system design and integration, ensuring sovereign secure market opportunities operational independence where required.
recognising threats and making it difficult for competitors to steal Ultras established position 8 To meet our commitments constantly worrying about satisfying customers Ultra has built a reputation of meeting its commitments.
real needs This reputation is not only based on businesses meeting their obligations, but also by establishing a culture within the considering every possible angle when strategising bids to enhance Ultras competitive position Group which is based on this principle.
The management team in each business is required to ensure that potential commitments are fully understood before they are entered into.
The team must then encourage behaviours that support the fulfilment of commitments made.
Ultra believes that this reputation for meeting commitments is one of its defining and most valuable characteristics.
Behaving in this way fosters long-term relationships.
There is a description of Ultras strategies to develop its people on pages 8 and 9 of the report.
This includes actions to encourage and reinforce LEAP behaviours.
portfolio strength underpinning growth Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Chief Executives report
