Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Key Performance Indicators Performance indicator Definition 2008 result 2007 result 1 Revenue growth Growth in total Group revenue 25% 10% compared to the prior year.
25% 10% 2 Profit growth Growth in Group profit before 18% 11% tax, amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and fair value movement on derivatives compared to the prior year.
18% 11% 3 Order book visibility Order cover for next financial 65% cover on nominal 2009 60% cover on actual 2008 year as percentage of market revenue of 600m revenue of 491m excluding consensus sales forecast for new acquisitions in the year the year.
65% 60% 4 Growth in earnings Annual growth in earnings 16% 14% per share over a per share, before amortisation three year period of intangibles arising on acquisition and fair value movement on derivatives, calculated over a rolling three year period.
16% 14% 5 Cash conversion Net cash from operating 102% 83% activities, less net purchases of property, plant and equipment, less expenditure on product development and LTIP purchases, expressed as a percentage of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
102% 83% 6 Interest cover The ratio of profit from 19 times 29 times operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition to finance costs associated with bank borrowings.
19 times 29 times 7 Relative total Annual total shareholder return 14% p. a.
4% p. a. shareholder return capital growth plus dividends paid, assuming dividends reinvested over a rolling five year period compared to the 14% 4% FTSE 250 index.
per annum per annum The indicators shown above have been identified by the Directors cash, which can then be reinvested in the business in the form of as giving the best overall indication of the Groups long-term acquisitions.
The Board uses operating cash conversion as a success.
Revenue growth gives a quantified indication of the simple yet reliable measure of cash generation, which represents rate at which the Groups business activity is expanding.
Order the major element of the Groups short-term incentive bonus book visibility, based upon expected sales during the year to scheme.
Whilst free cash will continue to fund Ultras expansion come, gives the Board confidence as to the achievement of future by acquisition, it is important to ensure that the balance sheet growth forecasts.
A satisfactory headline profit growth trend remains sufficiently strong and that the cost of carrying additional confirms that additional revenue is being gained without profit debt does not become too high.
Interest cover is a reliable margins being compromised.
It also indicates that the additional indicator of balance sheet strength.
Finally, it remains the contribution to profits from new acquisitions is greater than the overriding objective of the Board to provide shareholders with a extra financing costs associated with those acquisitions.
A key long-term return on their investment in Ultra that exceeds that of objective of the Board is to increase earnings per share at a other potential equity investments with a similar risk profile.
Total faster rate than other similar quoted companies in the UK.
If shareholder return is a suitable measure, as compared to the successful this should ensure that investors will continue to hold overall population of FTSE 250 companies.
Ultras shares, rather than those of its peers.
The Directors aim to manage the Group so that it continues to generate high levels of 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01
