Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Inuences on the Groups long-term value Market trends likely to impact future prospects Budgets have risen over recent years in Ultras main defence markets in both the US and UK.
The continuing costs of peacekeeping operations are, however, straining these defence budgets.
Nevertheless, overall defence budgets are sufficiently large to provide substantial headroom for the continuing growth of Ultra.
In the US, Ultras biggest defence market, the defence budget for 2008 9 is over $515 billion to fund the necessary strategic investments to modernise and recapitalise key capabilities in the armed forces.
That figure does not include the tens-of-billions of dollars in expected costs for US operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
The administration funds the Iraq and Afghanistan deployments through separate legislation.
The Presidents defence budget request for FY10 totals $527 billion and makes allowance for continuing training and maintenance and the resetting or re-equipping of forces following overseas deployments.
Ultra sold an increased number of HiPPAG airborne compressors to the Within the US and UK defence budgets, expenditure continues to US Navy in 2008 be focused on improving command and control through achieving information superiority, on enhancing the ability to deploy forces In the military aircraft sector Ultra provides specialist sub-systems rapidly and in providing increased protection for personnel.
The main military aircraft programmes on which number of new platforms being built may decline in future years Ultra equipment is fitted include the F A-18 E F Super Hornet but an increasing share of defence budgets will be spent on and the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter.
These programmes maximising, through the application of advanced electronic continue to have political support, underpinned by consistent solutions, the capabilities of new and existing platforms.
Ultra has production contracts for both pursued a strategy through investment in product niches that has the second tranche and export quantities of the Eurofighter positioned the Group to benefit from these trends.
The Group also has firm contracts for the Ultra constantly seeks opportunities to offer new products and design and delivery of 192 aircraft sets of equipment for the services to meet such customer requirements.
new Airbus A400M military transport aircraft.
The Group is also In the US, Canada, Europe and the UK new Anti-Submarine positioned on Boeings Small Diameter Bomb programme Warfare ASW aircraft, both fixed and rotary wing, are being which will require over 2,000 bomb racks, each of which will procured.
This is evidence that the decline in one of Ultras contain a HiPPAG compressor.
traditional market sectors, that of ASW, is bottoming out.
In the Recent terrorist attacks have emphasised that the level of threat longer term, the entry into service of these platforms might be is not reducing.
The perceived threat to individuals and to expected to increase the annual consumption and therefore economically important assets, together with the need to protect demand for sonobuoys, the acoustic sensors that are used to borders and coastlines from illegal immigrants and smugglers, are detect submarines and for which Ultra is the world-leading driving an increase in global demand for intelligence, surveillance supplier.
There is also strong interest on both sides of the and enforcement systems, a market sector in which Ultra has Atlantic in deploying advanced sensor systems to improve the innovative and cost-effective solutions.
ability to sanitise coastal waters, where amphibious operations may be mounted, from the threat posed by stealthy submarines.
Unmanned vehicles will become an increasingly important element Ultra is already under contract to develop multi-static active of ghting forces worldwide.
This reduces both the cost per sonobuoy systems as well as persistent distributed sensor platform and the risk to personnel from enemy action.
For Ultra, networks to satisfy this requirement.
this will reduce demand for specialist Human-Machine Interface HMI equipment used in cockpits.
Anticipating this, Ultra has positioned its HMI equipment for use on base stations that control the unmanned vehicles.
Unmanned air vehicles must be controlled using high integrity radio links and Ultra has developed an innovative solution that is being adopted as an international standard.
Ultra is also positioned to supply the air-to-ground communications sub-system of unmanned air vehicle systems that, in addition to acting as surveillance assets, will be able to attack time-critical targets at long range.
In civil markets both Airbus and Boeing have aircraft order backlogs equivalent to seven years production.
In the short term there may be some attening in the rate of aircraft build as airlines are impacted by the global economic slowdown.
In the medium and long term there will be greater demand for air travel as a result of growing populations with higher disposable incomes.
This also stimulates after-market spares and repair activity.
Ultra has niche technology offerings that have well established positions on long-term aircraft build programmes that should provide a Ultra provides advanced, multi-function pilot's stick-tops for 'ying' ywheel effect for Ultras civil aerospace sales.
Ultras newer uninhabited air vehicles 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Inuences on Groups long-term value contributions made by its employees.
The Groups success in innovating to meet customer needs is based on the broad range of skills and capabilities of employees.
The availability of appropriately skilled engineers and other specialist staff is nite.
In this competitive market, Ultra pursues a number of initiatives to give it an advantage over competing employers to attract, retain and develop the best people.
These are described more fully on pages 8 and 9 of this document.
An important Group resource is its excellent reputation with its customers.
All employees strive constantly to ensure that this reputation is upheld.
The eight Group strategies described on pages 4 and 5 of this document include a focus on being an excellent and strategic supplier and on meeting commitments.
Management of risks and uncertainties Ultras confidence in its ability to continue to deliver growth is underpinned by a number of key factors.
The Group has a track record of year-on-year success despite significant volatility in Ultra is supplying its innovative wing ice-protection system, proximity sensors foreign exchange rates and whilst experiencing full market cycles and control electronics for Boeing's new 787 aircraft programme in both the civil aerospace and defence sectors.
These risks will continue to be mitigated through robust business strategies.
technology of wing ice protection has achieved a position on the About three-quarters of Ultras revenue is from the defence Boeing 787 aircraft which is set to become one of the worlds sector.
A theoretical risk would therefore be a significant most successful aircraft programmes with rm orders at the end of worldwide reduction in defence expenditure.
The overall size of 2008 for 879 aircraft.
the defence budgets relative to Ultras annual revenue provides The long-term worldwide increase in air travel drives investment sufficient headroom for the Groups growth to continue.
Ultras in infrastructure including airport IT systems.
Ultra is an constant focus has consistently been on ensuring that the internationally competitive supplier of advanced airport IT Groups businesses operate in a large number of growing niche systems and of integration services.
The Group continues to win markets where the Group can create and maintain sustainable new business around the world, reflecting the global nature of competitive advantage and can win business worldwide.
In the short term the global economic specialism and diversity give some protection from budget slowdown will reduce demand in some regions of the world.
variations and so provide resilience to Ultras performance.
Ground transport systems also require continuing investment in regions of high population density, a trend from which Ultra benefits.
Ultra specialises in the supply of trackside power supplies for mass transit systems.
In London, preparation for the 2012 Olympic Games is resulting in a high level of investment in the transport infrastructure and Ultra will supply equipment as part of this upgrade programme.
In the UK the strategic need to maintain independence of energy supplies and the need to reduce carbon emissions are driving an increasing level of planned investment in civil nuclear power generation.
This is a market in which Ultra has niche capabilities, both in specialist sensors and, potentially, the supply of high integrity control systems derived from the Groups experience in the provision of the naval equivalents.
Ultra has augmented this niche position with the acquisition in 2008 of the Nuclear Sensors & Process Instrumentation business in the US and the Radmon activity in the UK.
This market includes the refurbishment and life extension of existing installations and these activities will grow rapidly in the short and medium term.
Modern airports around the world rely on Ultra's integrated IT solutions This will be further boosted by demand for sensors and systems for new power stations.
Ultras financial performance has not been driven significantly by The order book value at the end of 2008 was a record 783.5m, the current allied operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
These an increase of 26.2% in the year.
Part of the increase was due to operations will be scaled back in the next few years.
Since Ultra the consolidation of the order books of acquired businesses but did not benefit materially from the start of these operations, it is there was also strong organic growth.
This order book maintains anticipated that such a withdrawal would not harm the Groups historic levels of firm order cover for the coming year and so trading position.
Indeed, it might well be an overall benefit to provides the Groups customary level of forward visibility.
the Group as it may alleviate some of the current pressures on defence budgets.
Resources Ultra has access to adequate financial and human resources to implement its strategy for the foreseeable future.
The performance of Ultra is fundamentally driven by the individual and team portfolio strength underpinning growth Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Chief Executives report Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Inuences on Groups long-term value Ultra supplies all elements of the armed forces, i. e. the army, navy, air force and marines together with first responders such as medical staff and firefighters.
This customer spread provides an element of risk mitigation.
In addition, Ultra operates in a number of different distinct market sectors, including battlespace IT: sonar: military aircraft equipment and military vehicle equipment.
Ultra supplies its sonobuoy telemetry receivers to the world's anti-submarine warfare aircraft, both xed and rotary wing The international spread of Ultras activities provides resilience to its performance.
The Group now sells its products and services in over thirty countries worldwide and this has broadened the customer base.
Ultra also has a transatlantic capability, with twelve of its twenty four businesses being in North America and so is exploiting its innovative solutions and operating as a domestic agent on both sides of the Atlantic, thereby providing sovereign operational independence of the respective armed forces.
Importantly, Ultra has taken steps in 2008 to broaden geographically the base for the Groups further growth.
The acquisition of Dascam gives a proven route to market in the Middle East, an area of significant potential for many of Ultras niche offerings.
In addition, Ultra has started building a capability in Australia, not only to satisfy the immediate needs of the sonar system contract won in 2008 but also to act as a portal for all Ultra businesses into the fast growing Asia Pacic regional market.
Ultra is represented on a significant range of major international programmes and platforms.
Despite Ultras growth it remains true that no single programme represents more than 5% of Ultras revenue in any year.
The cancellation or curtailment of any single programme is unlikely therefore to have a material adverse impact on the Group.
Ultra supplies all elements of the armed forces, i. e. the army, Ultra supplies innovative hand controls for remotely operated, above-armour navy, air force and marines together with first responders such as weapons on armoured vehicles medical staff and firefighters.
Again, this reduces the risk of decline in any one market sector materially affecting Ultras overall performance.
Ultra has significant business in the civil sector and this provides useful diversification, often providing an adjacent market in which to exploit complementary skills and technologies.
Within the civil market, Ultra operates in aerospace, transport, energy and commercial security sectors.
This spread gives further resilience to Ultras performance.
Ultras financial performance is affected by movements in foreign currency exchange rates because it has subsidiaries that are based overseas, mainly in Canada and the USA.
Their sales and operating profits are translated into sterling every year using an average exchange rate for the year.
A similar effect is seen when reporting the sales made in US dollars by Ultra businesses based 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Chief Executives report Inuences on Groups long-term value gradual strengthening in Ultras effective hedged position, taking the existing contracts into account and assuming that the current spot rates remain unchanged.
The industries in which the Group operates continue to experience restructuring, which sometimes results in Ultras customers themselves becoming more vertically integrated.
This may increase the incidence of the Groups customers having capabilities that overlap with Ultras.
The threat that this otherwise might pose is offset by Ultras strategy of operating in specic market niches where it has some sustainable differentiation.
Ultras customers aspire to stable or reducing prices for the goods and services that they procure.
This inevitably leads to cost pressures to which the Group must respond.
Ultra has a long track record of product innovation, exploiting new, lower cost electronics technologies to reduce costs whilst delivering improved performance.
Additionally, operational efficiencies are achieved by working more intelligently, particularly through Ultra is developing five systems for the new Airbus A400M military embracing lean manufacturing and design processes.
Ultra has transport aircraft made significant progress in sourcing production in low cost economies where this is appropriate given the nature of the in the UK.
Variations in these exchange rates result in a currency products that the Group provides.
The anticipated cost translation risk.
With the US dollar strengthening substantially reductions have been achieved, thereby helping protect and during the year, notably in the last quarter, the Groups reported improve the Groups operating margins.
revenues were enhanced by a positive currency translation effect.
The Canadian dollar saw a similar trend and this contributed further to the favourable impact.
Overall the average rate for the US dollar strengthened against sterling by 7% and the Canadian dollar rate by 9%.
These movements were smaller than those of the year-end spot rates because of the averaging effect.
The combined impact was to increase reported revenue by 5% or 19.9m.
On operating profit the effect was an increase of 5%, equivalent to 2.9m.
By their nature these currency translation risks cannot be mitigated.
With respect to currency transaction risks Ultra has a natural hedge from its geographic spread of activities.
The majority of sales made by Ultras businesses, wherever they are based, are made in their local currency, thus avoiding any transaction risk.
However this risk does arise when businesses make sales and purchases that are denominated in foreign currencies, most often the US dollar.
When a foreign currency weakens against the local currency revenue suffers from a negative currency transaction effect and the opposite is true when the foreign currency Ultra supplies equipment that allows teams of firefighters to appreciates.
To reduce this volatility Ultra has taken steps to communicate effectively source in US dollar zones a higher proportion of the cost of products sold in US dollars.
For the remaining net exposure the Relationships Groups policy is to hedge forward the foreign currency trading The diversified nature of Ultras activities is reflected in the exposure in order to increase certainty.
Traditionally, forward broad range of platforms and programmes in which the Group cover has been established for 18 to 24 months worth of US is involved.
This diversification extends to customer, supplier dollar-denominated sales from the UK and Canada.
Within its total sales to the major the recent strengthening of the US dollar, however, a decision prime contractors, Ultra typically supplies products, equipment, has been taken to extend this protection by putting additional sub-systems and services to a range of different platforms and hedging contracts in place to provide partial cover for the programmes, with each one effectively acting as a different Groups expected net exposure for a further five years.
Given that no single platform or programme to other currencies is hedged as it arises on specific contracts.
represents more than 5% of revenue in any one year, there is, Contrary to the strengthening in the US dollar spot rates, the therefore, no single relationship of such significance that its lag between when foreign exchange contracts were taken out severance would have a material impact on Ultras performance and the dates that they mature meant that effective hedged or prospects.
rates for 2008 were weaker than in the previous year.
The overall adverse impact on operating profit was 4.8m.
Ultras effective hedged rates for selling US dollars in the coming year, based upon the forward contracts currently in place in the UK and Canada, are expected to remain virtually unchanged compared to 2008.
For 2010 and beyond the outlook is for a portfolio strength underpinning growth see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Chief Executives report
