Report of the Directors Chief Executive Officers review continued We are ensuring that our brands address the needs of To re-ignite volume growth, we also need to concentrate on value-conscious consumers everywhere.
Our Bertolli improving our capabilities in the marketplace from leveraging restaurant-quality Italian dinners for two, for example, offer the global scale of our supply chain to sharpening the focus North American consumers an excellent alternative to eating we give to our more successful and fastest growing customers.
And in South East Asia, our Knorr brand has been quick And finally, we will continue to develop the organisation itself, to introduce low-cost single units of stock and seasoning.
building a strong performance culture around the principles of clear accountability, a bias for action, speed of delivery and Finally, we are using the current economic environment to external focus.
bring about a step change in our approach to costs and cash flow.
Hence, we are accelerating our savings programmes and 2009 will be a challenging year.
The depth and uncertainty of reducing many discretionary costs.
We are also challenging the current recession means that we must be able to respond ourselves to be ever more efficient and striving to be quickly to rapidly changing market conditions.
I am confident best-in-class in the management of working capital.
that we have the tools and the organisation to do that.
If we can, then we will emerge from the current difficulties stronger In conclusion, 2008 was a good year for Unilever.
In volatile than ever, just as we have done many times before.
markets and in the face of a severe economic downturn the Groups performance stood up well.
Our priority in 2009 will be to get sales volumes growing again, both sustainably and profitably.
That is why we are focusing on driving our costs down faster, so that we can reinvest in the business and strengthen our brands.
We are also focusing in 2009 on improving the size and quality of our innovations, and rolling them out further and faster around the world.
In 2008, for example, we launched Dove Go Fresh in January in two markets.
Within six months it was in eight markets, and by the end of the Paul Polman year in 55.
We just need to do it more often.
Chief Executive Officer Unilever Executive UEx Responsible for the performance of the Group, guided by the Chief Executive Officer Left to right: Harish Manwani President, Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe Jim Lawrence Chief Financial Officer Sandy Ogg Chief HR Officer Michael Polk President, Americas Vindi Banga President, Foods, Home & Personal Care Genevive Berger Chief R&D Officer Doug Baillie President, Western Europe 8 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008
