Report of the Directors About Unilever continued Unilever is a very culturally diverse business, with 20 different Intellectual property nationalities represented among our top-level group of 100 We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we managers worldwide.
conduct some of our operations under licences that are based on patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others.
We are not We have worked to embed diversity rmly into our day-to-day dependent on any one patent or group of patents.
We use all business decisions, via our talent management and people appropriate efforts to protect our brands and technology.
processes, from appointments to development.
As part of the Human Resources planning process our business units are Property, plant and equipment required to develop specic diversity plans that are aligned to the We have interests in properties in most of the countries where priorities and needs of their regions and categories.
Progress on there are Unilever operations.
However, none is material in the implementation of these plans is monitored closely.
context of the Group as a whole.
The properties are used predominantly to house production and distribution activities We continue to carry out quarterly measurement and tracking of and as ofces.
There is a mixture of leased and owned property diversity against our objectives, using the HR Strategy in Action throughout the Group.
There are no environmental issues tool.
Gender diversity remains an important priority.
affecting the properties which would have a material impact upon the Group, and there are no material encumbrances on our Information Technology properties.
Any difference between the market value of properties Unilever IT is a global function headed by a Chief Information held by the Group and the amount at which they are included in officer, reporting to the Chief Financial officer, with a strategy the balance sheet is not significant.
Please refer also to the to deliver simple and competitive IT solutions in a cost-effective schedule of principal group companies and non-current way to support the business agenda.
investments on page 140 and to details of property, plant and equipment in note 10 on page 99.
We believe our existing A common technology framework and common standards for facilities are satisfactory for our current business and we currently architecture, key technologies, process, information and service have no plans to construct new facilities or expand or improve our allow Unilever to simplify its IT operations to better exploit current facilities in a manner that is material to the Group.
For example, this common approach facilitates the move towards regional supply chain organisations and Laws and regulation the development of regional shared service centres, notably Unilever businesses are governed by laws and regulations in Finance and Human Resources, which in some cases designed to ensure that products may be safely used for their are outsourced.
intended purpose and that labelling and advertising are truthful and not misleading.
Unilever businesses are further regulated by The IT function is a key enabler for the One Unilever data protection and anti-trust legislation.
Important regulatory transformation towards a globally aligned business through: bodies in respect of our businesses include the European Commission and the US Food and Drug Administration.
strategic alliances and partnerships with global suppliers: improving IT infrastructure and service levels, whilst We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients, reducing costs: manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities building consistent IT capabilities, processes and databases: and comply with the above-mentioned laws and regulations.
strategic outsourcing in selected key areas Legal proceedings The implementation of an integrated enterprise-wide information We are involved from time to time in legal and arbitration system in each region in support of the One Unilever proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business.
However, transformation is rmly on track.
The Western Europe region although the outcome of legal proceedings are inherently difficult completed its phased implementation, with the last group of to predict, we are not currently involved in any legal or arbitration countries going live at the end of 2008.
The Asia Africa CEE proceedings which may be expected to lead to material loss or region made good progress as a number of countries were added expenditure in the context of the Group results.
Similarly we do in a phased implementation towards 2010.
The Americas is not have any material obligations under environmental legislation.
already fully operational across the region.
None of our Directors or Ofcers is involved in any legal proceedings which are material as aforesaid.
For further Unilever partners with a selected group of leading suppliers to information on certain legal proceedings please refer to legal develop and maintain a limited number of complementary IT proceedings within note 25 on page 126. systems that collectively cover our business needs.
This promotes radical simplication, increased exibility and agility, faster implementation and reduced costs.
24 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008
