Report of the Directors About Unilever continued Our denition of D&E markets includes all countries in Latin The table below shows the results for the last three years.
America, Central & Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia, except Japan, 2008 2007 2006 Korea, Australia and New Zealand.
In 2008, the turnover in these markets represented 47% of the turnover of the Group.
Total recordable accident frequency rate Our D&E strategy aims to increase the penetration and per 100 000 hours 0.21 0.26 0.33 CO from energy per tonne of consumption of our categories with D&E consumers at all income 2 production kg 146.77 149.18 164.59 levels and to trade consumers up to higher added value products 3 Water per tonne of production m 2.96 3.05 3.29 as needs change with rising incomes.
We have an outstanding Total waste per tonne of production kg 7.89 7.56 7.46 geographic footprint in D&E markets.
Our focus is to maintain and develop our leading category and brand positions in our D&E Data for 2008 is preliminary.
It will be independently assured and strongholds, such as Brazil, India, South Africa and Indonesia, reported in our online Sustainable Development Report 2008 at whilst simultaneously investing aggressively for growth to build up www.
com sustainability For previous years, the data has new brand and category positions in countries that present been assured.
The type of assurance undertaken has been limited important new growth opportunities, notably China and Russia.
to enquiries of company personnel and analytical procedures together with review on a sample basis of the operation of In the last decade we have strengthened our brand portfolio, with processes relating to performance data noted in the table above.
the top 25 brands now collectively contributing 73% of our Assurance of this nature is substantially less in scope than a global turnover.
We now have 13 brands with a turnover of financial audit and does not include detailed sample testing of 1 billion or more, as the Axe Lynx mens care brand surpassed source data, processes or internal controls.
None of the assurance this milestone in 2008. services in this area is provided by Unilevers external financial auditors.
We also monitor the development of our brands through independent market information that gives us insights into our On pages 9 to 11 of this report we give examples of the ways in leading positions versus our direct competitors.
In our section on which our brands are addressing consumers social and Operating environment on page 22 we indicate the product areas environmental concerns.
A comprehensive review of Unilevers in which we have leading or key strategic positions.
social and environmental performance can be found in our annual Sustainable Development Report, available online at Key indicators people and sustainability www.
com sustainability Our online Report will contain Unilever has for many years recognised the signicance of social updated and independently assured results for 2008 for the and environmental issues as a critical dimension of its operations, measures above, as well as trend information that demonstrates and has established many indicators to track its performance in our performance over the longer term.
Ten-year trends in many of the measures described above, We regard safety as an essential element of a successful and together with a range of other indicators, are included in the sustainable business and take seriously our responsibility to document entitled Unilever Charts which can be found on our provide a safe workplace.
We aim to improve continuously the website at health, safety and well-being of everyone working for or on www.
com investorrelations annual reports behalf of Unilever.
A key measure of our progress in this area is our total recordable accident frequency rate, which counts all Organisation workplace accidents except those requiring only simple first aid Unilevers organisation comprises regions, categories and treatment.
For details please refer to page 13. functions.
We are committed to meeting the needs of customers and During 2008, we reorganised the management of our regions so consumers in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner, that our operations in Central & Eastern Europe were managed through continuous improvement in environmental performance together with those in Asia and Africa, whereas they had in all our activities.
We exercise the same concern for the previously been managed with those in Western Europe.
This environment wherever we operate and aim to reduce the change reects our strategic focus on the developing world and environmental footprint of our business and brands.
the fact that these markets share many common characteristics.
Our regions have profit responsibility for the local go-to-market The environmental measures that we regard as the most operations in their geographic territory.
The focus is primarily to significant in relation to our business are those relating to the build and develop relationships with customers, to develop the amounts of CO from energy that we produce, the water that we 2 regional supply chain to deliver customer service and asset consume as part of our production processes, and the amount of productivity, and to deploy brands and innovations effectively, waste that we generate.
For further details please refer to focused on excellent execution in the market place.
The page 16. performance of the regions is measured in terms of in-year financial results, customer service levels and market positions.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
