22 23 Board of Directors Nick Prest CBE Richard Longdon Paul Taylor David Mann Philip Dayer Jonathan Brooks Colin Garrett AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report 22 23 Nick Prest CBE, aged 55 Chairman Nick Prest joined the Board of AVEVA in January 2006.
Following a spell at the Ministry of Defence at the outset of his career Nick joined Alvis, the defence contractor, in 1982, becoming Chief Executive in 1989 and Chairman and Chief Executive in 1996.
Nick left Alvis following its acquisition by BAE Systems in 2004, by which time the Company had become a leading international business in military land systems.
In addition to his position at Alvis, Nick had a prominent role in defence industry representation, serving as Chairman of the Defence Manufacturers Association and Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Industries Council.
In addition to being Chairman of AVEVA, Nick is also Chairman of Cohort plc, a defence technical services business oated on AIM in March 2006.
Richard Longdon, aged 52 Paul Taylor, FCCA, aged 43 David Mann, aged 63 Chief Executive Finance Director and Company Secretary Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Richard Longdon received an engineering training Paul Taylor is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Director in the defence industry then gained experience in Certied Accountants and joined AVEVA in 1989.
David Mann entered the Information Technology the project management of high value engineering He was heavily involved in the otation process and industry after reading Mathematics and Theoretical projects.
He moved into sales and held a series has been responsible for both UK accounting and the Physics at Cambridge University.
From 1969 to 1994 of international sales and marketing positions.
development of its overseas subsidiaries, including he worked for Logica plc where he became Head of He joined AVEVA in 1984 and shortly afterwards was adherence to Group standards.
Between 1998 and 2001 Worldwide Operations, then Group Chief Executive made marketing manager for the process products.
Paul was also UK Director of Human Resources and was and finally Deputy Chairman.
He is currently In January 1992 he relocated to Frankfurt where appointed to the position of Finance Director and Non-Executive Chairman of Flomerics Group plc he was responsible for setting up and running the Company Secretary of AVEVA Group plc on 1 March 2001. and Velti Group plc both quoted on AIM and Groups German ofce.
He returned to the UK Prior to joining AVEVA, Paul originally trained within Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Charteris plc as part of the management buyout team in 1994, the accountancy profession before moving to Philips also quoted on AIM.
He is a Past President of the subsequently taking responsibility for the Groups Telecommunications UK, where he was responsible for British Computer Society and a Past Master of the worldwide sales and marketing activities, before the management accounts of its public sectors division.
Worshipful Company of Information Technologists being appointed Managing Director in May 1999. in the City of London.
He took over as Group Chief Executive in December 1999.
Philip Dayer, aged 57 Jonathan Brooks, aged 52 Colin Garrett, ACA, aged 51 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Philip Dayer qualied as a chartered accountant and Jonathan Brooks joined AVEVA in July 2007 and Colin Garrett has spent the majority of his pursued a corporate finance career in investment has a broad range of financial, commercial and career in corporate finance.
Since 2000 he has banking, specialising in advising small and mid-market international experience.
He currently holds a been involved, in a Non-Executive capacity, with UK companies.
He was first appointed an Advisory number of Directorships with technology-based a number of companies and management teams.
Director in 1983 of Barclays Merchant Bank Limited companies.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Colin is a Non-Executive Director of Sentec Limited and since then has held the position of Corporate Xyratex Limited, a Nasdaq-listed provider of and Ark Capital Limited.
He is also Non-Executive Finance Director with a number of banks.
He retired enterprise class data storage sub-systems and Chairman of ZBD Displays Limited and Pelikon Limited.
from Hoare Govett Limited in 2004.
Philip was a network technology, and e2v technologies plc, an Colin retired from the Board on 31 March 2008. financial consultant to OJSC Rosneft Oil Company, LSE-listed manufacturer of specialised components the Russian state-owned oil and gas company, on and sub-systems.
He is also Chairman of Picochip their otation in 2006.
Philip is a Non-Executive Inc. a private equity company developing wireless Director of Dana Petroleum plc, Senior Independent processors and a Non-Executive Director of Sophos Director of Cadogan plc, Senior Independent Director Plc a software security company.
Between 1995 of Arden Partners plc, Chairman of Baltic Oil Terminals and 2002, he was Chief Financial officer and a PLC and Chairman of County Contact Centres PLC.
Director of ARM Holdings plc, where he was a key member of the team that developed ARM Holdings to be a leader in its sector.
AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2008 Directors report
