Report of the Directors Outlook and risks The following discussion about outlook and risk management Principal Risk Factors activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk Unilevers system of risk management is outlined on page 28. and uncertainties.
The actual results could differ materially from Responsibility for establishing a coherent framework for the those projected.
See the Cautionary statement on the inside Group to manage risk resides with the Boards.
The remit of the back cover.
Boards is outlined on page 44.
Outlook Risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from The progress Unilever has made in recent years is clear and those described in forward-looking statements made within this encouraging.
We have great brands, an enviable geographic document, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or reach and around 70% of our turnover comes from categories in be detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
The risks that we which we have leadership positions.
We have an organisation regard as the most relevant to our business are identied below.
which is able to act more decisively and with greater speed.
We We have also commented on certain mitigating actions that we are also benefiting from cost reduction programmes which we believe help us manage such risks: however, we may not be established well ahead of the onset of the recession and which successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
Global economic slowdown and changing consumer The fact remains however that the global economic climate is demand more difficult than many of us have ever seen.
The extent of the The unprecedented economic slowdown and turmoil in the global downturn, how deep and how prolonged, is difficult to predict.
economy has adversely impacted consumer markets, including those in which Unilever operates.
Unilevers business is dependent As 2008 progressed we saw recessionary conditions in most on continued consumer demand for our products, and reduced developed markets and a slowdown in D&E markets.
Consumer consumer wealth may result in our consumers becoming unwilling and customer fide-stocking exacerbated already weakening or unable to purchase our products, with clear implications for demand, and volumes suffered as a result.
In these circumstances it is important to focus on the things we Unilevers strategy is aimed at delivering superior value products can do in the short term to further strengthen our competitive to consumers, through strong brands, supported by differentiated position.
So the priority for 2009 will be to re-ignite volume innovation and continued product improvement, and driven to growth whilst protecting margins and the strong cash generating market through excellent execution.
We seek to build mutually capacity of the business.
rewarding relationships with customers in order to make our products available across all relevant channels.
We have already announced a series of measures in support of these priorities: and have shortened the time horizon of our We have a significant number of global brands and any adverse variable pay scheme to six months.
This will ensure that we event affecting consumer confidence or continuity of supply of quickly align the organisation behind the new priorities.
such a brand could have an adverse impact in many of our markets, or in some cases affect intangible asset values.
We We no longer wish to target the business to deliver an operating support our brands and their growth through compelling and margin in excess of 15% in 2010.
This target was set at a very competitive levels of investment in advertising and promotions.
different time and in very different circumstances.
We need to The breadth of both our portfolio and our geographic reach also ensure that we focus on creating long-term value for our help us mitigate general economic risks.
We aim to protect the shareholders in todays climate.
Hence, the focus will be on value of our brands through a rigorous approach to R&D and volume growth and strengthening the competitive position of our product quality, and by operating in accordance with relevant brands.
We believe that the actions we are taking will further strengthen These measures are aimed at extending our consumer offerings, Unilevers competitive position.
In time, we have no doubt we will reducing the impact of falling consumer demand or of consumers be able to lift the growth prole of the business whilst steadily switching to alternative products, and thus allowing us to improving margins each year.
compete effectively in our key categories and countries.
Competitive markets and consolidation of customers We operate in competitive markets, and the actions of multinational, regional, and local customers or competitors may place our market shares or margins at risk.
Our strategy continues to focus on investing resources in markets and segments that are attractive, where we have competitive advantage, and where we can grow sales and margins competitively.
Three priorities have been communicated: to invest in Vitality expressed as offering consumers products that enable them to look good, feel good, and get more out of life : to grow the proportion of our total business that comes from Developing and Emerging D&E markets currently nearly 50% : and to increase our presence in personal care markets.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Report of the Directors Outlook and risks continued By concentrating our resources on areas where we have leading In addition, as Unilever conducts business in many foreign category and brand positions we seek to strengthen our overall currencies but publishes its financial statements and measures its competitive position.
We also seek in-ll acquisitions to support performance in euros, it is subject to exchange risks associated our category and geographical ambitions.
with the translation of the underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
We aim to minimise our foreign exchange exposure In the current climate, we also face counterparty risk with in operating companies by borrowing in local currencies, except customers.
The Group establishes limits for key customers, reviews where inhibited by local regulations, lack of local liquidity or local these regularly and takes necessary action to manage this risk.
For those countries that in the view of management have a substantial retranslation risk, we may decide In respect of our route to market, further consolidation among to hedge such net investment through the use of foreign currency retailers and the continued growth of discounters could adversely borrowing or forward exchange contracts on which hedge impact our rate of sales growth and our profit margins.
success depends on our ability to manage successfully our trading relationships with our key customers.
We tackle this by Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase the interest developing and adapting our customer-facing strategies and cost of our debt and increase the cost of future borrowings.
plans, by optimising the return on the investment we make in These rates are susceptible to market uctuations and volatility, customers, and by continually improving our customer and any inability to manage this effectively could impact our cash development capabilities.
A specic focus for us at the moment is ows and profits.
Our interest rate management policy aims to to improve our level of customer service.
achieve an optimal balance between xed and oating rate interest exposures on expected net debt levels for the next five Financial risks liquidity, currency, interest, calendar years.
The objective of the policy is to minimise annual pensions, taxation interest costs and to reduce volatility.
We achieve this through a Turbulence in the financial markets and the downturn in the combination of issuing xed rate long-term debt and by economic environment have heightened financial risks.
As modifying the interest rate exposure of debt and cash positions Unilever operates on a global basis it is affected in a variety of through the use of interest rate swaps.
In the current climate, we also face significant counterparty risk Several factors could affect liquidity management.
The Group regularly reviews these and where significant shortfall in cash ow could undermine our credit necessary tightens counterparty limits and reduces the maturity rating, impair investor confidence and hinder our ability to raise prole of deposits to provide for maximum exibility.
The Group funds, whether through access to credit markets, commercial actively manages its banking exposures on a daily basis.
paper programmes, long-term bond issuances or otherwise.
During 2008, Unilever benefited from its strong single-A Balance Certain Unilever businesses have dened benefit pension plans.
sheet active financial management, and the coming year will see Falling interest rates and market values of investments coupled the continuation of the same policy.
Maintaining our strong with increasing life expectancy could result in the cost of funding single-A rating will remain a key priority.
To manage financial risks, the Group aims to concentrate cash in Our pension investment policies are such that investments are the parent and finance companies in order to ensure maximum well diversied, and the failure of any single investment would exibility in meeting changing economic needs.
We finance our not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
The operating subsidiaries through a mixture of retained earnings, plans seek to invest the largest proportion of the assets in third-party borrowing and loans from parent and group equities, which the Group believes offer the best returns over the companies, with the mix determined by what is most appropriate long term commensurate with an acceptable level of risk.
The to the country concerned.
We seek to manage our liquidity pension funds also have a proportion of assets invested in requirements by maintaining access to global debt markets property, bonds, hedge funds and cash.
The majority of assets are through an infrastructure of short-term and long-term debt managed by a number of external fund managers, with a small programmes.
In addition to this, Unilever has committed credit proportion managed in-house.
Unilever has a pooled investment facilities in place to support its commercial paper programmes vehicle Univest which it believes offers its pension plans around and for general corporate purpose.
We plan on increasing the world a simplied, externally managed investment vehicle to liquidity by reducing the outstanding commercial paper through implement their strategic asset allocation models currently for the issuance of long-term bonds, extending the maturity prole of equities and hedge funds.
the remaining commercial paper and through continued active In view of the current economic climate and deteriorating management of our working capital positions.
government deficit positions, tax legislation in the regions in which we operate may be subject to change, which may have an Because of the breadth of our international operations, we are adverse effect on our profits and on our ability to remit dividends subject to risks from changes in the relative value of currencies.
We intend to continue with high quality tax We intend to continue our policy whereby operating companies compliance and documentation, to execute prudent tax planning manage trading and financial foreign exchange exposures within strategies and to make proper provision for current and deferred prescribed exposure limits and the use of forward foreign taxation.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed regularly for exchange contracts.
On a case-by-case basis, companies may recoverability.
decide whether or not to apply cash ow hedge accounting.
Regional groups monitor compliance with this foreign exchange policy.
26 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors Outlook and risks continued Further information about these, including sensitivity analysis to We continue to recognise the importance of social and changes in certain of the key measures, is given in note 17 on environmental issues in our operations, and have established pages 108 and 110 and note 20 on page 115. indicators to track performance in these areas.
We regard safety as an essential element of a successful and sustainable business Exposure to Developing and Emerging D&E markets and take seriously our responsibility to provide a safe workplace.
Unilever has significant international operations, with close to half We aim to improve continuously the health, safety and well-being its business in D&E markets, and whilst its diverse geographical of everyone working for, or on behalf of, Unilever.
spread helps ensure it is not reliant on a single region or country, it is continually exposed to changing economic, political and social We continue to be committed to meeting the needs of consumers developments outside its control.
D&E markets are typically more in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner.
The volatile than those in the developed world, and any broad-based environmental measures that we regard as the most significant in downturn in these markets could reduce our sales and adversely relation to our business are those relating to the amounts of CO 2 affect our cash ow and profits.
In mitigation, Unilever has long emissions from energy that we consume for manufacturing, the experience and understanding of D&E markets and how to water that we consume in our production processes, and the manage effectively at times of economic turbulence.
amount of waste that we generate.
Input costs, supplier and supply chain reliance The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee oversees Manufacturing our products is dependent on obtaining adequate Unilevers conduct as a responsible corporate citizen.
For the supplies of production materials in a timely and cost effective report of the committee please see page 75. manner.
The prices of these, which are signicantly influenced by global economic conditions, can uctuate and could have an Restructuring and changes to the way we operate impact on our margins and cash ows.
Our management of these Restructuring is an integral part of remaining competitive, and this uctuations is important in terms of our overall cost can involve changes to internal structures, the rationalisation of competitiveness and management of margins and cash ows.
the asset base, and the use of third parties to deliver business services.
We are also dependent on suppliers and global supply chains as a means of producing and supplying our products.
As a result of Restructuring and outsourcing programmes have been particularly our reliance on these global supply chains, we are exposed to intense over the last few years, and the continuing business interruption from natural disasters or catastrophes and implementation of these will require significant effort and through additional risks of changes in local legal and regulatory attention in order to deliver the expected benets on time and in schemes, labour shortages and disruptions from environmental full.
Delays, ineffective management of third-party suppliers, or and industrial incidents.
employee disruption of restructuring programmes could all lead to increased cost, a delay in realising benets, and damage to In the current climate we also face a counterparty risk from our corporate reputation.
We continue to mitigate these risks through suppliers.
Active monitoring of our suppliers and supply chain is in strong project management, clear governance mechanisms, an place, and regular supplier counterparty risk analysis is carried out agreed approach to change management, and by ensuring we to assess exposure limits.
We plan to continue to work closely treat employees in line with our internal standards and in with our key suppliers in mitigating the impact of the lack of accordance with all legal and regulatory requirements.
We intend to continue to purchase forward contracts for raw materials and commodities as People and talent appropriate.
Attracting and retaining talented employees is essential to the successful delivery of our strategy and success in the marketplace.
Unilever actively monitors its external environment, reviews and Shortfalls in recruitment or retention could adversely affect our revisits its business continuity and disaster recovery plans, and ability to operate successfully, grow our business and win against continues to adapt its internal cost structures to deliver products competition.
We continue to actively manage uctuations in input costs and are accelerating our cost reduction To counter the risk, we believe in providing an environment where programmes.
individuals can achieve their goals, both professionally and personally, and by seeking to ensure that Unilever has the right Safety, sustainability and environment resources and capabilities to compete effectively.
We have fully Unilever has created a strong corporate reputation over many integrated processes of appraisal against skill proles, capabilities, years for its focus on social and environmental issues, including and achievement of business objectives, and we also make sustainable development and utilisation of renewable sources.
The investments in training and development which are aimed at Unilever brand on our products increases our exposure, and equipping our people for the challenges in their roles.
We should we fail to meet high product safety, social, environmental constantly review external candidates to ensure we enrich and and ethical standards in all our operations and activities it could augment our home-grown talent.
Other risks We seek to demonstrate our commitment to our people and the In common with other businesses, the Group is exposed to a communities that we operate in through compliance with our number of other risks, some of which may have a material impact Code of Business Principles and other operational and business on its turnover, operating profit, net assets and liquidity.
possible to identify or anticipate every risk that may affect the Group, some of which may currently not be known or may have been assessed as not material.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Report of the Directors Outlook and risks continued Risk Management, Internal Controls and Disclosure Policy compliance Controls and Procedures The implementation of and compliance with our governance The identication and management of risk is integral to Unilevers structure is facilitated through a business-orientated policy strategy and to achieving its long-term goals.
Unilever policies are universally applicable within the overall responsibility for the risk management process, which Unilever Group.
They are mandatory and have been developed to incorporates risk management, internal control procedures and ensure consistency in all material respects amongst worldwide disclosure controls and procedures including the operation of the operations in key areas.
They cover operational and functional Audit Committee see page 48 and Disclosure Committee matters, and govern how we run our business, to help ensure we see page 49. comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Key Unilever policies include the Compliance Manual for the Listing Rules and Unilevers procedures, which are documented and regularly Disclosure and Transparency Rules including the Unilever Share reviewed throughout the organisation, are designed to provide Dealing Code, the Risk Management Policy, the Corporate reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that our assets are Pensions Policy and the Accounting and Reporting Policy.
safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being addressed, and all information required to be disclosed is reported to the Operational Controls Assessment OCA Groups senior management, including where appropriate the Operational Controls Assessment requires the senior management Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer, within the in each business unit to assess the effectiveness of financial required timeframe.
At our major units, financial controls are subject to a comprehensive risk-based assessment annually, with controls in The Boards have established a clear organisational structure which the remaining units being reviewed over a one-to three-year cycle.
The day-to-day responsibility for implementation of our procedures financial, operational, Annual Positive Assurance social, strategic and environmental risks and regulatory matters Senior management provides an annual Positive Assurance letter and ongoing monitoring of risk and the effectiveness of controls addressed to the Chief Executive officer conrming compliance of rests with the Groups senior management at individual operating their business unit with BRA, CoBP, Policy compliance and OCA.
Regions review, on an ongoing basis, Exceptions, if any, together with remedial actions, form part of the risks faced by their group and the related internal control these written communications.
A consolidated version is arrangements, and provide written reports to the Chief Executive presented to the Disclosure Committee and the Board for their officer.
The Groups risk, control and disclosure procedures are supported Internal audit through: The Corporate Audit function plays a key role in providing to both operating management and the Boards an objective view and Business Risk Assessment BRA reassurance of the effectiveness of the risk management and The Audit Committee reviews the key risks affecting the business related control systems throughout Unilever.
four times a year and the Boards review the risks as a part of the forecast and annual financial plan.
The regions, category and It is Unilevers practice to bring acquired companies within the functions provide inputs to this process and actions are put into Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and in place to mitigate the identied risks.
Risk reporting covers the any event by the end of the first full year of operation.
perceived risk, assessed impact and the effectiveness of controls to mitigate these risks.
The Boards, through the Audit Committee see page 74 for report of the Audit Committee, have reviewed the assessment of risks, The Code of Business Principles CoBP internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures that The Code of Business Principles, which sets standards of operate in the Group and have considered the effectiveness and professionalism and integrity for its operations worldwide, is remedial actions where applicable for the year covered by this Unilevers statement of values and represents the standard of report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of conduct we require from all of our employees.
Our Code of Ethics Directors.
applies to the senior executive, financial and accounting ofcers, and comprises the standards prescribed by the US Securities and Boards assessment of compliance with the Risk Exchange Commission SEC.
The CoBP Hotline is a condential Management frameworks way for employees to submit concerns regarding accounting and Reference is made to the requirements sections in the Corporate auditing issues anonymously and handles all alleged violations of governance statement for Unilevers compliance with the UK the CoBP.
Copies of the CoBP, the Code of Ethics and the Share Combined Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance code and the Dealing Code are posted on our website at US Securities Exchange Act 1934 and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act www.
28 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008
