Vitality through R&D Unilever is a global leader in research and development, believing that powerful vitality-based innovations are crucial to delivering sustainable growth.
The year saw two important milestones.
Firstly, Genevive And we put our nutritious Blue Band margarine within reach Berger was appointed Unilevers first Chief R&D Officer.
of low-income consumers in Africa by developing an affordable Secondly, our 6 000 plus R&D professionals came together single-serve sachet that keeps the product fresh even at high in one unified organisation.
With an integrated global research, product development and Innovation also makes a vital contribution to our sustainability implementation programme, the new R&D structure aims to agenda.
For example, in 2008 we made important strides in give us competitive advantage in the market through greater establishing verifiable environmental metrics and reducing the efficiency and focus.
This R&D organisation is designed to weight of our packaging, helping to decrease the overall impact accelerate the delivery of ground-breaking advances, increase of our portfolio.
the focus on big innovations and optimise the balance between shortand long-term projects.
White teeth, White Now It transfers optical-effect technology Our scientists share best practice and developed by our laundry team to Unique products with proven benefits knowledge across product categories.
the field of oral care, using a blue Our R&D teams focus on creating distinctive new products with The ground-breaking White Now pigment to make yellow teeth proven benefits that meet consumer needs and help add Vitality toothpaste, launched under the Signal appear whiter.
Signal White Now brand in seven European countries, exceeded its sales targets and to Life.
is the first whitening toothpaste with will be rolled out in a number an instant effect.
Knorr Stockpot bouillon uses patented jelly technology.
It looks natural, smells delicious, melts naturally into dishes and has a rich, authentic taste.
Containing no preservatives or colourings, it was first launched in China and has recently been launched in Europe.
Our anti-dandruff shampoo Clear delivered steady market www.
com signal share gains compared to the previous year in markets from Brazil to the Philippines.
Thanks to our superior technology, Clears ability to destroy dandruff-causing microbes makes the scalp healthier and prevents dandruff from returning if the shampoo is used frequently.
6 000 R&D professionals in one unified organisation Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 Report of the Directors Vitality through our brands Up to 90% less oil used in Hellmanns mayonnaise Every Child has the Right Unilevers laundry brands are making a positive social impact while continuing to grow sales.
Dirt is Good, the unifying campaign for leading brands such as Omo and Persil, promotes getting dirty as a natural and positive Over 3.5m part of growing up essential to a childs learning experience.
Under women reached by the Omo brand, the campaign was Dove Self-Esteem taken in a fresh direction when it Fund commissioned a unique study into child development.
1 500 mothers shared their hopes and concerns for their children, with 63% revealing they feared their youngsters were being deprived of their childhood.
This insight inspired the Every Child everychild.
com has the Right campaign, focusing on giving children the freedom to 1 000 experience, learn and develop.
It has been launched in Latin America, tonnes less plastic Europe and Asia.
com omo Rexona roll-on 10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Vitality is at the heart of everything we do.
It defines the many ways our brands help people get more out of life and is core to our growth agenda.
Our Vitality mission reaches across our whole organisation and The Vaseline Skin Fund campaign aims to give at least three provides the basis for our category, regional and functional million people better access to information about managing strategies.
Central to the way we manage our brand portfolio a range of skin conditions such as eczema and ectodermal is identifying how each brand can best bring Vitality to Life.
It was launched in the UK and the US in 2008, with more countries to follow in the coming years.
We do this through focusing on three areas: personal vitality, social value and environmental impact.
Meanwhile, Lipton continued its journey towards sourcing all the tea for its tea bags from Rainforest Alliance Certified farms, a More personal vitality goal the brand aims to achieve by 2015.
In 2008, eight independent Our nutrition, hygiene and wellness brands deliver personal tea estates in South India became the latest of Unilevers suppliers benefits, both functional and emotional, to the millions of to achieve Rainforest Alliance Certified status by reducing waste consumers who choose them.
and pesticide use, conserving soil quality, protecting wildlife, and paying employees a fair wage.
The benefits are being felt by For example, the new Flora Becel pro.
activ Blood Pressure range thousands of employees and their families, to whom the estates enriched with potassium offers a simple way to help manage provide free healthcare, housing, childcare and education.
Potassium helps maintain a healthy blood pressure eliminating excess sodium in the body.
A healthy blood And our Blue Band Rama brand continued to raise funds as part pressure is important for maintaining a healthy heart.
of our three-year partnership with the World Food Programme WFP.
This partnership helped the WFP school feeding scheme Another example of personal vitality is Hellmanns Light provide 76 000 children in Indonesia, Pakistan, the Philippines, mayonnaise, which is rapidly becoming a consumer favourite Colombia, Kenya and Ghana with a nutritious daily school meal around the world.
In 2008, the brand launched its new Light throughout the year.
and Extra Light formulations which incorporate Unilevers patented citrus fibre technology.
This technology gives Less environmental impact Hellmanns Light and Extra Light variants a smooth and creamy We aim to grow our business in a sustainable and environmentally taste almost indistinguishable from the full fat variant, but with responsible way through focusing on cutting water consumption 60% to 90% less oil.
and waste, reducing our carbon footprint and obtaining more raw materials from sustainable sources.
One of our key challenges is to ensure we make a positive impact on the world while continuing to grow sales.
Our oral care team Our Small & Mighty concentrated liquid detergent is a shining launched the next phase of Unilevers Night Brushing Campaign.
example: it fits into a much smaller bottle, requiring half the This aims to reinforce the day and night brushing habit among packaging, water and lorries to transport it.
First launched in fourto eight-year-old children and their parents.
Brushing teeth the US, Small & Mighty is now available across Europe and has twice daily leads to dramatic oral health improvements as well proved a huge hit with consumers.
Meanwhile, Rexona offers one of the most environmentally More social value friendly 50ml roll-on deodorants available.
This was due to new We believe our brands can be a powerful means of improving the manufacturing and packaging processes that underscore how lives of large numbers of people, by championing social causes or our R&D expertise in responsible packaging can lead to both prompting widespread changes in behaviour and attitudes.
environmental and business benefits see page 17.
For example, by the end of 2008, the Dove Self-Esteem Fund campaign had reached over 3.5 million young women around the globe, helping to improve their self-confidence by challenging conventional definitions of beauty.
Such activities help build a strong connection with our consumers while underpinning the brands successful advertising campaigns.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Report of the Directors Vitality through our customers and suppliers We work hard to build strong, lasting relationships with our customers and suppliers around the world essential in todays competitive marketplace.
Winning with customers In a further example of close co-operation with the Wal-Mart We are always looking for new ways to work with customers Group, in summer 2008 we set up sustainability kitchens to bring Vitality to Life in their stores.
We do this through at ASDA superstores around the UK.
The objective was to activities that help consumers better understand our brands encourage shoppers to make environmentally friendly changes health, environmental and ethical benefits.
such as washing laundry at 30C that could also save them money.
As part of this activity, ASDA ran a promotion on For example, Unilever is participating in four of Wal-Marts selected Unilever brands with strong Vitality credentials, such 13 sustainability networks which aim to bring its suppliers as Hellmanns, Persil and PG tips, resulting in a significant sales together to share best practice.
Unilever is taking the lead in increase during the period.
water by developing a reliable way to measure how efficiently its suppliers are using water in growing crops.
Unilever ran Closer collaboration with suppliers an irrigation study among Californian tomato growers, the Unilevers vitality commitment requires us constantly to make results of which will contribute to a sustainability scorecard our food products healthier for example by reducing salt, for Wal-Mart suppliers.
sugar and fat without compromising on taste.
To speed up and improve flavour development for our food innovations, we created the Flavour Operating Framework FLOF.
This initiative provides a globally consistent way for our supply chain and R&D specialists to collaborate with three external suppliers Flavour Houses which compete to deliver new ingredients and technologies.
FLOF has already supplied us with a number of solutions, for example to maintain the taste of Lipton ready-to-drink tea while reducing sugar content, and helping Knorr products keep flavours the same while cutting salt levels.
12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Vitality through our people Nothing embodies our business as much as our employees.
We grow as a company by growing our people and are committed to their personal vitality.
Unilever is shaped and led by its people who operate within a Vital statistics framework of shared values and business goals.
To attract and We introduced a creative way to boost the energy and retain the best people, we aim to create an environment in enthusiasm of people working in our offices around the world.
which all employees can fulfil their potential.
In a joint move by our Occupational Health and Organisation Effectiveness departments, employees in 21 locations completed Personal vitality is integral to our vitality agenda.
It is brought to a survey to measure a range of factors that influence their life through many wide-ranging initiatives that promote the vitality.
The findings were passed to local managers who then wellbeing of our employees.
For example, in Mexico, where it is usual to take an early breakfast and a late lunch, the company Board Putting safety first at the Boscas office observed that people often resort to We regard safety as an essential element of a successful and unhealthy mid-morning snacks.
As an alternative, they sustainable business and are committed to providing a safe introduced healthy snacks stations, offering fresh water, soya workplace.
We aim to improve continuously the health, drinks, fruit and nuts.
safety and wellbeing of everyone working for or on behalf of Unilever.
A key measure of our progress in this area is our total Continued focus on gender recordable accident frequency rate, which counts all workplace Our Global Diversity Board, led by the Chief Executive Officer, accidents except those requiring only simple first aid treatment.
made steady progress in driving the diversity agenda throughout In 2008 the rate was 0.21 accidents per 100 000 hours worked, the business.
Key milestones have been reached with critical a decrease of 19% since 2007. appointments in senior roles including Genevive Berger becoming Chief R&D Officer and joining the Unilever Executive UEx in Feed the world July 2008.
Enabling mechanisms include an expanded mentoring Anne-Roos Carter, Field Sales Support Manager, Benelux, was programme, new ways of working that promote life balance and one of ten Unilever managers to take a secondment to the World fostering grassroots involvement through the Unilever Womens Food Programme WFP in 2008.
She spent three months in International Network U WIN.
Initiatives such as the One Indonesia, working on the WFPs school feeding project, which More programme focus on diversity in teams, where every team aims to ensure pupils get at least one nutritious meal a day.
Now leader is responsible for increasing diversity through each new in its second year, the employee secondment programme enables appointment.
For the top 100 teams, this means looking for the Unilever people to contribute their skills in placements lasting up opportunity to increase diversity in gender and or nationality to six months in Africa, Asia and South America.
Participants get in every appointment they make.
a life-changing opportunity to help fight child hunger while at the same time gaining valuable first-hand experience of living Talent powerhouse in Argentina and working in developing and emerging markets.
Unilever Argentina cemented its reputation as employer of choice with a hat-trick of industry awards.
For the fourth consecutive year, it was voted Best Employer by leading business magazine Apertura, which also ranked it first as the company of dreams for students.
The business also received the Carlos Pellegrini Award for best employer, presented by the National Industrial 19% Association and the Argentine government.
Unilever Argentinas reduction in total reputation is largely thanks to a strategy which includes building recordable accident long-term relationships with universities to share information frequency rate in about promising candidates and developing innovative 2008 recruitment processes to differentiate it from other trainee programmes.
This strong position has helped Argentina become an important talent source for Unilever globally: currently over 80 employees from Argentina are on assignment overseas and many others occupy regional or global roles.
It will be independently assured and reported in our online Sustainable Development Report 2008 at www.
com sustainability Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 Report of the Directors Social impacts and Vitality Making a difference in society Improving nutrition and hygiene lies at the heart of our vitality agenda.
Nutrition helping make the healthy choice Increasingly it is recognised that diet along with regular physical activity plays a major role in maintaining good health.
By developing brands that help consumers to enjoy a healthy diet we can sustain our business growth and help address the challenge of obesity and diet-related diseases.
Our marketing can also encourage consumers to adopt healthier lifestyles.
We are improving the nutritional quality of our existing product portfolio.
In 2005 we began to assess our entire brand portfolio via our Nutrition Enhancement Programme.
By the end of 2008 this 12 0m showed that 43% of our products are in line with internationally people reached through accepted guidelines for saturated and trans fat, sugar and salt.
handwashing campaigns We continue to keep more than 22 000 products under 22 000 in India since 2002 regular review.
products under regular review via our Innovation is bringing new products that offer specific health and Nutrition Enhancement nutritional benefits.
Programme In our R&D pipeline, around three quarters of food products have what we call vitality benefits specific nutritional or 3 health benefits.
Examples include our Moo Milk Time range 4 of ices made with milk, which provide around a third of the of food products in recommended daily intake of calcium, and Flora Becel pro.
activ R&D pipeline have Blood Pressure spreads and fruity shots developed to help specific vitality benefits manage blood pressure.
To increase consumer choice, we provide variants of many brands, with full and low fat, sweetened and unsweetened options, and different portion sizes.
Spreading the word Through on-pack labelling, we help consumers to make the right We believe Unilever can play an important role in promoting healthy choices.
We provide consumers with essential information, food choices.
For example, eating showing levels of key nutrients and guideline daily amounts.
In margarine and mayonnaise is a addition, the Choices stamp helps consumers identify healthier simple, tasty way to consume essential fats and fat-soluble vitamins choices.
Our Food and Beverage Marketing Principles ensure a yet many consumers see these responsible approach worldwide.
During the year, we continued to roll out our Goodness of Margarine campaign to In countries where there is malnutrition, Unilever brands can 12 countries to give consumers a make an important contribution to peoples diets.
Our Blue Band more informed view of our products Rama spreads are a good source of vitamins A, D and E. contribution to public health.
For mayonnaise, we continued our global Amaze snacks have been developed to contain a third of the communication that Hellmanns key nutrients children need daily for their mental development.
mayonnaise is made with real, simple Annapurna iodised salt helps prevent diseases caused by ingredients and is naturally rich in omega-3.
Consumers responded well, iodine deficiency.
with both margarine and mayonnaise showing strong growth in 2008. www.
com hellmanns 14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 4 of food products in R&D pipeline have specific vitality benefits Hygiene changing habits, helping save lives In India, the Lifebuoy hygiene education programme, Swasthya Globally, a lack of basic hygiene causes a wide range of illnesses.
Chetna, has reached nearly 51 000 villages and made a difference Incorporating simple habits into everyday routines such as washing to the lives of 120 million people in rural areas since 2002.
Similar hands with soap prevents life-threatening diseases, particularly programmes in Bangladesh, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, South Africa, diarrhoea and respiratory infections.
And brushing teeth day Vietnam and Indonesia reached a further 13 million.
and night can significantly contribute to the prevention of gum disease and infection.
Another common affliction is oral disease.
Around the world, over 1 billion people do not brush their teeth with a fluoridated Making good quality products such as soap and toothpaste toothpaste at all, while over 2 billion do not brush twice a day.
affordable and widely available to consumers is a crucial starting Here too, changing everyday habits is critical.
point, but products alone are often not enough if people do not change their habits.
Our Signal, Pepsodent and Close Up brands are making a real difference.
In 2008 we extended our long-standing partnership So Unilevers health and hygiene programmes harness the with the FDI World Dental Federation.
power of our marketing to change behaviour.
By working with The partnership is focusing on encouraging children and their partners in government and non-government organisations families to brush day and night with fluoride toothpaste as we can extend our impact further.
this has the greatest impact on improving oral health around the world.
In 2008 the Lifebuoy brand, together with the United Nations and other partners, launched the first ever Global Handwashing Day.
Lifebuoy brand teams in 23 countries helped raise awareness about how handwashing with soap can help prevent diseases.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 Report of the Directors Environment and Vitality Working towards sustainability Unilever depends on the natural environment for supplies of raw materials and water.
39% Over two thirds of our raw materials come from agriculture.
reduction Changing weather patterns, water scarcity and unsustainable in CO from energy farming practices threaten the long-term viability of agricultural 2 1995-2008 production.
Packaging depends on supplies of paper and other materials.
Water is essential for consumers when using many of our brands.
For more than a decade we have been working to reduce the 63% environmental impact of our own operations.
Now we are going further to look at indirect impacts, encompassing suppliers and reduction in water consumers where possible.
In 2008 we piloted a way to measure 1995-2008 our product categories against four indicators covering water, waste, sustainable sourcing and greenhouse gas emissions.
This data will inform future development and innovation across 68% our categories.
reduction in total waste Sourcing sustainably 1995-2008 Unilever buys approximately 12% of the worlds black tea, 7% of the worlds tomatoes and 4% of its palm oil.
We have developed detailed guidelines on what sustainable agriculture means for key crops, covering issues such as reducing pesticide use, conserving water and using less energy.
Since 1995 we have achieved a 39% reduction in CO from 2 In 2007 we announced our commitment to source all our tea energy per tonne of production.
In 2008 we reduced our CO 2 from certified sustainable sources.
About half the Lipton Yellow emissions by 1.6% per tonne of production compared to 2007.
Label and PG tips we sell in Western Europe is now grown on Rainforest Alliance Certified farms.
This commitment was In fact most CO emissions associated with our brands occur 2 instrumental in winning a contract to supply tea for McDonalds during consumer use since many of our products require energy in several European countries.
to heat water for cooking and washing.
Through the design and formulation of our products, we can make a difference.
For Hellmanns mayonnaise is committed to sourcing cage free eggs example, by developing concentrated detergents that use fewer for all products sold in Western Europe by 2010. raw materials and less packaging, that are less energy intensive to manufacture, and that are effective at lower wash temperatures.
Most of the worlds oil palm is grown in SE Asia where the clearance and burning of forests contributes to global warming.
Conserving water Worldwide, deforestation releases nearly 20% of the worlds Our brands rely on water at each stage of their life cycle greenhouse gases.
Working with Greenpeace, we have built a upstream in the supply chain, in our own manufacturing global coalition of companies, banks and NGOs to break the operations and in the hands of consumers.
link between deforestation and the cultivation of oil palm.
In 2008, we announced our intention to have all our palm oil Since 1995 we have reduced the amount of water we use per certified as sustainable by 2015. tonne of production by 63% by minimising water use and maximising water recycling.
During 2008 we achieved a 3 Addressing climate change 3% reduction in water use compared to 2007 from 3.05m 3 Changes in climatic conditions threaten the stability of the to 2.96m per tonne of production.
markets where we operate, as well as our agricultural supply chain.
Developing countries, where we are growing strongly, The most direct impact we can have on water conservation are especially vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
is by designing products that use less.
Surf Excel Quick Wash laundry detergent, for example, saves two buckets of water We are committed to reducing carbon dioxide emissions from per wash for consumers in India a real benefit when water is energy in our manufacturing operations by 25% by 2012 scarce and costly.
One Rinse measured by tonne of production against a baseline of 2004.
Comfort fabric conditioner eliminates the need to rinse clothes before applying the conditioner.
Measured by tonne of production.
com sustainability 16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Reducing packaging and waste Lighter, stronger, greener Packaging is essential to protect our brands, maintain hygiene Unilever experts apply their skills to reducing our brands impact on the and present them attractively to consumers.
The more we reduce environment, as well as making them the impacts of our packaging, the greater the potential saving perform better.
Our Rexona 50ml in materials, energy, transport and disposal costs for customers roll-on deodorant is one of the most environmentally friendly on the and consumers.
market, thanks to a radical rethink of its design and manufacture.
The We have also been minimising waste from manufacturing as moulding, assembly and packaging processes were streamlined and part of our eco-efficiency programme for more than a decade.
energy efficiency improved, with the Since 1995 we have cut total waste sent for disposal by 68% resulting roll-on weighing on average per tonne of production.
During 2008 we saw an increase of 8% less and using 1 000 tonnes less plastic per year than previously.
The 4.3% in total waste compared to 2007.
This increase from time needed to make the cap was cut 7.56kg tonne to 7.89 kg tonne has been driven by three factors: by 34% and the time to make the legislative changes which require different methods of disposal bottle was reduced by 8%, leading to significant energy savings.
Rexona for non-hazardous waste: under-capacity in effluent treatment: deodorants continued to do well, as and the planned disposal of accumulated and inherited sales grew rapidly in 2008. hazardous waste.
com rexona Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17
