indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Tarun Jain Institute of Chartered Accountant of CV KriShnan Director of Finance, Sterlite Managing Director, Commercial India and a graduate of the Institute of Mr Jain is also a director of BALCO, Cost and Works Accountants of India.
Power business MALCO, HZL and Sterlite.
He is also Mr Krishnan has been responsible responsible for strategic financial DiliP Golani for the overall management and matters at Group level.
Mr Jain has development of our commercial power Head, Management been with Sterlite since 1984 and is Assurance Function generation business since October a graduate of the Institute of Cost and 2006.
Prior to that, Mr Krishnan was Mr Golani joined the group in 2000 as Works Accountants of India, a member the Head of Management Assurance the Chief Executive Officer and of the Institute of Chartered Managing Director of KCM.
Mr Golani has a Bachelor Accountants of India and the Institute of Engineering from Motilal National joining the group in May 1999, he was of Company Secretaries of India.
the Chief Executive Officer and Institute of Technology, Allahabad and a Post-Graduate Diploma in Industrial Managing Director of Essar Power DD Jalan Limited.
Mr Krishnan has over 30 years Engineering from the National Institute Chief Financial Officer, of Industrial Engineering.
of work experience and has held senior Vedanta Resources positions in Larsen & Toubro Limited, Mr Jalan joined Sterlite in 2001 as raJaGoPal KiShore KuMar AF Ferguson & Co, Shriram Fertilisers President Australian Operations, & Chemicals Limited and EID Parry Chief Executive Officer, Copper responsible for TCM and CMT mines.
Mr Krishnan has a Bachelor of He has over 27 years of experience with Technology from the Indian Institute of Mr Kumar joined the group in April various companies in the engineering, 2003 as Vice President Marketing for Technology, Channai and a Masters of mining and non-ferrous metal sectors.
Business Administration from the Hindustan Zinc Limited.
He was Senior Mr Jalan has been associated with the Vice President Marketing for our Indian Institute of Management, Aditya Birla Group in various capacities Ahmedabad.
copper India division from June 2004 and, from 1996 to 2000, was in charge to December 2006.
Prior to joining the of commercial and financial activities a ThirunaVuKKaraSu group, Mr Kumar was employed by at the copper smelter business of Hindustan Lever Ltd for 12 years.
Head, Corporate Human Resources Indo-Gulf Fertiliser Ltd. Mr Jalan is a Mr Thirunavukkarasu joined the Group Mr Kumar has a Bachelor of Commerce member of the Institute of Chartered from Kolkata University and is a in April 2004 as General Manager HR.
He became Senior Vice President HR member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
for our Copper Division heading the MS MehTa human resources, total quality Chief Executive Officer, Hindustan management, corporate social PraMoD Suri Zinc Ltd responsibility and public relations Whole Time Director, BALCO Mr Mehta is responsible for the Zinc functions, prior to becoming the Head Mr Suri has been responsible for business and joined the Group in 2000. of Group Human Resources in July Vedantas Aluminum business at Prior to moving as CEO of HZL, he was 2007.
Mr Thirunavukkarasu has more BALCO since December 2006.
Prior to the Commercial Director Base Metals than two decades of experience in that, Mr Suri was the Senior Vice responsible for the marketing of Human Resources Management and President Operations and Head of the copper, aluminum, zinc and lead, held positions in English Electric, new Korba smelter from September procurement of copper concentrate, Hindustan Lever and TVS Electronics 2004 to December 2006.
Mr Suri has export and tolling of zinc concentrate before joining our Group.
He holds held positions in Indian Aluminum and coal procurement.
Before joining a Bachelor degree in Literature Company Limited, CEAT Ltd and the Group, Mr Mehta was with Lloyds and Masters degree in Social Work Goodyear South Asia Tyres Pvt Ltd. Steel Industries Ltd, where he handled with Personnel Management and Mr Suri has a Masters of Chemistry from wide ranging portfolios: marketing, Organisational Behaviour as the India Institute of Technology, Delhi.
procurement, working capital finance his specialisation.
Mr Mehta has a Mr M SiDDiqi Mechanical Engineering degree from CP BaiD Whole Time Director, VAL and Chief MBM Engineering College and an Director Operations, Konkola Executive Officer, Aluminium business MBA from the Indian Institute of Copper Mines Mr Siddiqi manages the Aluminium Management, Ahmedabad.
Mr Baid is currently responsible for business of Vedanta.
He joined Vedanta the business operations of Konkola in 1991, responsible for the Copper P K MuKherJee Copper Mines.
He joined the group in rod plant.
He moved to the Copper Chief Executive Officer, Iron Ore January 2001 as President of MALCO smelter and refinery at Tuticorin business and subsequently moved to BALCO and subsequently to the Aluminium Mr. Mukherjee is the managing director as President and Whole Time Director, business at Korba where he was and chief executive officer of our iron where he was responsible for the responsible for the overall ore business at Sesa Goa.
He joined entire aluminium business of BALCO.
commissioning of the Korba plant Sesa Goa in 1987 as a manager and has Prior to joining the group Mr Baid as Project Director.
Before joining held various positions within the has held senior positions in SISCOL, Vedanta, Mr Siddiqi held senior company in the areas of accounting, Hindustan Unilever Limited and positions in Hindustan Copper Limited.
Prior to becoming Engineers India Limited.
Mr Baid has He has over thirty two years of industry Managing Director of Sesa in April holds an Engineering Hons degree experience, including more than 2006, Mr. Mukherjee was its Finance from Birla Institute of Technology fifteen years in senior level project Director.
He has a total industry work and Sciences, Pilani and an MBA in management positions within Vedanta.
Mr. Siddiqi received his Bachelors Mukherjee received his Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering degree in Commerce from Calcutta from the Indian Institute of technology, University He is a member of the New Delhi.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
