indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions dIrectorS report The Directors present this Annual Report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2008. prIncIpal actIvItIeS Vedanta Resources plc is the UK parent company of a diversified metals and mining group.
The four major areas of activity are as follows: Aluminium: bauxite mining, alumina refining and aluminium smelting operations in India: Copper: smelting and refining operations in India, copper ore mining in Australia and an integrated copper production operation in Zambia: Zinc: zinc-lead mining and smelting operations in India: and Iron ore: Iron ore mine in India.
Analysis of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and geographical origins appears in note 3 of the financial statements and a list of the principal subsidiaries and associated undertakings of the Group may be found in note 37 to the financial statements.
The Chairmans Statement, the Business Review and Finance Review, which together give a fair view of the historic and likely future developments of the operations of the Group, should be read in conjunction with the Directors Report.
These sections together with the sections referred to in the Business and Financial Review and Group Results section below form part of this Directors Report.
There are no material changes from 31 March 2008 to the date of this report except as disclosed.
BuSIneSS and fInance revIew The Company is required by the Companies Act 1985 to include a review in this report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business and Financial Review, including principal risks and uncertainties, can be found within the following sections, which are incorporated in this report by reference: Information Location in the Annual Report Page Key Performance Indicators Business Review 24 Description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Financial Review 58 Strategy Chairmans Statement 4 Future developments Business Review 18 Review of operations Business Review 18 Financial review Financial Review 50 Environmental matters Sustainable Development 62 Health and safety matters Sustainable Development 62 Community issues Sustainable Development 62 The Business Review also includes details of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business, an indication of its activities in the field of research and development, details of the key performance indicators that management use and information about persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements that are essential to the business of the Company.
poSt Balance Sheet event On 9 April 2008, the Group completed the exercise of its option over ZCIs share in KCM for a consideration of $213.2 million.
The transaction resulted in an acquisition of a further 28.4% interest in KCMs equity, taking the Groups total holding to 79.4%.
The balance of 20.6% is held by ZCCM see note 38 to the financial statements.
dIvIdendS The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2008 of 25 US cents per ordinary share 2007: 20.0 US cents per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual General Meeting on 31 July 2008, the final dividend will be paid on 14 August 2008 to shareholders on the register of members as at 11 July 2008.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 16.5 US cents per ordinary share declared on 15 November 2007 and paid to shareholders on 17 January 2008, the total dividend for the year is 41.5 US cents per ordinary share 2007: 35.00 US cents per ordinary share.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 middle AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions governance dIrectorS polItIcal donatIonS The names, specific responsibilities and biographical It is the Boards policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its details of the current Board of Directors are shown on subsidiary companies may, under any circumstances, pages 74 to 75. make donations or contributions to political organisations within the United Kingdom or EU.
In exceptional The following Directors held office during the year ended circumstances where such political donations or 31 March 2008: contributions are deemed necessary for legitimate business reasons, they will not be made without Appointed Designation the prior approval of the Board and the shareholders in the general meeting.
executIve dIrectorS AK Agarwal 16 May 2003 Executive Chairman materIal ShareholdInGS N Agarwal 24 November 2004 Deputy Executive As at 1 June 2008, the Company had been notified under Chairman Rule 9.8.
6R 2 of the Listing Rules, of the following voting KK Kaura 23 March 2005 Chief Executive rights as a shareholder of the Company: non-executIve dIrectorS N Chandra 18 May 2004 Non-executive Percentage of total ordinary Director share capital A Mehta 24 November 2004 Non-executive Number of or voting Director ordinary rights held shares of as at SK Tamotia 24 November 2004 Non-executive 1 Name of holder US$0.10 each 31 Mar 2008 Director Volcan Investments Ltd 154,157,911 53.49% ER Macdonald 23 March 2005 Non-executive Wellington Management Director Company LLC 20,255,829 7.03% dIrectorS remuneratIon 1 The voting rights at 31 March 2008 were 288,072,770.
Details of Directors service contracts and emoluments, options to subscribe for shares in the Company and SupplIer payment polIcy interests in the share capital of its subsidiaries are shown The Group does not follow any specific external code or in the Remuneration Report on page 83. standard on payment terms.
Instead, responsibility for determining payment terms is delegated to the individual corporate Governance businesses within the Group, which take into consideration Disclosures on the application of the principles and local market and industry practice.
The Groups policy is compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code can either to settle terms of payment with suppliers when be found on pages 77 to 82. agreeing the terms of each transaction or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the individual businesss usual charItaBle donatIonS payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with During the year, the Group made charitable donations of contractual and other legal obligations and reflects local $0.6 million paid to the Sterlite Foundation 2007: $0.6 market practices.
million, the Vedanta Foundation $ Nil 2007: $0.1 million and other charitable donations of $2.9 million 2007: $1.5 Trade creditor days of the Group at 31 March 2008 were million.
See note 35 to the financial statements.
The Board believes that working with local communities value of land is critical to the success of its operations and is an Land is carried in the balance sheet at historic cost.
It is important element of the Groups philosophy and culture.
not practical to estimate the market value of land and Donations to charities working in these communities are mineral reserves and resources at any point in time since one of the means by which the Group provides such the market values depend on commodity prices which support.
Further details about the Groups involvement fluctuate on a day-to-day basis.
with local communities during the year can be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 62 to 73. polIcy on derIvatIveS and fInancIal InStrumentS An explanation of the Groups financial management objectives and policies together with details of the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk appears in note 26 to the financial statements.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 91 Job: 10808 VED 08 middle AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions dIrectorS report CONTiNUED dIrectorS and offIcerS lIaBIlIty InSurance GoInG concern The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance The Directors have considered the financial position of the for its Directors and officers and those of the subsidiaries Company and the Group as shown in the balance sheet and of the Group, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2008, together with the other financial statements, the budget for dIScloSure of InformatIon to audItorS the current year, the Groups business plans and the cash Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of resources available to the Group.
The Directors consider this annual report confirms that: that the Company and the Group will be able to meet their 1.
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant financial commitments for the foreseeable future and that audit information of which the Companys auditors are it is, therefore, appropriate for the financial statements to unaware: and be prepared on the going concern basis.
The Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any addItIonal InformatIon for ShareholderS relevant audit information and to establish that the The following description summarises certain provisions Companys auditors are aware of that information.
in the Companys Current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Act 2006 together the Companies Acts.
This is a Companies Act 1985. summary only and the relevant provisions of the Companies Acts or the Articles should be consulted if dIrectorS reSponSIBIlIty Statement further information is required.
Certain amendments will Each Director further confirms that, to the best of their be proposed to the Articles at the Annual General Meeting knowledge: on 31 July 2008, details of which are set out in the Notice of 1.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with Meeting.
Copies of the Companys current Articles, International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted together with copies marked up to show the proposed by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, amendments are available for inspection at the Companys liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the registered office.
Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and dIvIdendS and dIStrIButIonS 2.
The Business Review, which is incorporated into the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in development and performance of the business and the accordance with the respective rights of the members, but position of the Company and the undertakings included no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends if it appears to description of the principal risks and uncertainties the Board that they are justified by the profits of the they face.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Dividends may be declared and paid in any currency or accordance with the provisions of Rule 4.1.
12R of the currencies that the Board shall determine.
The Board may Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
also determine the exchange rate and the relevant date for determining the value of the dividend in any currency.
reappoIntment of audItorS A resolution to re-appoint the auditors, Deloitte & Touche rIGhtS and oBlIGatIonS attachInG to ShareS LLP, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and Meeting in accordance with section 385 of the Companies deferred shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
The re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP has Details of the authorised and issued share capital together been approved by the Audit Committee, which will also be with movements in the Companys issued share capital responsible for determining their remuneration on behalf during the year are shown in note 31. of the Board, subject to the approval of shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In February 2006, Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL issued 4.6% $725 million guaranteed convertible bonds.
annual General meetInG The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable The fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be redeemable preference shares to be issued by VFJL, which held at the Institution of Civil Engineers, One Great George are then exchanged automatically for ordinary shares of Street, Westminster, London SW1P 3AA on 31 July 2008 Vedanta Resources plc represented by depositary receipts, at 3.00pm.
The Notice convening the AGM accompanies which do not carry voting rights.
Further details of the this Annual Report and sets out details of the business to convertible bonds are set out in note 25. be considered.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Holders of deferred shares are not entitled to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting of the Company, nor are they entitled to the payment of any dividend or to receive notice of general meetings.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 middle AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions governance Further details of the rights attaching to the deferred The authority expires at the conclusion of the Annual shares are set out in the Articles and summarised in General Meeting of the Company in 2008. note 31. dIrectorS varIatIon of rIGhtS Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the rights number of Directors other than alternate directors shall attached to any class may be varied with the consent of the not be subject to any maximum, but shall not be less than holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued two.
The powers of the Directors are described in the shares of the class or with the sanction of an extraordinary Corporate Governance Report on page 77. resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
appoIntment of dIrectorS With regard to the appointment and replacement of deadlIneS for exercISInG votInG rIGhtS Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles, the Votes may be exercised at general meetings in relation to Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related the business being transacted either in person, by proxy or, legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by in relation to corporate members, by corporate special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles provide that forms of proxy shall be submitted not less than 48 hours before the time retIrement of dIrectorS appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Under the Articles, any Director appointed by the Board during the year must retire at the Annual General Meeting reStrIctIonS on votInG and the tranSfer of ShareS following his appointment.
In addition, the Articles require No member shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting that one-third of the remaining Directors retire by rotation or at a separate meeting of the holders of any class of at each general meeting and seek re-appointment.
shares in the capital of the Company, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all SIGnIfIcant aGreementS: chanGe of control moneys presently payable by him in respect of that share There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or have been paid.
Furthermore, no shareholder shall be terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, and capital general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of market borrowing.
Some of these are considered to be that class of shares or on a poll if he has been served with significant in terms of their likely impact on the business a notice after failing to provide the Company with of the Group as a whole.
All of the Companys share plans information concerning interests in his shares required to contain provisions relating to a change of control.
be provided under the Companies Acts.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the ISSue of ShareS satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Under the Under the Articles of Association, the Company has terms of the US$ 725 million 4.6% Guaranteed Convertible authority to allot the unissued shares of the Company.
Bonds due 2026 issued 21 February 2006, in the event of Such authority would be exercised having regard for the a change of control defined as Relevant Event, the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committees.
Exchange Price will be adjusted.
The Change of Control Exchange Price shall only apply to Bonds in respect of ShareS held In uncertIfIcated form which Conversion Rights are duly exercised and the Subject to the provisions of the Uncertificated Securities Conversion Date falls within the period, commencing the Regulations 2001, the Board may permit the holding of date of the Relevant Event and ending on the date 60 days shares in any class of shares in uncertificated form and the following the occurrence of the Relevant Event.
transfer of title to shares in that class by means of a Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any relevant system and may determine that any class of agreements between the Company and its Directors or shares shall cease to be a participating security.
employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
purchaSe of the companyS own ShareS At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a By order of the Board.
shareholders resolution dated 1 August 2007, to purchase through the market 28,751,562 of the Companys ordinary deepak kumar shares at prices ranging between $0.10 and an amount company Secretary equal to the higher of: 14 May 2008 1.
105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares of the Company as derived from Vedanta Resources plc the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for Hill House the five business days immediately preceding the day 1 Little New Street on which such share is contracted to be purchased: and London EC4A 3TR 2.
That stipulated by Article 5 1 of the EU Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 No.
Registered in England Number 4740415 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 93
