st 1 Business and Finance Review Continued Although commodity markets are expected to be highly volatile in the Market Overview short term, the underlying fundamentals for both oil and gas remain While energy prices and demand expectations were initially buoyant strong in the medium term.
Commodity prices are expected to recover in 2008, the anticipation of a prolonged global economic downturn as demand increases on the back of a recovery in the world economy, dominated market perceptions in the later part of the year, putting whilst supplies remain constrained due to natural decline in producing downward pressure on commodity prices.
According to the International regions and reduced investment during the economic slowdown.
In Monetary Fund, world real gross domestic product growth is projected particular, demand for natural gas to fuel power generation is expected to slow from 5.2% in 2007 and 3.4% in 2008 to around 0.5% in 2009. to be robust.
Global markets have witnessed some significant weakness against the backdrop of an economic slowdown in all of the worlds major Key Suppliers and Contracts economies.
In parallel with the global slowdown in the world economy, there has been significant volatility in the world energy markets.
Although Excellence in supply chain management remains a critical factor as Ventures success ultimately depends on the performance of its commodity prices increased strongly in the early part of 2008, with Brent oil peaking at over $140 barrel in July, commodity prices declined rapidly contractors.
As commodity prices fell in the second half of the year and companies access to capital declined, it has led to a general softening in the second part of 2008 on the back of a worsening macro economic climate and a significant reduction in demand, particularly in North of the market, with a reduction in costs and increasing availability of stock and vessels.
However, the market may not soften as quickly America and Europe.
as anticipated and it may be 2010 before the real impact is felt.
Oil Markets Ventures core competence in supplier and relationship management The reduction in demand and the rapid decline in commodity prices, continues to deliver benefits even in turbulent times.
Our project execution coupled with a significant weakening of several key currencies, had a costs are below industry norms and long term supply agreements mean profound impact on the oil market in the latter part of 2008.
However, we have access to substantial resources.
These include drilling rigs and demand for oil is expected to rise from around 85 million barrels to around offshore construction related vessels.
The flexibility within these contracts 106 million barrels per day by 2030 on the back of economic recovery, help to ensure Venture continues to beat the market in terms of cost and increased oil utilisation and population growth, according to the 2008 delivery times.
World Energy Outlook produced by the International Energy Agency.
Building a Successful Supply Chain The Organisation for Petroleum Exporting Countries made two key Venture has a strong and stable core of high performance contractors, interventions in 2008, aimed at stabilising the oil price.
The first was a reduction of 2.0 million barrels per day from December 2008 and and once again Ventures innovative contracting style was officially recognised by the presentation of the UK Oil and Gas Award for Supply the second was a further reduction of 2.2 million barrels per day from January 2009.
Despite these interventions, the oil price continued to be Chain Business Innovation, which was presented by the Secretary of State for Scotland at a ceremony in Aberdeen in November.
volatile and affected by negative sentiment in the market.
The impact of the decline in prices will inevitably affect marginal projects and therefore In order to enable Venture to prosper in this challenging environment supply in the medium to longer term.
it must continue the deployment of the current effective strategies of tactical flexibility, speed of reaction, farsightedness and active contract Gas Markets and relationship management.
Gas continues to be a key part of the worlds global energy mix and currently accounts for circa 24% of the worlds primary energy demand Managing Key Relationships for traded fuels, according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy Venture continues to build sound, long term relationships with all its 2008.
Since 2002, the world gas demand has grown on average around critical suppliers in order to deliver highly complex projects on time and 2.9% pa up to the end of 2007. on budget.
In a changing market however, more emphasis is being put on determining the real value proposition that a supplier can bring to the The UK continued to be a net importer of gas during 2008, with around 68% of the UKs gas coming from indigenous sources and the remainder table in terms of performance, cost and the identification and reduction of risk.
The challenge going forward is to ensure we pay a fair price in from pipeline imports, storage or liquefied natural gas LNG.
During the latter part of 2008, the UK LNG import capacity was significantly a downward market whilst ensuring we get maximum performance and true value.
increased following the commissioning of the Isle of Grain LNG expansion project.
Gas prices are expected to continue to track oil prices in the short The aim of the supply chain is to ensure that structures, teams and term due to the UKs interdependence on European markets, where gas people are in place to deliver the best possible outcome.
One of the prices are based on an indexation of oil and oil related products.
The UK ways to achieve this is to reduce the risk associated with uncertainty day-ahead gas price continued to be robust in 2008, averaging around through active contract management.
Open honest dialogues will 58 pence therm versus circa 30 pence therm in 2007. be encouraged and built on, which helps to reduce uncertainty and Venture First Venture was the first oil and gas operator to win the CIPS Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply award for contractual relationships in the UK.
22 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
