Overview of Our Business Success in the 25th Licensing Round Going Dutch Building on Existing Assets Adding Value After two years, Ventures first corporate Securing 15 blocks means Alongside maximising value from the existing base and increasing In addition to capital and operating capability, it was Ventures long term acquisition, CH4, has exceeded all assets by acquisition, adding additional acreage through licensing vision and commitment that held the key to unlocking the potential in the weve picked up additional rounds is one of Ventures key growth strategies.
expectations: the Chiswick field is opportunities in and around now our main gas producer and the The UKs 25th Seaward Licensing Round in November 2008 was We brought both technical and drilling expertise to address the difficulties Ventures most successful, with 15 licences awarded so far and several inherent in the field, utilising fracture technology.
This is a proven our existing core areas, and Greater Markham Area GMA is likely applications outstanding, strengthening our position as one of the technique not often applied to offshore gas.
A resin coated proppant to become our number one production leading exploration and production companies in the North Sea.
was pumped into the reservoir to produce multiple hydraulic fractures the new portfolio of interests and connect the channel sands, enhancing the overall gas recovery.
hub during 2009. contains a number of Innovative thinking also contributed to meeting an impressive Strong Strategic Fit discovered but underdevelopment time frame when we were faced with a shortage of frac Acquired in August 2006, CH4 Energy Limited CH4 was an ideal vessels that could have brought the timetable to a standstill.
Its operations were focused in the southern North Sea SNS appraised accumulations.
equipment and personnel from across the globe, we converted a gas basin and included Markham, a manned platform in the Dutch North traditional supply vessel into a stimulation vessel in less than two months.
Sea sector and an onshore operating base near Amsterdam.
Venture was looking for opportunities to expand its gas portfolio and CH4 offered Exceeding Expectations current production, near term development opportunities, appraisal and Today, CH4 trades as Venture Production Nederland B. V. and 23 exploration upside, and a strategic infrastructure position.
years after discovery, Chiswick is now the jewel in the crown: the result Licence Operator Co-venturer s Licence Obligation Licence Type Notes of perseverance, technical excellence and innovative thinking.
Two It also provided the additional benefit of an entry into the Dutch sector Central North Sea wells are now on stream and current production from Chiswick is 75 in an area where the reserves were already understood from our work MMscfpd, with 2008 year end reserves of 194 Bcf, up by 20% since the on the UK side.
The strategic position of Markham meant that gas 21 20c Dana Petroleum 50% Venture 50% 1 contingent well Traditional Greater Kittiwake Area initial acquisition.
However, recently completed reservoir evaluation and could be exported into the Den Helder gas terminal in the Netherlands 21 20e Dana Petroleum 50% Venture 50% Drill or drop Traditional Greater Kittiwake Area modelling work suggests this reserves figure will increase significantly reducing dependence on the UK as a single export destination.
22 26b Talisman 50% Venture 50% Reprocess 3D seismic Traditional West Central Graben Reprocess 3D seismic, Successful Integration The first gas from a second field, Stamford, came on stream in 22 1a Venture 85% MPX 15% Traditional Adjacent to Chestnut 1 firm well, 1 contingent well The acquisition also brought the first in-house manned production December 2008, adding 12-20 Bcf to net reserves.
platform to Venture so a comprehensive integration plan covering staff Reprocess 3D seismic, 22 19c Venture 85% MPX 15% Traditional East Central Graben both onshore and offshore was put in place.
All existing staff transferred 1 firm well Our presence in the Netherlands has allowed us to acquire three new and an intensive period of co-ordination resulted in a smooth transfer blocks in the northern Dutch sector A15a, B17a and F3-FA which Reprocess 3D seismic, Adjacent to Acorn 29 9c Venture 85% MPX 15% Traditional essential to support the planned development of the Chiswick gas field.
have the potential to support a new production hub.
Subsurface 1 contingent well Beechnut Chiswick came on stream in September 2007, and the final phase of the evaluation has started in A15a and B17a.
F3-FA is already in the integration plan was implemented in March 2008 with the appointment development phase, with technology driving greater efficiency through Southern North Sea of Craig McCallum as Country Manager moving to Holland to take the use of a self installing platform that can be reused elsewhere.
Potential extension responsibility for the whole operation.
43 22b Venture 90% Volantis 10% Drill or drop Traditional of Carna prospect Looking Forward Ithaca 30% Potential extension of Additional Production and Reserves 43 28 Venture 60% Drill or drop Traditional GMA still holds a number of high quality opportunities, including Volantis 10% Morpheus prospect The acquisition brought 10,000 -15,000 boepd of additional production exciting potential north west of Chiswick.
Drilling in Chiswick Phase 2 Ithaca 30% Potential extension and added 30.6 MMboe to Ventures 2P reserves.
It included three 43 29 Venture 60% Drill or drop Traditional will start later in 2009 with a number of potential infill wells identified.
Volantis 10% of Hypnos prospect producing fields Windermere, Markham and J3C and a 25% interest The Battersea and Wandsworth exploration prospects also offer 44 26b Venture 90% Volantis 10% Drill or drop Traditional CMS core area in the ETS pipeline system.
More significantly, it included the Chiswick significant future potential and an appraisal well in the Kew field is development field, which is one of the largest SNS gas fields.
44 26c Venture 90% Volantis 10% Drill or drop Traditional CMS core area currently being drilled.
44 28a Venture 90% Volantis 10% Drill or drop Traditional Greater Markham Area With potential unrisked reserves growth of 600 Bcf close to existing 48 7e Venture 90% Volantis 10% Drill or drop Traditional Along trend of A Fields infrastructure, the Dutch North Sea offers substantial, low risk future Unlocking 48 7f split Venture 90% Volantis 10% Drill or drop Traditional Along trend of A Fields rewards that Venture is well positioned to exploit.
49 3 Venture 90% Volantis 10% Drill or drop Traditional Greater Markham Area the potential of 15 7 6% Venture was successful Seven other applications have This equates to 6% of the cars in 15 licence applications yet to be finalised pending further owned in the UK today environmental consideration stranded 8 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 Overview of Our Business This was our most active participation in a licence round to date and Ventures track record in rapidly capitalising on licence round provides Venture with a fresh range of relatively low risk targets to drill awards was instrumental in securing the new acreage.
For example over the next few years.
Many are close to our current assets, which the Stamford gas field, which came on stream in December 2008, increases the probability that any drilling success can rapidly lead to field is situated in a block awarded in the 2007 24th Licensing Round.
development and production, capitalising on our existing infrastructure.
Commitment to drilling new wells by the end of 2012 has already For example, one block is next to the newly on stream Chestnut field been made in two of the blocks secured in 2008. and two are close to the Greater Markham hub.
The majority of the new licences are drill or drop licences in the SNS.
Four of the licences contain wells where oil or gas has already been These allow Venture two years to acquire or reprocess seismic data discovered but field development has proved challenging.
Venture has and map the subsurface before taking a decision whether to drill already demonstrated considerable subsurface expertise in unlocking or not.
As a result, big capital commitments have not been required.
the potential of stranded discovery wells, for example the Stamford and Going forward, in conjunction with our partners, we will now be working Grouse fields, and in the successful development of the Chiswick field.
on a programme of technical reviews across the new portfolio.
Central North Sea CNS Southern North Sea SNS 22 1a 21 20c 22 19c 21 20e 22 26b 43 22b 44 26b 44 28a 43 28 29 9c 49 3 43 29 48 7e 44 26c 48 7f Key New Licences 4 Four of the licences contain wells where oil or gas has already been discovered Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 Chairmans Statement substantial unrisked reserves potential.
Average production in the year was at the low end of the projected range, due essentially to delays bringing on the second Chiswick well and in commissioning the Hummingbird to produce from the Chestnut field.
The second half of the year was especially encouraging with both Stamford and Grouse fields coming on stream in addition to Chestnut and with participation in a large number of wells.
This high workload has carried over into 2009 and I would like to record my thanks to all Ventures staff and contractors who have again worked very hard and overcome many challenges to deliver real progress in the business.
The Board and its Committees have continued to bring a very constructive approach to the strategy and governance of the Company.
Reports from the main Committees are included in this document and I would thank all my Board colleagues for their very positive contributions throughout the year.
In March 2008, we were pleased to welcome Andrew Carr-Locke on to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Andrews general business experience, as well as his recent senior financial business experience, are good for overall Board balance.
Following this appointment the Board comprises four Executive Directors, five independent Non-Executives, three non-independent Non-Executives and myself as Non-Executive Chairman.
As I indicated last year, we are conscious that this composition does not conform to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, that at least half the Board excluding the Chairman should be independent Non-Executives.
The Board has again reviewed this issue, seeking to balance the objective of not During 2008, Venture becoming unwieldy through size, with assurance that the interests of all shareholders are being safeguarded.
It is the Boards considered view continued to build its that with the five strong and experienced independent Directors there is a clear and tangible assurance that, despite non-compliance with organisational capacity the guidelines, the independent Directors presence is powerful enough to provide a full level of safeguard.
The Board has no current plans and added further depth to recruit additional independent Directors and I believe that we have an experienced Board with the right mix of skills to steer Venture in its to its asset portfolio.
objective of growing the value of the business.
On 12 March it was announced that Jon Murphy would step down as Chief Operating Officer from 14 May 2009 in a planned succession move with Jonathan Roger to take over the role and stand for election As we contemplate the great uncertainties facing the worlds economies as a Director.
Jon will remain with Venture until the end of 2009 to assist and our industry over the coming year, I can reaffirm that Ventures with the transition.
Jon has been a key force in the leadership and strategy remains unchanged, with its focus on the acquisition and development of Venture over the last 10 years.
Personally, and on the development of stranded assets in the North Sea.
The Companys Boards behalf, I thank him for his important contribution and wish him strong balance sheet, cash generation capacity and operational, well for the future.
technical and commercial capabilities put us in a strong competitive position to advance the objective of being a major independent The Boards priorities for the use of Ventures cash flow remain operator in the mature North Sea province.
The primary focus of the unchanged.
The first priority is to maintain a disciplined investment business is on value growth.
In the current circumstances we have programme and with debt at a sustainable level for current business re-emphasised the importance of cash generation, and continue to use activity, it is with pleasure that I can confirm your Board has proposed prudent commodity price assumptions for investment and acquisition an ordinary final dividend of 13.0 pence per share, which is an increase decision making and budgeting and will maintain a disciplined, but of 8% over 2007 12.0 pence.
This will be subject to shareholder substantial investment programme in the expectation of being well approval at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2009. positioned when growth returns to the markets.
The Board believes that Ventures challenging strategic objectives remain valid and will maintain a watching brief on the appropriate delivery timescale as market John Morgan Chairman circumstances unfold.
16 March 2009 During 2008, Venture continued to build its organisational capacity and added further depth to its asset portfolio.
Safety and environmental performance have continued to receive high priority from both Board and management and performance has remained good through high activity levels.
Very high commodity prices through much of the year made for a difficult acquisitions market.
Despite this, the Company completed 11 acquisition deals and two significant farm-ins, adding 10 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business and Finance Review Business and Finance Review Introduction After a challenging start to 2008, Venture delivered strong progress across all key areas of its business: production, development, drilling and acquisitions.
We continued the development of our North Sea asset base, participating in the drilling of six new wells, bringing three new fields on stream and successfully completing some of the largest and most complex projects in the Companys history.
We also announced 13 new acquisitions and farm-ins which, in aggregate, more than replaced 2008 production.
Average net daily production for 2008 was 45,006 barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd.
This represented an increase of 9% over 2007 and set a new record for annual average production.
This growth was driven by a combination of strong underlying reservoir and well performance from our core producing fields, a full years contribution from the Chiswick gas field which came on stream in 2007 and production from three new field developments.
Partially offseting this was higher than anticipated downtime on the Greater Kittiwake Area GKA and natural decline in our producing fields.
Elsewhere in the portfolio, Annabel, Saturn and Goosander all continued to outperform expectations.
Our SNS gas fields contributed 65% of total 2008 Group production with the balance coming from Ventures central North Sea CNS oil fields.
During 2008, Venture has continued to build its business through continued execution of our chosen strategy, summarised as follows: the acquisition, development and production of proved but underexploited oil and gas fields, known as stranded reserves: geographic focus as a North Sea acquisition, development and production company: continued development of our portfolio, which includes interests in over 50 North Sea proven oil and gas fields, less than half of which are currently in production: leveraging Ventures substantial operational and development expertise to continue to give us a real and sustainable competitive advantage as an efficient and focused low cost operator: utilising our very valuable long term strategic relationships with our key contractors helps to ensure access to critical equipment and services: and maintaining a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility to continue to invest through the cycle and capitalise on opportunities delivering both organic and acquisitive growth.
At 31 December 2008, net proven and probable reserves were estimated to total 214.0 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe which represents a 5% increase over 2007.
This growth is the result of both organic reserves additions from positive drilling results and strong production performance together with the acquisition of additional reserves during 2008.
In aggregate, these two factors enabled us to more than offset production during 2008.
As a result, Ventures reserve replacement including acquisitions amounted to 166% of production for 2008, and for the last three years averaged 200%.
From top to bottom: Compression platform The compression platform for the J6A being moved into place.
KSS The KSS experiencing some rough weather during a campaign in the southern North Sea, Summer 2008.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Business and Finance Review Continued Review of Assets Assets Oil 35% Total Production Oil Fields Undrilled Gas Fields Hub Acreage Discovered In Production Trees Cedar Birch Net 2P reserves as at 31 12 08 Oak Larch Central Sycamore South Sycamore GKA Christian Deep Christian Kittiwake Bligh Mallard Whinchat Gadwall Wagtail Goosander Grouse Other CNS Acorn Chestnut Halley Halley Beta Appleton Beechnut Selkirk Millburn Pilot West Wick Gas 65% Total Production Undrilled Hub Acreage Discovered In Production A Fields Agatha Amanda Audrey Adele Ensign Ann South East Adele Alison Andrea Annabel Saturn Mimas Easington Eris formerly Channon Catchment Ceres formerly Barbarossa Area East Caister NW Humphrey Cygnus Irish Murdoch Boulton X and Y Copernicus Sea System Schooner SE Opal CMS Humphrey Kepler Garnet East Irish Sea Whitbeck Marram Other UK Carna Harmonia West SNS Carya Ptelea Morea Garrow SE Thetis Morpheus Hypnos and Nyx Endymion Andromeda Alcyone Vesta GMA Wandsworth Kew Markham Battersea Chiswick J3C Windermere Stamford Northern F3-FA Netherlands A15a B17a 12 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business and Finance Review Central North Sea CNS LARCH 1.7 MMboe BIRCH Central North Sea CNS 11.6 MMboe SYCAMORE Central South 8.7 MMboe CHESTNUT 9.9 MMboe GOOSANDER 3.9 MMboe ABERDEEN GROUSE 1.5 MMboe MALLARD KITTIWAKE 5.1 MMboe 0.6 MMboe GADWALL 0.8 MMboe HALLEY HALLEY BETA 4.4 MMboe East Southern North Sea Southern North Sea SNS Irish SNS Sea MARKHAM J6A 4.2 MMboe CHISWICK SATURN 35.5 MMboe 7.0 MMboe WINDERMERE MIMAS J3C 0.2 MMboe 1.0 MMboe 0.3 MMboe ANN ANNABEL 1.7 MMboe STAMFORD 8.1 MMboe 3.0 MMboe AUDREY ALISON 1.8 MMboe 0.2 MMboe Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 Business and Finance Review Continued Review of Assets Key Greater Kittiwake Area Oil Fields Undeveloped Discovery, 7902 Gas Fields Exploration Prospect Average production boepd in 2008 Trees Area, 4 618 1 7.5% Average production boepd in 2008 Hub contribution to Group production Greater Kittiwake Area GKA 10.3% The GKA field complex benefited from a new export route via the 33km export pipeline between the Kittiwake platform and the Forties Pipeline Hub contribution to Group production System.
Production averaged 7,902 boepd 2007: 9,115 representing 17.5% of Group production.
Fields currently in production are Kittiwake, Mallard, Gadwall, Goosander and Grouse.
Production from the various fields is tied back to the Kittiwake platform which processes and then Trees exports the crude oil.
The area also contains undeveloped Christian Trees production averaged 4,618 boepd in 2008 2007: 6,674, which and Bligh discoveries.
represents 10.3% of total Group production.
Production from the Mallard field was temporarily affected by a tubing The current producing fields, Birch, Larch and Central Sycamore, are scale blockage, which was successfully removed during a coiled-tubing tied back to the Marathon operated Brae A platform located to the north rig-intervention in the fourth quarter of 2008. of the fields, and the South Sycamore field is tied back to the Canadian Natural Resources Limited operated Tiffany platform to the south of During the 25th Licensing Round we were awarded blocks 21 20c 16 12a.
Production is exported via the Forties Pipeline System.
and 21 20e with our GKA partner, Dana Petroleum E & P Limited.
This acreage is contiguous with blocks containing the Christian and Seismic reprocessing and interpretation has been completed across the Bligh discoveries.
block and additional drilling targets are being matured: the first potential target identified is an additional producer on the Sycamore field.
Kittiwake Venture 50% The principal value of Kittiwake is the manned platform, which is the Birch Venture 100% central processing and export hub for all our GKA production.
The single The Birch field continued to produce under natural depletion from the producer left in the Kittiwake field was brought back into production Z3 production well, with some intermittent production from the cycled during the third quarter of 2008 and has performed according to well Z5.
During 2008, no water injection support was provided to Birch expectations since that time.
in order to allow the reservoir pressure to continue to drop towards the bubble point.
Mallard Venture 50% The single production well recently resumed production after a The anticipated drop in pressure that would signal blow-down of the successful work over and water injection re-start.
Production from the reservoir did not materialise during the year: this could indicate higher Mallard field continues to exceed expectations since recommencement volumes of oil in place, with the potential for infill drilling opportunities, of production.
Tentative plans for an additional production well in the or a stronger than anticipated aquifer.
northern area of the field did not mature following detailed interpretation of newly reprocessed seismic data.
It is now felt that the existing well Larch Venture 100% stock will effectively drain the volume in the northern field area.
Larch continued to produce in line with expectations during the year, with good compression uptime on Brae A providing gas lift support.
Gadwall Venture 50% There has been some water injection into the Z7 well in order to provide It is anticipated that Gadwall will be shut-in for most of 2009 as pipeline pressure support to the producer while maximising recovery from the field.
capacity will be allocated to Mallard.
Sustained periods of production in 2008 have confirmed that the production well continues to have a Sycamore Venture 100% potential of over 2,000 boepd net at low water cut.
Subsurface work At Sycamore, due to a sustained period of water injection into the Central is in progress to evaluate potential further opportunities for this field.
Sycamore reservoir, the pressure in the field has increased to such an extent that the production well SP2 has been able to free-flow, and the Goosander Venture 50% productivity from the field has increased greatly.
During the year the well Since production start-up Goosander has delivered rates above has outperformed expectations.
expectations due to the reservoir receiving strong natural pressure support.
Reservoir studies are ongoing to assess the potential for There is the potential to drill two further wells in the South Sycamore additional development drilling.
field to access as yet untapped reserves.
Detailed planning is currently underway to determine whether these can be moved forward towards a sanction decision, ahead of potential drilling in 2010 or 2011.
14 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business and Finance Review Grouse Venture 50% A second production well was drilled, completed and tested in October Grouse was an undeveloped discovery, east of the Kittiwake platform.
The well confirmed the validity of a new subsurface model for the An appraisal well was successfully drilled and tested in 2007 at rates of field which will enable the field to be exploited more efficiently.
This is over 5,000 boepd net on a restricted choke.
The well was completed, expected to significantly increase recoverable reserves from the field pipeline and umbilical laid and the well tied back to the Goosander riser and identify further opportunities for infill drilling.
First production commenced in late 2008, ahead of the original plan.
well will be tied in to the Chestnut subsea infrastructure and is planned to commence production in the first quarter of 2009.
Ventures net 2P Christian Venture 50% and Bligh Venture 30.5% reserves have been increased by 2.3 MMboe as a result of the new well.
The Christian and Bligh discoveries lie to the east of Mallard in blocks 21 20b and 21 20d respectively, and these stranded resources provide Halley Venture 40% and Appleton Venture 100% mid term development opportunities within Ventures portfolio.
The existing Halley production well was worked over during 2008 and contributed 382 boepd, representing 0.9% of total Group production.
Christian was discovered in 1990 by 21 20b-4st2 and tested at 6,364 boepd from the Fulmar reservoir.
The discovery lies 5km east of Mallard A multidisciplinary study led by Talisman which was completed in and it is planned to develop the field utilising a single high pressure 2008 focused on the potential for joint developments of the Halley and high temperature HPHT well tied back to Mallard and onwards to Appleton discoveries over Fulmar.
The study confirmed the potential of the Kittiwake platform.
Reservoir and field development studies have such a development and a viable solution has been engineered in some matured during 2008 and project sanction is scheduled for 2009, with detail.
The next step in this development will be an appraisal well which drilling in 2010. will be drilled in the second half of 2009.
Bligh is a gas condensate discovery found in 1993 by the 21 20a-5 well Acorn and Beechnut Venture 100% which tested at rates of 15.4 MMscfpd and 2,750 boepd from Fulmar During 2008, Venture finalised the well planning for Acorn and will review sands.
Venture is currently assessing development options for Bligh the timing of future drilling which is dependent upon the prioritisation of as a tie-back to Kittiwake.
Selkirk Venture 31.5% The evaluation of the Selkirk appraisal well results continued in 2008 Other CNS along with studies, engineering work and evaluations of the development options for the field and will continue into 2009.
2 834 The base case development is a subsea tie-back to the nearby Gannet Average production boepd in 2008 platform, but a joint development with Bligh is also being evaluated.
West Wick Venture 58% Venture assumed operatorship of West Wick and increased its interest to 58% in 2008.
The nearby Captain field is the most likely viable host for the development of West Wick and Venture has successfully engaged with Chevron, the operator of Captain, on this basis.
Compatibility of 6.3% the West Wick and Captain crudes has been confirmed.
The likely development plan for West Wick is an extended reach well drilled from Hub contribution to Group production the Captain platform, which has also been confirmed as feasible.
Other CNS Other CNS production averaged 2,834 boepd in 2008 2007: nil which represents 6.3% of total Group production.
Chestnut Venture 69.9% The Chestnut field commenced production in September 2008 with a contribution of 2,452 boepd towards the annual average.
This represented 5.4% of total Group production.
The Sevan Hummingbird, floating production, storage and offtake vessel FPSO, has performed very well since first oil with process uptime of around 90%.
Gross production has been averaging above 10,000 boepd and the P1 production well has been performing above expectations.
60 Venture has drilled over 60 wells Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
