Business and Finance Review Critically, our success in developing new oil and gas resources has been underpinned by a prudent approach to financing that has been designed to support our strategy through the peaks and troughs of economic, commodity price and competitive cycles.
The 2008 financial crisis and dramatic fall in the oil price has severely tested many smaller and less well resourced companies.
It has also highlighted the virtue of having a significant degree of implicit hedging through being both a gas and an oil producer, as well as the explicit cash flow assurance-led commodity price hedging strategy which Venture has had in place for a number of years.
We have also built in a degree of long term cost control through establishing extremely strong links with the contracting community.
This has enabled us to both achieve some smoothing of capital costs through the cycle as well as providing us with superior and highly efficient access to scarce resources during busy periods in the industry.
We will continue to regard investment of resources to work closely with our suppliers as a core element of our strategy.
A further constant in Ventures business is focus and selectivity with regard to the new assets it will invest in.
Having been an active but Entering 2009 with such a discerning acquirer since the Company was founded, we now have a deep inventory of projects that have significant economic returns strong balance sheet as a result potential at commodity prices even below current levels.
This gives of a prudent long term hedging us choices in terms of what we develop and when, and we will continue to augment those choices through further acquisition.
policy, and having long term debt Entering 2009 with such a strong balance sheet as a result of a prudent facilities already in place, means long term hedging policy, and having long term debt facilities already in place, means we are prepared for the changing acquisitions market.
we are prepared for the changing This bodes well for the continued development of our business and the implementation of a strategy that, we believe over the full cycle, acquisitions market.
should offer some of the best risk-adjusted returns available to oil and gas investors.
From left to right: Mike Wagstaff Chief Executive Peter Turner Finance Director Rod Begbie Corporate Development Director Jon Murphy Chief Operating Officer The Venture Man Logo was first developed in 1997 and has gone through a number of minor makeovers to get to where he is today!
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
