Business and Finance Review ultimately reduce risk.
Active contract management is all about the Firstly, the lessons associated with the Chiswick delay are understood identification and reduction of the unknowns within projects which and will be applied, particularly in relation to future construction projects.
ultimately results in the reduction of risk and an increase in performance.
Secondly, the pre-project planning time will be extended, where appropriate, in order to allow time to anticipate and resolve potential This approach has led to the successful completion of the Grouse and problems.
Thirdly, a review of the processes for evaluating timing Stamford projects this year along with the removal from the North Sea uncertainties will be reported to the Board in 2009. of the Kittiwake Loading Buoy KLB.
The KLB was an 82m long, 4,132 tonnes structure which was moored in 100m of water at Kittiwake.
This Communication with Investors, Analysts represents Ventures first major North Sea decommissioning project and External Parties where over 85% of the materials removed have been recycled.
This risk centres on the difficulty of providing accurate and consistent Key long term contracts with suppliers, such as Subsea 7 for offshore information about business performance when outcomes are subject construction activities, Noble Drilling for the supply of drilling units, to many influences outside direct management control.
Given the Petrofac and Sevan Marine for the operation and supply of offshore timescales of Ventures business, it is important to focus on both the installations, ensure that Venture has the essential building blocks in delivery of short term objectives and to communicate progress on longer place to deliver the Venture business plan going forward, whilst ensuring term value creation.
The Company is committed to an open and timely continued levels of production are maintained.
During 2008, there was a continued programme of investor and analyst meetings, including an Analysts Day in January and a Capital Markets Day in November focusing on the Key Business Risks value of Ventures substantial gas business.
Resources in this area were After Board evaluation of the business risks presented by management, strengthened with the appointment of a Corporate Communications the following key risks facing the business have been identified.
For 2009, Venture remains committed to a high level of communication and transparency.
Low Volatile Commodity Prices Following the strong rise and rapid fall of the oil price during 2008 the Misstatement of Reserves Risk outlook for 2009 and beyond remains very uncertain.
With Ventures There is a robust and externally validated process applied to Ventures current reserves and production mix weighted towards gas, it is reserves statements.
This process is fully compliant with the Society of important to monitor and seek to understand the different dynamics Petroleum Engineers SPE PRMS standards.
Reserves are reviewed between oil and gas markets.
The key response to potentially lower by the Board twice yearly and producing field reserves are subject to and more volatile commodity prices is the continued use of prudent an annual third party audit.
During 2008, a full external audit of Ventures assumptions, both for investment and acquisition decision making and entire reserves portfolio was undertaken.
The results demonstrated for budgeting and planning.
Board policy continues to support a prudent that Ventures internal reserves booking process is appropriately programme of hedging to seek to assure investment activity.
Venture has conservative, with the auditors assessment of both 2P reserves and always maintained a high focus on cash generation and balance sheet total reserves being somewhat higher than the internal estimates.
With strength and this is reinforced during a period of heightened uncertainty.
the existing processes in place, the Board perceives this risk as low, but believes it should continue to be highlighted as a key area because of its Financial and Credit Market Risks fundamental relationship to value.
Ventures refinancing in 2007 places it in a strong financial position, with cash of approximately 200 million at the year end and a substantially Business Model Risk unutilised 365 million committed bank facility.
The Company continues Ventures business model has remained unchanged, being the to benefit from cash flow generation from existing production and has an acquisition and development of and production from the untapped established hedging position that protects a material proportion of near potential of stranded assets in the North Sea.
A number of production term production.
Nevertheless, the volatility and general restriction in the hubs have been developed, characterised by high levels of equity current availability of capital in the financial markets means that there is ownership and a high incidence of operatorship.
This model has the a risk that the Company could be affected, either directly or indirectly.
capacity to deliver through cycle growth.
Very high commodity prices Accordingly, the situation is being closely monitored with a disciplined through much of 2008 made for a difficult acquisitions market.
Despite approach to use of existing capital resources along with ongoing this, Venture completed 13 deals during the year, adding a 2P reserves assessment and diversification of counterparty risks.
volume of 19.5 million barrels of oil equivalent.
The sharp fall in oil price brings its own complications to the acquisition market, but, coupled Development Timing Risk with difficulties in capital markets, should create opportunities.
Ventures proven development and operational capacity, together Development timing was a key issue for Venture in 2008 with delays with its strong balance sheet should allow further value adding in bringing on the second Chiswick well and a substantial delay in the opportunities to be captured.
start-up of the Chestnut field.
We are responding in a number of ways.
Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
