OUR ACCOUNTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS CONTINUED Cookson Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Its 2.2 STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE CONTINUED registered address is shown on page 126.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the IFRIC 13, Customer Loyalty Programmes, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008 and will be Operating Review on pages 12 to 21. adopted by the Group in its 2009 annual report.
IFRIC 13, which addresses accounting by entities that grant loyalty award credits The financial statements, which were authorised by the Directors for issue on 9 March 2009, are presented in millions of to customers who buy other goods or services, will have no impact upon the Groups net cash flows, financial position, total pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 3.1 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as With the exception of certain items noted below, which are carried at fair value, the consolidated financial statements have been adopted by the EU IFRS.
The financial statements of the Company-only have been prepared in accordance with United prepared under the historical cost convention.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP, as disclosed in note 1 to the Company financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and IFRS, having been prepared in accordance with IFRS for the first time in 2005.
2.1 NEW STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS IFRS 8, Operating Segments, which is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009, has been adopted 3.2 BASIS FOR PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ON A GOING CONCERN BASIS early by the Group.
IFRS 8 sets out requirements for disclosure of financial information about the Groups operating segments Information on the business environment in which the Group operates, including the factors that are likely to impact the future and replaces International Accounting Standard IAS 14, Segment Reporting.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be prospects of the Group, are included in the Chief Executives Review on pages 10 and 11 and the Operating Review on pages 12 to disclosed based upon the Groups internal reporting to management.
This change in accounting policy has no impact upon the 21.
The principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces throughout its global operations are included in the Corporate Groups previously reported net cash flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
The Governance Report on pages 32 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and debt facilities are Groups segment information is disclosed in note 6. described in the Financial Review on pages 22 to 27.
In addition, notes 4 and 37 to the consolidated financial statements set out The following amendments to standards and interpretations have all been endorsed by the EU, are all effective for accounting the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: financial risks: financial instruments and hedging periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 and have been adopted by the Group in these consolidated financial statements.
activities: and its exposures to credit, market both currency and interest rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the None of these amendments and interpretations has a material impact upon the results or net assets of the Group.
Groups cash balances and borrowings are included in notes 20 and 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Reclassification of Financial Instruments: The Group has two committed debt facilities, approximately 680m of syndicated bank facilities and approximately 250m IFRIC 11, IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions: and of US Private Placement loan notes.
These facilities, which together total approximately 930m, have no significant debt IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The limit of Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
maturities in 2009, with the principal maturities due in 2011 and 2012, and contain a number of financial covenants with which the Group is required to comply.
In March 2009, the Group completed a rights issue which raised proceeds net of expenses of 2.2 STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE 241m which were used to repay gross borrowings.
This rights issue significantly strengthens the Groups financial position.
The following revised and amended standards and interpretations, which have all been endorsed by the EU and are available for The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a period in excess of twelve months from the date of early adoption, have not been early adopted by the Group in these consolidated financial statements.
approval of these consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of current end-market conditions, IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial Statements, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 their impact on the Groups future trading performance and the actions taken by management in response to the difficult market and will be adopted by the Group in its 2009 annual report.
IAS 1 Revised introduces the term total comprehensive income, conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt a measure that includes all components of profit or loss as currently reported in the Group Income Statement, together with all facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various items of income and expense not recognised in profit or loss, as currently reported in the Group Statement of Recognised mitigating actions that could be taken in the event that end-market conditions are worse than their current assessment.
In future, the Companys consolidated financial statements must include a Group Statement of measures include further reductions in costs, further reductions in capital expenditure and further reductions in those items of Comprehensive Income and a Group Statement of Changes in Equity.
The adoption of IAS 1 Revised will have no impact upon working capital within managements control.
the Groups net cash flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable IAS 23 Revised, Borrowing Costs, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and will be adopted expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable by the Group in its 2009 annual report.
The main change introduced by IAS 23 Revised is the removal of the option of future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready Company.
The Groups current policy in relation to borrowing costs, shown in note 3.10 below, is to recognise them in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
The adoption of IAS 23 Revised is not expected to have a significant 3.3 DISCLOSURE OF EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS impact upon the Groups net cash flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, provides no definitive guidance as to the format of the income statement, but states Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation, and IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, relating to key lines which should be disclosed.
It also encourages the disclosure of additional line items and the re-ordering of items puttable financial instruments and obligations arising on liquidation are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after presented on the face of the income statement when appropriate for a proper understanding of the entitys financial 1 January 2009 and will be adopted by the Group in its 2009 annual report.
The adoption of these amendments will have no performance.
In keeping with the spirit of this aspect of IAS 1, the Company has adopted a policy of disclosing separately on the impact upon the Groups net cash flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
face of its Group Income Statement the effect of any components of financial performance considered by the Directors to be Amendments to IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, and IAS 27, Consolidated and exceptional, or for which separate disclosure would assist both in a better understanding of the financial performance achieved Separate Financial Statements, are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and will be adopted and in making projections of future results.
by the Group in its 2009 annual report.
The adoption of these amendments, which relate to the measurement of the initial cost Both materiality and the nature and function of the components of income and expense are considered in deciding upon such of investment in subsidiaries in the financial statements of the Company-only, will have no impact upon the Groups net cash presentation.
Such items may include, inter alia, the financial effect of major restructuring and integration activity, inventory fair flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
value adjustments, profits or losses on sale or impairment of non-current assets, amortisation and impairment charges relating Amendment to IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009 and will to intangible assets, curtailment gains or losses relating to employee benefits, finance costs, any profits or losses arising on be adopted by the Group in its 2009 annual report.
The amendment to IFRS 2 clarifies that vesting conditions are service business disposals, and other items, including the taxation impact of the aforementioned items, which have a significant impact conditions and performance conditions only: other features of a share-based payment are not vesting conditions.
It also on the Groups results of operations either due to their size or nature.
specifies that all cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should receive the same accounting treatment.
The The line item description in the Group Income Statement rationalisation of operating activities that appeared in previous adoption of the amendment to IFRS 2 is not expected to have a significant impact upon the Groups net cash flows, financial reports has been changed to restructuring and integration costs.
The new description more closely reflects the nature of the position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
costs being reported on this line.
This change in presentation has no impact upon the Groups previously reported net cash flows, financial position, total recognised income and expense or earnings per share.
Cookson Group plc 58 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 59 Annual Report 2008
