OUR BUSINESS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Foseco Precious Metals division The acquisition of Foseco significantly expanded the existing Net sales value of 118 million was 3% higher than the prior We have reacted Ceramics division and brought together the two largest year at constant exchange rates.
This reflected higher levels quickly to the economic worldwide specialists in ceramics for molten metal handling.
of reclaim activity in Europe and gold coin blank production Following the completion of the acquisition on 4 April in the US, both stimulated by the high price of gold, together downturn, implementing 2008 we promptly sold Fosecos Carbon Bonded Ceramics with the additional volumes from the Leach & Garner a series of cost reduction CBC business to satisfy regulatory requirements, and business acquired in September 2007, offsetting the sharp and cash conservation closed its plc headquarters.
Anti-trust requirements were decline in consumer demand for retail jewellery.
finally met with the disposal of Vesuvius Hi-Tech ceramic Trading profit of 4.5 million was approximately half that measures, and raising filters business in December 2008.
The integration has of the prior year reflecting a lower margin product mix in the 241 million of net progressed very well and further potential synergy US, particularly much reduced gold chain sales.
opportunities have been identified such that we have proceeds via a rights increased the annual synergy savings target from the Outlook issue announced in original 18 million to 24 million by 2010.
Cooksons divisions predominantly supply consumable During 2008, the Foseco businesses have performed well products, on short lead times, to the global steel, foundry, January 2009. ahead of our original expectations.
On a pro-forma basis electronics and precious metals industries.
As such, the excluding CBC and plc costs for the full year 2008 they Groups expectations of future trading are based upon an Nick Salmon Chief Executive delivered revenue of 488 million and trading profit of 72.0 assessment of end-market conditions and these conditions million, up by 18% and 24% respectively at reported are subject to greater uncertainty than usual in the current exchange rates over full year 2007, despite a slowdown over economic climate.
As predicted, our major markets have remained weak through January and February.
We expect a slow improvement Ceramics division through the second quarter as the fide-stocking in our The enlarged division, which trades as Foseco in foundry end-markets comes to an end.
Further improvements are markets and as Vesuvius in all other markets, recorded expected in the second half reflecting the Groups normal revenue of 1,265 million and trading profit of 167.7 million, trading seasonality and supported by the anticipated boost giving a return on sales margin of 13.3%.
Excluding the to infrastructure demand from the stimulus packages 2008 Results During the fourth quarter of 2008, we completed the contribution from Foseco, underlying revenue was up 4% for recently announced by governments around the world.
The results for 2008 reflect two very different periods of first phase of cost reductions to yield annualised savings of the year as a whole, having been 8% ahead at the half year, Actual trading performance will depend on the depth and trading.
Over the first nine months we experienced continuing 17 million from early 2009 onwards.
This included reducing but trading profit was down 8% for the year on a constant duration of the global economic downturn.
Despite the difficult growth in our main end-markets of steel, consumer temporary and full-time headcount by a combined total of currency basis, reflecting the fourth quarter performance.
trading conditions, our performance in 2009 will benefit from: electronics and automotive.
However, from late September 600 and implementing an extensive salary freeze for the first Including Foseco, the fourth quarter revenue was 326 anticipated cost savings of 30 million arising from the we saw a rapid and significant weakening, reflecting the half of 2009. million and trading profit 34.1 million, giving a return on cost reduction actions described above: severe global economic downturn.
As a result, we achieved a In January, we launched a second phase involving the sales margin for the fourth quarter of 10.5%.
a full year contribution from Foseco versus only nine return on sales margin of 10.7% over the first nine months proposed permanent closure of six Ceramics manufacturing Global steel production, our main end-market, when months in 2008 : and but this fell to 7.3% for the last quarter of the year.
facilities in the UK, Mexico, Belgium, Germany and the US, compared to the same periods in 2007 grew 5% in the first the realisation of further Foseco related integration Despite the weak fourth quarter, the full year results together with overhead staff reductions.
These measures will nine months but then fell 14% in October, 20% in November synergies, anticipated to be 12 million in 2009. showed a significant improvement over 2007.
Revenue of result in a further total headcount reduction of over 750 and and 24% in December.
The pattern in the foundry markets The reported results will also benefit from significant 2,203 million and trading profit of 216.3 million increased are expected to result in annualised savings of 23 million was similar but the slowdown only started in November.
Our currency translation gains if sterling remains at current 23% and 11% respectively at constant exchange rates, from mid-2009.
Of the total annualised savings of 40 fused silica, Solar Crucible, market continued to experience levels relative to other major currencies.
reflecting both the contribution from Foseco following its million arising from both phases, 30 million is anticipated strong growth.
Against this background, revenue and For the longer-term we believe that Cookson is well acquisition in April 2008 and also the positive impact on to be realised in 2009 and an incremental 10 million in 2010. underlying growth for the four product lines was as follows positioned, with a portfolio of businesses supplying highrevenue of passing through higher metal prices.
The We have also introduced a new Group-wide incentive at constant exchange rates and including Foseco pro-forma technology consumable products and related technical weakening of sterling had a significant positive impact such programme to focus on cash generation with particular on a full year basis : Steel Flow Control 430 million, 1%, services, with leading positions in markets with sound that on an as reported basis, revenue and trading profit emphasis on reducing working capital in line with reduced Linings 433 million, 5%, Foundry 457 million, 6% and prospects for growth as the global economy recovers.
Headline profit before business volumes.
Further, all capacity expansion related Fused Silica 72 million, 20%.
tax increased by 18% and headline earnings per share by 9%.
capital expenditure projects have been postponed, pending Net debt at 31 December 2008 was 732 million with a clear signs of recovery in our end-markets.
Similarly, the Electronics division net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.6 times as calculated for bank payment of dividends is being suspended for the time being.
The divisions revenue of 620 million was up 11% at reported covenant purposes.
More recently we have agreed with our banks to pre-pay exchange rates but, at constant exchange rates and eliminating the facility tranches originally due to be repaid next year in the pass through of increased metal prices, underlying Response to the economic downturn exchange for which the tightening of the net debt to EBITDA revenue was down 9%.
Trading profit of 51.7 million was We have reacted quickly to the economic downturn, covenant from 3.5 times to 3.0 times has been deferred by a down 11% at reported exchange rates and 22% at constant implementing a series of cost reduction and cash conservation further year to 30 June 2010.
We have also agreed with our exchange rates.
This again reflects a very poor fourth measures, and raising 241 million of net proceeds via a UK pension trustee to suspend the monthly top-up quarter, in which revenue was 135 million and trading profit Nick Salmon Chief Executive rights issue announced in January 2009.
These proceeds payments, which totalled 22 million in 2008, until the 6.6 million, giving a return on sales margin of 4.9%.
9 March 2009 have reduced our indebtedness and created a more suitable earlier of July 2010 or the recommencement of dividend Revenue for the Assembly Materials product line was 382 capital structure for the current economic environment.
million and for the Chemistry product line was 238 million, down 10% and 9% respectively on an underlying basis.
Chemistry had a particularly weak fourth quarter reflecting its exposure to the automotive as well as electronics end-markets.
Cookson Group plc 10 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 11 Annual Report 2008
