OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Management action Employees Starting last September and continuing into the current year, I would like to offer my sincere thanks to all of our employees We remain a strong we have implemented a series of actions aimed at reducing worldwide for their contribution over the past year, in the business with excellent costs and further improving cash and working capital face of often very difficult circumstances.
These are described more fully in the Chief their delivery of the highest standards of customer service positions in markets Executives Review.
I regret that substantial job losses are an remains a key factor in the Groups success.
with good, fundamental, unavoidable consequence of the restructuring actions, but it long-term growth is essential that we act swiftly to adapt to the current global Outlook economic reality.
In recent months we have experienced an unprecedented prospects and I am downturn in our end-markets, to which we have responded confident that we will Rights issue promptly and decisively.
This downturn, and the dramatic On 29 January 2009, we announced a fully underwritten deterioration of the overall economic environment, has be ready to benefit from 12 for 1 rights issue to raise 241 million, net of expenses.
inevitably had a significant impact on our share price and we the economic recovery Shareholder approval was obtained at an Extraordinary are resolutely focused on the need to rebuild shareholder General Meeting held on 17 February and dealings in the new value over time.
We remain a strong business with excellent when it comes.
positions in markets with good, fundamental, long-term We have been very pleased by the support shown by growth prospects and I am confident that we will be ready to Robert Beeston Chairman shareholders for this initiative.
By raising these funds at an benefit from the economic recovery when it comes.
early stage we have not only enhanced the covenant and longer-term liquidity headroom under our existing attractive bank facilities, but we have also created a position of greater strength and flexibility from which to move forward.
Dividend and dividend policy Against this background and in the expectation of continued challenging trading conditions, the Board has reviewed Robert Beeston Chairman its near-term dividend policy and has decided not to 9 March 2009 The past year has seen the most dramatic changes in the Financial performance recommend a final dividend payment in respect of 2008 an global economy and in our end-markets in living memory.
Notwithstanding this sharp deterioration in the fourth interim dividend of 0.88 pence per share as restated for the Over the first nine months of 2008, our main end-markets quarter, our results for the year as a whole were an rights issue was paid in October 2008.
A decision to resume of steel production, electronics and automotive continued improvement over 2007.
Trading profit at constant exchange dividend payments will be made once we can see a clear to see reasonable growth and the Groups trading results in rates increased 11%, with the benefit of nine months recovery in our end-markets and trading performance, and in the period showed a strong improvement over 2007. contribution from Foseco.
Headline profit before tax increased the context of the Groups cash requirements at that time.
In April, we completed the strategically significant 18% to 176 million and headline earnings per share acquisition of Foseco, a ceramics business operating in the improved 9% to 8.9 pence as restated for the rights issue.
Board and corporate governance foundry castings market which represents an excellent Looking to 2009, we expect to see little to no The Board is responsible for overseeing the Groups strategy complement to our existing ceramics business, Vesuvius.
improvement in market conditions through the first quarter and monitoring its performance.
Through its own actions and Fosecos results exceeded our expectations in 2008 and the and then, hopefully, a slow improvement through the second those of the Board committees, the Board continues to integration is proceeding very well.
quarter and into the second half of the year.
This is a view comply with the highest standards of corporate governance.
As the global financial crisis spread to affect the broader shared by almost all commentators on the global steel Both the Board and the Executive Committee have global economy, our end-markets and trading performance industry, to which over 40% of Group trading profit is linked.
remained unchanged since my last report.
I am confident deteriorated rapidly through the last quarter.
By December, We hope to see the improving trend continuing in 2010, as that this continuity, together with the blend of skills and activity levels in our main end-markets showed an the various governmental economic stimulus initiatives take experience that the team brings to the Group, has played and unprecedented decline of some one quarter on 2007 levels.
effect, but we do not expect end-markets to recover to levels will play an important part in our successful navigation of the Many steel producers, electronics and automotive equivalent to the first nine months of 2008 until 2011 at the current challenging economic environment.
manufacturers announced prolonged production shutdowns earliest.
through December and into the first quarter of 2009.
Against this background, we have moved quickly and decisively to reduce our cost base to adapt to the lower level of prevailing economic activity, and to strengthen our financial position in order to create a capital structure more suited to the current environment.
Cookson Group plc 8 Annual Report 2008 Cookson Group plc 9 Annual Report 2008
