Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17 DIRECTORS REPORT AGM The Directors present their Annual Report rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their The notice of the 2009 AGM of the and Accounts to shareholders for the year transfer following failure by the member or Company is given on page 64. ended 30 September 2008. any other person appearing to be interested in the shares to provide the Company with Directors Principal activity information requested under section 793 of Details of the Directors of the Company The Groups principal activity is the the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors may, are given on page 16.
Details of Directors manufacture and sale of high performance in certain circumstances, also refuse to interests in shares are provided in the polymers.
register the transfer of a share in certified Report on Directors Remuneration on Annual business review form which is not fully paid up, where the pages 23 to 28.
The Company is required to set out in this instrument of transfer does not comply with report a fair review of the business of the At the forthcoming AGM, resolutions the requirements of the articles of Group during the financial year ended 30 will be proposed for the re-election of association, or if entitled to do so under the September 2008, the position of the Group Mr P J M fide Smedt, Mr L C Pentz, Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. at the end of that financial year and a Dr T J Walker and Mr G F B Kerr.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights description of the principal risks and Appointment and replacement of Directors with regard to control of the Company and uncertainties facing the Group known as The current and proposed new Articles of there are no restrictions on voting rights an Annual Business Review.
Association of the Company provide that except that a shareholder has no right to The information that fulfils the requirements the number of Directors shall be not more vote in respect of a share unless all sums due of this Annual Business Review can be found than ten and not less than two, unless in respect of that share are fully paid.
There on pages 2 to 15. otherwise determined by the Company by are no known agreements between holders Ordinary Resolution.
Directors may be Results and dividends of securities that may result in restrictions on appointed by an Ordinary Resolution of the Group profit after tax for the year was the transfer of securities or on voting rights members or by a resolution of the Directors.
and no known arrangements under which A Director appointed by the Directors must financial rights are held by a person other The Directors recommend the payment of a retire at the next following AGM and offer than the holder of the shares.
final dividend of 13.1p per share, on himself for re-election.
27 February 2009, to all shareholders on the Shares acquired by employees under A Director may be removed by an register on 13 February 2009.
This makes a employee share schemes rank equally with Extraordinary Resolution of the Company.
In total dividend of 18.3p per share for the year the other shares in issue and have no addition, a Director must automatically 2007: 17.3p per share.
cease to be a Director if i he ceases to be a Share capital Own shares held Director by virtue of any provision of the Details of the Companys share capital and Details of own shares held are given in note Companies Acts or he becomes prohibited reserve for own shares are given in note 19.
by law from being a Director, or ii he During the year 669,822 shares were issued At the 2008 Annual General Meeting becomes bankrupt or makes any in respect of options exercised under AGM, shareholders renewed the arrangement or composition with his employee share schemes.
Details of these Companys authority to make market creditors generally, or iii he is suffering schemes are summarised in note 18. purchases of up to 8,224,710 of its own from a mental disorder, or iv he resigns ordinary shares representing 10% of the Rights and obligations attaching to shares from his office by notice in writing to the issued share capital of the Company as at 7 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to Company, or in the case of an executive December 2007.
No market purchases of receive dividends when declared, the Director, his appointment is terminated or the Companys own shares were made Companys report and accounts, to attend expires and the Directors resolve that his during the year.
At the forthcoming AGM and speak at general meetings of the office be vacated, or v he is absent for the Board will again seek shareholders Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise more than six consecutive months without approval to renew the annual authority for voting rights.
permission of the Directors from meetings the Company to make purchases of its own of the Directors and the Directors resolve There are no restrictions on transfer or shares through the market.
that his office be vacated or vi he is limitations on the holding of ordinary shares requested in writing, or by electronic form, and no requirements to obtain prior approval by all the other Directors to resign.
to any transfer except where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting 18 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Powers of the Directors Change of control Creditor payment policy The powers of the Directors are determined With the exception of the service The Group does not follow any standard by the Companys Memorandum and agreement of Blair Souder as set out code on payment practice.
Terms and Articles of Association, the Companies Act on page 24, none of the Directors or conditions are agreed with each supplier as 1985 and Companies Act 2006 and any employees service contracts contain appropriate.
The Group had trade creditors directions given by the Company in general provisions providing for compensation outstanding at the year end representing 21 meeting.
The Directors have been authorised for loss of office or employment that days 2007: 22 days of purchases.
The by the Articles of Association to issue and occurs because of a takeover bid.
Company did not have any significant allot ordinary shares and to make market external trade creditors.
Combined Code purchases of shares.
These powers are A statement on corporate governance is Directors indemnities referred to shareholders at the AGM for set out on pages 19 to 22.
The Company has granted indemnities in renewal.
Any shares purchased may be favour of Directors under Deeds of Financial instruments cancelled or held as treasury shares.
These Deeds were in force during Details of financial risk management are the year ended 30 September 2008 and Employment policies given in note 15. remain in force as at the date of this report.
The Groups employment policies, including Donations The Deeds and the Companys Articles of its policy regarding the employment of Details of charitable donations made in the Association are available for inspection disabled people, are set out on page 14. year are set out on page 15.
No political during normal business hours at the Major interests in shares donations were made 2007: nil.
Companys registered office and will be The Company has been notified of the available at the AGM.
following interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital as at 12 December Going concern 2008: The Directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to Number of continue to operate for the foreseeable ordinary shares future.
For this reason they continue to Schroders plc 10,306,929 12.43% adopt the going concern basis for preparing Legal and General Group Plc 4,389,243 5.29% the financial statements.
F&C Asset Management plc 4,228,620 5.10% Disclosure of information to auditor BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 4,182,740 5.05% The Directors who held office at the date of Standard Life Investments Ltd 4,101,202 4.95% approval of this Directors Report confirm AXA S. A.
3,729,607 4.50% that, so far as they are each aware, there is AEGON UK Group of Companies 3,117,663 3.76% no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor A resolution proposing the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company will be put to the AGM.
By order of the Board Michael Peacock Company Secretary 15 December 2008
