Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS Responsibility of Directors for the In preparing each of the Group and Parent Responsibility Statement of the Directors preparation of the Annual Report Company financial statements, the in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts Directors are required to: and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing The Directors confirm that to the best of Select suitable accounting policies and the Annual Report and the Group and their knowledge: apply them consistently: Parent Company financial statements in Make judgements and estimates that are The Group and Parent Companys accordance with applicable law and financial statements, prepared in reasonable and prudent: regulations.
accordance with applicable UK law and State whether they have been prepared in conformity with IFRS as adopted by in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Company law requires the Directors to the EU, give a true and fair view of the the EU and, prepare Group and Parent Company assets, liabilities, financial position and financial statements for each financial year.
Prepare the financial statements on the profit or loss of the Company and the going concern basis unless it is Under that law they are required to undertakings included in the inappropriate to presume that the Group prepare the Group financial statements in consolidation taken as a whole and, and Parent Company will continue in accordance with International Financial The management report, which business.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by comprises the Directors Report and the The Directors are responsible for keeping the European Union EU and applicable Annual Business Review, includes a fair proper accounting records which disclose law and have elected to prepare the Parent review of the development and Company financial statements on the same with reasonable accuracy at any time the performance of the business and basis.
financial position of the Parent Company position of the Company and the and enable them to ensure that its The Group and Parent Company financial undertakings included in the financial statements comply with the statements are required by law and IFRS as consolidation as a whole, together with Companies Act 1985.
They have a general adopted by the EU to present fairly the a description of the principal risks and responsibility for taking such steps as are financial position and performance of the the uncertainties they face.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the Group and the Parent Company.
The The Directors of Victrex plc are detailed on assets of the Group and to prevent and Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to page 16. detect fraud and other irregularities.
such financial statements that references in By order of the Board the relevant part of that Act to financial Under applicable law and regulations the statements giving a true and fair view are Directors are also responsible for preparing references to their achieving a fair a Directors Report, Directors presentation.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statement that comply with Michael Peacock that law and those regulations.
Finance Director The Directors are responsible for the 15 December 2008 maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
