04 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED MARKET SEGMENTS INDUSTRIAL Engineers are facing increased demands for materials with high temperature performance and chemical resistance while avoiding costly production downtime due to component failure.
VICTREX PEEK polymer is an excellent choice for industrial applications due to its exceptional combination of physical properties and processability.
Components designed with VICTREX PEEK polymer can deliver long-term reliability in the harshest of environments that require high strength and wear resistance over a wide range of temperatures.
Industrial applications include cable insulation, seals, back up rings and down-hole sub-sea connectors.
ELECTRONICS VICTREX PEEK polymer provides electronic components with an exceptional combination of benefits including wear resistance, strength, dimensional stability and high temperature resistance.
This means greater part functionality, reliability and cost savings for designers.
Higher performance, portability, wireless high frequency, longer life and more stringent environmental concerns are shaping the way electronic parts are designed.
In semiconductor fabrication, migration towards larger wafer sizes and smaller chips with narrow line widths and feature sizes requires higher performance from wafer handling and processing materials.
High purity and chemical resistance help VICTREX PEEK polymer meet these needs.
Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 05 TRANSPORT VICTREX PEEK polymer delivers an excellent combination of properties that make it the material of choice in a wide range of transportation applications.
VICTREX PEEK polymer has successfully displaced metals, traditional composites and other plastics in a growing number of automotive and aerospace applications.
Increased performance requirements such as resistance to the extremes of temperature, weight and size reduction and demands for lower production costs continue to drive increased usage of VICTREX PEEK polymer.
INVIBIO Invibio is an innovative global leader providing high performance biomaterials, advanced technical research and proven market expertise across a wide range of medical device applications.
Our biomaterials solutions enable customers to deliver innovative medical devices that enhance patient quality of life.
Invibios proprietary biomaterials, including implantable PEEK-OPTIMA polymer and ENDOLIGN composite, and medical grade PEEK-CLASSIX polymer, combine outstanding performance and biocompatibility, making them the material of choice for leading medical device manufacturers.
