08 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED BUSINESS OVERVIEW Financial results As at 30 September 2008, the Group had At 1,302 tonnes, European sales volume Revenue for the year grew by 8% to cash of 23.5m and no debt 2007: net was 5% up on the previous year 1,243 141.1m 2007: 131.0m.
The Group has a committed tonnes as a result of increased sales into all revenue at constant exchange rates was up bank facility of 40m, all of which was market segments, except semicon.
Gross profit increased by 8% undrawn at the year end.
This facility expires half sales volume of 656 tonnes was 2% up to 91.6m 2007: 84.5m, representing a in September 2012. on the first half of this year 646 tonnes.
gross margin of 64.9% of turnover 2007: Asia-Pacific sales volume of 476 tonnes was Operational review 64.5%.
maintained in line with 2007 474 tonnes Markets Sales, marketing and administrative as increased sales to Japanese automotive Sales volume for the year grew by 5% to expenses increased by 11% to 37.0m customers were offset by reduced demand 2,626 tonnes 2007: 2,508 tonnes.
Second 2007: 33.2m, primarily reflecting ongoing from semicon applications.
The record half sales volume of 1,332 tonnes was 9% investment in sales and marketing resources second half sales volume of 246 tonnes was up on the previous second half 1,222 and the inclusion of local expenses in Victrex 7% higher than the first half 230 tonnes tonnes and 3% up on the first half 1,294 Japan, Inc since it became a wholly owned primarily due to increased demand from tonnes.
subsidiary with effect from 30 March 2007. both consumer electronics and automotive Transport sales volume was up 10% at 723 customers in Japan.
Effective exchange rates had an adverse tonnes 2007: 658 tonnes principally as a impact of 6.1m on profit before tax, Invibio result of increased automotive sales in Japan compared to 2007.
In spite of this, profit Invibio, our biomaterials business, continued and the United States.
We also saw before tax was 55.0m, 6% up on 2007 to grow strongly with revenue of 24.9m, increased commercial aerospace sales in the 52.0m.
Underlying profit at constant an increase of 29% over 2007 19.3m.
Second half sales exchange rates was 61.1m, an increase of Underlying revenue at constant exchange volume of 367 tonnes was up 3% on the 18% over 2007. rates was up 34% on 2007.
This reflects first half of 356 tonnes primarily as a result further sales growth to existing customers, Basic earnings per share were up 6% at of increased commercial aerospace sales in coupled with successful development of 47.8p 2007: 44.9p.
Underlying earnings the United States.
new business across a broad range of end per share, at constant exchange rates, were Industrial sales volume was up 7% at 945 use markets.
tonnes 2007: 885 tonnes, largely due to During the year Invibio entered into a record The overall effective tax rate including increased demand from oil and gas 49 additional PEEK-OPTIMA polymer longdeferred tax was 29% 2007: 30%.
customers, primarily in the United States.
term supply assurance agreements with Second half volume was up 5% at 485 Dividend implantable medical device manufacturers.
tonnes compared with the first half 460 In recognition of another successful year We continued to make good progress in tonnes.
and the Groups strong financial position, further developing strategic markets the Directors are recommending a final Electronics sales volume for the year was including arthroscopy, orthopaedics and dividend of 13.1p 2007: 12.6p per down 3% at 625 tonnes 2007: 645 cranial maxillofacial, while ongoing success ordinary share, making a total of 18.3p tonnes.
The modest recovery in both in the spinal market was sustained with 2007: 17.3p per ordinary share for the semicon and consumer electronics sales developments in new areas including year, an increase of 6% over last year.
This since the second half of last year was motion preservation and dynamic represents dividend cover of 2.6 times sustained throughout this year, with second stabilisation.
half volume 322 tonnes up 6% on the first Product and market development half 303 tonnes.
However, as expected, Cash flow We continued to successfully generate new sales were below the record levels seen in Cash flow generated from operations business in 2008.
During the year we the first half of 2007. increased to 61.9m 2007: 50.7m commercialised a record 723 new Regionally, United States sales volume of primarily as a result of increased operating applications 2007: 580 having an 848 tonnes was 7% up on the previous profit and depreciation together with a estimated mature annualised volume year 791 tonnes helped by growth in the lower increase in working capital compared MAV of 487 tonnes 2007: 494 tonnes.
oil and gas, automotive and commercial with 2007.
At the year end, the pipeline contained aerospace segments.
Second half volume Capital expenditure cash payments 2,978 developments 2007: 2,411 with an was up 3% at 430 tonnes, compared with amounted to 25.0m 2007: 37.2m estimated MAV of 2,910 tonnes 2007: 418 tonnes for the first half, primarily principally reflecting the investment in 2,949 tonnes if all of the developments reflecting increased demand from additional supply chain capacity.
commercial aerospace and oil and gas paid was 15.7m 2007: 12.2m.
customers, partially offset by a softening in demand from semicon applications.
Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09 As the automotive industry pursues fuel efficiency, performance and safety, VICTREX VERSATILITY AND PEEK is in demand to provide solutions in HIGH PERFORMANCE these areas.
New applications include APTIV FILMS advanced exhaust treatments, sensors and APTIV films are produced from safety systems.
The aerospace market VICTREX PEEK polymer and provide all of its inherent properties in a flexible continues to specify VICTREX PEEK for format.
They are the most versatile and structural and electrical applications in next high performing thermoplastic films generation passenger aircraft.
APTIV films are a technology VICTREX PEEK to replace metal is providing enabler for processors, designers and a significant weight advantage while end users in a broad range of utilising mechanical properties at elevated industries and markets providing a temperatures and outstanding flame and high performance solution to facilitate meeting demands for reduced systems smoke emission properties.
cost and improved product The oil and gas industry is increasingly performance.
The increased design using VICTREX PEEK in new ways in freedom offered by using APTIV films, umbilical hoses, which convey power and and the ease of processing, allows other utilities to sub-sea wells.
During the customers and end users to enhance their own products performance and year a novel umbilical hose system was differentiation.
commercialised to replace metal and thereby reduce the weight and improve the lifetime and efficiency of these highly technical applications.
In addition, we continued our penetration of existing STRENGTH AND applications in areas such as connectors, DURABILITY seals and sensors as the drilling VICOTE COATINGS environments continue to become VICOTE Coatings, powder and liquid more severe.
dispersions based on VICTREX PEEK Other initiatives in the energy sector polymer, offer exceptional scratch and included the launch of a dedicated website wear resistance, high temperature as well as the development and performance, strength and durability.
commercialisation of several new application Whether applied to industrial, automotive, food processing, areas in the wind and nuclear sectors where semiconductor, electronics or our momentum in alternative energy pharmaceutical parts, eco-friendly solutions continues to grow.
VICOTE Coatings are a great choice An intensive focus on the industrial for engineers looking to improve the machinery markets has yielded an array of wear performance and life of the coated part in their applications.
new applications replacing metals and other materials in both the textile machinery and food processing markets.
Electronics application development continues to be driven by the need for higher performance materials which maintain mechanical properties through lead-free solder temperatures.
New applications commercialised this year include high performance radio frequency identification systems, high performance connectors for flexible printed circuit boards and mobile phones, as well as data storage systems.
10 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONTINUED APTIV films, a range of high performance Total fixed asset additions amounted to Currency impact and gross margin thermoplastic films based on VICTREX PEEK, 24.2m for the year 2007: 34.3m.
The As previously reported, trading results for are making significant inroads into many additions principally related to the BDF and 2009 will be positively affected by the key markets.
The unique acoustic and melt filtration plant uprates.
Following weakening of Sterling against our key mechanical-thermal properties of APTIV completion of this major supply chain trading currencies.
Based on our forecast films are leading to specification and capacity uprate, we expect capital sales volume, current hedging already in significant penetration in audio components expenditure for 2009 to amount to place and spot exchange rates as at across a broad range of speaker approximately 10m, subject to phasing of 25 November 2008, we currently estimate applications, and APTIV films are currently projects.
This will be funded from the the following average rates will apply: being used by many of the worlds leading Groups cash resources.
Year to Year to mobile phone manufacturers.
In addition, 30 September 30 September Current trading 2008 2009 APTIV films are qualified as a lighter weight Sales volume remained strong in October at Actual Estimate option for thermal acoustic insulation 218 tonnes, in line with average run rates US Dollar 1.99 1.87 blankets in aircraft, as well as passing more achieved for the year ended 30 September Euro 1.47 1.36 stringent burn-through standards required 2008 annual sales volume 2,626 tonnes.
Yen 229 227 by the Federal Aviation Authority after Sales volume continued at this level in the 2009.
As a result, leading commercial As a result of these improved rates, we early part of November.
However, we have aircraft customers are actively evaluating expect to see a significant increase in since experienced a slowdown in orders as and specifying APTIV films in these effective Sterling average selling price which our customers have responded to the applications.
In other markets, the unique will have a positive impact on revenues and deteriorating global economic climate.
properties of APTIV films are leading to profit.
However, this will be partially offset by Accordingly, November sales volume developments in circuit substrates, batteries increased input costs, additional depreciation amounted to 118 tonnes.
and other electronic and industrial on our new plants and higher effective fixed In contrast to our VICTREX PEEK business, components.
costs per tonne as a result of reduced Invibio, our biomaterials business, continued Supply chain and capital expenditure production and therefore we expect Group to move ahead in line with our expectations, gross margin to be similar to 2008.
We have now successfully completed the with revenues for both October and major programme to increase our supply November at higher levels than the average Risks, trends, factors and uncertainties chain capacity that we commenced in 2005. run rate we achieved in 2008 annual sales Victrexs business and share price may be At the beginning of the year we completed revenue 24.9m.
affected by a number of risks, trends, factors construction of the second VICTREX PEEK and uncertainties, not all of which are in our Outlook polymer powder plant on our main UK site control.
The process Victrex has in place for Traditionally, December sales run at at a capital cost of 32m.
The plant has the identifying, assessing and managing risks is seasonally low levels as our customers capacity to support a further 1,450 tonnes set out in the Corporate Governance Report look to their year end shutdowns.
As a per annum of VICTREX PEEK sales in on page 22. result we do not expect December sales addition to the first plants existing capacity volume to show an improvement over Sections of this Annual Report contain of 2,800 tonnes and is fully operational.
However, we believe that this forward-looking statements, including We have also completed the uprate of the current reduction in sales is, to some statements relating to: future demand and BDF supply chain to support this additional extent, caused by customers reducing markets for the Groups products and polymer capacity at a capital cost of inventories due to the uncertain global services: research and development relating approximately 22m compared with an economic outlook.
We anticipate having a to new products and services and liquidity estimated cost of 23m.
In addition, we clearer view of the likely level of ongoing and capital resources.
These forward-looking have completed an uprate of our melt demand for 2009 when we have seen statements involve risks and uncertainties filtration plant to increase production January sales volume, which we will report because they relate to events that may or capacity of our purified, granular product on in February.
may not occur in the future.
from 1,800 to 3,450 tonnes per annum at a While still fully committed to driving The specific principal risks, trends, factors capital cost of approximately 6m forward the growth of the business, we and uncertainties which could impact the compared with an estimated cost of are currently progressing a full review of Groups revenues, profits and reputation our cost base in the light of current approximately 8m.
and relevant mitigating factors, as currently trading to ensure our resources are identified by Victrexs risk management prioritised and focused on maximising process, are described below.
However, other volume from new business.
risks may also adversely affect the Group.
Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from anticipated results because of Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11 a variety of risk factors, including: changes in interest and exchange rates: changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive and market forces: changes in raw material pricing and availability: changes to legislation and tax rates: future business combinations or disposals: relations with customers and customer credit risk: events affecting international security, including global health issues and terrorism: changes in regulatory environment and the outcome of litigation.
Further information on financial risk management is set out in note 15.
Technological change VICTREX CELEBRATES 30 YEARS Victrexs business is dependent on OF VICTREX PEEK manufacturing and selling high quality POLYMER INNOVATION products into advanced applications.
Demand for these applications and, consequently, for The 19th of November marked the 30th anniversary our products could be impacted as new of VICTREX PEEK polymer.
Since the products inception, Victrex and its technologies and materials are developed.
customers have helped revolutionise the plastics market with this hightemperature, high-performance polyketone.
To address this, we employ specialists covering the major market segments for Since 1978, the use of VICTREX PEEK polymer quickly spread around the VICTREX PEEK to maintain and advance our world, first into Western Europe and the United States to address customers skills and knowledge.
This enables us to needs in the automotive and transportation sector.
As businesses became develop new applications for VICTREX PEEK, global, Victrex successfully moved into Japan and then during the past so that we maintain our position as a decade, has delivered this unique polymer into China and the rest of Asia.
leading solutions provider to designers and Today, Victrex continues expansion into high-growth markets such as India, engineers at our customers and end users.
Operational disruption Having a proactive supply chain strategy is critical because it has a direct impact on product quality and provides control and stability over the The Groups business is dependent on the ongoing operation of our various materials Victrex produces.
Victrex is vertically intergrated, following the acquisition of operations owned by a subsidiary of Degussa AG relating to manufacturing facilities.
A significant operational disruption could adversely affect the manufacture of BDF in 2005, and the previous acquisition of the primary manufacturing stage of BDF in 1999.
This gives Victrex control over its BDF our ability to make and supply products.
As a result, we have implemented policies and procedures to safely manage all our Victrex also offers the most comprehensive polyketone product portfolio in operations and maintain our supply of the world.
This means that its customers have the flexibility to choose from a VICTREX PEEK to customers.
In particular, we wide range of materials to help solve their performance challenges.
In employ a dedicated and empowered Safety, addition, Victrex continues to focus on VICTREX PEEK polymer research and Health and Environment SHE department development, and is committed to maintaining a product portfolio that is to assist line management and to provide fresh and active.
Victrex offers a product range that has more than doubled in recent years including the launch of APTIV films and VICOTE Coatings expert guidance.
Further information on SHE matters is set out in the Corporate based on VICTREX PEEK polymer.
Victrexs leadership position in the high performance materials market has We hold significant stocks of raw materials been formally recognised.
The Company is a multiple winner of The Queens and finished goods which should enable us Award for Enterprise in 1987, 1997, 2002 and 2006.
It attained the Royal to maintain supplies during any short-term Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA President's Award awarded disruption.
Furthermore, the second VICTREX for winning 10 consecutive RoSPA Gold Awards in 2007 and 2008 in PEEK manufacturing plant will be able to recognition of sustained occupational health and safety achievement.
operate independently from the existing plant, thereby reducing the impact of any operational disruption on our ability to continue manufacturing products.
12 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED BUSINESS OVERVIEW CONTINUED Insufficient capacity Relationships with customers and suppliers Our customers businesses depend on We have essential relationships with our maintaining a consistent supply of high customers, suppliers, employees, quality products.
Any unexpected upsurge in shareholders and the environment.
All our demand could lead to insufficient capacity to relationships are managed in accordance fulfil customers needs: additionally any with the Group's global ethics policies delays in the implementation of major described on pages 14 and 15.
Relationships capital expenditure programmes could create with our customers and suppliers are a capacity shortage, leading to customers described in further detail below: seeking alternative products.
DEEP FOCUSED Customers To mitigate this risk, our stocks of finished TECHNICAL EXPERTISE goods enable us to supply any short-term Our customers are a combination of polymer Victrex provides a wide range of processors and end users located worldwide.
surge in demand from our customers.
services from material specification We have long-term supply assurance Additionally, it is our policy to keep capacity and testing to research and agreements in place with all of the well ahead of demand, by investing in our application development.
implantable medical device manufacturers supply chain, so that our customers can be The Applied Technology Centre in that comprise Invibio's PEEK-OPTIMA confident that we can meet their requirements.
the UK provides extensive material polymer customers.
These agreements Product specifications formulation, specification and guarantee the specification of and testing services.
The Centre houses The Groups products are used in highly production methods for the biomaterials state-of-the-art processing facilities demanding end use applications.
Any failure over the term of the agreements.
We also to support customer trials on-site.
to supply products in accordance with their have supply agreements in place with some We can contribute to the specifications could lead to loss of business major processing customers and supply to optimisation of a customers and, potentially, a product liability claim.
design, optimise manufacturing other customers on an order by order basis To mitigate this risk, VICTREX PEEK is parameters and carry out an in accordance with the Group's applicable manufactured within a quality management extensive set of relevant analytical terms and conditions of sale.
The loss of a system approved to ISO 9001:2000.
Invibio and application-related tests to major processing customer or a worsening confirm the real-world feasibility PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is additionally of commercial terms could have a material of a part.
manufactured within the requirements of ISO impact on the Group's results, accordingly The UK Technology Centre 13485:2003, a system of good manufacturing we devote significant resources to complements the Victrex Asia practice often used by the pharmaceutical supporting our customer global ethics Innovation and Technology Center industry and by medical companies.
policies, including maintaining regular located in Shanghai, China.
Based Competitor activity contact with major customers and on the similarly advanced services, Victrex operates in competitive markets, this facility is dedicated to helping undertaking surveys of customer satisfaction.
customers with applications and both in terms of competitors offering Suppliers related testing.
Customers enjoy directly comparable materials other In 2005 we completed the purchase of the local-language staff, technical polyaryletherketone products and alternative operations of Degussa AG relating to the seminars, process and materials.
Failure to compete successfully manufacture of BDF the key raw material troubleshooting support, materials could negatively impact the business.
data, moulds validation, as well as from which VICTREX PEEK is produced.
Accordingly, we are continuing to work The provision of other key raw materials and Research and Development closely with our customers to provide high services remain essential to the operation of quality products as required and to invest in We have organic and polymer our various manufacturing facilities and we chemists, physicists and materials resources to bring cost effective, high quality seek to maintain appropriate contracts, scientists, as well as process, application solutions to our customers.
where available, with suppliers for the supply mechanical and design engineers.
Currency exposure of key raw materials.
In addition to the steps These teams are intimately taken to manage the risk of operational Currently, the Group exports 97% of sales networked with a range of disruption caused by a shortage of key raw from the UK.
Primarily, these sales are industrial and academic materials as described on page denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
collaborators, laboratories and 11, we devote significant resources to Fluctuations in exchange rates between service providers around the world, maintaining our supplier relationships to which enables us to leverage Sterling and these other currencies could additional specialised resources ensure they continue to operate cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
focused on solving our customers satisfactorily, including regular audits of and The Group hedging policy to mitigate this toughest technical challenges.
performance reviews with key suppliers.
risk is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 22.
