16 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chairman Non-executive Directors Anita Frew 51 Giles Kerr 49 Jonathan Azis 51 Patrick fide Smedt 53 Lawrence Pentz 53 BA MPhil BA ACA MA Solicitor BCEng MBA BS ChE MBA Chairman Non-executive Director # Non-executive Director # Non-executive Director # Non-executive Director # Appointed in 2000.
Currently a non-executive Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Remuneration Currently a non-executive Currently an executive Director Director of Aberdeen Asset Committee and Senior Committee.
Currently Director Director of Telindus N. V. of Johnson Matthey Plc Management plc, The City of Independent Director.
Currently of Hanson Westhouse: a Belgacom, Belgium, PNO responsible for their Emission London Investment Trust plc, Finance Director of Oxford Solicitor, he was previously an Group B. V. Netherlands, Control Technologies business.
IMI plc, Northumbrian Water University and Director of Elan executive Director and Inventive Designers He was formerly executive Limited and Securities Trust of Corporation plc and BTG plc.
Company Secretary of N. V. Belgium and Option N. V. Director, Process Catalyst Scotland plc.
He was formerly Finance Hanson PLC and Chairman of Belgium.
He was formerly and Technologies of Director of Amersham plc and Isotron PLC.
Chairman of Microsoft Europe, Johnson Matthey.
was previously a partner in Middle East & Africa.
Executive Directors David Hummel 50 Michael Peacock 50 Blair Souder 45 Tim Walker 60 BSc BA ACA BCEng MBA BSc PhD CChem FRSC Chief Executive Finance Director Commercial Director Production & Technical Director Appointed in 1993.
Formerly with Diamond Shamrock, Formerly with Barclays fide Zoete Formerly with GE Plastics in a number Formerly with ICI where he held GE Plastics & ICI, assuming Wedd's corporate finance department of senior management positions, senior appointments in R&D and responsibility for VICTREX PEEK before moving into industry as a most recently as Global Marketing Operations, most recently as worldwide in 1992.
Finance Director, most recently with Director for Emerging Markets.
Health and Leisure Clubs Limited.
for the Dulux paints business.
Nominations Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee #
