VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Complex project VT Groups focus is on high-value, long-term contracts.
Even our smaller contracts generally involve a considerable amount of resources, time and cost management.
In addition, much of what we do is finely tailored to our individual clients.
No two projects are the same most are completely new concepts.
Our project management skills ensure we can minimise risk whilst delivering what the customer needs.
Building School Services The best days of your life Complex project: Building new facilities on existing school sites safely and without impeding education.
Engineering-led: Aligning designers, builders, educationalists and FM and ICT specialists with school, local community and local authority stakeholders.
Availability-based: Payment based on delivery dates of the schools, the availability of classrooms and the reliability of ICT systems.
Business-critical: Supporting over 1, 000 children in Lewishams secondary schools.
Lorna Sampson, BSF Operations Manager, VT Education and Skills.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 7 Explaining the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 8 Engineering-led VT Groups roots lie in shipbuilding.
As we have acquired new businesses and employed new people, our engineering skills have broadened to incorporate other engineering disciplines, from construction to electronics.
Whatever the discipline though, the engineering mindset prevails.
Theres a desire to solve problems: a practical approach to getting the job done: and a willingness to adopt new ideas once we know they will work.
BBC World Service Putting the World into BBC World Service Provision of global short-wave managed broadcast service.
Complex project: Helping to create a global satellite distribution system that distributes programmes to 1, 00 partners in 150 countries.
Engineering-led: Developing new transmitters that use 5% less energy, saving the equivalent of 1 0 tonnes of CO per site.
Availability-based: Delivering over 750 hours of programmes a day, with 99.9% availability guaranteed.
Business-critical: Enabling the BBC to reach 183 million listeners in 33 different languages.
Steve Gray, Head of Site Operations, VT Communications.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9 Explaining the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10 Availability-based The services we deliver are usually connected to providing and supporting facilities and equipment.
We deliver these assets, guarantee their ongoing availability in line with the customers requirements and undertake to do whatever is necessary to ensure these requirements are met.
This means that the risks associated with owning and or operating the asset are transferred from the customer to VT Group.
It also gives us an incentive to minimise costs while maintaining sufficient resources to meet our customers requirements.
Metropolitan Police Keeping the Met mobile Provision of fleet maintenance services.
Complex project: Managing a vehicle fleet spread across police stations.
Engineering-led: Delivering 500 hours of maintenance a day.
Availability-based: Guaranteeing over 89% of vehicles are available every day.
Business-critical: Responsible for the management and maintenance of 3, 00 Metropolitan Police vehicles across London.
Ben Roche, Mobile Technician, VT Critical Services.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11 Explaining the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 1 Business-critical The services we provide are characterised by being close to our customers core activities, with a direct impact on their own performance.
This means that we must maintain very close relationships with our customers, have a thorough understanding of our customers business, and that high levels of trust must exist between the customer and VT. NASA Our mission is to support theirs Provision of engineering and operations support to Wallops Flight Facility, Virginia.
Complex project Engineering-led: Maintaining over one million square feet of buildings and associated plant and equipment.
Availability-based Business-critical: Providing essential services in support of launches.
Greg Turner, Construction Manager, IDIQ Projects, VT Griffin Services.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 Explaining the Group
