VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 VT Services Inc Ken Smith Managing Director 2008 proved a 2008 performance 2008 performance include a full year of successful year operations from both VT Milcom and VT Griffin for VT Services.
and three months of operation from VT Aepco.
We continue to focus on improving the efficiency Turnover was of the businesses and in the year we saw up 25%, while operating margins grow to 3.8% 3.1% 2007 due to a combination of reducing our reliance underlying on lower margin base operation contracts operating profit and higher value services contracts from the three businesses.
2008 proved a successful year for VT Services.
Turnover was up 25%, while Strategy underlying operating profit grew by 56%.
In line with Group strategy, we are continuing Our strategy is to: Financial Highlights our move into higher value-added services, Grow organically, by expanding customer characterised by the business-critical nature Turnover m relationships: identifying and pursuing of our customers projects.
We acquired 2008 241.4 opportunities early: improving our proposal Advanced Engineering and Planning Corp. 2007 193.2 development process: and leveraging Inc. VT Aepco, a military aviation support strategic alliances.
Improve margins, by reducing reliance on Underlying Operating Profit m What we do low-margin Base Operations contracts and 2008 9.2 increasing on higher value services contracts 2007 5.9 VT Services, Inc. the US arm of VT Group, is from the three business.
a provider of integrated government support 0 2 4 6 8 10 services for state and federal agencies, in Improve cashflow, by improving our processes Underlying Operating Profit Margin % particular the US Department of Defense and systems across the businesses.
Our capabilities include facilities 2007 3.1 Expand in adjacent Department of Defense operations, maintenance and logistics 0 1 2 3 4 5 market sectors.
management services, electronics engineering and communication systems installation Focus our merger and acquisition and support.
These are delivered through activity on adjacent markets with higher three businesses: value-added offerings.
V T Aepco, based in Gaithersburg, Maryland, Customers and markets is a leading engineering and logistics firm providing life cycle support programs, VT Aepco primarily for US Army helicopters.
VT Aepco has a significant presence on the Redstone Our main customer is the US Army.
Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama, Headquarters Continuing military operations in Afghanistan of the US Army Material Command and Iraq are sustaining demand for our services AMC and US Army Aviation and Missile and we are the market leader in this field.
Should these operations scale down, we are likely to see continuing high levels of demand VT Griffin, based in Alpharetta, Georgia, for our services as the US Army embarks on is a premier services provider of facilities the lengthy process of restructuring its assets.
maintenance and operations, logistics, Our recent win of a $137million contract with US engineering and contingency support AMC positions us well with a customer set for services, primarily for the US military and significant growth and the ability to influence various federal government agencies.
VT Milcom, based in Virginia Beach, Virginia, provides engineering, design, fabrication and installation of electronic and communication systems and equipment, primarily for the US military.
Explaining the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 8 VT Services Inc continued VT Griffin Competitive and regulatory environments US Army Installation Management Command IMCOM and US Navy Facilities Engineering Industry consolidation continued with 99 We continue to Command NAVFAC remain our key customers.
acquisitions closed in the government Major contracts include facilities maintenance, be confident services market during calendar year 2007, public works and logistics, operations and compared with 84 in 2006, 100 in 2005 and that our strategy maintenance contracts at Forts Stewart, McCoy 106 in 2004.
As the number of competitors and Huachuca, NASA Wallops Flight Facility declines, the level of competition between will enable us to and Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay.
Large, multi-award achieve our goal of omnibus contracts magnify the importance of VT Griffin was awarded the US Armys winning prime or large sub-contract positions.
reaching turnover Department of Public Works Contractor of The expansion of our skills and capabilities the Year for its outstanding performance on of $1billion.
will position us better for such opportunities Fort Stewart.
Fort Stewart, the largest US going forward.
The priority for the Army installation east of the Mississippi at over 279,000 acres, is home to the Armys The outcome of the 2008 US Presidential year ahead is focus rd 3 Infantry Division.
Elections is likely to affect the environment in on organic growth which we operate, while increased reporting Our traditional Base Operations Support market standards and closer scrutiny of compliance within the three now offers fewer opportunities for growth due are characteristics of a sector experiencing to the dominance of small businesses where business units of moderate change from a regulatory contracts are set aside for such entities.
The Department of Defenses VT Services.
therefore concentrating on larger opportunities move away from the model of large Original with more diverse requirements and greater Equipment Manufacturers OEMs filling the scale, including developing our relationship with role of Lead Systems Integrator may provide the US Air Force and entering the Department of additional opportunities for us to compete for Energy DoE facilities management market.
VT Milcom Governance and risk VT Milcom is the market leader in Command, management Control, Communications, Computers, The operations of VT Services, Inc. are governed Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance by a Proxy Board.
The Proxy Board comprises C4ISR, alteration and installation AIT for three proxy holders who serve as the directors US Navy Space and Naval Warfare Systems of the US operation.
The Proxy Board oversees SPAWAR Atlantic operations, and we are well the operation of the US entity and ensures positioned to take advantage of this growth that the US operations are compliant with all market.
US SPAWAR Charleston, the procurer applicable US security regulations, since all and technical monitor of the Companys three businesses operate with Top Secret $577million, five-year contract for C4ISR facilities security clearances.
installation and integration services, continues to be our key customer.
We are also pursuing Outlook opportunities with the US Army, the US Coast Guard USCG and the US Marine Corp. We continue to be confident that our strategy will enable us to achieve our goal of reaching turnover of over $1bn.
The priority for the year ahead is to focus on organic growth within the three business units of VT Services.
Other priorities for the upcoming year include a review of the business to identify integration and consolidation opportunities, and investigating business opportunities that offer scope for a joint UK US approach with other parts of the Group.
We are looking to the logistics, communications IT and intelligence markets where we see significant opportunities for additional acquisitive growth.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9 Keeping the US Army airborne Providing logistic support to the US Armys helicopter fl fleet In January 2008, VT Services acquired Maryland based, Advanced Engineering and Planning Corp, to create VT Aepco.
One of the Companys primary activities is managing life cycle support programmes, primarily for the US Army helicopters such as the Apache, Blackhawk, Chinook, and Cobra.
Key services include life-cycle support for platforms, systems and equipment, integrated logistics, technical documentation and training.
VT Aepcos staff are deployed at the US Armys Aviation and Missile Commands largest logistic support contractor and was recently selected to provide logistic support services to the US Army Material Command.
