VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 1 VT Communications Doug Umbers Managing Director power generation and distribution The business specialist installation and vehicle container continues to engineering conversions grow organically 008 performance building on existing Turnover increased by 8% 2007 3% : relationships, underlying operating profi t by 13% especially in 2007 8% : and our operating margin was 16.5% 2007 15.8%.
Underlying turnover continued to show good 2008 has been another excellent year for growth even though it was held back this year VT Communications.
The business continues by the delay in the start of the Future Strategic to grow organically building on existing Financial Highlights Tanker Aircraft FSTA and Military Flying relationships, especially in Defence & Security, Training System MFTS contracts.
We also where we are increasing our footprint.
A major Turnover m had lower revenue this year from the Defence highlight was achieving the in-service date 2008 107.2 High Frequency Service DHFCS contract for the 220m MoD Defence High Frequency 2007 99.2 as the initial construction phase completed.
Communications Service DHFCS programme, 0 80 90 100 110 120 However the successful early completion of six months early and on budget.
VTC and the project phase has enabled cashfl ow and the MoD were awarded the Minister DES Underlying Operating Profit m margin to grow at a faster rate.
Acquisition Award 2007 in recognition of the 2008 17.7 2007 15.7 successful completion of this programme.
Strategy 0 5 10 15 20 25 What we do Our strategy is to: Underlying Operating Profit Margin % VT Communications designs, builds, operates, Broaden our portfolio of services 2008 16.5 maintains and supports business-critical 2007 15.8 for existing customers communications infrastructure for some of the 0 14 15 16 17 18 Ensure excellence in service delivery most demanding organisations in the world.
Among them are national governments, defence Make VT Communications a great organisations, non government organisations place to work and broadcasters, both public sector and Take our existing capabilities to new customers commercial, national and international.
We have two business units, Broadcast and Defence Enter adjacent or complementary markets & Security.
where security and resilience are critical Broadcast Customers and markets Through Broadcast we own and operate Broadcast global broadcast infrastructure that transmits over 1,100 hours of shortand medium-wave Our two largest customers are the BBC World broadcasts every day, linking broadcasters Service and Deutsche Welle, both with contracts to their audiences worldwide.
We are one of the largest capabilities include: commercial providers of AM band radio to international broadcasters.
More broadcasters AM band radio network management are investing in new media to deliver content, broadcast infrastructure and we are addressing this growing demand through this years investment in a new media digital media services management centre.
Defence & Security D&S Leveraging our broad expertise in wireless D&S offers extensive experience delivering infrastructure, engineering and programme diverse projects and services to military and management, in 2007 we secured a major commercial customers around the world.
contract with broadcast and communications Our core capabilities include: infrastructure provider, Arqiva, to source, deploy and commission digital terrestrial radio frequency infrastructure and point television cabin infrastructure at Arqivas communications solutions relay transmission sites in the UK as part of information communications technology the digital switchover.
Explaining the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 VT Communications continued Defence & Security Governance and risk management D&S is a strategic partner of the MoD for long-haul radio communications.
This is In line with overall Group corporate governance, We invest heavily underpinned by two long-term contracts, the VT Communications operates a governance DHFCS and the Very Low Frequency PFI.
in training for staff process covering all activities of the business We are using our position with the MoD to and, where appropriate, we have implemented development.
grow our presence across the Command, formal processes.
Control, Communications, Computers, Our programmes We operate risk management and mitigation Information, Surveillance Target Acquisition procedures across VT Communications.
focused on and Reconnaissance C4ISTAR area for Specifically this year we have implemented secure and resilient communications services.
management a project lifecycle framework for all capital projects which aims to ensure a consistent styles: project Competitive and regulatory approach to risk.
environments management: Our competitors are varied including service Outlook health and safety companies such as SERCO and prime systems We will be focusing on two areas: the successful awareness: integrators such as BT, Thales and EADS.
delivery of recent new business wins, including and customer VT Communications concentrates on specific the digital switchover: and the execution of our market areas where it is either the market strategy.
Through Broadcast we are pursuing relationship leader or near leader.
This allows us to work opportunities to consolidate our core AM radio management.
very closely with our customers to develop market, marketing our new media capabilities longer-term relationships which we believe and expanding our presence in the broadcast gives our business sustainable advantage for infrastructure market in both the UK and overseas.
Through DNS we are building our presence in the national security market as well as VT Communications operates within all rules continuing to broaden our UK MoD footprint.
and regulations of our international markets.
There have been no changes to our regulatory We look forward with confidence to the coming environment this year, and none are expected year, supported by the signing in March of VTC and the MoD receiving the that will impact materially on our business.
the FSTA contract for which we have a 132m recent Minister DES Acquisition Award 2007. sub contract.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 Digital Switchover Partnering with Arqiva VT Communications partnering approach to project delivery is widely recognised and well established, delivering critical projects on schedule and within budget.
In November 2007 VT Communications was chosen by Arqiva to be its delivery partner in the replacement of low-power TV relay cabins at over 500 sites in the UK, a key part of the UK Digital Switchover Programme.
