VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 VT Shipbuilding Tony Belisario Managing Director expected in 2009.
2008 has been The 10m extension to the Portsmouth Ship a good year for Assembly Hall was completed ahead of VT Shipbuilding schedule, creating additional capacity for our current export contracts and the Future with work starting Aircraft Carrier.
on our export Our composites business, VT Halmatic, has contracts.
been restructured, including closure of parts of the site and integration into VTS, to refocus on military and paramilitary composite small 2008 has been a good year for VT Shipbuilding boat products.
There has been an increase in VTS with turnover and underlying operating composite work for the oil and gas industry profit increasing by 49% and 24% respectively.
and we entered into new markets in the US Financial Highlights The Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Far East.
and Tobago T&T in April 2007 awarded a Turnover m This year also saw the integration of VT Naiad contract for three Offshore Patrol Vessels and 2008 243.7 Marine, VT Maritime Dynamics and VT Marine two interim boats.
Work on the Royal Navy 2007 164.0 Products into a Motion Control business group, Type 45 Destroyer continued at a significant 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 which was transferred from VTS to VT Services pace, manufacturing commenced on both the Inc, effective from April 2008.
Underlying Operating Profit m Oman and T&T export contracts and the two 2008 16.3 interim vessels which we procured for T&T were Strategy 2007 13.1 delivered in the year.
0 5 10 15 20 25 Our strategy is to: What we do Maintain VT Shipbuilding as a strategic Underlying Operating Profit Margin % VTS is a major supplier of ships to the Royal partner for the UK MoD: 2008 6.7 Navy and one of the UKs leading exporters of 2007 8.0 Continue to expand existing commercial naval vessels.
Our services include advanced 0 2 4 6 8 10 innovations such as leasing, contracting for vessel design, systems integration, construction availability and technology transfer: and programme management.
We also design and manufacture small craft for the UK MoD Continue to secure export business: and for customers overseas.
Partner with other shipyards across the world to offer potential cost savings and 008 performance additional capacity: and Turnover increased by 48.5% 2007 -0.1% : Further develop composite small boat profit by 24.4% 2007 13.8%, and our products for military and Government underlying operating margin was 6.7% customers worldwide.
Our performance this year was underpinned by our success in delivering Customers and markets ships three and four for the Type 45 Destroyer programme.
VTS is currently involved in major programmes for the UK MoD including the Daring Class Type Work on the Technology Transfer programme 45 Anti-Air Warfare Destroyer and the Future in Greece for five fast attack craft progressed Aircraft Carrier CVF for the Royal Navy.
The UK well, with three ships in service and two nearing MoD is also the primary customer for the build completion.
We are working closely with our and refit of small craft.
partners to secure a contract extension for a further two vessels.
VTS pursues opportunities with navies and coastguards around the world.
The manufacturing phase of our Oman and Government customers overseas include Trinidad & Tobago contracts commenced Trinidad and Tobago, Oman and Greece.
this year, with completion of the first vessels VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35 Competitive and regulatory Outlook environments Production of the Offshore Patrol Vessels for Our major customers are governments, and we the Royal Navy of Oman and the Coastguard are therefore subject to compliance with their of Trinidad and Tobago will be our main activity regulations.
When in overseas competition, in the coming year.
We remain optimistic in we comply with the UK Governments Export being able to secure a further two Super Vita Control regulations, as well as being subject Fast Attack Craft for the Royal Hellenic Navy, to the rules and regulations of the country of and will continue to work on securing business with other foreign navies and coastguards origin of the customer.
VTS competes with naval shipbuilders Of major signifi cance is the UK Governments worldwide and is a market leader for offshore recent confi rmation of the manufacturing patrol vessels and fast attack craft.
contract to build two Aircraft Carriers for the Royal Navy.
The announcement of an order Governance and risk for the carriers will secure work well into the management future and result in the creation of a joint VTS operates within and adheres to VT Groups venture company with BAE Systems to be risk management framework.
Business risks are known as BVT Surface Fleet Ltd.
This joint regularly reviewed and reported to the Group venture will be the UK Governments strategic on a monthly basis.
Bid and project teams partner for the design, manufacture and maintain risk registers as a standard part of the support of future warships and will also be management process.
well positioned to compete on the world stage to secure export sales.
Caribbean Coastal Protection Helping to make the Caribbean a safer place VT Shipbuilding is working in partnership with the Royal Navy to provide three 90m Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Government of Trinidad and Tobago.
In addition to providing the ships, VT will deliver a comprehensive package of training and through life support on a contracting for availability basis that will guarantee that each vessel will be available for operations for at least 300 days every year.
The ships advanced capabilities, coupled to their high levels of availability will signifi cantly increase the Coastguards ability to protect the waters and coastline around the islands.
Explaining the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 VT is continuing to develop its corporate responsibility strategy.
Last year its training business Flagship, attained ISO14001 for improving its environmental auditing and reporting process at its fire training facilities in Portsmouth and Plymouth.
