VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 1 VT Group Paul Lester Chief Executive 2008 has been a good year for the Group and recent business successes have laid the foundations for future long-term growth.
Strategy What we do Our vision is to be the number one international VT Group is a leading defence and support services company, providing engineering and government services group.
What unites all other support services to governments and large our businesses is our focus on managing organisations around the world.
Primarily based critical assets in partnership with our customers.
in the UK and US, we employ over 14,000 These long-term projects are invariably complex, people.
Over the past six years we have trebled predominately with an engineering focus, in size, and now have a turnover of 1.2bn.
and require practical solutions, programme and project management and the excellent VT operates in a wide range of markets, delivery of managed services using our broad including defence, support services, logistics, range of capabilities.
We refer to this as VTs communications, education and training and Value Proposition see diagram.
Through our five business divisions in the top right corner for the majority of our VT Communications, VT Education and Skills, contracts.
However, we need to manage a VT Services Inc, VT Shipbuilding and VT Support small number of contracts at the other end of Services we provide services from designing, the scale when our existing customers require acquiring and then operating and maintaining facilities and assets, through to providing us to operate more straight-forward contracts support and training to everyone from as part of our wider relationship.
Examples of firefighters to teachers, apprentices and pilots.
such long-term projects include FSTA, our radio The VT Value Proposition Long-term partner Higher added value Critical to success Managed service Arms-length subcontractor Short-term prescriptive Customer Engagement Capability VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 broadcast contract with the BBC: the Lewisham 3.
Apply VTs Value Proposition to appropriate commercial markets: Building Schools for the Future Programme: our contracts with the Metropolitan Police: and the 4.
Maintain and build existing customer proposed Wakefi eld Waste PFI.
relationships: and We plan to grow our business through a mixture 5.
Grow in the strategically signifi cant nuclear of organic growth, acquisitions and by taking and waste processing to energy markets.
We will achieve these objectives by adhering to Organic growth our core values: Organic growth, namely the development Performance driven: striving for excellence of new opportunities with existing or and outstanding results through a can do, will new customers or within existing or new do approach with innovation and integrity: markets, is key to growing shareholder value.
Partnering with customers and suppliers: Business development in existing markets developing and maintaining positive generates a diversifi ed portfolio of opportunities relationships, working together to achieve of varying sizes across our core business common goals: and sectors.
We focus on those opportunities that best match our value proposition and gives Passionate about people: demonstrating added value to our customers.
The combination commitment to people, enabling individuals of long-term contracts and recurring business to meet their full potential and share in the gives us a high level of visibility of future Groups success.
Working closely with our customers and Acquisition suppliers is fundamental to the success of our business.
We are proud that in 2008, having We maintain a focused acquisition policy that reviewed Group performance over a number of concentrates on adding business-critical contracts, the UK Ministry of Defence MoD s engineering support companies to our portfolio.
Directorate of Supplier Relations rated VT Group We judge all potential acquisitions against strict as its top performing supplier.
criteria, seeking targets that fi t with our strategy Our customers frequently embed their contract and complement our core competencies: that teams within our organisation creating better generate sustainable revenues and profi ts: that lines of communication.
Currently we have are attractively priced: and that can be acquired personnel from both the Coastguard of Trinidad with limited competition.
This acquisition and Tobago and the Royal Navy of Oman based policy has been evident in our two most recent at VT Shipbuilding.
acquisitions: in the UK, VT Nuclear Services has seen us increasing the addressable market Adopting a partnering approach has also for our critical engineering support capability, secured new business.
Our contract to provide entering into a new market that offers the equipment cabin infrastructure for the UKs potential for signifi cant growth: whilst in the US, switchover to digital terrestrial television was VT Aepco has accelerated our margin growth won thanks to the strong relationship VT and is moving VT Services Inc. further up the Communications has with its customer Arqiva.
Our partnering approach with suppliers is key to Taking advantage of emerging markets the successful delivery of our business strategy.
The extension to our ship manufacturing hall in The continued growth of the support services Portsmouth Dockyard was completed early and market and the development of government under budget through our fi first full risk reward procurement strategies are opening up partnering arrangement with Morgan Ashurst.
opportunities both in the UK and overseas.
Where we believe that our value proposition New markets fi ts, we analyse how we might enter an VT Nuclear Services emerging market.
We acquired British Nuclear Group Project Strategic priorities Services, now known as VT Nuclear Services, Our strategic priorities are to: from BNFL in January 2008.
Employing over 700 people and with a turnover in excess of 1.
Develop our position in the UK defence 70m, VT Nuclear Services has over 40 years market through consolidation and acquisition experience of operating and decommissioning where appropriate: nuclear plants, including the closure and 2.
Strengthen our position in the US defense clean-up of over 50 nuclear facilities in the market by further developing our capabilities UK, Europe and USA, and covers the entire and achieving critical mass: decommissioning lifecycle.
