VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 1 VT Group continued VT Nuclear Services has two main areas Corporate responsibility of business: Business success requires us to demonstrate Core technical and engineering expertise to responsible behaviour, and this means not We have recently help safely accelerate the discharge of the only ensuring compliance with our business UK Governments nuclear responsibilities, principles, national and international laws, extended our in accordance with the Nuclear but also making certain that our activities, engineering Decommissioning Authoritys requirements.
services and products are economically viable, environmentally sound and socially just.
support approach Highly differentiated technical and engineering solutions to nuclear We have made good progress this year, further to nuclear services customers worldwide.
integrating corporate responsibility performance and waste as part of our overall company reporting, The business fits well with our value proposition, including business ethics, the environment, management.
complementing our skills in critical engineering health and safety, our people, our customers and services and project management, and further suppliers and investment in our communities.
expands our support services capability.
You will find a full report on how we manage The market for nuclear decommissioning in the corporate responsibility and our performance UK is currently worth around 1 billion per year.
this year in How we run the Group on pages However, the Government has stated that 75bn 37 to 52. will need to be spent up to 2035.
We aim to We have also launched a comprehensive section benefit from the Governments intention to build on corporate responsibility on our website, new nuclear power plants in the UK by assisting www.
com, where you will find more nuclear contractors to understand UK and information, details of our policies, and related international regulatory requirements, manage case studies.
waste, design for decommissioning and quantify decommissioning liabilities.
Outlook VT Environmental Engineering 2008 has been another year of growth fuelled by VT Environmental Engineering aims to take new contract wins, acquisitions and moves into new markets.
advantage of the drive towards processing waste rather than sending it to landfill.
In the As we look ahead: UK, as Government landfill taxes rise, local authorities are looking for the most efficient Our order book stands at 4.9bn at the end of March 2008: way to minimise their costs and maximise the amount of waste sent for recycling.
We work Negotiations remain at a very advanced with experienced technology partners and stage with BAE Systems plc on the formation apply our project management and engineering of the proposed shipbuilding and naval expertise to bringing innovative solutions to support joint venture on terms in line with this market.
We have recently been named those previously announced.
We have preferred bidder to build and manage municipal received a signed commitment from the household waste facilities for Wakefield UK Government on the proposed Terms of Metropolitan District Council, in a PFI deal worth Business Agreement, and are now waiting nearly 700m over a 25-year period.
The new for a confirmed date of commencement for facilities built will process over 200,000 tonnes the Future Aircraft Carrier CVF programme of domestic waste per year.
before we sign the joint-venture agreement: This market offers major potential for VT Group We are the preferred bidder for the UK MFTS to extend our range of engineering-based and Wakefield Waste PFIs: support services in line with our strategy.
We are seeing new market opportunities in Competitive and regulatory the UK and overseas with the evolution of the environments support services market and the development of Government procurement strategies.
Each of our business divisions operates in a Our strategy is serving us well.
VT Group different competitive and regulatory environment.
continues to expand organically while our recent Please see the reports from each business acquisitions position us for further growth.
division on pages 21 to 35 for further details.
Governance and risk management You will find detailed reports on corporate governance and risk management in How we run the Group on pages 37 to 52.
