VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 VT Education & Skills Simon Withey Managing Director We achieved Strategy Our vision is to be the number one provider in solid overall the UK education and skills market.
In line with performance with the Groups strategy to work in partnership with government customers to deliver businessimproved margins critical assets, our aim is to develop more and significant long-term relationships, such as local authority school improvement contracts: and long-term contract wins.
customer training programmes within high technology environments such as engineering and automotive.
Our increased use of IT to offer 2008 has been a good year.
We achieved solid e-learning will provide a key differentiator for us.
Financial Highlights overall performance with improved margins and significant contract wins.
VT Education Turnover m Customers and markets and Skills VTE&S has grown to be one of the 2008 124.9 largest companies in the UK Education and Our major customers for our education and 2007 112.1 Skills sector, and, with the proposed integration guidance services are local authorities and the 0 100 110 120 130 140 of Flagship following the expected completion Learning and Skills Council LSC.
Key local of the shipbuilding joint venture, it will become authorities are the London Boroughs of Underlying Operating Profit m the clear market leader, positioning us well for Greenwich and Lewisham for BSF: Surrey 2008 5.6 further expansion.
County Council and Waltham Forest for 2007 3.8 school support services: and East and West 0 2 4 6 8 10 What we do Sussex plus several London boroughs for our Underlying Operating Profit Margin % information, advice and guidance IAG work.
VTE&S employs over 2,000 people and has a 2008 4.5 Until March 2008 our IAG services for young unique breadth of capabilities encompassing 2007 3.4 people were provided through the Connexions education, training and guidance services.
0 1 2 3 4 5 service but this has now been devolved to In education we support over 500 schools local authorities.
providing school improvement, education The major customer for our vocational training consultancy, staff development, ICT solutions and assessment services is the LSC in England, and facilities management.
We also have two but we also have similar services in Scotland, Building Schools for the Future BSF contracts Wales and Northern Ireland.
These services, which will, in due course, cover about 25 which are predominantly Government-funded, secondary schools.
are delivering apprenticeships at levels 2 and 3 to In training we are one of the UKs leading a wide range of UK-based employers.
Our clients providers in work-based learning, offering include many leading companies such as vocational qualifications in engineering, Whitbread, Sodexho, BAA, Compass and Virgin automotive, hospitality, retail, care and leisure.
Mobile in the hospitality and retail sector: and We typically have over 18,000 apprentices at Volkswagen and Subaru in the automotive any one time in a large number of locations sector.
We also have a training contract with the across the UK.
British Armys REME organisation which was successfully renewed last year.
In guidance services this year we supported over 400,000 adults and young people across Education 19 local authorities with information, advice and guidance on careers and other key Our key schools support contract across 400 life decisions.
schools in Surrey continues to progress well.
This is delivered through our joint venture 008 performance with Surrey County Council, VT FourS.
Against strong competition, VTE&S won the Despite challenging market conditions and 30m contract for school support services budgetary pressures suffered by our major for the London Borough of Waltham Forest.
customers, VTE&S achieved solid operating The contract lasts four years and began on performance, increasing margin from 3.4% 1 April 2008. to 4.5% on a higher turnover.
This was driven mainly by achieving financial close on the BSF contract in Lewisham, and improved efficiency, processes and controls across the rest of the business.
VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5 Training tomorrows technicians Providing Volkwagens apprenticeship training in UK VT Training has recently won the contract to deliver apprenticeship training to the Volkswagen Group, which also includes marques such as Audi, SEAT and Skoda.
This prestigious contract includes the provision of a dedicated training facility in Nottingham and VT training staff who will work with up to 900 learners at any one time to help them gain Level 3 NVQs.
Explaining the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 VT Education & Skills continued Building Schools for the Future Training In November 2007, Learning21, our joint venture As part of our strategy to grow our engineering with Costain plc, achieved financial close on training capability, we secured a major contract The safety of to run the airside training academy for BAA the Lewisham Building Schools for the Future which complements our existing retail academy our employees project, and work has started on two of the contract.
We also secured new contracts with 12 schools.
two automotive groups, Volkswagen and IM On our Greenwich BSF project, where we act as Group, which together cover apprenticeship Personal safety the authoritys strategic partnering organisation, training for engineers and other personnel at we are working towards placing the contracts for is a key issue and their dealer networks across the country.
the first group of schools.
now forms part As part of the Shipbuilding joint venture, Guidance VT Group will acquire BAE Systems 50% of our business shareholding in Flagship Training Limited.
VTE&S secured contracts to provide careers reporting.
Our planning for integrating Flagship into services for East and West Sussex which were VTE&S is well underway.
The combination previously operated by the Connexions service.
of the businesses will create the largest We also secured an extension to our Surrey skills business in the UK, and, because the careers contract, by combining this careers businesses offer complementary strengths, we advice and guidance service with our successful expect the benefits of integration to be high.
school support services joint venture with Surrey County Council.
We have, however, lost Competitive and regulatory VTE&S recently won the 30m several of our other Connexions contracts where environments contract for schools support a number have been taken in-house by the services for the London Borough The majority of VTE&S business is Government of Waltham Forest.
funded and thus we are regularly audited and reviewed in accordance with central and local government processes.
All our employees undergo comprehensive checks including Criminal Records Bureau checks.
Our major competitors come from the public, private and charitable sectors, and include Prospects and Cf BT for guidance services: Cambridge Education, Serco and Capita on education services: and RM, Civica and Northgate on BSF ICT programmes.
Governance and risk management VTE&S has a rigorous and consistently applied system for identifying, analysing and managing risks.
This process involves the regular monthly review of risks and issues in each area of the business and, where necessary, formulating mitigation plans with line management.
Outlook Skills are very high on the Government agenda and growth in expenditure on education is running at a higher rate than in most other Government departments.
The Governments commitment to substantial increases in apprenticeship training, train-to-gain initiatives, and the Building Schools for the Future programme all provide good opportunities for us.
Our integration of Flagship will give us a major opportunity to enhance our technical and engineering training services for both Government and corporate customers.
We therefore view 2009 with confidence.
