VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 30 VT Support Services John Davies Managing Director begun work to put in place the infrastructure and An excellent year support activities for the new A330 tanker aircraft.
with strong This programme is expected to contribute over 1bn of revenue during its 27-year life.
operational VT Aerospace continued to deliver successfully performance on existing contracts during the year and has delivering growth.
secured additional orders including an 8m, 10-year follow-on contract to continue delivering flying grading for the Royal Navy.
VT Aerospace also secured the Sea King Integrated Financial Highlights Operational Support SKIOS contract, valued 2008 has been an excellent year for VT Support at 39m over five years, transitioning the Services with strong operational performance Turnover m Search and Rescue sites round the UK and delivering significant margin growth.
We also 2008 483.8 the Falkland Islands from military to contractor achieved good organic growth with several 2007 436.1 maintenance support.
major contract wins during the year, and are 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 well positioned to make good progress on key VT Critical Services successfully completed Underlying Operating Profit m opportunities in 2009. the design, commissioning and transfer into a 2008 50.2 purpose-built workshop in support of British 2007 44.0 What we do Airways new Terminal 5 operation.
We also 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 procured over 30m of new ground support VT Support Services VTSS operates in the equipment on behalf of British Airways which Underlying Operating Profit Margin % defence, emergency and commercial markets we delivered on time and within budget.
2008 10.4 delivering business-critical services through the 2007 10.1 provision and support of aircraft, vehicles and VT Land successfully secured a 40m, five-year 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 contract with the British Army for Training, ships.
We provide services both in the UK and Maintenance and Support Services TMASS at overseas through the following business units: Bovington which commenced on 1 April 2008 VT Aerospace delivers flying training and and involves the transfer of over 200 personnel aircraft support to meet the high demands of into our business.
air forces and military customers.
VT Naval Support has begun work on a logistics VT Critical Services delivers operational support package for the Royal Navy of Oman.
capability to fire, police, marine and During the year we also began work on a 49m commercial airline customers.
contract to provide comprehensive logistics support to three Offshore Patrol Vessels on VT Land provides vehicles, engineering an availability basis for the Government of the support and training to military customers.
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago.
VT Naval Support undertakes through-life Our joint ventures both delivered performance in support for naval customers.
excess of target with FSL successfully renewing Our joint ventures Flagship Training Ltd and its partnering agreement with the Royal Navy.
Fleet Support deliver services to the Royal Navy and a range of military and commercial Strategy customers around the world.
VTSS aims to be the leading provider of Our new markets VT Nuclear Services and business-critical asset availability and VT Environmental Engineering provide engineering support services to government complex engineering solutions in nuclear and major commercial organisations.
In support of this strategy, our key goals are to: 008 performance Win major UK Ministry of Defence MoD projects: Growth in turnover and margin has been underpinned by strong operational performance Consolidate in the defence sector across all business units and reflects the through acquisition: successful integration of the Lex business that Build strategic relationships with equipment we acquired in 2006. manufacturers and other service We signed the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft providers to enhance our capability to win FSTA programme in March 2008 and have complex projects: VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 Expand our Critical Services business in existing and new markets: Deliver our services in new international territories: and Build on our people strategy to further raise individual and business performance.
Customers and markets VT Aerospace VT Aerospace operates a number of long-term partnering contracts with the MoD with a primary focus on fl ying training, aircraft maintenance and logistics support.
These contracts include the Light Aircraft Flying Task, which provides up to 50,000 fl ying hours per year delivering initial pilot training to the Royal Air Force, using our fl fleet of 94 Grob aircraft.
VT Aerospace also works extensively with the RAF on the Tucano Total Support Programme, delivering approximately 14,000 fl ying hours per year in support of basic fast jet training at RAF Linton-on-Ouse.
Overseas, 2009 will see our 50th anniversary of service to the Royal Air Force of Oman where we continue to provide aircraft maintenance across a range of rotary and fi xed-wing aircraft.
VT Critical Services VT Critical Services delivers a wide range of support solutions to both government and commercial customers.
Our two principal long-term contracts are with the Metropolitan Police and British Airways.
We ensure the availability of Metropolitan Police vehicles in London and all British Airways ground support vehicles at Heathrow and Gatwick airports.
We also provide asset support to government and commercial customers in the fi re and marine sectors.
VT Land VT Land provides comprehensive logistics When every second counts support, maintenance, repair and training for a wide range of assets, from Land Rovers to Supporting the MoDs search and Challenger II tanks.
Through our joint venture, rescue helicopters ALC, we own and maintain the construction vehicle fl fleet used worldwide on the frontline by the British Armed Forces.
The UK MoD also VT Aerospace is working with helicopter manufacturer relies on us to supply over 14,000 non-military vehicles known as White Fleet.
At Bovington, Augusta Westland to provide maintenance and support Bordon and Arborfi eld garrisons, VT Land at six search and rescue sites in the UK and overseas.
delivers armoured fi ghting vehicle support to Over two-hundred engineers provide a 24 7 service the British Army.
to ensure that aircraft are always ready for some 1800 rescue operations that the service carries out each year.
Explaining the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3 VT Support Services continued training and integrated support services to over VT Naval Support 400 customers around the world, including VT Naval Support delivers contractor logistics overseas navies, maritime organisations and support on naval vessels and guarantees levels commercial customers.
In 2008 all our of availability on four River Class Offshore Patrol Flagship delivered on all of its financial targets business units Vessels operated by the Royal Navy.
We have this year, including an exceptional year in prime similar support contracts on two Survey began to record contracting order 50m for the Royal Navy Vessels which are operated worldwide by the and other Government customers.
50m of their energy, Royal Navy.
We also provide ship support and further orders were secured for training and modification services to the Royal Saudi Naval water and waste other service provision and the business won Force, and this capability is enhanced by a ship a long-term contract to manage the facilities usage and have repair, upgrade and refit service provided by of the Regional Fire Control centres across the VT Fitzroy, in New Zealand.
Flagship continues to deliver all existing contracts on time and within budget.
performance Joint ventures indicators to New markets Fleet Support Limited drive efficiency.
During the year VT Group entered two new FSL continued to deliver strong operating markets through the acquisition of VT Nuclear performance with financial targets exceeded.
Services, and the waste management PFI with The Partnering contract, delivering services Wakefield Metropolitan Borough Council.
to support the Royal Navy in Portsmouth, was successfully re-bid in the year with prices agreed until 2013.
FSL continue to share the benefit of the efficiencies being driven into the delivery of the Naval Base output of supporting the Fleet.
Pay As You Dine was successfully introduced for RN personnel in Portsmouth.
During the year HMS Iron Duke completed a successful docking period.
The regeneration of the last of the three T23s for Chile continues on schedule.
There was further growth in the number of dockings of commercial vessels and in particular ferries.
Implementation of the Health & Safety culture improvement programme remains a top priority within the business.
Monitoring and reporting of incidents has improved and during the first three months of 2008 there has been a welcome reduction in reportable incidents.
Future prospects are encouraging as the Surface Ship Support Project has regained momentum with the MoD, FSL and Babcock working together to provide an industry led solution to improving surface ship support.
Flagship Training Ltd Flagship, our 50:50 joint venture with BAE Systems, has a long-term partnering arrangement with the Royal Navy which dates back to 1996.
We deliver a wide range of training and support services across the naval training establishments, including training delivery, planning and support, facilities management, and prime contracting services.
Although Flagships principal customer is the Royal Navy, other customers include Network Rail and British Energy, with whom we have recently signed a contract.
We also deliver VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33 Over the next year VT Nuclear Services will Outlook focus on developing long-term relationships During 2009, VTSS will focus on the successful with key partners and customers: securing a implementation of recently-secured projects sustainable, long-term order book through work including FSTA, SKIOS and TMASS.
with new build customers: and growing our defence and resilience business.
We continue We anticipate that the multi-billion pound to look for further opportunities within the waste contract for UK Military Flying Training System to recycling market where our complex project UKMFTS will be signed in the near future, management skills will benefi t the customer.
following which our joint venture with Lockheed Martin will begin work on the design and Governance and risk implementation of a new fl ying training system management for the Army, Navy and Air Force.
Consistent with Group practice, we adopt a We also anticipate further progress across rigorous approach to project and business unit the business in relation to many signifi cant governance.
This approach is underpinned bid opportunities.
These include Whole by a regular detailed review of commercial, Fleet Management, which would ensure the operational and environmental risk leading availability of vehicles of all types for the MoD: to mitigation strategies for all contracts, Search and Rescue Helicopter : and New thus ensuring protection of the interests of Dimensions, providing support vehicles for shareholders, customers and staff.
