The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 The Weir Group Worldwide At Weir, we have a strong reputation for design and manufacture of specialist equipment and the delivery of through-life engineering solutions.
Our best manufacturing facilities deliver industry leading performance and each of our businesses has well defined plans to maximise operational performance.
We employ over 9,000 people worldwide, focused on our key markets of minerals, oil and gas and power generation.
In all these areas, our objective is to provide solutions that meet the engineering and operational challenges facing our customers.
Each of our businesses is focused on higher growth, longer cycle markets and is committed to enhance operational performance and invest in new and exciting prospects as a strong platform for our future growth.
4 Map is illustrative of Weirs geographic footprint and is not definitive of all our locations.
Our Geographic Footprint Weir Minerals Division is the industry leader in the design, supply and support of aggressive high wear products for the global mining, flue gas desulphurisation and oil sands industries.
Products include pumps, hydrocyclones, valves, fide-watering products and wear resistant linings.
With an extensive geographic footprint, the division enjoys a significant reputation for world class operations in the most important mining markets.
of businesses 19 2008 order input 805m Market size 3.4bn Weir Oil & Gas Division designs and manufactures pumps and ancillary equipment for the global oil and gas markets.
The division comprises three operating activities - upstream, downstream and the services operations.
Its principal operations are located in North America, Europe and the Middle East with recent acquisitions and expansion extending our position in Baku in the Caspian region and Colorado, Arizona and Texas in the United States.
of businesses 8 2008 order input 289m Market size 2.9bn Weir Power & Industrial Division designs, manufactures and provides aftermarket support for rotating and flow control equipment to the global power generation and industrial sectors.
The division includes the Groups valve operations, a specialist pump business and substantial service and aftermarket operations with locations in Europe, Middle East, North America, China, India and South Africa.
of businesses 9 2008 order input 271m Market size 5.9bn 5
