Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their 115th annual report, Research & development together with the audited financial statements, for the 52 weeks During the year, the Group spent 9.8m on research and ended 26 December 2008. development.
The expenditure reflects the Groups continued commitment to investment in research and development, Cautionary statement applied to both the development of new leading edge materials This annual report and financial statements have been prepared technologies and existing product innovation.
The Group's for the shareholders of the Company, as a body and no other worldwide pump technology centres focus on developing persons.
The various reports contain forward looking statements engineering process improvements through the use of a variety that are subject to risk factors because of the nature of the sector of analytical tools to design products with optimal wear life and markets in which the Group operates and reflect the and improved safety and efficiency.
This maintains the Group's knowledge and information available at the date of the competitive advantage in the market and controls costs whilst preparation of these financial statements.
Statements made in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Other reports Review, Operational Reviews and Financial Review in respect of The annual report includes a separate Corporate Governance divisional performance are made on a continuing business basis Statement, which is on pages 28 to 30, Audit Committee Report and operating profits are stated before intangibles amortisation.
on page 31, Nomination Committee Report on page 32 and Operating profit before intangibles amortisation, which is a Remuneration Committee Report on pages 33 to 39, which non-IFRS measure, is the primary performance measure used are incorporated into this report by reference.
by management as it is felt that the exclusion of these items provides more relevant information to users of the financial Takeovers Directive statements and a more useful indication of the underlying The information required for shareholders as a result of the performance of each of the divisions.
implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK law is set out in Shareholder Information on pages 113 to 115, which It is also Group practice to discuss divisional performance in terms is incorporated into this report by reference and in this report of constant exchange rate growth by re-translating the prior years under substantial shareholders.
results of overseas subsidiaries at 2008 average exchange rates.
This removes the effect of currency movements and provides Directors focus on the increases or decreases which are driven by volume, Details of the current directors of the Company are set out on price and cost levels relative to the prior year.
Therefore, in the pages 20 and 21.
John Mogford was appointed to the Board Chief Executives Review, Operational Reviews and Financial Review, on 1 June 2008.
Christopher Clarke retired as a director on growth rates and other comparative data in respect of divisional 31 December 2008.
Subsequently, Richard Menell was appointed input, revenue and operating profits before intangibles a director on 1 April 2009.
The directors who retire this year by amortisation are given on a constant exchange rate basis.
rotation are Michael Dearden and Lord Robertson.
In addition, Underlying growth on this basis is a non-IFRS measure because, as he has been a non-executive director for more than nine years, unlike actual growth, it cannot be directly derived from the Professor Ian Percy is subject to annual re-election.
In accordance information in the financial statements.
with article 97 of the articles of association of the Company, John Mogford and Richard Menell retire at the forthcoming Results annual general meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves The Group profit attributable to members for the 52 weeks, for election.
Michael Dearden, Lord Robertson and Professor Percy after taxation, amounted to 170.8m.
also offer themselves for re-election.
Dividends Directors indemnities The directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 13.85p per The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors share to be paid on 1 June 2009 to ordinary shareholders whose in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the names are on the Companys register of members at close of execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors to business on 1 May 2009.
Together with the interim ordinary the extent permitted by the Companies Acts and the Company's dividend of 4.65p per share paid on 7 November 2008, this articles of association.
In addition, directors and officers of the makes the total dividend for the year 18.5p.
Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes are covered by directors & officers liability insurance.
Principal activities & business review The Group's principal activity is the provision of specialised Share capital mechanical engineering solutions for a diversified range of During the year, options were exercised by participants in the industrial and geographic markets.
A review of the Groups Companys share option schemes as a consequence of which operations and likely future developments, together with key 178,053 ordinary shares of 12.5p each were allotted and issued.
performance indicators can be found in the Chairmans Statement The savings related share option scheme was closed to new entrants on pages 2 to 3, Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 8, in 2004 and the last date for exercising options under the scheme Operational Reviews on pages 9 to 15, Financial Review was 1 January 2009.
In addition, under the Group Long Term on pages 16 to 19 and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Incentive Plan LTIP the awards granted in 2005 vested during on pages 40 to 44, which are incorporated into this report the year.
In order to satisfy the awards, 274,861 ordinary shares by reference, as well as within this report.
of 12.5p each were allotted and issued and 427,393 ordinary shares of 12.5p each were transferred from treasury to satisfy the awards.
There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual Details of the options and awards outstanding under each of the or other arrangements which are essential to the business of Companys share schemes at the end of the year are set out in the Company.
note 28 to the Group financial statements.
22 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 The trustees of the Weir Group Employee Trust the Trust have Directors statement of responsibilities agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report by the Trust.
Details of the shares held by the Trust are set out in and the financial statements in accordance with applicable note 25 to the Group financial statements.
At the 2008 annual general meeting, shareholders renewed the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 20.9m statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with excluding treasury shares.
No shares were purchased under this International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted authority during the 52 weeks to 26 December 2008 and, at the by the European Union and the Company financial statements forthcoming annual general meeting, the Board will again seek in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
shareholder approval to renew the annual authority for the In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Company to make market purchases.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held on 13 May 2009. make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: A separate letter is being sent to all shareholders containing state that the Group financial statements have complied with the Notice of Meeting and the resolutions to be proposed.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material Substantial shareholders departures being disclosed and explained: and At 10 March 2009, the following have disclosed an interest in the state for the Company financial statements whether the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject the requirements of section 5.1.
2 of the UK Listing Authoritys to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The directors confirm that they have complied with the above Date of Percentage Number disclosure to of issued requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Shareholder of shares Company share capital Each of the directors, whose names are listed in the Board of Prudential plc 21,967,255 05 12 08 10.45% Directors on pages 20 and 21, confirms to the best of his Baillie Gifford & Co 12,173,278 18 12 07 5.82% knowledge that: AXA 10,812,658 13 10 08 5.14% Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 10,802,934 17 02 09 5.14% the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, Legal & General Investment Management 8,264,230 29 01 09 3.93% liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and Barclays Global Investors 8,014,955 25 03 08 3.83% FMR Corp 6,425,000 23 03 07 3.09% the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of together with a description of the principal risks and any shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may increase financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power to purchase the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act its own shares or decrease on the issue of new shares under the 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Companys LTIP.
for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking Going concern reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation other irregularities.
that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Audit & auditors existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial information as defined by section 234ZA of the Companies Act statements.
In forming this view, the directors have reviewed the 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Groups budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the directors have considered Each of the directors has taken all of the steps that he ought to the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed below.
have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant Each of these items has been considered in relation to the Groups audit information as defined and to establish that the banking facilities described on page 18 of the Financial Review.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Charitable contributions A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys During the year, Group companies made the following contributions: auditors will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
charitable being specifically health, heritage, educational and community purposes 233,826 2007: 252,227.
The Group made no political contributions during the period.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 23 Directors Report Continued Principal risks & uncertainties In 2004, an announcement was made to the London Stock Risk is inherent in the Group's business activities and as a Exchange in connection with the Groups involvement in the UN consequence of operating a sound risk management process the sanctioned Oil for Food programme.
The Group continues to Group has identified the following principal risks and uncertainties cooperate fully with ongoing investigations by UK authorities which it believes could have a materially adverse effect on its in this connection.
business, revenues, profit, assets, liquidity, resources and reputation.
Litigation The nature of risk is such that no list can be comprehensive and Manufacturing companies are, from time to time, exposed to class it is possible that other risks may arise, or that risks not currently actions or other litigation relating to asbestosis or other health considered material may become so in the future.
Any forwardproblems associated from working in industries that used asbestos looking statements in the annual report or otherwise made by in the twentieth century.
The Group has insurance cover for such the Group should be considered in light of these risk factors.
claims but on occasions this will not meet all claims.
The number The Group operates controls as described in the Corporate and size of the claims is dependent on the number of companies Governance statement to mitigate against these risks.
which still exist and can be included in these class actions.
Both of Strategic risks these can change over time and as a result the Groups exposure Economic, political and natural catastrophe risks can increase.
The Group has internal policies and procedures for The Group operates in around 40 countries around the world monitoring these risks, managing and mitigating against these including a number in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and South liabilities and to ensure that there is regular reporting to the America.
While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in Board on changes to this environment.
these regions, the Group is exposed to the economic, political and Industry competition business risks associated with such international operations.
These The markets for many of the Groups products are fragmented can include sudden changes in regulation, expropriation of assets, and highly competitive.
The Group competes against large and imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits on the export well established global companies, as well as local companies of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and currencies.
The Groups and low cost replicators of spare parts, on the basis of price, diversified geographic footprint mitigates against any exposure technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, previous installation within any one country in which it operates.
Management monitor history and reputation for quality and reliability.
To remain such risks, and amend business procedures accordingly, while competitive, the Group invests continuously in its manufacturing, remaining in compliance with local and Group requirements.
marketing, customer service support and distribution networks.
The Groups operations are exposed to varying degrees of natural The diversity of operations reduces the possible effect of action catastrophe risk, such as earthquake and flood, as well as security by a single competitor and combined with the application of risk, in the various manufacturing locations in which it operates.
the Weir Production System ensures the Groups competitive Where cost effective, such risks are mitigated through physical advantage is sustained.
measures designed to counter the impact of a catastrophe.
Where Financial risks possible the value of assets and associated profits are also protected Foreign exchange risk by insurance.
The Group operates globally with the majority of its profit being Market cycles earned outside the UK.
As a result, the Group is exposed to two Around 90% of the Groups new business comes from the mining, types of currency risk: transactional and translational.
oil and gas, power generation and industrial markets.
Any contraction Transactional currency exposure arises when operating subsidiaries in capital expenditure and production activity could lead to a enter into transactions denominated in a currency other than reduction in demand for the Group's products.
The Group's their functional currency.
In line with the Groups policies and diversified product portfolio and end markets together with a procedures, foreign exchange exposures are identified by the broad geographic spread, reduce its reliance on any individual subsidiaries that are party to the transactions and then managed market sector or geographical area.
centrally by the Groups Treasury function.
The exposures are Legislative & regulatory risks hedged, usually by means of forward foreign exchange transactions.
The Group has contracts and operations in many parts of the Translational currency exposure can impact reported earnings world and operates in a highly regulated environment.
Nonthrough the translation of the profits of overseas subsidiaries compliance with these laws, regulations and restrictions could into sterling for consolidated reporting purposes and can impact expose the Group to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, net assets through the translation of the Group's net investments which could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
The Group reduces its net assets translational include, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export currency exposures by means of foreign currency borrowings and controls, money laundering, false accounting, anti-bribery and derivative financial instruments.
The Group does not hedge the anti-boycott provisions.
Failure by the Group, or agents acting on translational exposure arising from profit and loss items.
its behalf, to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities resulting in significant fines and penalties and or debarment of the Group from government contracts for a period of time.
The Group monitors regulatory developments and has a strong compliance regime.
24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Liquidity risk Delivery performance Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet The Groups ability to meet customer delivery schedules is dependent its liabilities as they fall due.
This is managed by monitoring on a number of factors including sufficient manufacturing capacity, forecast and actual cash flows and ensuring sufficient cash and access to raw materials, inventory control, sufficient trained and committed borrowing facilities are in place at all times and, also, equipped employees, engineering expertise and the appropriate that additional headroom is available to meet possible downside planning and scheduling of the manufacturing process.
Details of the Groups cash and committed borrowing the contracts it enters into require long lead times and therefore facilities can be found in notes 19, 20 and 30 to the Group financial contain clauses in relation to on-time delivery.
Failure to deliver in statements respectively.
accordance with customer expectation could subject the Group to financial penalties, may result in damage to customer relationships Credit risk and could impact on the Groups financial performance.
The Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty continuous improvements achieved through the implementation fails to meet an obligation under a contract.
In relation to the risk of the Weir Production System ensure that all operations are that customers fail to settle outstanding debts, this is mitigated by striving for world-class performance.
the large number of customers and countries over which this risk is spread.
In addition, credit quality of the Group's customers is Product liability claims monitored through an assessment of financial position, previous The Group faces an inherent business risk of exposure to product payment history and with reference to external credit rating liability and warranty claims in the event that failure of a product agencies.
Credit risk to financial institutions arising through results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury or property deposits and derivative transactions is limited by restricting the damage.
This risk is mitigated through quality control reviews range of counterparties to those with high credit ratings.
Further as part of the Weir Production System and rigorous testing of information regarding the Group's credit risk can be found in new product designs.
In addition, the Group maintains insurance notes 17 and 30 to the Group financial statements.
coverage for product liability claims where possible.
For warranty claims not covered by insurance, warranty costs may be incurred Tax which the Group may not be able to recover.
The effective rate of tax paid by the Group may be influenced by a number of factors including changes in law and accounting Intellectual property standards and the Groups overall approach to such matters, the The Group operates in a competitive market and constantly results of which could increase or decrease that rate.
The Group has to take steps to prevent misappropriation of its intellectual seeks to manage its financial structure efficiently to minimise the property rights.
The Group relies on a combination of patent overall tax burden on the business where practicable.
The continued rights, licensing arrangements and contractual arrangements to ability of the Group to manage its businesses in this way cannot be establish and protect those rights, as well as bringing actions guaranteed and so could affect the Groups financial performance.
against infringing third parties, where necessary.
Pensions Employee issues Estimates of the amount and timing of the future funding Group performance depends on the skills and efforts of its obligations of the Groups pension plans are based on various employees across all of its businesses.
In striving to be an assumptions including, among other things, the actual and employer of choice, the Group recognises that failing to attract projected market performance of the pension plan assets, future new talent and retain existing expertise, knowledge and skills in long-term corporate bond yields, increased longevity of members operations, products and infrastructure areas such as information and statutory requirements.
The Group continually reviews technology could have a negative impact on its business.
In these risks and takes action to mitigate where possible.
In 2008, addition, the success of Group acquisitions will depend on the the trustees purchased a further insurance policy from Legal & Groups ability to retain management personnel of acquired General Assurance Society to secure a proportion of deferred companies.
The Groups employee development programmes members liabilities of the main UK plan and also commenced are explained in more detail on page 41. the winding up of its Canadian plan.
However, while the Group Health & safety is consulted by the trustees on the investment strategies of its The Group operates in a number of demanding environments.
pension plans, the Group has no direct control over these Safe working practices are extremely important to protect matters as the trustees are directly responsible for the strategy.
everyone at the Group's locations.
The Group has developed Operational risks quality and safety processes within each of its businesses which Acquisitions are regularly audited by professional bodies and customers.
The Group operates long established working practices and controls to The Group has made a number of acquisitions in recent years as part of its growth strategy and may make acquisitions in the future.
While minimise damage and injury.
If the Group cannot maintain a safe place for all its employees to work this could result in a number the Group identifies expected synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities prior to completing any acquisition, these benefits of negative outcomes to the Group including: may not always be achieved or within the anticipated timescale.
fines and penalties: To mitigate against this, the Group implements a vigorous due loss of key customers: diligence process and ensures clear financial targets are in place exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for together with ensuring any acquisition is put through a formal future development of the business: and approval process.
The Group implements an internal 100 day plan damage to reputation.
to ensure that the integration process runs as smoothly as possible.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 25 Directors Report Continued 2 Group performance Earnings per share - continuing operations The Groups strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number of 59.3 key performance measures.
The following measures are the ones 60 that the Board feel communicate the performance and strength 50 of the Group as a whole.
However, management use further 41.4 performance measures to run and assess the performance of 40 their divisions and the individual companies within each division.
32.4 Up 43% 1, 2 30 Input - continuing operations in 2008 20 1,439.1 1500 10 1,183.6 1,151.4 1200 0 2006 2007 2008 900 Underlying earnings per share is represented by profit for the Up 22% in 2008 period from continuing operations before intangibles amortisation 600 and exceptional items divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
300 The Group seeks to deliver long-term shareholder value as evidenced in part through the growth in basic earnings per share.
Growth in 0 2006 2007 2008 basic earnings per share is a key measure in determining the vesting Order input is a key measure used to evaluate market trends, establish of shares under the Group's incentive plans.
forward sales and enable the efficient management of production 2 Dividend & dividend cover - continuing operations schedules.
Order input is defined as the expected revenues to be generated from contractually committed orders received.
The Group's ability to sustain One of the Groups key objectives is to continue to improve such payments is measured against the dividend cover ratio with business operating margins.
Operating margins are defined the current policy being to sustain dividend cover of at least as operating profits expressed as a percentage of revenues.
Dividend cover is defined as basic earnings per share These are calculated before taking account of any intangibles from continuing operations before intangibles amortisation and amortisation and exceptional items to focus on underlying exceptional items divided by the annual dividend per share.
1 Calculated at 2008 average exchange rates.
2 The figures for 2006 and 2007 are based on the published results and are therefore in respect of continuing operations at that time and do not exclude intangibles amortisation for 2006.
26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Margin % Input m Dividend pence Earnings per share pence Dividend cover times Weir Production System implementation The Group Lean Score is interpreted as follows: The Groups goal is consistently to meet customer demand on 0 60 means the site needs significant improvement, time with the least cost method, through implementation of the action is required: Weir Production System, adapted from the Toyota Production 61-99 means relatively good practice, but regular follow up System.
By eliminating waste, quality is improved and production and further improvements are required: lead time and costs are reduced.
The key objective is to embed 100-150 is world-class practice where process has taken root the appropriate practices across all business processes to produce and needs to be maintained and further improved.
just what is needed, when it is needed, in the most efficient way.
The scores awarded to individual businesses are analysed to The Group has adopted the Lean Management philosophy identify improvement actions and set future targets, aligned focusing on reduction of the Seven Wastes to improve overall with the overall business objectives.
These are: As part of the improvement to the Weir Production System overproduction introduced in May 2008, an additional five factors have been rework added to the audit process which will result in a new scoring inventory system being introduced.
The new factors are: waiting time on time delivery over-processing inventory turns motion lost time accidents transportation.
direct labour utilisation Due to the importance of ownership in the process, the policy deployment.
measurement of performance is by an evaluation across all We will begin reporting against these new measures in the Group companies comparing their current plant practice 2009 annual report.
against world-class practice and performance.
The evaluation involves an audit of each manufacturing and service site which results in the site being awarded a Lean Score.
Audits are performed annually by internal peer groups.
The Lean Score for each site is then totalled and expressed as a Group On behalf of the Board Lean Score.
Glasgow Alan Mitchelson The Lean Scores for 2008 are shown as follows: 10 March 2009 Director & Secretary 150 129 123 120 110 90 Up 5% in 2008 60 30 0 2006 2007 2008 The prior year comparatives have been restated to take account of disposals.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2008 27 Group Lean Score
