dirECTOrS rEPOrT The directors of WH Smith PLC the Company present This final dividend, together with the special dividend their Annual Report to shareholders together with the of 33p per ordinary share paid on 29 February 2008 audited consolidated accounts of the Company and its and the interim dividend of 4.6p per ordinary share paid subsidiaries for the year ended 31 August 2008.
The on 13 June 2008, makes a total dividend of 47.3p per purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2008. to members of the Company.
The Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements with respect to the SHarE CaPiTaL operations, performance and financial condition of the The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty together with details of shares issued during the year, since future events and circumstances can cause results to are shown in Note 31 to the Accounts.
Nothing in this Annual Report At the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company should be construed as a profit forecast.
held on 20 February 2008 the EGM, shareholders approved the special dividend of 33p per ordinary share bUSiNESS rEViEW and a 67 for 74 share consolidation of the ordinary The Companies Act 1985 requires the Company to set shares of the Company.
As a result of the share out in this report a fair review of the business of the consolidation the nominal value of the Companys Group during the financial year ended 31 August 2008, ordinary shares increased from 20p per ordinary share including an analysis of the position of the Group at 6 to 22 67p per ordinary share.
The Companys new the end of the financial year, and a description of the 6 ordinary shares of 22 67p were admitted to the Official principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the The information that fulfils the Business Review London Stock Exchange on 22 February 2008.
Following requirements can be found in the following sections the share consolidation, the Companys authorised share of the Annual Report which are incorporated into this capital comprises of 271,621,621 ordinary shares of 6 report by reference: 22 67p each and one redeemable preference share of 50,000.
The issued share capital of the Company as Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 at 31 August 2008 was 156,851,234.
The ordinary shares Chief Executives business review on pages 4 to 13 are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be Financial review on pages 14 to 19 held in certificated or uncertificated form.
Environmental, Social and Community matters on pages 20 to 23 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary and deferred shares, in addition to those Pages 25 to 29 inclusive together with the sections conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the of the Annual Report incorporated by reference consist Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can of a directors report that has been drawn up and be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary or from presented in accordance with and reliance upon Companies House.
The holders of ordinary shares are applicable English law and the liabilities of the directors entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, in connection with that report shall be subject to the to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights subject to the restrictions set out below, to receive a dividend PriNCiPaL aCTiViTy subject to the deduction of any sums due from the The principal activity of the Company is retailing and holder of ordinary shares to the Company on account associated activities in the UK.
The Company is one of calls or otherwise.
Changes to the Companys of the UKs leading retailers of Books, Stationery, Articles of Association must be approved by special Newspapers, Magazines and Entertainment products.
COmPaNy rESULTS The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without The profit for the financial year, before taxation and giving any reason for it, refuse to register any transfer exceptional items, was 76m 2007: 66m and sales of any certificated share which is not fully paid up but not increased by 53m to 1,352m, representing an increase so as to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place of four per cent.
and on which the Company has a lien as a result of such share not being fully paid up.
The Board may also refuse diVidENdS to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend share unless it is lodged at the registered office, or other for the year of 9.7p per ordinary share on 5 February 2009 such place as the Board, may decide, for registration, to members on the Register at the close of business on accompanied by a certificate for the shares to be 9 January 2009. transferred and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC dirECTOrS rEPOrT Subject to disenfranchisement in the event of A nonSigNifiCaNT agrEEmENTS CHaNgE Of CONTrOL payment of any call or other sum due and payable in A change of control of the Company following a takeover respect of any share or B non-compliance with any bid may cause a number of agreements to which the statutory notice requiring the disclosure of certain Company or its trading subsidiaries, WH Smith High information in relation to the ownership of shares, and Street Limited and WH Smith Travel Limited, is party, subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting such as commercial trading contracts, banking from time to time attached to any shares, at general arrangements, property lease and licence agreements meetings of the Company on a show of hands every to take effect, alter or terminate.
In addition, the member has one vote, and on a poll, every member directors service agreements and employee share has one vote for each share of which he is a holder.
plans would be similarly affected on a change of control, including in the case of the directors, compensation for The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust loss of office.
In the context of the Company as a whole, holds ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the these agreements are not considered to be significant.
beneficiaries of the Trust, who are the employees and former employees of the Group.
If any offer is made to Details of the change of control clause contained in the the holders of ordinary shares to acquire their shares, service contracts of the executive directors can be found the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the in the Remuneration Report on page 37. offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to NEW arTiCLES Of aSSOCiaTiON the interests of the optionholders and can consult them The Company adopted revised new Articles of Association to obtain their views on the offer, and subject to the which were approved by shareholders at the Companys foregoing, the Trustee will take the action with respect AGM with effect from October 2008.
The new Articles to the offer it thinks fair.
of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director has PUrCHaSE Of OWN SHarES an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with At the EGM, authority was also given for the Company the interests of the Company situational conflicts.
to purchase, in the market, up to 23,189,101 ordinary The Board has a formal system in place for directors 6 shares of 22 67p each.
The Company used this authority to declare situational conflicts and for these to be to purchase and subsequently cancel 8,852,203 of its considered for authorisation by those directors who have own shares during the financial year representing no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding 5.64 per cent of the called-up share capital, at an average whether to authorise a situational conflict, these nonprice of 376p.
The aggregate amount of consideration conflicted directors are required to act in the way they paid by the Company for the purchases was 33m.
would consider would be most likely to promote the This authority is renewable annually and approval will success of the Company, and they may impose limits be sought from shareholders at the Annual General or conditions when giving authorisation or subsequently Meeting in 2009 to renew the authority for a further year.
if they think this is appropriate.
iSSUE Of NEW OrdiNary SHarES COmPaNyS SHarEHOLdErS During the financial year ending 31 August 2008, 2,404 The Company has been notified that as at the date of this ordinary shares of the Company were issued under the report, the following shareholders own more than three Sharesave Scheme at a price of 295.20p.
The Articles of per cent of the issued share capital of the Company: Association of the Company provide that the Board may, subject to the prior approval of the members of the Nature Company be granted authority to exercise all the powers Holder Number % of Holding of the Company to allot relevant securities, including Standard Life Direct new ordinary shares.
Investments Limited 14,132,643 9.01 Indirect JPMorgan Chase & Co. 8,126,504 5.18 Indirect TraNSaCTiONS On 18 March 2008, the Company purchased UNS Group Sanderson Asset Limited comprising 72 retail units and eight Caffe Nuovo Management Limited 7,769,409 4.95 Direct coffee shops in 62 hospitals for 19m in cash.
The Artemis Investment Company also purchased on 16 April 2008 the World Management Limited 7,774,084 4.76 Direct News Business from Alpha Retail UK Limited Legal & General Group PLC 7,280,060 4.00 Direct comprising 23 retail units in 11 airports.
Barclays Global Investors 4,809,497 3.05 Indirect Further details of these acquisitions can be found in Note 18 to the Accounts.
Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any ordinary shareholders with interests of three per cent or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 bOard Of dirECTOrS date he was first appointed to the Board at the Annual The names of the directors as at the date of this report, General Meeting on 26 January 2009.
John Barton has together with biographical details, are set out on page 24. extensive financial and retail experience which the Board All the directors served throughout the period except continues to benefit from in managing the Company.
as set out below: Alan Stewart has decided to leave the Company and MT Rainey, who served as a director from March 2002, will be replaced by Robert Moorhead, the Retail Finance retired on 31 January 2008 after having served two Director.
Alan Stewart will resign from the Board on three-year terms on the Board.
28 November 2008 and be replaced by Robert Moorhead with effect from 1 December 2008.
Robert Moorhead will Drummond Hall, was appointed as a director on pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association retire 1 September 2008. and, being eligible, offer himself for election at the The Companys Articles of Association give a power Annual General Meeting.
to the Board to appoint directors and, where notice The interests of the directors and their immediate families is given signed by all the other directors, remove a in the share capital of the Company, along with details director from office.
The Companys Articles of of directors share options and awards, are contained Association themselves may be amended by special in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 41. resolution of the shareholders.
At no time during the year did any of the directors have The Companys Articles of Association require that a material interest in any significant contract with the directors offer themselves for re-election every three Company or any of its subsidiaries.
years and that new directors appointed by the Board offer themselves for election at the next Annual General The Company maintains directors and officers liability Meeting following their appointment.
insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Company has Robert Walker and Luke Mayhew retire from the Board also provided an indemnity for its directors, which is and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the The Chairman conducted a thorough review with Luke purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Mayhew to assess his contribution to the Board and confirmed that he continues to be an effective nondirECTOrS rESPONSibiLiTiES executive director.
John Barton conducted a thorough The directors are responsible for the management of review with Robert Walker to assess his contribution the business of the Company and may exercise all the to the Board and confirmed that he continues to be an powers of the Company subject to applicable legislation effective Chairman.
and regulation, the Companys Memorandum and Drummond Hall was appointed to the Board as a nonArticles of Association.
executive director in September 2008 and pursuant to Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Companys Articles of Association retires and, being statements for each financial year.
The directors are eligible, offers himself for election at the Annual General required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group Meeting.
Drummond Hall has been appointed for a fixed financial statements under International Financial term and does not have a contract of service.
The Board Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European believes that Drummond Hall should be elected because Union.
The Group financial statements are also required he has extensive consumer marketing and corporate by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the strategy experience.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In accordance with good corporate governance, John International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS Barton who was appointed to the Board as a non-executive financial statements present fairly for each financial year director in November 1999 and has served on the Board the Companys financial position, financial performance for nine years will retire and, being eligible, offers and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation himself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions John Barton has been appointed for a fixed term until in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2010 and does for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the not have a contract of service.
The Chairman conducted International Accounting Standards Boards Framework a thorough review with John Barton to assess his for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
independence and contribution to the Board and confirmed In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will that he continues to be an effective independent nonbe achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
executive director and continues to add value.
The Board However, directors are also required to: believes that John Barton is an effective independent non-executive director notwithstanding the fact that he will have served on the Board for nine years since the Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC dirECTOrS rEPOrT a properly select and apply accounting policies: b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and b present information, including accounting policies, performance of the business and the position in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, comparable and understandable information: and together with a description of the principal risks c provide additional disclosures when compliance with and uncertainties that they face.
the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular STaTEmENT aS TO diSCLOSUrE Of iNfOrmaTiON transactions, other events and conditions on the TO aUdiTOrS entitys financial position and financial performance.
Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information The directors have elected to prepare the parent company as defined by section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom of the directors has taken all steps he should have taken Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit company financial statements are required by law to give information and to establish that the Companys auditors a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
are aware of that information.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: EmPLOyEES a select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Group employs approximately 18,000 people them consistently: throughout the United Kingdom and it is proud of its long history of being regarded as a responsible and b make judgements and estimates that are reasonable respected employer.
Employees are kept well informed and prudent: of the performance and objectives of the Group through c state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards personal briefings and email and the Companys open have been followed, subject to any material management style encourages employees to contribute departures disclosed and explained in the financial to the development of the business.
statements: and The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs d prepare the financial statements on the going Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume Sharesave Scheme which provides employees with that the company will continue in business.
the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper The Board believes in creating throughout the Company accounting records that disclose with reasonable a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment accuracy at any time the financial position of the and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
Company and enable them to ensure that the parent The Company gives full and fair consideration to company financial statements comply with the applications for employment when these are received Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for from disabled people and employs disabled people safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should an employee for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and become disabled when working for the Company, efforts detection of fraud and other irregularities, as described are made to continue their employment and retraining more fully in the Corporate Governance Report is provided, if necessary.
CHariTabLE aNd POLiTiCaL dONaTiONS The directors confirm that the above requirements The Companys support for charitable causes is mainly have been complied with in the financial statements.
channelled through the work of the Companys Charitable Trust.
Charitable donations during the year ended dirECTOrS rESPONSibiLiTy STaTEmENT PUrSUaNT 31 August 2008 totalled 58,528 2007: 76,528.
In TO dTr addition, the Company facilitated the sale of charitable The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: products which gave rise to further donations of 340,751 a the Group and Company financial statements in this 2007: 274,807 and also made donations in kind with an report, which have been prepared in accordance with estimated value of 115,200 2007: 126,455.
Employees IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretations are encouraged to give their time and skills for the benefit and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable of a variety of charitable causes.
to companies reporting under IFRSs, give a true and It is the Companys policy not to make political donations fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and no political donations or EU political expenditure and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and were made in the year 2007: nil.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8 PaymENT POLiCy fOr SUPPLiErS The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, is to agree the terms of payment in advance in line with normal trade practice and, provided a supplier performs in accordance with the agreement, to abide by such terms.
Copies of the CBI code may be obtained from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
The Companys trade creditors figure as at the balance sheet date was equivalent to 45 days 2007: 45 days based on average daily amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year.
gOiNg CONCErN The directors consider that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
aUdiTOrS Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company and a resolution to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
aNNUaL gENEraL mEETiNg The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at JPMorgan Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA on 26 January 2009 at 11.30am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
This report was approved by the Board on 9 October 2008. by Order of the board ian Houghton Company Secretary 9 October 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WH Smith PLC
