Index Directors Report and Accounts 2007 8 1 Directors report The directors present their report Post balance sheet events Share capital and accounts for the year ended On 8 April 2008 the Group announced the Throughout the year, the authorised 28 February 2008. acquisition of three hotels from Real Hotel share capital has been 319.89 million Company PLC for 18.5 million.
divided into 410,170,050 ordinary shares 122 Principal activities and review of 76 p each representing 98.47% 153 of the business The Groups 280 million revolving credit of the total share capital, 265 million B A detailed review of the Groups facility expired on 8 March 2008 and was non-cumulative preference shares of activities, the development of its fully utilised at 28 February 2008.
Upon 1 penny each representing 0.83% of the businesses, and an indication of likely expiry of this facility, the Group entered total share capital and 224 million C future developments is given on into a new five-year multi-currency non-cumulative preference shares of pages 5 to 17 of the Annual Review.
revolving credit facility of 455 million, 1 penny each representing 0.70% of the which will expire in March 2013.
A description of the principal risks and variable interest rates charged on this uncertainties facing the Group is set out facility are linked to LIBOR.
Details of the issued share capital can in the Appendix to this report on pages be found in note 30 to the accounts.
As a result of The Laurel Pub Company Limited going into administration on Holders of ordinary shares are entitled Results and dividends 27 March 2008, a provision of 20.9 million to attend and speak at general meetings has been charged to income to recognise of the Company, to appoint one or more Group profit before 210.3m the expected cost of lease reversions proxies and, if they are corporations, tax and exceptional relating to properties that are expected to corporate representatives to attend items from Continuing 1 revert to the Group.
general meetings and to exercise voting operations rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may Group profit before tax 134.6m Board of directors receive a dividend and on a liquidation and after exceptional The directors at the date of this report are may share in the assets of the Company.
items from Continuing 1 listed on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual Holders of ordinary shares are entitled operations Review.
All except for Simon Melliss, to receive the Companys annual report Interim dividend paid 9.10p per share Wendy Becker and Stephen Williams and accounts.
Subject to meeting certain on 8 January 2008 served throughout the year.
Simon Melliss thresholds, holders of ordinary shares joined the Board on 1 April 2007 and took may requisition a general meeting of the Recommended 26.90p per share final dividend over as Chairman of the Audit Committee Company or the proposal of resolutions on 1 May 2007.
Wendy Becker joined the at annual general meetings.
Total dividend 36.00p per share Board on 18 January 2008 and Stephen for the year Williams was appointed on 27 April 2008.
Voting rights On a show of hands at a general Subject to approval at the Annual Angie Risley resigned from the Board meeting of the Company every holder of General Meeting, the final dividend on 22 May 2007.
Margaret Ewing left ordinary shares present in person or by will be payable on 11 July 2008 to the Board on 31 July 2007 and Rod Kent proxy and entitled to vote has one vote shareholders on the register at the stepped down on 31 March 2008. and on a poll every member present in close of business on 9 May 2008. person or by proxy and entitled to vote Charles Gurassa and Philip Clarke will has one vote for every ordinary share stand for re-election at the forthcoming held.
Voting rights for any ordinary AGM in accordance with the Companys shares held in treasury are suspended.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of 1 Continuing operations Details of directors service contracts the Company.
Electronic and paper proxy Continuing operations comprises Premier Inn, are given in the remuneration report appointments and voting instructions the retained Pub Restaurant Estate, Costa, the on page 13.
None of the non-executive must be received by the Companys disposed of pub restaurant sites during the period directors has a service contract.
Registrars not later than i 48 hours of Whitbread ownership and supply chain sales to third parties but excludes David Lloyd Leisure, the Pizza Hut joint venture and TGI Fridays.
co. uk annualreport0708 Index Directors' report 2 before a meeting or adjourned meeting, B shares and C shares Any director automatically stops being or ii 24 hours before a poll is taken, if Holders of B shares and C shares are a director if i he gives the Company a the poll is not taken on the same day as entitled to receive an annual nonwritten notice of resignation, ii he gives the meeting or adjourned meeting.
cumulative preferential dividend the Company a written notice in which Unless the directors decide otherwise, a calculated at a rate of 75% of 6 month he offers to resign and the directors shareholder cannot attend or vote shares LIBOR on a value of 155 pence per decide to accept this offer, iii all of the at any general meeting of the Company B share and 159 pence per C share other directors who must comprise at or at any separate general meeting of respectively, but are not entitled to least three people pass a resolution the holders of any class of shares in the any further right of participation in or sign a written notice requiring the Company or upon a poll or exercise any the profits of the Company.
They are director to resign, iv he is or has been other right conferred by membership in also entitled to payment of 155 pence suffering from mental ill health and the relation to general meetings or polls if per B share and 159 pence per C share directors pass a resolution removing he has not paid all amounts relating to respectively on a return of capital on the director from office, v he has those shares which are due at the time winding-up excluding any intra-group missed directors meetings whether of the meeting.
or not an alternate director appointed by him attends those meetings for Restrictions on transfer of shares Except in limited circumstances, the a continuous period of six months There are the following restrictions on holders of the B shares and C shares are without permission from the directors the transfer of shares in the Company: not entitled, in their capacity as holders and the directors pass a resolution of such shares, to receive notice of any removing the director from office, vi certain restrictions which may from general meeting of the Company nor to a bankruptcy order is made against time to time be imposed by laws attend, speak or vote at any such general him or he makes any arrangement or and regulations for example, insider meeting.
composition with his creditors generally, trading laws : vii he is prohibited from being a director Employee share schemes under any applicable legislation, or viii pursuant to the Companys share Whitbread does not have any employee he ceases to be a director under any dealing code, the directors and senior share scheme with shares which have applicable legislation or he is removed executives of the Company require rights with regard to the control of from office under the Companys Articles approval to deal in the Companys the Company that are not exercisable of Association.
shares: directly by the employees.
Amendment of the Companys where a person with at least a 0.25% Appointment and replacement of directors Articles of Association interest in a class of shares has been Directors shall be no less than two and Any amendments to the Articles of served with a disclosure notice and has no more than 20 in number.
Directors Association of the Company may be failed to provide the Company with may be appointed by the Company by made in accordance with the provisions information concerning interests in ordinary resolution or by the Board of of the Companies Acts by way of special those shares: Directors.
A director appointed by the resolution.
A resolution will be put to Board of Directors holds office until the the Annual General Meeting to be held the subscriber ordinary shares may next following Annual General Meeting on 17 June 2008 to adopt new Articles not be transferred without the prior and is then eligible for election by the of Association.
Details of the specific written consent of the directors: shareholders.
changes being proposed are set out in the appendix to the notice of the 2008 the directors can, without giving any Each director shall retire from office AGM.
reason, refuse to register the transfer at the first Annual General Meeting of any shares which are not fully paid: following his appointment and shall Powers of the directors and be eligible for reappointment.
At every The business of the Company is annual general meeting at least one managed by the directors who may transfers cannot be in favour of more third of the current directors must exercise all the powers of the Company, than four joint holders.
Where the number subject to the Companys Memorandum of directors is not three or a number and Articles of Association, any relevant The Company is not aware of any divisible by three, the minimum number legislation and any directions given agreements between shareholders that of directors to retire will be the number by the Company by passing a special may result in restrictions on the transfer which is nearest to and less than resolution at a general meeting.
In of shares or on voting rights.
If there are less than three particular, the directors may exercise all directors, they will all retire.
the powers of the Company to borrow money, issue shares, appoint and remove The Company may by special resolution directors and recommend and declare remove any director before the expiration dividends.
Index Directors Report and Accounts 2007 8 3 Significant agreements Charitable and political donations representing 10.94% of total called up Both of the Companys facility No direct charitable donations have been share capital at the beginning of the year, agreements, details of which can be made by the Company.
The Whitbread were acquired during the year at a cost found in note 23 to the accounts, contain Charitable Trust made donations totalling of 340.3 million.
Five million of these provisions entitling the counterparties 223,274 during the year.
Costa Limited, shares representing 2.45% of total called to exercise termination or other rights a subsidiary of the Company, made a up share capital at the beginning of the in the event of a change of control of direct donation of 103,500 to the Costa year have now been cancelled, with the the Company.
Further details about the remainder representing 8.49% of total Costa Foundation can be found on page called up share capital at the beginning Compensation for loss of office 23 of the Annual Review.
of the year being held as treasury shares.
There are no agreements between the The maximum number of ordinary Company and its directors or employees The Company has not made any political shares held in treasury during the year providing for compensation for loss of donations during the year and intends to ended 28 February 2008 was 20,133,806 office or employment that occurs as a continue its policy of not doing so for the on 8 January 2008, representing 10.14% result of a takeover bid.
of total called up share capital at that time.
Supplier payment policy Employment policies The Company has no trade creditors Whitbread has a range of employment At the Extraordinary General Meeting of 1 March 2007: nil.
The Group keeps policies covering such issues as diversity, the Company held on 20 June 2006, the to the payment terms which have been employee well-being and equal Company was authorised to purchase agreed with suppliers.
its B shares pursuant to a proposed terms have not been specifically contract between Deutsche Bank AG, agreed, it is the Groups policy to settle The Company takes its responsibilities to London Branch and the Company.
In invoices close to the end of the month the disabled seriously and seeks not to total, 4.5 million B shares of 1 penny following the month of invoicing.
The discriminate against current or prospective each, representing 0.03% of total called Groups ability to keep to these terms employees because of any disability.
up share capital at the beginning of the is dependent upon suppliers sending Employees who become disabled during year, were acquired during the year at a accurate and adequately detailed their career at Whitbread will be retained cost of 7 million, as part of the strategy invoices to the correct address on a in employment wherever possible and to return value to shareholders.
The Group had 49 days given help with rehabilitation and training.
these shares have now been cancelled.
purchases outstanding at 28 February 2008 1 March 2007: 49 days, based Employee involvement Authority for the Company to purchase on the trade creditors at that date and The importance of good relations and its own ordinary shares and C shares purchases made during the year.
communications with employees is will be sought at the 2008 AGM.
Further fundamental to the continued success details are set out in the notice of the Major interests of our business.
As at 23 April 2008, the Company had been operating businesses maintains employee notified of the following interests of 3% or relations and consults employees as Auditor more of the voting rights of the Company appropriate to its own particular needs.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their pursuant of Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Regular internal communications are willingness to continue in office as Transparency Rules: made to all employees to ensure that auditor of the Company and a resolution they are kept well informed of the proposing their re-appointment will be put No.
of % of issued performance of the Group.
to shareholders at the AGM.
After proper shares share consideration, the Audit Committee is capital Directors indemnity satisfied that the Companys auditor, Ernst A qualifying indemnity provision & Young LLP, continue to be objective and Legal and 11,985,389 6.82% General as defined in Section 236 1 of the independent of the Company.
In coming to Companies Act 2006 is in force for the this conclusion, the Audit Committee gave Schroders Plc 10,531,421 5.99% benefit of the directors.
full consideration to the non-audit work carried out by Ernst & Young LLP.
AXA SA 9,509,114 5.41% Purchase of own shares Crdit Agricole 7,113,390 4.05% At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the The Audit Committee has considered Group Company was authorised to purchase what work should not be carried out by up to 19.7 million of its ordinary shares the external auditor and have concluded on the open market.
This authorisation that certain services, including internal was extended at a General Meeting on audit, acquisition due diligence and IT 27 November 2007 by a further 17.8 consulting services, will not be carried million shares.
In total, 22.3 million out by Ernst & Young LLP.
122 ordinary shares of 76 p each, 153 www.
co. uk annualreport0708 Index Directors' report 4 Disclosure of information to auditor are set out in the Remuneration Report.
The directors have taken all reasonable With the exception of the automatic steps to make themselves aware of release of 17,731 ordinary shares of 122 relevant audit information and to 76 p each to Alan Parker under the 153 establish that the auditor is aware of that Whitbread Leadership Group Incentive information.
The directors are not aware of Scheme, there have been no changes any relevant audit information which has in the interests of directors between not been disclosed to the auditor.
the balance sheet date and the date of approval of the accounts.
Directors share interests The interests of directors at the end of the Going concern 122 year in the ordinary shares of 76 p The directors have a reasonable 153 each in the Company are shown below: expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Board Held at Held at going concern basis continues to be 28 2 2008 1 3 2007 adopted in preparing the accounts.
Anthony 30,797 16,972 Habgood Annual General Meeting Alan Parker 65,263 45,361 The AGM will be held at 2.00pm on 17 June 2008 at The Queen Elizabeth II 1 Angie Risley 11,734 7,606 Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Christopher Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The 14,319 9,319 Rogers notice of meeting is enclosed with this Philip Clarke 3,797 3,797 report for those shareholders receiving hard copy documents, and available Margaret 1 at www.
co. uk for those Ewing who elected to receive documents Charles electronically.
1,821 1,821 Gurassa Rod Kent 1,952 1,952 By order of the Board 2 Wendy Becker 2,500 Simon Barratt 2 Simon Melliss 1,500 General Counsel and Company Secretary The share interests shown above include the 27 April 2008 non-beneficial interests of Anthony Habgood 122 in 522 ordinary shares of 76 p each 153 Registered office: 697 ordinary shares as at 1 March 2007.
Whitbread Court 1 Houghton Hall Business Park at date director stepped down from the Board 2 Porz Avenue at date of appointment Dunstable Further details regarding the interests Bedfordshire of the directors in the share capital of LU5 5XE the Company, including with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares, Registered in England: No.
