Governance Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Membership, meetings and Role of the Audit and Risk Main activities during 2008 remuneration Management Committee The committee has discharged Set out below is the current A full copy of the terms of reference its responsibilities during the year membership of the Audit and Risk for the committee can be obtained by performing the activities Management Committee together via the Groups corporate website described below.
with the year in which membership www.
co. uk or by request commenced.
During the year, all the to the Company Secretary.
The Financial statements members of the Committee were Committees principal responsibilities During the year, the committee independent non-executive directors.
are to: reviewed and discussed the financial review and advise the Board on the disclosures made in the preliminary Director Year of appointment Groups interim and annual financial results announcement, Annual Report to the committee statements and its accounting and Accounts, Interim Statement and policies, and to monitor the integrity the other trading statements made David Allvey, Chairman 2002 of the financial statements and by the Group, together with any David Edmonds 2005 announcements relating to related management letters, letters Barry Gibson 2002 financial performance: of representation and reports from the review the major risks affecting the external auditors.
Significant financial The Company Secretary acts as Group and assist the Board with reporting issues and judgements were secretary to the Committee.
Other reviewing the effectiveness of the considered, together with any individuals attend at the request of controls operating over the Groups significant accounting policies and the committee Chairman.
During the financial and non-financial risks: changes proposed to them.
year, the external auditors, Chief review the nature and scope of Executive, Group Finance Director, the work to be performed by the Internal control and risk management Head of Internal Audit and the Head external and internal auditors, The committee has reviewed the of Financial Planning and Control the result of that work and Groups internal control and risk would usually attend meetings to managements response, and management systems and has report to the committee and provide their effectiveness: received reports from a number of clarification and explanations where oversee the relationship with the departments, and, where appropriate, appropriate.
The Corporate Finance external auditors, including making presentations from senior Manager, Head of Compliance and recommendations to the Board management, on the major risks faced Head of Security have attended regarding their appointment or by the Group and the procedures meetings an request.
The committee removal, and developing a policy established to identify, assess, manage, also meets with the external auditors regarding the provision of non-audit monitor and report on these risks.
The without executive management services to the Group: Committee has reviewed and present on a regular basis.
The meet with the executive directors approved the statements on internal committee met on six occasions and management, as well as control on page 41. during the year and details of privately with both the external attendance at committee meetings and internal auditors: and External auditors are set out on page 38. report to shareholders annually The committee has responsibility for on its role and responsibilities.
overseeing the relationship with the Mr Allvey has recent and relevant external auditors and approves the financial experience.
He is a chartered The Chairman of the Audit and Risk external auditors engagement letter, accountant, a former Group Finance Management Committee reports audit fee and audit and client services Director of Barclays PLC and BAT to the Board on the outcome plan, including the planned levels of Industries PLC and a former member of meetings.
The external auditors of the UK Accounting Standards attend each committee meeting Board.
Mr Edmonds and Mr Gibson A formalised whistle-blowing policy and at least annually meet with are both financially literate and and procedure for staff to raise issues the committee without executive have significant general business regarding possible improprieties in management present.
The Chairman experience of executive roles in both matters of financial reporting or other of the committee also meets privately private and public organisations and matters has been established and with the external auditors.
Letters of details of each directors significant was reviewed during the year.
It is representation are reviewed prior to current and prior appointments are the responsibility of the committee signature by executive management.
set out on page 25. to monitor its effectiveness and any notifications made.
The committee has access to the services of the Internal Audit and Company Secretarial departments and is authorised to obtain independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
William Hill 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information During the year, the committee The committee is satisfied with the Other activities received regular reports from the performance of the external auditors During the year other significant external auditors, including: a formal during the year, and the policies and activities addressed by the written report dealing with the audit procedures in place to maintain their Committee were as follows: objectives, the auditors qualifications, objectivity and independence, and reviewing and updating the Groups expertise and resources: effectiveness has recommended that they be policy and procedures relating to of the audit process: procedures and re-appointed at the forthcoming AGM.
the appointment of consultants: policies for maintaining independence: a presentation from the Head of and compliance with the ethical Internal Audit Security that covered risk standards issued by the Auditing The committee approves the assessments and the improvements Practices Board.
The external auditors annual audit plan and internal audit made in this area: management letter is reviewed, as is methodology for the Internal Audit a review of the International Division managements response to issues department and monitors progress IT systems was undertaken and it was raised.
The committee monitors the against the plan during the year.
clear that there were a number of ethical guidance regarding rotation of Audit reports are circulated to the issues relating to the way this had audit partners and a change in audit committee members after each been approached: partner was made during 2004 when audit and the committee monitors an internal audit review of the the audit partner was rotated off the progress against actions identified Groups central activity of audit in accordance with the latest in these reports and the external bookmaking, focusing on odds guidance.
The new audit partner was auditors management letter.
compilation and betting control: appointed following interviews with the an Internal Audit review into the committee Chairman and the Group The Internal Audit department acts operational controls of Orbis to Finance Director and subsequent under agreed terms of reference ensure that it effectively supports approval by the committee.
and the committee has established current internal controls: a number of procedures to monitor an investigation into staff fraud: During the year, the committee and review the Internal Audit an investigation into IT security: and reviewed the Groups written policy departments effectiveness using a post implementation review of regarding the employment by the guidance from a self-assessment the new processes and changes Group of former employees of the questionnaire prepared by Internal to existing procedures as a direct external auditors and the policy on Audit, feedback from senior result of the introduction of the non-audit services provided by the management and a review of the Gambling Act 2005. external auditors.
The committee Institute of Internal Auditors Standards approves any non-audit work to be for the Professional Practice of Internal Regular updates are provided to undertaken by the external auditors Auditing.
The committee also assesses the committee on developments involving fees in excess of 25,000. annually the resources the in financial reporting and risk Where no committee meeting is department has to complete its remit.
management and related legal and scheduled within an appropriate The committee reviews the corporate governance matters.
time frame, approval is sought from effectiveness of the Internal Audit the committee Chairman and department on an annual basis.
subsequently ratified at the next The Internal Audit department has meeting.
All non-audit services unrestricted access to all Group provided by the external auditors are documentation, premises, functions reported to the committee at its next and employees as required to scheduled meeting.
The external enable it to perform its functions.
auditors are excluded from performing The appointment and removal of any day-to-day accountancy work the Head of Internal Audit is the for the Group.
The policy also sets out responsibility of the committee.
The the criteria to be followed when Head of Internal Audit has direct considering whether external auditors access to the Board and committee should be engaged to undertake Chairmen and is accountable to the non-audit services with the aim of committee.
The Head of Internal Audit safeguarding the external auditors meets regularly with the committee objectivity and independence.
Chairman without executive management present.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45
