We operate a rigorous process Retail particularly well in spite of a poor for prioritising capital expenditure for With approximately 2,300 LBOs in the Euro 2008, with favourable results in both maintenance of the estate and UK and Ireland, William Hill is a leading the second half of the year leading value-creating investments in order to operator in the UK retail betting and to an unusually high gross win margin.
achieve our target returns on capital.
This more than offset the effect of a During 2008, we invested 23.6m in poor Royal Ascot and unfavourable estate development and completed Gross win from the retail channel grew horse racing results.
226 projects, including opening 44 in 2008 by 4% to 837.9m compared new LBOs and extending or re-siting with the 53-week period in 2007 7% Overall, the growth in gross win was 57 existing shops.
Gross win from achieved through an increase in the 2008, we had 2,271 LBOs in the UK and the over-the-counter OTC business average number of LBOs trading, the 48 in the Republic of Ireland 2007: increased by 1% 3% on a 52-week continued development of the estate, 2,245 in the UK and 49 in the Republic basis.
Gross win from machines an increase in the number of gaming of Ireland.
increased by 10% 12% on a 52-week machines and the full-year impact of basis.
Pre-exceptional operating extended opening hours.
The average number of machines in profit increased by 4% 7% on a 52- the estate increased to 8,549 2007: week basis to 240.1m, reflecting the Through our LBO estate development 8,382 in the period as a result of the growth in gross win and tight control of and modernisation programme, we expansion of the LBO estate.
Machines underlying costs that mitigated some continue to expand our geographical continue to perform strongly, delivering of the impact of significant additional footprint and to upgrade the location, an average net contribution per costs incurred in the year.
Average net facilities and size of our LBOs in order machine per week of 529 2007: profitability per shop increased 3% to drive incremental growth in the 466.
This performance is the result to 104,469.
Change to reporting Historically, in addition to the Amounts wagered and However, an alternative number, net revenue, has Revenue numbers required under International Financial become widely reported among online betting and Reporting Standards IFRS, we have provided a gross win gaming companies.
This is defined as gross win less VAT number for the Group and the principal channels.
Gross on gaming machines and fair-value adjustments for win is used internally as a key performance indicator of free bets, promotions and bonuses, which are used the Groups business and the Board believes presentation extensively in online operations but less so in retail.
Given of gross win enhances an investors understanding of the growing importance of William Hill Online to the the Groups underlying financial condition and results Group and to bring us in line with industry practice, the of operations.
It is calculated as the total amount that Board has decided to report net revenue for the Group the Group retains from customers after paying out any and William Hill Online from this point forward.
For clarity, winnings but before deducting VAT payable on income we will continue to report gross win for the retail channel.
William Hill 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information of various initiatives, including Having taken the decision to This project was completed on time improved marketing, renegotiation terminate the in-house NextGen and on budget.
We intend to add of the contract with our existing technology programme, we freed more functionality in 2009 and to supplier of machines and introduction up significant IT resources that we increase further the number of of a second supplier.
This flexible concentrated on delivering new in-running betting markets we offer.
supply arrangement is delivering the content to build our gaming offering benefits we expected by encouraging and introduced 60 new games during Creation of William Hill Online product innovation and improved the year.
We also improved crossEven with these improvements in place, service performance.
selling of products, as many of our there remained areas of weakness existing gaming customers arrive in our online business, including the Overall costs in the channel increased via our Sportsbook, and increased affiliate management system, poker by 6% compared with the 53-week advertising and marketing activities to liquidity and online marketing.
The period in 2007 8% on a 52-week basis.
As a result, we business had lacked continuous The principal increases were in staff grew the number of active accounts investment in previous years and we costs, including those resulting from by 18% from 432,000 at the start of the recognised that, while we could build the opening of new LBOs and the first year to 510,000 at 30 December 2008. these capabilities organically over full-year impact of extended opening a period of time, it was preferable to hours in winter, and the cost of adding This strong performance was reflected put them in place faster so that we a second supplier of television across both betting and gaming.
Net could capitalise more quickly on pictures, Turf TV, into the LBOs.
The cost revenues from gaming increased by the continuing growth in the online of Turf TV and extra content to support 13% to 83.1m 16% on a 52-week betting and gaming market.
the extended opening hours basis, led by a particularly strong increased the cost of pictures and performance in bingo and skill games, The result was a transaction with data in our LBOs by 40%.
which increased by 169% during the Playtech Ltd that we announced year.
Casino also continued to grow, on 20 October 2008 and, on its However, excluding these additional achieving a 15% increase compared completion on 30 December 2008, costs, the underlying cost base in with 2007.
Net revenue from poker the creation of William Hill Online.
the channel increased by 3% as a declined by 21%, reflecting the lack Through this transaction, we acquired result of various initiatives we have of liquidity on our existing platform.
certain assets, businesses and implemented to control cost inflation.
The launch of a new site on the contracts from Playtech, in return for Using data gathered through our Playtech software and highly liquid which Playtech received a 29% equity  EPOS system, iPoker network in January 2009 is a interest in the new business, William we have been able to introduce a significant step foward in returning this Hill Online.
We have an option to more efficient staffing model and to business to growth.
Sportsbook net acquire Playtechs interest in William adapt the extended winter opening revenues increased by 6% to 42.0m Hill Online on an independent fairhours within the estate in 2008.
The 9% on a 52-week basis after we value basis, exercisable at either four EPOS system has fundamentally made particular efforts to improve years or six years after completion changed the role of front-end staff, performance by improving site of the original acquisition.
and enables them to interact with the content, offering keener pricing to customers more and has allowed us to attract customers and more actively This transaction combined two highly change the staffing model to benefit managing our customer base.
complementary businesses to create from efficiencies.
This technology also Recognising, however, that our ability one of the leading European online supported a detailed analysis of the to grow the Sportsbook was restricted betting and gaming businesses.
Our impact of extended winter opening by the constraints of the legacy existing interactive business brought hours in 2007, when the entire estate technology on which it operated, we a strong brand, sports betting expertise was open until 9.30 p. m. Since re-launched the Sportsbook on Orbis and an established UK customer extended opening hours is a significant technology platform in December base and profit stream.
The acquired additional cost, we have used the 2007 2008 and expect to see further growth assets brought online marketing and data to target more effectively where in 2009 as a result.
The new site has customer retention expertise, an this was applied in 2008.
Around 80% of several significant benefits, including: extensive affiliate network designed the LBO estate is now open until 9.30 pm.
richer content, such as streaming to direct customers to the Groups of live television coverage and radio websites and an established European Interactive Online commentary of sporting events: customer base and profit stream.
Our online business, William Hill a full range of in-play betting As a result of the transaction, Interactive, achieved positive growth opportunities, whereby customers approximately 160 marketing services in 2008, delivering an 11% increase can place bets on multiple potential employees based in Israel and in net revenue to 125.1m 13% on a occurrences during a live sporting approximately 110 customer services 52-week basis and pre-exceptional event such as a football match: employees based in Bulgaria have operating profit of 54.6m, up 7% 10% six language options: and joined William Hill Online.
This was the result more local currency betting.
in comparison with our interactive of several steps we took to address the business, these teams have achieved under-performance seen in 2007. a lower acquisition cost per customer, William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 Business Review Our performance in 2008 higher customer lifetime values and In 2008, our Telephone channel In Spain, where we have a joint venture a higher cross-selling performance, generated gross win of 39.8m, which with Codere, progress has been made and we intend to apply these represents a 25% decrease on 2007 in establishing operations in Madrid and capabilities to the entire customer 23% on a 52-week basis and prethe Basque Country, with 44 locations base.
The affiliate network acquired exceptional operating profit of 5.9m, trading at the end of the year.
Rollout from Playtech numbers more than a decrease of 63% 62% on a 52-week has continued in 2009 and trading is 70,000, compared with our existing basis.
This was the result of some now being conducted in 74 locations.
network of approximately 5,000. unfavourable horse racing results Following the substantive investment of and losses in relation to high-staking amounts originally committed by each We also entered into a software customers and a reduction in the party, we are in discussions with Codere agreement with Playtech for a number of customers.
We are, however, as to the future strategic direction minimum of five years, which will continuing to see growth in areas such of the joint venture and levels of enable us to benefit from Playtechs as football betting and we have taken investment expected to be required to improved poker and casino software.
steps during 2008 to address the overall develop the business in Spain.
In light of In mid-January 2009, we launched decline, including changing this and as a result of the deteriorating new William Hill-branded casino and management and adjusting staffing economic conditions in Spain, we have poker websites using Playtechs patterns to provide a 24-hour service.
reviewed the carrying value of our joint software.
Our new poker site is part of During 2009, we will be implementing venture and recorded an impairment Playtechs highly liquid iPoker network, a marketing campaign to promote charge of 5.4m against the book which is the third largest poker network the advantages of the service and will value of our investment in Spain.
in the world and the largest poker continue to focus on strict cost control network that does not accept to ensure that this channel continues Regulation customers from the US.
to contribute profits to the Group.
Since September 2007, the Gambling Commission has been responsible Integration of the acquired assets with International for implementing and policing the our existing business is expected to be In 2007, we established joint-venture detailed regulations, licence conditions completed within six to nine months of agreements with Codere to explore and guidance that govern gambling in completion of the transaction and is the potential to establish land-based Great Britain.
We have worked actively progressing well.
We have established operations in Italy and Spain.
with the Gambling Commission since the management team and the joint its establishment and support its venture Board.
We intend to reorganise In July 2008, we announced the sale objective of regulating gambling in the parts of the online operations in the of the entire issued share capital of public interest by keeping crime out coming months to improve further our Italian joint venture, William Hill of gambling, ensuring that gambling our operating efficiency.
This is likely Codere Italia Srl WHCI to INTRALOT is conducted fairly and openly, and to involve relocating around 90 jobs, International Holdings Limited.
The protecting children and vulnerable primarily relating to the Sportsbook, gross consideration agreed was people from being harmed or from the UK to other countries where 5.5m, which was shared equally exploited by gambling.
William Hill Onlines operations are between the Group and our joint based.
During the first quarter of 2009, venture partner, Codere.
The sale In March 2008, the Department of we will also put in place the systems followed a strategic review of WHCI Culture, Media and Sport DCMS that will enable us to connect to the within the Italian sports betting market.
asked the Gambling Commission 70,000-strong affiliate network and to WHCI was initially set up as a joint to prioritise identifying what further apply its marketing capability to all venture to enter the Italian horse and research could be done to William Hill Online websites.
sports betting market following a understand the impact of high-stake, tender process in Italy for sports and high-prize gaming machines on Telephone horse race betting in 2006, in which problem gamblers.
In a preliminary William Hill, we believe, has one of the company was awarded 57 report, the Gambling Commission the largest telephone-based betting licences.
The number of retail betting has reported to the DCMS that there businesses in the UK, with approximately licences won by WHCI was insufficient was no general agreement in the 131,500 active customers as at 30 in scale to provide an attractive longavailable research from Britain and December 2008 2007 146,000.
Options to grow within other jurisdictions about how much channel contributes approximately 4% Italy through the acquisition of either these high-stake, high-prize gaming of Group net revenue.
Although some existing or new licences were explored machines cause gamblers to become migration of customers to the internet but the cost of acquisitions within problem gamblers.
The Gambling has occurred, telephone betting still the existing uncertain regulatory Commission is due to report back appeals to a core group of customers framework made further investment to the DCMS in full in June 2009. who prefer to speak to an individual unattractive.
This sale resulted in a loss when placing their bet.
on disposal of 1.2m being reflected In January 2009, the DCMS published in the financial statements, in addition a consultation paper proposing the to operating losses of 1.6m incurred introduction of a statutory levy on in the first six months of the year.
licensed operators under the Gambling William Hill 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information Act 2005 to be used to fund research inflation-based pay award and the Finance costs into, education about and the rebasing of the LBO staff bonus Net finance costs in 2008 were 62.5m treatment of problem gambling.
2007 - 63.3m which is in line with currently funded through a voluntary 2007 when adjusted for the additional levy on all gambling operators.
William The increase in operating expenses week in 2007.
Hill has always paid its full contribution.
also reflected increases in rent and However, this has not been the case rates, in part driven by an increase in Taxation throughout the industry and the average LBO size and the average Tax on profit was 59.3m in the year DCMSs consultation is exploring number of LBOs trading, an increase 2007 - 51.8m.
The Groups effective whether to make the levy compulsory.
in depreciation costs as a result of tax rate reduced to 27% as a result of William Hill supports the voluntary levy increased investment in the LBO the reduction in the headline rate of and is working hard to ensure that the estate and IT systems, and an increase UK corporation tax from 30% to 28% existing voluntary regime is retained.
in advertising and marketing costs from 1 April 2008.
Going forward, the The 12-week consultation period ends in the retail and online channels.
Board expects the Groups effective in March 2009. tax rate to reduce further as a result Other operating income of a greater proportion of operating Financial review Other operating income in 2008 was profit coming from online activities Gross win and net revenue 6.9m, which includes revenues from based outside the UK.
Gross win and net revenue in 2008 the rental of properties and vending.
were 1,022.5m and 963.7m, This was lower than in 2007 as 2007 Earnings per share respectively 2007 988.4m and included the profit on disposal of Basic pre-exceptional earnings per 933.6m.
Both increased by 3% part of our stake in SIS.
share has decreased to 45.4p against compared with 53 weeks in 2007 47.4p in 2007.
On a post-exceptional and by 6% on a 52-week comparison.
Exceptional operating expense basis, basic earnings per share rose to The increase was attributable to the There were exceptional operating 67.3p against 44.7p in 2007. growth of the retail and interactive expenses of 10.8m in the period, online channels and was partially including 4.0m for reorganisation costs Cashflow and net debt offset by a decrease in gross win in resulting from the Boards decision in The Group generated net cash inflow the telephone channel.
2007 to terminate an internal IT from operating activities before development programme in favour of financing and tax of 307.4m, a Cost of sales establishing our new Sportsbook on the reduction of 3.3m or 1.1% on 2007.
Cost of sales includes taxes, levies and Orbis platform, 1.4m of integration This decrease was a result of a lower royalties relating to the operation of costs for William Hill Online and 5.4m pre-exceptional operating profit.
a betting and gaming company such for the impairment of our investment in as horse racing levy, greyhound racing a joint venture with Codere in Spain.
We invested 58.3m in capital levy, gross profit tax on the Groups expenditure in 2008, including 23.6m gross win, Amusement Machine Share of results of associates in our LBO estate development Licence Duty payable on gaming and joint ventures programme and 15.1m in the machines and royalties to third parties These relate to the Groups share of new Sportsbook.
Costs of sales decreased profit from its associate SIS and our in net debt service costs, 38.1m by 2% to 166.2m 2007 170.4m.
share of losses in respect of joint in corporation tax and 80.8m ventures in Spain and Italy.
Net operating expenses 2007, we sold part of our holding in SIS, Net operating expenses, excluding reducing our share of profits.
Our share Net debt for covenant purposes exceptional items but including of results from the joint ventures with reduced to 1,022.1m as at operating income, for the Group Codere in Spain and Italy was a loss of 30 December 2008 1 January 2008 were 516.0m, an increase of 8%.
This was higher than the loss of - 1,108.2m.
significant proportion of this increase 2.6m recorded in 2007 reflecting a relates to new costs associated with longer trading period in the start-up a full year of extended opening hours phase of the Spain joint venture.
and the introduction of Turf TV as a second supplier of television pictures Exceptional items from race meetings into the LBOs.
We recorded exceptional items totalling 88.0m in 2008.
This included: Staff costs, which represented 86.4m profit on the sale of 29% of approximately half of our total costs, William Hill Online to Playtech in increased by 8%, primarily as a result return for the assets acquired from of the full-year impact of extended Playtech: 2.8m profit on the saleopening hours and an increase in the and-leaseback of 14 LBO properties: average number of LBOs trading.
The and a 1.2m impairment recognised underlying cost increase included an on disposal of our interest in the joint venture with Codere in Italy.
William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17
