Governance Directors Report David Allvey Independent The directors present their Annual permit the Board to consider and, if it Non-executive Director Report on the activities of the Group, sees fit, to authorise situations where together with the Financial Statements Barry Gibson Senior Independent a director has an interest that conflicts, Non-Executive Director and Auditors Report, for the 52 weeks or may possibly conflict, with the ended 30 December 2008.
David Edmonds I ndependent interests of the Company.
The Board Non-executive Director has a formal system in place for Principal activities Ashley Highfield I ndependent directors to declare conflicts and The principal activities of the Group Non-executive Director for these to be considered for appointed 17 during the year continued to be the authorisation by those directors who November 2008 operation of LBOs and the provision of have no interest in the matter being telephone and internet online betting considered.
In deciding whether Details of committee membership and gaming services.
The subsidiary and to authorise such conflicts the nonare set out on page 25.
Details of the associated undertakings principally conflicted directors are required to directors interests are set out in note affecting the profits or net assets of act in the way they would consider 1 to the Parent Company Financial the Group are listed in note 14 to the would be most likely to promote the Statements.
Directors and Officers Business Review Supplier payments policy liability insurance For a fair review of the Groups business The Group does not have a formal Pursuant to Article 232 of the Articles during the year, a description of the code on payment practice but it of Association and subject to the principal risks and uncertainties it faces is the Groups policy to settle terms provisions of the Companies Act and the position of the Group at the of payment with suppliers when 1985, the directors and officers of the end of the year, see the following: agreeing the terms of each Company shall be indemnified out transaction, to ensure that suppliers Pages of the assets of the Company against are made aware of the terms of liability in defending proceedings, payment and to abide by the terms of Strategy 08-09 whether civil or criminal, in which payment.
Trade creditors of the Group Review of 2008 14-19 judgment is given in their favour or at 30 December 2008 were equivalent Financial performance, KPIs 14-19 in which they are acquitted or in to 17 days purchases 1 January 2008 Sector information 20-21 connection with any application in 15 days purchases, based on the Corporate Governance 26-42 which relief is granted to them by average daily amount invoiced by Corporate Responsibility 46-52 the court from liability for negligence, suppliers during the year.
Key relationships 22, 47-49 default, breach of duty or breach of Risks and uncertainties 23 trust in relation to the affairs of the Charitable contributions Financial risk management 84-86 Company.
In addition, the Group has During the year, the Group made purchased and maintains Directors charitable donations of 773,000 Results and dividends and Officers insurance cover against 53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 - The Groups profit on ordinary activities certain legal liabilities and costs for 581,000, principally to industry-related after taxation and exceptional items for claims incurred in respect of any act or charities serving the communities the year was 234.0m 53 weeks ended omission in the execution of their duties.
in which the Group operates.
The directors recommend that no final dividend be Directors proposed for re-election Substantial shareholdings paid to ordinary shareholders for the 52 Simon Lane and David Edmonds retire As at 27 February 2009, the Company weeks ended 30 December 2008 2007 by rotation at the next Annual General had been notified, in accordance with 15.5 pence per share.
An interim Meeting AGM and offer themselves the Disclosure and Transparency Rules dividend of 7.75 pence per share was for re-election.
Ashley Highfield, who of the Financial Services Authority, of paid on 5 December 2008 2007 7.75 was appointed by the Board as a the notifiable interests in the ordinary pence per share.
director on 17 November 2008, will share capital of the Company set out retire at the AGM and, being eligible, in the table below.
Directors offers himself for re-election.
Please The directors who served during refer to page 25 for biographies of Percentage the year and up to 27 February the current directors.
Name of holder shareholding 2009 comprise: Massachusetts Financial Directors conflicts of interests Charles Scott Non-executive Services Company 9.46 Chairman At the Companys AGM held on FIL Limited 5.12 Ralph Topping Chief Executive 15 May 2008, shareholders approved BlackRock Inc. 5.06 amendments to the Companys Simon Lane Group Finance FMR LLC 5.03 Director Articles of Association, enabling Legal & General Group Plc 3.97 the Board to authorise conflicts or Ian Spearing Executive Director Lloyds TSB Group Plc 3.50 resigned 31 potential conflicts of interests.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 3.08 December 2008 The amended Articles of Association William Hill 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review Governance Financial statements Company Information Where not provided elsewhere in this Groups framework agreement with purchase its own shares remains valid Directors report, the following provides Playtech Software Limited dated 19 until the forthcoming AGM, when it the additional information required October 2008 also contains a change is intended that a resolution will be for shareholders as a result of the of control provisions.
With the exception put forward to shareholders to implementation of the Takeovers of these agreements, there are no review this authority.
significant agreements outside the ordinary course of business to which the Annual General Meeting The Company has one class of Company is a party which take effect, The AGM will be held on Tuesday, share capital, ordinary shares.
All the alter or terminate in the event of a 12 May 2009 at Cavendish ordinary shares rank pari passu.
Details change of control of the Company.
Conference Centre, 22 Duchess Mews, of the ordinary share capital can be There are no agreements providing for London W1G 9DT.
The notice of the found in note 26 to the Group financial compensation for the Directors or AGM and an explanation of the items statements.
There are no restrictions employees on a change of control.
of non-routine business are set out on transfer of the ordinary shares in in the explanatory circular that the Company other than: certain Disabled employees accompanies this Annual Report.
restrictions which may from time to time Applications for employment by be imposed by laws and regulations disabled people are always fully Auditors and disclosure of for example, insider trading laws : and and fairly considered, bearing in information to auditors pursuant to the Listing Rules of the mind the aptitude and ability of the Each of the directors in office at the Financial Services Authority whereby applicant concerned.
In the event date when this report was approved certain employees of the Company of members of staff becoming confirms that: require the approval of the Company disabled, every effort is made to so far as the director is aware, there to deal in the ordinary shares.
On a ensure that their employment within is no relevant audit information of show of hands at a general meeting of the Group continues and that which the Companys auditors the Company, every holder of ordinary appropriate training is arranged.
are unaware: and shares present in person and entitled to It continues to be the policy of the director has taken all the steps vote shall have one vote and on a poll, the Group that the training, career that he ought to have taken as every member present in person or by development and promotion of a director in order to make himself proxy and entitled to vote shall have disabled people should, as far as aware of any relevant audit one vote for every ordinary share held.
is feasible, be identical to that of information and to establish that Voting rights for the ordinary shares held other employees.
the Companys auditors are aware in treasury are suspended.
The notice of that information.
of the AGM specifies deadlines for Employee consultation exercising voting rights and appointing The Group places considerable value The confirmation should be a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to on the involvement of its employees interpreted in accordance with resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
and has continued to keep them Section 234ZA of the Companies The rules governing the appointment informed on matters affecting them Act 1985.
A resolution to re-appoint and replacement of Board members as employees and on the various Deloitte LLP as the Companys and changes to the articles of factors affecting the performance of auditors will be proposed at the association accord with usual English the Group.
This is achieved through forthcoming AGM.
Subject to formal and informal meetings and the the Companys Memorandum of Group magazine Will2win.
Employee Going concern Association, the Articles of Association, representatives are consulted regularly The directors have prepared the and statute or subordinate legislation on a wide range of matters affecting financial statements on a going for the time being in force concerning their current and future interests.
concern basis consistent with companies and affecting the their view, formed after making Company, and directions given by The Company operates a SAYE Share appropriate enquiries, as outlined special resolution, the business of the Option Scheme the Scheme, which in the Statement of Group Company shall be managed by the is open to all eligible employees Accounting Policies.
Directors, who may exercise all the based on a three-, fiveor seven-year powers of the Company.
Options By order of the Board.
under the Scheme are granted with Change of Control provisions an exercise price up to 20% below the Thomas Murphy The Groups bank facility agreements prevailing share price.
The maximum General Counsel & Company contain provisions that in some cases permissible monthly savings under Secretary automatically require prepayment and the Scheme is 250.
27 February 2009 in others grant the lender discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a Authority to purchase own shares Registered Office: change of control.
in others grant the The Company did not purchase Greenside House, 50 Station Road, lender discretion to require prepayment any of its own shares during the year.
Wood Green, London N22 7TP of the loans on a change of control.
The The authority for the Company to William Hill Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
