Who We are about Wincanton Our reputation as a leader in the supply chain industry is underpinned by the desire to deliver value to our key stakeholder groups of customers, employees and shareholders.
We do this by understanding the needs of these groups, investing in our brand and implementing a range of innovative initiatives across the Group.
Number of locations Supplier of choice Employer of choice Through our track record of operational We recognise that the development of delivery and customer focus, we have our people is a sound investment in the built a reputation as a trusted, responsive long-term health of our business.
In order to ensure commitment to attracting, nurturing and that we continue to understand and retaining the best people in our industry respond to our customers needs, we is demonstrated through a focus on Number of workshops have implemented key account planning individual development needs and talent and contact structures, which promote management processes.
We have a track record of promoting from 44 Continuous investment in people and within and combine this with a range of technology enable us to react quickly to development programmes at all levels.
change and constantly rise to new challenges, This starts with a comprehensive training leveraging our scope and scale to deliver the programme for drivers and a Learning and A European leader in the design, right solutions for our customers.
Our focus on Development Framework in our warehouses, Operational Excellence and Health and Safety which helps potential managers take the first implementation and management has provided measurable benefits and set steps towards a supervisory role.
of advanced supply chain solutions industry benchmark standards.
Graduate recruits benefit from an industryIn response to the complexity and businessleading scheme which offers the right mixture We manage contracts on an critical nature of supply chain issues, we have of foundation skills and hands-on experience.
international, regional, national established a centralised function to provide The diversity and flexibility of our business and local basis project management, change management enables us to offer Pan-European career and business integration for customers across development opportunities in a range of the Group.
This expertise has helped us disciplines.
This year, we recruited our Transport solutions include road, deliver over 50 operational start-ups on time highest ever number of graduates.
Each rail, barge, sea and air and on budget during 2007 08. of the 34 has been carefully selected for international general management and Our commitment to developing innovative function-specific skills.
Over 60 per cent products and services was recently have a second language other than English.
recognised in the 2008 British International Freight Awards, where we won the Specialist As employees progress through the Services category for our Alconbury inland organisation, our multi-level framework container terminal.
of management development helps them Employees to realise their potential and acquire the 30,000 necessary leadership competencies to perform at the highest level.
In March 2008 we introduced the first Groupwide employee survey, One Voice, which will 110m allow us to pulse-check the organisation and benchmark for future progress.
Contract renewals Home deliveries 2007: 85m 347,000 34 Graduate intake 2007: 21 04 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Services across the supply chain Raw Materials Intermodal Spare parts logistics Container management International transport 4PL Stock of choice Our track record of consistent profit growth and cashflow generation has enabled us to deliver a growing dividend stream to shareholders.
Since our demerger in 2001, dividend growth has Manufacture averaged c. 8 per cent per annum.
Co-packing Our business model is driven by a combination Co-manufacturing of organic growth and sensibly-priced and successfully integrated acquisitions.
In recent Finished goods storage years we have expanded our activities along the supply chain, developed new services, Call centre management entered new sectors of the economy and extended our geographic coverage.
Networked transport We have long-standing relationships with many of the worlds leading manufacturers and retailers.
We consistently grow our business with these companies as a consequence of our customer focus, our operational excellence and the quality and innovation of the supply chain solutions that we deliver.
Retail We create value for shareholders by adding Consolidation centres value for our customers.
Inbound logistics We have good positions in expanding markets.
Our strategy processes continue to In-store services identify growth potential in new services, new sectors of the economy and new geographies.
E-fulfilment We are well-placed to build further on our excellent track record and continue to deliver both dividend growth and enhanced capital value for our shareholders.
Consumer Home delivery 14.91p Dividend High-tech logistics 2007: 13.55p Reverse logistics Recycling 05 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 EUROPEAN LEADER 06 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 EUROPEAN Our customers rely on us to deliver advanced solutions at every stage of the supply chain.
Whether we are importing manufacturing components, supplying finished goods LEADER directly to consumers homes or recycling end-of-life products, we deliver competitive advantage through consistently high service levels and a focus on cost efficiency.
