hoW We Deliver our four pillar approach Managers involved in Operational Excellence groups We deliver consistently high service levels Customer Intimacy through a relentless attention to detail Our teams partner with customers to and a desire to be the best at what we do, understand their needs, to fulfil their strategic wherever we operate.
objectives and to bring them benefits.
We 140 recognise the value of customer satisfaction Operational Excellence and retention, and have designed a framework Since the launch of the programme in the UK which promotes discussion of day-to-day and No.
of customers surveyed last year, our focus on Operational Excellence longer-term issues.
Our Pan-European Key OE has become integral to our culture and Account Management programme also helps has helped us to develop relationships us to leverage opportunities and deliver between operations and form closer bonds efficiencies across borders.
We are now rolling out OE in Mainland Europe through country We hold regular performance reviews and champions, who are armed with the benefit Blue Sky sessions to work through future of the experience to date in the UK.
supply chain scenarios and challenges.
At We are a sponsor member of Board level, we operate a Customer Voice We are a sponsor member of the British initiative, which gives key account customers the British Quality Foundation Quality Foundation and have based our OE a personal and informal feedback mechanism programme on the EFQM Model.
Our Group-wide Our lost time accidents reduced Excellence has helped promote a culture of Customer Satisfaction Survey canvasses challenge and continuous improvement, opinion and helps us to understand how by 9.5% in 2007 08 which supports cross-sector collaboration, we can improve our offer.
It also allows Our Operational Excellence our customers to share in the best practice Product Leadership that has been created at many of our Increasingly, customers look to us to anticipate programme covers employee operational sites.
their emerging needs as well as meeting their satisfaction, training, culture, current requirements.
We have recognised transport, warehousing, Dedicated resource facilitates the running this and have invested to develop new product benchmarking and reporting.
of twelve Cluster Teams, which focus on capabilities by collaborating with suppliers different operational aspects.
Our groups from around the globe and working with our include Driver Training, Warehouse Training, customers to pilot new approaches.
Safety Culture, Transport Operations Development, Warehouse Operations During the past year, we have developed Development, One Voice employee survey, new capabilities in a wide range of areas Balanced Scorecard and Snapshot.
including: co-packing and postponement, No.
of drivers trained Cost to Serve, international supply chain 7,000 We have introduced electronic selfsolutions, IT systems to enable collaboration assessment reporting via the Intranet, which between FMCG manufacturers serving allows sites to track their performance against retailer customers, on-board vehicle nine key areas and generate action plans to technology and increasing the extent address any areas for improvement.
Within of our environmental solutions.
the next 12-18 months, we expect a large proportion of our sites and contracts to be We plan to accelerate the pace of our Reduction in fuel consumption accredited with the British Quality Foundation new service development and this will be 9% awards for Committed to Excellence C2E assisted by the organisational restructure and Recognised for Excellence R4E.
In announcement made in April 2008 in which order to measure progress against other 3PLs a Director of Innovation has been appointed and in-house logistics operations, we have to lead a small dedicated team.
also signed up to the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport CILT Logmark Benchmarking group.
12 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Delivering our brand promise case studies Operational Excellence As a package, Wincantons programme for delivering continuous improvement through Operational Excellence creates great alignment with Argos development aspirations.
Working in partnership enables Argos to benefit from a progressive attitude towards operational development.
Value Dave Easton, Head of Primary Operations Our commitment is to be the best at the Argos things that make a difference to our customers, adding value through service, technology and people.
By delivering the right balance Product Leadership of Operational Excellence day-to-day and providing innovative products and services, we have created a successful platform for We need suppliers to be reactive, flexible and developing lasting partnerships that will extend intelligent and to challenge us on performance, our reach beyond transactional arrangements quality and cost.
Wincanton and Bandai have to provide ongoing value.
developed a strong partnership where ideas Wincanton offers long-term price and issues are exchanged so that we can differentiation by timely investment in deliver the best possible solution in terms of relevant technologies and new product customer satisfaction and cost efficiency.
development and by investing directly in our customers goals.
Franois Marolleau, Logistics Director Bandai Customer Intimacy The combination of Wincantons Cost to Serve and i2 software, will help us to further optimise and take cost out of our supply chain.
Greater Evaluating the Cost to Serve for Heinz clarity and detail on costs within our supply Wincantons investment in the i2 transport system was piloted with a small number of key chain will enable us to challenge the status quo customers in the UK which included Heinz, and make smarter decisions about our before roll-out to a wider customer base.
We products, customers and pricing strategy.
used i2 to model a range of routing scenarios, in order to evaluate the best possible efficiency of the fleet.
We then built on this Mike Parsons, Vice President of Supply Chain, intelligence to give Heinz greater visibility of UK & Ireland, Heinz.
costs within their supply chain by piloting an innovative Cost to Serve simulation model, which has enabled us to deliver cost and Value profitability insights by product, warehouse activity, transport and customer location.
Wincanton has carried out logistics reviews Strategic supply chain consultancy across several of our European facilities.
They for SABMiller Europe have delivered benefits both in terms of cost Wincantons consultancy business Consilium savings avoidance and through innovation.
has worked with SABMiller on six different projects during 2007 08 in Russia, Poland, the Czech Republic and the UK.
The customers focus has been on exploring solution design and modelling the supply chain with a view to improving productivity and distribution efficiency across Europe.
Alan Sikora, Production and Logistics Director SABMiller Europe 13 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008
