buSiNESS REviEW Graeme McFaull Wincanton is expanding, profitably, in growing markets.
Chief Executive We see continuing opportunity in our existing operations and in new services and sectors, both organically and through acquisition.
We are pleased to be able to report to Our businesses in Mainland Europe reported these higher levels of investment will deliver shareholders a further period of significant a significant year-on-year percentage increase our targeted levels of margin and profitability profit progress in the financial year to in operating profit, but profit remains in Mainland Europe and broaden and further 31 March 2008. unacceptably low in terms of both quantum diversify the business and profit base of and margin.
Our operations in the UK & Ireland delivered another excellent performance, reporting a Tactical and strategic plans are in place, Strategy 12.4 per cent increase in operating profit on in each of our Mainland European business The European market is our core geographic the prior year, which was itself an 11.1 per units, to improve this performance and to focus, our home market.
It is a market of 495 cent increase on the previous financial period.
continue to make progress towards our million consumers.
It has a substantial These are strong levels of growth and margin improvement targets.
The significantly manufacturing and retailing infrastructure continuing momentum which, given that the strengthened management teams in our and significant national, cross-border and UK currently represents approximately 90 per current core markets of France, Germany international flows of raw materials, finished cent of our consolidated operating profit, have and Poland are implementing tactical plans products and services.
Many of the worlds continued to drive the performance of the to increase operating efficiencies and largest trade flows are intra-European Group overall.
improve the profitability of our existing movements in the consumer goods, industrial, activities, and focusing our development high-tech, automotive, chemical and In the UK & Ireland, we are growing well resources on targeted customers in those agricultural industries.
It is business-critical with existing customers, winning market share market sectors identified by our strategy trade flows such as these that Wincanton from our competitors and identifying and work as offering the best potential to manages on behalf of customers.
Europe successfully entering new sectors and new accelerate our top-line growth.
is a geographic market in which the Group is service areas.
Our customer portfolio is building a leading presence and which offers already well-diversified, but there are many We are encouraged by the actions being substantial opportunities for future growth.
sectors of the economy in which we are either taken, and the progress being made, in not present or under-represented, and there these core markets.
In the short-term, our By focusing on both wider European coverage are new service areas which offer growth profit performance bears the expense of and strength in national markets, particularly in potential as our customers outsourcing our increased investment in marketing and our current core markets of the UK, Germany, requirements continue to expand.
business development and the higher France and Poland, we are able to serve the employment costs of the expansion, requirements of our customers in Europes key We see no shortage of opportunities for reinforcement and renewal of our senior domestic economies and on a cross-border continuing growth in the UK & Ireland.
In the medium-term, or Pan-European basis if required.
we believe that the actions being taken, and 16 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 The integration into CONtaiNER tRaNSPORt Wincanton has now been aCQuiSitiON successfully completed, and we have already secured contracts from existing Group customers such as Procter & Gamble, Homebase and Woolworths.
Annual growth in container transport 6% Containers transported by Wincanton container transport in the UK 3,000 per week Extending our reach along the supply chain In January 2008, we acquired Hanbury Davies, a UK market leader in container transportation, for 25m.
With over 780 employees operating from 21 locations and a fleet of 480 vehicles, the addition of this business to our portfolio has enabled us to extend our offering to our existing customer base.
The acquisition has strengthened our position within the fastgrowing container logistics market, adding to our existing operations in Alconbury and Southampton.
It also complements our intermodal operations in Mainland Europe and supports our international supply chain offering, which has developed through the joint venture with Hong Kong-based Kerry Logistics.
Our expanded container services business in the UK provides inbound and outbound services to major shipping lines and freight forwarders, who handle cargo for every sector of business and industry.
We now transport over 3,000 containers each week between the major ports and locations across the UK.
With global sourcing from the Far East by retailers and manufacturers growing at 11 per cent per annum, this acquisition demonstrates our commitment to developing and enhancing our container services business to meet changes in demand.
This includes the introduction of a port-to-store delivery service and a specialist equipment service for the transportation of hazardous goods, firearms and ammunition.
17 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 SaiNSbuRyS Average cases despatched each week 1.3m Recycled bottles converted to fleeces 20,475 to date Delivering Operational Excellence For Sainsburys, making their new flagship Regional Distribution Centre RDC best in class was the main objective when they awarded Wincanton the contract in February 2007, so a seamless start to operations was essential.
It was also designed as Europes greenest warehouse with carbon negative status, so developing a culture that would support this vision was essential.
Wincanton was appointed to operate the site and also project manage the start-up, which involved creating the operational solution, managing the ramp-up of stock and seamlessly integrating the site into the Sainsburys distribution network.
Our team delivered an exceptional start-up, which saw the operation go from despatching zero to one million cases per week within just eight weeks.
When Sainsburys invoked its business continuity plan three weeks after the first goods in following an incident at another depot, all inbound supplier deliveries were diverted overnight to Northampton resulting in a despatch of 205,000 more cases than forecast.
The 620,000 sq ft RDC in Northampton, UK distributes chilled goods, produce and ambient lines to 50 stores in the East Midlands.
Environmental features of the site include the UKs largest rainwater harvesting system and Europes first Dragon Power system, which generates renewable energy from the movement of vehicles every time they enter or exit the site.
But it is the engagement of the employees in the  ethos that ensures the site lives up to Sainsburys vision for carbon negative leadership.
Recycling is encouraged at six stations across the site to eliminate the need for bins and even the fleeces supplied as uniform are made from recycled bottles.
18 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 buSiNESS REviEW CONTINUED Gerard Connell Group Finance Director The Groups existing activities across Europe Underlying operating profit is stated before give a competitive advantage in an industry exceptionals and amortisation of acquired which remains fragmented, with large intangibles.
numbers of small operators and a very limited number of Pan-European or global service Neither the rate of revenue growth nor headline providers.
We have more significant scale and accounting margin are amongst the Groups a broader geographic reach than these small key financial performance measures due to operators and a higher degree of customer the cost plus or open book nature of much focus, operational flexibility and service of Wincantons underlying business model.
specialisation than the larger global groups Our Emerging Solutions business unit will focus on new services including home delivery.
Our key financial measures are the net rate of growth in underlying operating profit, up 15.2 We have a strong portfolio of customers We serve a well-diversified customer base, per cent in the year, free cashflow generation across Europe, including long-standing deliver a wide range of business-critical and return on capital.
relationships with many of the worlds major solutions and offer a Pan-European presence retailers and manufacturers, and have a which is already amongst the best in the Strong cashflow generation, based on our proven track record of growth with these sector.
We have a clear vision and strategy asset light business model and a consequent customers.
Maintaining and enhancing supply which we believe will generate further value for high profit-to-cashflow conversion rate, has chain efficiency is business-critical to our shareholders by continuing to add value for been a consistent feature of Wincantons customers.
We have successfully expanded customers.
We see growth opportunities both financial performance.
We recorded a profit to our geographic presence without losing either in our existing portfolio of customers, sectors free cashflow conversion rate of 92 per cent in the customer service ethos or the people and services and in newly-targeted the year to 31 March 2008 159 per cent in the culture which represent the core of our customers, sectors and services identified year to 31 March 2007 and a positive cash business offering.
through our rigorous business development inflow of 48.3m after net capital expenditure.
The year end return on capital employed was Changes in legislation, strategy, technology slightly lower, at 50.1 per cent, but remains at and the economy lead to both tactical and Our strong profit and cash flow performance industry-leading levels.
strategic change in the supply chain needs gives us the financial capacity to take of our customers.
We continue to invest in our advantage of new opportunities.
We The revenues of the Group increased in the people, our services, our systems technology actively consider opportunities to expand year by 231.6m as a consequence of the and our processes to ensure that we offer the our portfolio of services and sector expertise, acquisitions made plus new business wins, innovation, operational excellence and value both organically and through acquisition.
In the year, annualised which deliver the solutions to meet these Acquisitions are also expected to contribute new wins and renewals of 315m were changing customer needs and enable us to to the further strengthening and expansion achieved: 265m in the UK & Ireland and compete successfully in our chosen markets.
of our geographic presence across Europe.
Although below last years total of 395m, which was materially Our strategy process identifies both We look to the future with confidence.
increased by the major gain, in the UK, of a opportunities with existing customers and 5-year exclusive contract with Somerfield, services and the potential for growth with new 2007 08 Summary and, in Germany, by a renewal of a combined customers in new sectors and new services.
Consolidated results transport and warehousing contract for We have created a new business unit, Total revenue for the Group for the financial Zanders, this further year of significant growth Emerging Solutions, to ensure that a number year was 12.0 per cent higher than the previous confirms the continuing strength and resilience of these new sectors and new services receive year, at 2,164.7m.
Underlying operating profit of our customer relationships, the quality and the operational and strategic focus that will increased by 15.2 per cent to 52.4m and creativity of our new business proposals and help to deliver their full, above-average accounting margin improved from 2.35 per our ability to continue to gain market share in growth potential.
Growth in underlying challenging and competitive markets.
operating profit, adjusting for the contribution from acquisitions made in the current year, This year, as is the case in most years, we was 10.7 per cent.
have had ground to make up for both contract losses and a degree of fee pressure on certain renewals, but our very strong underlying new business momentum has nonetheless allowed the Group to make very encouraging net progress across a broad range of retailing and manufacturing customers.
19 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 CHRiStOflE No.
of delivery points worldwide 3,000 Parcels despatched during 2007 08 110,000 Providing a personal service This year, Christofle extended our contract by a further year to 2010, after the initial 3-year renewal in 2006.
This decision was based on Wincantons culture of continuous improvement and the consistently high performance of the site in Pierrelaye, France.
The exclusive supplier of tableware, jewellery, home accessories and decorative products was looking for a partner that could manage a high throughput of products, but achieve the right level of specialist handling, presentation and packaging for their most delicate items.
Wincantons operation provides storage and despatch of over 7,000 product lines from a single location to 130 countries worldwide.
Demands for order preparation vary from sending a single fork to the Saudi Royal Family to supplying complete canteens of cutlery to hotels and ocean liners.
In each case, the same level of care and attention to detail is essential in order to uphold the luxury image of the Christofle brand.
In order to ensure consistently high-quality standards and The site includes a bonded minimise product damage, team members receive training area for customs clearance and education on the Christofle range, which includes items and an order preparation in silver, porcelain and crystal.
facility that manages pack assembly, weighing, gift RFID controlled order assembly and bar code scanning wrapping and other on despatch provides full supply chain traceability in realspecialist requirements time from when the order is placed through to the final such as engraving.
20 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 buSiNESS REviEW CONTINUED UK & Ireland There were also interesting opportunities in Performance Highlights other newer service areas.
In recycling, we Our operations in the UK & Ireland reported added a new contract with Argos, an existing underlying operating profit of 47.2m, an customer, which we expect to operate in increase of 12.4 per cent on the prior year, a similar fashion to the successful national on revenue up 14.3 per cent to 1,388.7m.
fridge collection service we already manage for Comet.
Starting in March 2008 we will be 2007 08 was another year of sustained high responsible for the collection of all electrical levels of activity in the UK & Ireland, with products returned to Argoss home delivery attractive growth opportunities successfully centres, delivering an anticipated 100,000 We have secured contract renewals with many major petroleum companies in the UK.
targeted and delivered in both our existing units per annum for processing and recycling activities and our newer service and at our Billingham site.
consulting business, won advisory mandates Mainland Europe from a wide range of both retailing and Performance Highlights New Business manufacturing companies, many of them not Underlying operating profit in the second In newer activities such as home delivery, currently Wincanton customers, analysing half of the year was 3.1m, an encouraging we saw business growth with major strategic supply chain solutions in domestic increase on both the first half of this year manufacturers and retailers including Hoover markets and on a cross-border or Panand the corresponding period last year.
Hoover Candy brings European basis.
In data records management, On second half revenue of 414.1m, this an average of 1,250 deliveries per week to our current rates of growth are expected to fill our represented an accounting margin of 0.8 national home delivery network.
In addition to recently-expanded new facility in London per cent, compared to a margin of 0.6 per our existing operations providing dedicated ahead of plan, and we are actively exploring cent in the first half and 0.6 per cent in the home delivery of Homebases kitchens we now opportunities to expand this business to give corresponding period last year.
This reported also provide warehousing for Homebases national coverage.
increase is after charging higher costs arising bathroom products range at our shared-user from increased marketing spend, which is site in Doncaster.
In newer sectors, such as Constantly challenging ourselves to also successfully delivering marked improvements construction, we added significant new activity generate new business opportunities in our in brand awareness, and higher employment with CEMEX, an existing customer, and added longer-standing sectors of activity saw costs as a consequence of the renewing and substantial new business with customers such significant new business in retailing, with strengthening of our senior management as Wavin, a leading European manufacturer of customers such as Dunnes and Superquinn teams.
This level of reported profitability and plastic and clay piping products, for whom we in Ireland and Sainsburys in the UK, in margin clearly remains some way below our now operate their whole UK warehousing and automated warehousing with a substantial targeted operating profit margin of 2 per cent.
expansion of our business with Screwfix and There are, however, encouraging signs that with P & G, and in the expansion of our material progress in profitability can be Our increased focus in recent years on other services to existing customers with a new delivered in Mainland Europe and that newer sectors of activity, such as foodservice, 5-year co-packing contract with Nestl Purina progress is being made towards this target.
also contributed positively to our new using robotic pickers, and highly-automated business and renewals momentum in the packing technology.
We were also pleased year, with a 10-year extension of our national to see our commitment to industry-leading network operations for Punch, and the standards of health and safety and operational addition of a new 3-year contract with Tragus, performance lead to contract renewals and delivering 2.6 million cases per year through extensions with major petroleum companies our network to its outlets such as Caf Rouge such as Shell, ConocoPhillips, Total and and Bella Italia.
We saw similar gains as a ExxonMobil.
result of our successful targeting of drinks manufacturers, adding customers such as Beam Global to our existing customer base, a new contract involving co-packing and product rework in addition to national warehousing and distribution.
21 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 iNtERMODal ExPaNSiON Intermodal terminals operated 6 Locomotives owned 25 Annual container volume handled 500,000 20 equivalent units Investing for growth We have continued to expand the scope of our Intermodal offering over the past year with the opening of a new container terminal in Mannheim and the incorporation of the activities of specialist forwarders Con-Sped based in Weil-am-Rhein.
2 The opening of the 45,000m tri-modal terminal in September has enabled Wincanton to move greater volumes of containers through our existing base at Mannheim and handle a broader range of consignments.
A dedicated area has been set up for dangerous goods and the terminal also features service stations for chilled containers.
The two new rail sidings allow us to offer a shuttle service to Stuttgart and Ulm three times a week.
The incorporation of Con-Sped activities in January 2008 has enhanced our presence at the important Weil-am-Rhein terminal, which offers container handling, storage and rail access.
The terminal links through to the major seaports of Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Antwerp and is a gateway for servicing customers in Southern Germany, Switzerland, France and Italy.
Wincanton operates six terminals along the Rhine, which offer transport via road, rail and waterways, and also has offices at the ports of Rotterdam and Antwerp.
Added-value services such as container stuffing and stripping, Customs and tax services and quality checking complete the intermodal offer.
This enhanced intermodal capability will help meet the growing demand for more  transport options.
22 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 buSiNESS REviEW CONTINUED France accounts for around 16 per cent of our New Business revenue in Mainland Europe and Poland for Annualised revenue from new wins and approximately a further 8 per cent.
Our French renewals in Mainland Europe was 50m in business delivered our target operating profit the year to 31 March 2008, a lower level than margin in the year and is capable of sustaining in 2006 07 as a consequence of a lower level performance at this level.
Our Polish business of renewals, down from 25m to 5m, and a made good progress towards our margin reduced focus on new business development target in the year but the regional results for in Central & Eastern Europe pending Central & Eastern Europe as a whole were stabilisation of the contract start-up issues adversely affected by the start-up issues on in Hungary previously referred to.
In the A new team will co-ordinate our international transport operations.
a Hungarian contract referred to at the half second half of the year, however, increasing year.
With these issues now resolved we see brand awareness and the targeted efforts of the margin target being achievable for both our strengthened new business development Dutch operations included the collection and Poland and the Central & Eastern European teams have begun to deliver results and we distribution of commercial vehicle parts for region as a whole.
have seen an increased flow of new tender MAN and a 5-year contract renewal with opportunities.
We would expect this increased Thyssen Group for steel transportation to Germany accounts for approximately 70 per flow to result in higher levels of new business Kazakhstan.
cent of our revenue in Mainland Europe.
wins as we enter the new financial year.
Within Germany we have three principal areas Although more focused this year on stabilising of activity: our domestic road network, our New wins and renewals were recorded in and improving the performance of certain intermodal business and our contract logistics France with customers such as Christofle, existing activities, our Central & Eastern operations.
Our intermodal business and EDF, Jardiland, and Velux.
We were also European businesses nonetheless contract logistics activities in Germany are awarded a major new contract with a successfully renewed our contract with either already delivering our target margin multinational oil company to operate their newNumico for a further three years, gained sole or are making good progress towards it.
build packaged lubricants warehouse which supplier status for Electrolux in Poland at the Although an important part of our overall will be responsible for national distribution.
In expense of one of our competitors, gained a service offering to customers, which links addition we recently signed a letter of intent 3-year transport and warehousing contract for well with both our logistics and intermodal with a large drinks company in respect of the JohnsonDiversey, a new customer, and a 3- activities, in a way which few of our transfer of their existing warehousing operation year contract for domestic warehousing and competitors can match, the road network, for beer products in Northern France.
Our distribution in Poland for Rieber Foods, however, is currently loss-making on ability to pitch for, and win, new projects of another new customer.
this complexity gives grounds for optimism that our French business can compete, and Our Central & Eastern European businesses Our key challenge, if we are to deliver our win, in this highly competitive marketplace.
are also seeing growing opportunity in operating margin target in Mainland Europe, international transport as the region proves therefore lies in Germany, in our domestic Our other principal operations in the Western increasingly popular both as a manufacturing road network.
Europe region are the international transport centre and as a distribution hub for countries activities based in Holland.
We believe that further to the East and South-East.
A new Within our German operations our major focus international transport flows will continue to customer in the year in international transport has been, and will continue to be, improving grow faster than domestic movements and was Wrigley, for whom we now manage export the performance of this domestic road are expanding our hub capacity at our largest flows to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Serbia, network.
Our new German management Dutch site, on the Dutch German border, to Croatia and Montenegro.
team has fundamentally re-assessed the provide the capacity to manage this expected operational performance, service offering and growth.
Our international transport activities market performance of the network.
They have overall have been strengthened by the identified, and begun to implement, plans to recruitment of a new team, based at our materially improve its profit performance over German head office in Mannheim, to cothe next 18-24 months.
The initial results from ordinate our current international flows more this action plan give cause for encouragement efficiently and strengthen our market offering that further progress can and will be made in in this area for the future.
New business in this critical area.
international transport won in the year by our 23 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 WiNCOR NixDORf Cash machines installed for Wincor Nixdorf in 2007 08: 2,500 Adding value in the High-Tech sector The reputation of Wincantons High-Tech business as a specialist in banking equipment handling led to a new contract in December 2007 with Wincor Nixdorf.
In order to support the roll-out of new cash machines in Germany, Benelux, Ireland and the UK, Wincanton was appointed to manage both the distribution and installation process.
This involves transportation from the factory in Paderborn, as well as installation on site.
Wincanton has created 70 highly-specialised teams to manage the installation process, all of whom have undergone security checks before beginning their training due to the security implications of the programme.
In order to ensure that the installation process is rapid and efficient, the teams produce a site report before despatch to assess load-bearing ability, in-floor heating or electric cabling and site access.
Increasingly, Wincantons High-Tech business is taking on services which have traditionally been carried out Technical centres have by the suppliers themselves.
Installation on site by the now been set up across logistics supplier saves valuable time and cost by Germany to support the reducing the number of contractors required to deliver range of added-value a roll-out programme.
services provided to suppliers of medical scanners, photocopiers, ATMs and servers.
24 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 buSiNESS REviEW CONTINUED In Germany, much of our new business in any Exceptionals financial period tends to be transactional The net exceptional profit for the year of rather than based on longer-term contracts, 0.4m was the result of net exceptional costs particularly in our road network and intermodal of 4.5m, offset by 0.8m of profit on the operations.
In the road network, business disposal of a surplus property in the UK and gains and renewals included Europe-wide a 4.1m credit in respect of a preliminary court distribution of hazardous materials and award in our favour in respect of the PGN chemicals for Julius Hoesch and domestic arbitration proceedings that we have referred and European distribution for Lorenz to in previous years.
Our intermodal business saw We offer  barge services along the Rhine as part of our intermodal offering.
the development of a number of interesting We would anticipate an additional credit, and opportunities in our container management cash receipt, as a consequence of finalisation operations which organise the movement of of the PGN arbitration process.
There is also The Groups activities are across the UK and goods by sea, river and rail.
Our network of the potential for further property disposals in Europe where tax rates vary from 12.5 per cent container terminals on the Rhine, in particular, the new financial year.
With the combination of the is an increasingly attractive strategic asset reduction in the standard UK rate of corporation enabling us to offer  Wincanton retains operational freehold tax effective for 2008 09 and the availability of barge-based container services to a wide properties on its balance sheet with a net brought-forward unrecognised losses it is range of industries.
Within our contract book value of some 70m.
These properties expected that the Groups overall rate of tax logistics activities, our recognised leadership have not been subject to revaluation but their will reduce in future years.
in certain key value-added sectors and market values and operational importance to services also delivered good opportunities the business are reviewed on a regular basis.
Minority interest, earnings and dividend for contract renewal and new business growth.
The Group has a small number of activities Wins and renewals in the period included Of the principal exceptional costs in the year, in its Mainland European operations with a a contract to distribute ATMs to Germany, 1.0m arose from the integration of our three minority shareholding, the principal of which is Benelux and Ireland for Wincor Nixdorf, acquisitions, a 3.0m cost was incurred in Rhinecontainer BV in which there is a 25.8 per a European transport operation for respect of the closure of our Wuppertal depot cent minority stake.
The profits attributable to FujitsuSiemens delivering server racks as part of the restructuring of our road network minorities in the year were 0.5m 0.1m in to business datacentres and a contract operations in the North Rhine Westphalia region 2006 07. with Ikon Office Solutions delivering and in Germany, and a 4.2m cost was generated installing photocopiers.
by further restructuring of our Dutch and Underlying earnings per share of 24.3p were French businesses, principally relating to the 15.7 per cent higher than the 21.0p reported Net financing costs closure of a surplus site in the Orleans region.
The net financing costs of the Group, at 10.8m, are higher than last years 9.9m, Taxation A final dividend of 10.31p is proposed, to substantially as a consequence of the higher The Groups underlying accounting tax rate of give a full year total of 14.91p, a 10 per cent prevailing levels of market interest.
The 30.9 per cent is broadly consistent with prior increase on the 13.55p proposed and paid average borrowing rate in the year was 6.7 per years and gives rise to a charge of 11.7m.
As in previous years, cent, an increase on last years 5.0 per cent.
in which the compound annual rate of growth Net financing costs were nonetheless covered The overall tax rate of 31.9 per cent 2007: in the dividend has been 7.1 per cent, the 4.9 times by underlying operating profit.
29.4 per cent is marginally greater than the dividend increase proposed represents a rate underlying rate due to the combination of of increase significantly in excess of inflation.
capital profits, which continue to be offset by capital losses brought-forward, and the mix The dividend cover for this proposed level of tax treatments of the other exceptional of full year dividend is 1.63 times, an costs and profits.
improvement on the prior year 1.55 times.
Given Wincantons track record of profit As a result of the reduced level of incremental growth and cashflow generation, and our pension contributions made in the year, as confidence in the Groups ability to continue compared to previous years, the current tax building on this track record, these are cash rate has increased to 25.6 per cent from considered to be appropriate and sustainable 4.6 per cent.
25 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 buSiNESS REviEW CONTINUED The years expenditure was split as to 27.5m All expansion, replacement and acquisition on expansion projects and 15.4m on the spend proposals are appraised using replacement of existing assets, compared to discounted cash flow models and are subject 22.5m and 7.0m respectively in the prior to authorisation at appropriate levels in the year.
The higher levels of spend in 2007 08 Group up to and including the main Board.
are a consequence of the nature of the assets The projected implementation timescale and required for use in both new and existing returns on projects are subsequently contracts.
scrutinised at the same level after the first operational year.
In excess of 90 per cent, We have replaced specialist delivery vehicles after Major projects in the year requiring onby value approved, of the capital backchecks the Punch renewal this year.
balance sheet investment included the new in the year either met or exceeded their co-packing activity for Nestl, warehouse projected rate of return.
Cashflow and net debt racking and fitting for new operations for The Group recognises cash return on Woolworths, Tragus and Screwfix and the The aforementioned cashflow items led to an investment as a key performance measure replacement of specialist delivery vehicles as increase in the Groups net debt to 104.5m at and continues to focus on sustaining the high a consequence of the renewal of the contract 31 March 2008 31 March 2007: 65.8m.
This levels of free cashflow generation that have for our national foodservice network for Punch.
is reported after deducting 26.5m of cash been a consistent feature of Wincantons Principal expansion and replacement projects held in the Groups captive insurer last year financial performance.
in Mainland Europe included the purchase of 27.4m to cover the potential claims land for our new international transport hub underwritten by that company.
Cash inflow from operations of 77.2m, before being built on the Dutch German border and exceptionals, capital expenditure, pension warehouse fit-out projects in France.
The Group continued to enjoy solid support in deficit payments and tax, was marginally debt markets, with 210m of committed funds below last years 78.6m, principally as a Additional vehicle and plant operating lease available from a banking syndicate of leading consequence of a small working capital commitments in the year related to 8.2m UK & Mainland European banks and $150m outflow.
Free cashflow of 48.3m, after for expansion projects and 16.4m for of 7 and 10-year funding raised from the US exceptionals and net capital expenditure, replacements.
These projects were for a private placement market in late 2005 and was lower than last years 72.2m as a result diverse range of customers and activities, subsequently swapped into floating rate of capital expenditure, unusually, being higher including new vehicles for the gas & sterling and euro liabilities.
162m of this total than depreciation and also offset by lower petroleum, construction and home delivery of 308m of committed facilities was undrawn levels of asset disposals in the year.
The Groups banking facilities will require to be renewed by Acquisitions in the year led to cash outflows The Groups operating lease commitments November 2010. of some 32.4m.
in respect of land and buildings, which are determined to the first available break date The Group also has 25m of uncommitted Capital expenditure is clearly a significant after the sub-letting of properties surplus to money market facilities now in place which, cashflow item for the Group, and requirements, are substantially offset by together with the approximately 35m of considerable management focus is directed contractual commitments of customers, overdraft facilities currently available, at whether to buy or operating lease assets as are a significant proportion of the Groups give further flexibility in the day-to-day for use in supplying services to customers.
commitments in respect of vehicles and plant.
management of the net drawn down position.
Capital expenditure this year, at 42.9m, represents 130 per cent of depreciation The scale of the Group and the size of 2006 07: 92 per cent and was higher than individual operations means that the in previous years.
In recent years capital working capital position can vary significantly expenditure has run below the level of the over a monthly cycle.
Flexibility of funding, Groups depreciation charge.
based on an appropriate mix of committed and uncommitted facilities with a range of maturities, helps to reduce overall borrowing costs.
26 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 Pensions Risks This key area for the Group continued to The Group has a well-developed structure receive substantial management attention, and set of processes for identifying and not least in preparation for discussions with mitigating the key business risks it faces.
the pension fund trustees in respect of the These are described in detail in the Corporate triennial valuation as at 31 March 2008.
We governance report on page 39.
Certain of would expect the preliminary results of the these key risks are also discussed elsewhere valuation to be available in the second half in this Business review.
of the new financial year, with discussions We have invested in racking and fittings for between the Group and the trustees being The Groups ability to source new contracts, start-ups such as Screwfix.
finalised either towards the end of the new at an appropriate financial return for an financial year or early in the first half of the acceptable level of risk, represents the The Group has a mix of sterlingand eurosubsequent financial year.
principal area of commercial risk.
Both new denominated bank debt and derivatives to and existing contracts must then perform convert the US$ placement funds which The last triennial valuation in 2005 was consistently within the demanding match the currencies of the Groups assets.
finalised before the introduction of the new performance requirements of our customers.
Interest rate exposures have been limited pensions regulatory regime.
The key financial This is the Groups principal area of first with a 15m floating-to-fixed swap and and demographic assumptions on which this operational risk.
As a service business secondly by the purchase of a 100m 4.3 valuation was based are expected to give delivering high levels of added-value to our per cent cap and a 30m 6.3 per cent cap.
rise to more detailed discussion between customers, our principal human resources the trustees and the Group in respect of the risk lies in the sourcing, motivation and The central Treasury function monitors all 2008 valuation.
In preparation for these retention of sufficient numbers of quality currency and interest rate exposures and discussions the Group is currently carrying people to meet the demands of both our ensures appropriate hedge arrangements are out work in respect of critical areas such as current business and our future growth.
The Group operates sterling and euro scheme-specific mortality rates, investment pools such that surplus cash is netted against strategy, and the potential for liability Wincantons principal strategic risk is the overdrawn balances, to maximise the reduction exercises.
requirement to continue to identify sufficient efficiency of short-term liquidity.
No new areas of potential growth, both organically speculative trading is carried out and all In volatile markets there have been significant and through acquisition, to enable the Group financial instrument trades are designed to variations within the year in both the to continue to build on its strong track record meet the operational needs of the business.
accounting IAS 19 and actuarial valuations of profit growth and cash flow generation.
of the pension funds assets and liabilities.
Return on capital employed The accounting valuation has varied from an Return on capital employed is another of the opening 72.1m deficit to a 2.3m deficit at Groups key performance measures.
At the year end and has averaged approximately 31 March 2008 year end return on capital 35m through the year.
As at 12 May, the latest employed remained very high, at 50.1 per practicable date before the announcement of cent, albeit at a slightly lower level to the prior the Groups preliminary results, the accounting years 55.2 per cent.
The Groups asset light deficit was estimated at some 40m.
business model generally enables the Group to deliver significant growth without extensive There has been similar volatility in the actuarial utilisation of balance sheet capacity.
The actuarial deficit based on the 2005 assumptions, which, as Goodwill and intangibles noted above, are being actively reviewed by The three acquisitions in the year gave rise to the Group, has been as low as 30m in June an additional 27.6m of goodwill and acquired 2007, as high as 190m in March 2008 and at intangibles.
Acquired intangibles are being 12 May, as above, was estimated at 145m.
amortised over their useful lives of between 1 and 15 years and the charge of 5.5m is All deficit calculations exclude the effect of shown separately in the income statement.
deferred tax, which at current rates would serve to reduce the gross deficits above by 28 per cent.
