WhaT We Do solutions for every market Number of vehicles We have established leading positions in Automotive: We are a leader in the German some of Europes most demanding markets automotive market, working with many of through carefully managed growth and the best known manufacturers and OEMs.
a desire to exceed our customers Services include inbound component flow 6,500 expectations.
management, post-production parts and accessories warehousing and distribution, At Wincanton, we handle assignments that plus multi-modal vehicle distribution.
Number of locations range from the management of single sites and simple product flows through to complex Energy: We offer tanker services for supply chain solutions.
This can include petroleum and gases, as well as dedicated streamlining networks, optimising crossand multi-user warehousing and distribution 420 border distribution or managing domestic for packed lubricants.
In the distribution of storage and transport requirements.
We both hazardous and non-hazardous materials, help customers manage change and risk we provide JIT and guaranteed deliveries, by leveraging our capabilities in technology, packaging return and recycling, plus barrel Six of the worlds 10 largest resources and people management.
reconditioning, innovative vehicle design and pumping services.
trade flows are intra-European Our specialist skills are applied to a range of industry sectors: Industrial: Operating in a range of industries, There are 495 million consumers we provide everything from 4PL freight Food retail: We provide a wide range of management to recycling and waste disposal.
in Europe services to major food retailers across Europe, We manage multi-modal logistics for major ranging from domestic transport and storage global players in construction, steel, paper, Value of UK internet to shelf-ready packaging management and building products, mining and tool final mile logistics.
In the UK, we operate manufacturing.
sales in 2007 08 40bn consolidation networks to service grocery retail and also the Foodservice industry, Structuring our business for growth 1.3bn tonnes of waste are delivering directly to a range of pub and We are proud of our progress in recent years generated in the EU each year restaurant chains.
and recognise the need to consistently review our strategy and structure in order to meet FMCG: We are the market leader in future growth targets.
In order to strengthen automated warehousing solutions for some our core business and accelerate our growth, of the biggest European manufacturers.
we undertook a reorganisation of the business Our offering across Europe includes total in April 2008. fleet management, automated stock control, Total warehousing space Radio Data Technology systems, call centre We have streamlined the structure of our core 2 2.8 million m management and bonded warehousing.
business in the UK and Ireland to increase efficiency and promote the transfer of best General retail: Our range of rapidly practice.
In the revised structure, our existing expanding services includes reverse logistics, Manufacturing and Industrial business units product reconfiguration, bar coding, pricing, have been merged to create an enlarged security tagging, store fit-out, inbound Manufacturing business unit and our Retail logistics, container management and home business unit continues to operate prestigious delivery.
Our customer base includes garden, contracts with major high street brands.
Number of locomotives DIY and general merchandise retailers.
25 08 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 New sectors and Emerging Solutions Construction Since the acquisition of RDL in October 2006, we have further developed our offer to the building services market in the UK.
Customers have benefited from efficiencies generated by our networked shared-user approach, which is unique in this industry sector.
We have also been shortlisted for one of the 2012 Olympics contracts to provide consolidation This renewed focus on strengthening our core centres in the Greater London area.
UK operations will ensure that we maximise opportunities and continue to differentiate ourselves from our competitors through service quality.
Our business in Mainland Europe will continue to develop and implement Records management strategy on a country-specific basis.
Our Wincanton Records Management At the same time, we have recognised the business has secured key contracts with the need to support some of the newer services National Archive and the Serious Fraud Office with additional investment and resource so that during 2007 08 and continues to develop its they can realise their potential more quickly.
We have created a new business unit called range of services for the management and Emerging Solutions, which includes the niche storage of documents, records and media activities of Home Delivery: Foodservice: tapes.
A new management team in the UK Recycling: Records Management: Container Logistics and International Supply Chain.
is focusing on a strategy that we expect will see the nationwide expansion of our services.
Each will be run as an independent business area headed up by a Managing Director who will have the remit to shape strategic growth plans for this activity across the Group.
This move also enables us to offer broader Home delivery career development opportunities for our emerging talent.
Our home delivery services continue to It is our belief that this investment in our expand to meet growing consumer demand.
business and our people will act as a catalyst We have secured further business with for growth and innovation, and will cement Homebase and HSL and continue to offer our leadership position in the future.
both network and dedicated solutions.
A successful advertising campaign has led to contracts with three furniture retailers, which have helped fill our network and build our credentials in this market sector.
Recycling Our recycling business in the UK provides state-of-the-art processing of waste electronic and electrical equipment WEEE to meet the requirements of the European Directive which came into force in July 2007.
Working with retailers, compliance schemes and local authorities, it has successfully filled the plant in Billingham and plans to open a second facility in the Midlands during 2008.
09 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 DELIvERING vALUE 10 Wincanton plc Annual Report 2008 DELIvERING Our core purpose is to help our customers compete with confidence.
We achieve this through our commitment to the Wincanton Four Pillars programme, which delivers Operational Excellence, Customer Intimacy, Product Leadership and Value.
