Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 47 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the Annual General Meeting Groups audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended Notice of the 2008 AGM of the Company to be held at the 3 February 2008.
Companys Head Office at Gain Lane in Bradford on 5 June 2008 is sent to shareholders with the Annual review and summary Principal activity financial statement with an accompanying explanatory letter from The principal activity of the Group is the operation of retail the Chairman.
The Directors believe each of the resolutions to be supermarket stores and associated activities.
proposed at the AGM is in the best interests of the Group and Business review recommend shareholders to vote in favour of each of them.
The principal companies within the Morrisons Group the Group Share capital for the period under review are Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC The authorised and called up share capital of the Company, together and its principal subsidiaries as disclosed in note 32.
A fair review with details of shares allotted during the year, is shown in note 23 of of the business and its position at the period end is required to be the financial statements.
laid out in the Directors report, as well as a review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Chief Executives At the AGM of the Company held in 2007, a special resolution Business review pages 4 to 33 covers a summary of the Groups was passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held on strategy to become the food specialist for everyone, a summary of 25 May 2006 to purchase by the Company of up to 151,900,000 key performance indicators, market backdrop, review of the period ordinary shares and 282,660 preference shares representing and delivery against the Optimisation Plan and a summary of the approximately 5.7% and 10% of the issued share capital of each Corporate Social Responsibility report titled Taking Good Care.
class of shares respectively, at that time.
This authority remained The Directors are satisfied that risks to the business are identified valid on 3 February 2008.
The Company has not purchased any of and mitigated appropriately, and a summary of the most significant its own shares pursuant to that authority which will expire at the risks to the achievement of the Groups goals can be found on close of the 2008 AGM.
The developments in governance during the period are In addition, 9,294,872 ordinary shares were issued during the period covered in the Corporate governance report.
This report is to employees exercising share options.
supported by additional commentary in the Chairmans statement pages 1 and 2 and the Financial review pages 30 to 32.
Borrowing powers The Articles of Association of the Company restrict the borrowings The Directors report is prepared for the members of the Company of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to a maximum and should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
Where the Directors report including all the statements and reports mentioned above includes forward-looking statements, Substantial shareholdings these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the As at 12 March 2008, the Company was notified that the following information available to them at the time of their approval of this shareholders excluding Directors had interests in 3% or more of report.
Consequently, such statements should be treated with the issued share capital of the Company: caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic Number % of of shares holding and business risk factors, underlying such forward-looking Brandes Investment Partners LLC 244,843,478 9.2% statements and information.
Ameriprise Financial Inc 131,284,252 4.9% Result and dividend Legal & General Group Plc 108,358,823 4.0% The profit for the period after taxation amounted to 554m.
The Walter Scott & Partners Ltd 107,775,155 4.0% Directors have declared and recommended the following dividends: Zurich Financial Services 81,286,130 3.0% m In addition, Mr A R Wilson has an interest in 251,432,948 ordinary Paid interim dividend of 0.675p per share 2007: 0.625p 18 shares 9.36%, which is made up of a personal holding of 7,285 Recommended final dividend of 4.125p per share ordinary shares and 251,425,663 ordinary shares held as trustee.
2007: 3.375p 111 Details of Sir Ken Morrisons interest in shares together with details The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Annual of all other Directors interests in shares are shown on page 46.
General Meeting AGM, is to be paid on 6 June 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at close of business on Relating to beneficial owners of shares with information rights 2 May 2008.
If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, the Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the total ordinary dividend for the year will be 4.8p per share.
registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all Auditors communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, or to the Group directly.
authorise the Directors to set their remuneration is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 48 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Directors report continued Directors Payment to creditors The current Directors of the Group and their biographies are Supplier credit is an important factor in the success of the business.
The Company will, as previously acknowledged, work within the spirit and letter of the supermarkets code of practice.
The Company Sir Ken Morrison will retire on 13 March 2008 and he will be will continue with its policy to ensure all payments are made within replaced as Chairman by Sir Ian Gibson.
Where disputes arise, the Company David Hutchinson retired from the Board on 30 June 2007. attempts to sort these out promptly and amicably to ensure delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
Creditor days outstanding for Richard Pennycook aged 44 and Mark Gunter aged 49 retire the Company at 3 February 2008 were 32 2007: 27, and for the by rotation, and Sir Ian Gibson aged 61 retire at the first AGM Group creditor days were 34 2007: 31. following his appointment.
All of them have service contracts with a rolling 12 month notice period.
All of them, being eligible, offer Health and safety policy themselves for re-election at the AGM.
The Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, customers, The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the contractors and visitors to its premises.
In order to achieve this, Company and their immediate families in the shares of the Company, a comprehensive health and safety manual is in place for each along with share options, are contained in the Directors division of the Company and subsidiary companies within the remuneration report set out on pages 40 to 46.
Each health and safety manual contains the policy and At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at Work Act interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its 1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, of safe subsidiaries.
working practices for all work activities across the Group.
The Groups health and safety policy is approved by the Executive Board.
Political and charitable donations The Group has adopted the national targets set by the Health and During the period the Group made charitable donations amounting Safety Commission for the reduction of workplace accidents and to 0.1m.
In addition, the Group sponsored various charities and in work-related ill health, and is on course to meet or exceed these the year over 1.6m was raised by customers and staff.
Health and safety performance is monitored to ensure donations were made, which is Group policy.
continuous improvement in all areas.
Disclosure of information to auditors Additional shareholder information The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Pages 94 to 99 provide the additional information for shareholders Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there as required by the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are UK Law.
unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors By the order of the Board are aware of that information.
Jonathan Burke Going concern Company Secretary After reviewing the Groups funding arrangements, Optimisation 12 March 2008 Plan and other medium term plans, the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis has continued to be adopted in the preparation of the financial statements.
