10 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Our stores At the heart of Market Street is the fresh produce section.
Traditional We pride ourselves on providing our customers greengrocer methods combined with the chill-chain from lorry to shelf, with fresh food just the way they like it.
ensure that fresh produce, in the best condition, is available all day.
The greengrocer knows how to handle each product: bananas are hung and Thats why we have Market Street, where our melons are in shies to prevent bruising.
Many vegetables, such as customers will find fresh food prepared by broccoli stems, are trimmed so our customers only pay for what they want.
Our staff are on-hand to give advice and help with selecting our expertly trained staff.
From succulent roast chickens and chicken portions to --- tasty spare ribs and sausages, everything is cooked in-store and served hot from the oven.
Our customers know when our tempting range of pies are ready because well ring a bell.
A huge range of British and Continental delicacies is available --- at our deli counter, from cooked meats to olives and cheese, including locally sourced varieties of cheese in certain stores.
If our customers fancy something new, or are looking for something special, they can just ask our friendly deli staff.
They will be happy to give them a taste before they buy.
Our staff make sandwiches, salads and pizzas fresh in-store --- everyday, using ingredients from in-store.
There are up to 24 varieties of salads to choose from simple potato salad to the more exotic oriental style noodle salad.
The pizza toppings are carefully prepared by hand using the freshest in-store ingredients.
Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 11 Whilst other supermarkets have removed food preparation each of which has its own sense of personality shops within from their stores to reduce costs, and traditional tradesmen, a shop.
Each area is staffed with employees who know their such as butchers and greengrocers, are disappearing from the trade, giving the feel and service of a traditional market.
There High Street, Morrisons Market Street has more people in-store is a butcher, a fishmonger, a baker and cake shop where we make preparing more food than any other retailer.
Our supply chain fresh cakes.
There is an area selling pies and roasted meats fresh and our own manufacturing sites ensure that the food and from the oven, and an area preparing freshly assembled salads produce is offered at competitive prices.
and sandwiches, and freshly topped pizzas as well as a delicatessen full of meats and cheeses.
Here every customer Market Street, a unique retail experience, is central to Morrisons can receive advice and assistance about selecting the right food food offer, and sets us apart from other supermarkets.
All our for the right occasion be it the free range turkey, oven prepared fresh food, much of it prepared in-store, is stocked and sold at the Butchers counter for Christmas day, or the vegetables for in Market Street.
Market Street is centred around our fresh a TV chefs latest adventurous recipe.
produce section and contains a number of different areas, Packed full of freshly prepared cakes, doughnuts and all sorts of --- creamy, sticky delights, the Cake Shop is a must for people who have a sweet tooth.
And because our cakes are filled in-store throughout the day, fresh, tasty treats are available all the time that will melt in the mouth.
When we sell any of our fish, it will be filleted and prepared by --- the people who do this best, the in-store fishmongers.
They are on hand all day, every day to advise on the best buys, best choices and best ways to prepare it.
Theyll even advise on how and where every fish was caught.
At our Family Butcher customers will find a friendly real butcher, --- able to cut and prepare meat the way customers want it, when it is wanted the traditional way.
The variety of cuts we offer is larger than any other supermarket, so customers are spoilt for choice.
Nothing beats the aroma of freshly baked bread.
And thats --- exactly what our customers will experience as they approach the Bakery.
Our bakers are busy baking bread in small batches throughout the day.
This means that whenever a Morrisons loaf is purchased, itll have that just-baked freshness.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
