14 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Success at Morrisons relies on 117,000 people delivering great service to our customers each and every day.
That is why we pay so much attention to bringing the best out of our people.
Over the last year, we have worked hard to deliver a common set of values which we are now using across our business.
Our values set out what we can expect of each other and what our customers can expect of us.
To become the food specialist for everyone involves real commitment from all our employees and it means we have to tap into everybodys expertise across Morrisons from our factories to our food counters, from selecting fruit and vegetables to setting out eye-catching displays.
To do this effectively requires real understanding of how to work together and specialist skills from across the business.
We have established a core set of values Our colleagues are vital to delivering which are at the heart of how we work and help us to pull together as one team.
our success to be the food specialist for everyone demands a high level of Core values A new Group Human Resources Director joined the Group in July service and knowledge in all our stores.
2007 and led the development of our employee communication programme and the Groups values.
Working with senior employees, the results of Morrisons first climate survey were evaluated, and compared against our brand values.
This led to a series of workshops involving more than 1,000 employees, the output of which is the six core values listed opposite which support our strategy of becoming the food specialist for everyone.
The values have their roots in the culture established by Sir Ken Morrison and also reflect the views of customers and colleagues who work in the business today.
Our values are being incorporated into every aspect of our business and feature heavily in our performance management, people development and communications process.
Together, they will help sharpen our results focus and create a good place to work.
We are Morrisons Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 15 Our core values getting things done we work well together Our can do attitude means we keep things simple and to the We build trust and respect and share a common goal.
It means point, we thrive on a challenge, we get on with the job, we make we help each other out, we always keep our promises and we tell things happen and we achieve great results.
each other whats going on.
were always looking for new and better ways of doing things we love to sell and serve We listen to new ideas.
We come up with suggestions and we are We all have customers wherever we are in the business and continuously improving.
we are all here to deliver great service.
were constantly learning and were always looking we set the standard in all areas of our business to improve on where we are We pay attention to detail, we take pride in what we do, we We grow our own people, helping them progress their careers guarantee the quality of our products, we aim to waste nothing through the Company.
We are enthusiastic and we give our very and we always watch the costs so Morrisons saves money and best every time.
our customers get a great deal.
Can do One team Fresh thinking Great selling and service Bringing the best out of our people Great shopkeeping Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 16 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 We are Morrisons continued Leadership Academy the Year.
This Switching on to Switching off energy awareness We have embedded our values into a new leadership model for initiative trained more than 100,000 colleagues in energy the business.
A partnership with Bradford Business School has awareness and carbon reduction.
This helped reduce the Groups been established to accelerate the development of leaders across carbon footprint by 24,734 tonnes and reduce the Groups the business and help take Morrisons performance to the next energy use by 5%.
To support leaders in their development, we have launched Employment policies a new on-line Leadership Academy.
This is a hub for all The Groups comprehensive employment policies cover Leadership Development information, providing access to recruitment, selection, retention, remuneration, education, learning whenever and wherever our leaders need support.
As reported previously, priority Performance had been given to harmonisation of these policies throughout We have used our values to create a consistent way of focusing the Group.
Focus this year has been on implementing the performance objectives across the business.
All Senior Managers performance-based pay awards highlighted in the Remuneration have been trained in the use of this new system which links our report, the implementation of a new staff discount scheme, vision to the priorities of every Manager in the business.
and on measures that will help to improve retention in general.
Training A key initiative to harmonise our payroll processes is on track for Delivering Morrisons great shopkeeping standards relies on the completion in 2008.
Effective involvement and communications best training being delivered to all employees on a consistent during the early stages of this project has ensured its effective basis.
Last year, Morrisons delivered over 1.5 million training delivery.
This rigorous approach to training builds real expertise Employee benefits at every level in our organisation whether on a food counter In November 2007, a new staff discount scheme was introduced.
in Market Street or on the factory floor at our Farmers Boy Every employee qualifies for a 10% discount to a maximum of operation.
We believe our customers find it helpful to know 650 in any one year.
The response to this scheme proves that it that the people in Morrisons who prepare and serve their food is a very popular benefit, and gives employees and their families really know what they are talking about.
We are constantly the opportunity to enjoy the quality of product on offer and at a upgrading our skills, most recently refreshing 3,500 employees discounted price.
Our track record of excellence in training is illustrated in our award winning People Development Employee involvement programmes.
In 2007 Morrisons won the Retail Industry awards Creating a winning team relies on the involvement of everyone in for best Store Manager in the UK and the Training Initiative of the organisation.
Morrisons encourages involvement at all levels 1.5 million 3,500 managers training refreshed in training days in 2007 our Merchandising standards Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 17 through a mixture of consultative committees, forums and Growing our own people feedback groups.
For example, in our manufacturing operation, Our success in developing and involving employees in building we introduced a feedback process which gave all employees real commitment has produced a strong track record in creating the opportunity to discuss their ideas resulting in significant our own talent at Morrisons.
98% of all our Store Managers are productivity improvement on our bacon production line.
home grown which means they really know our business and the We believe that encouraging all our employees helps to ensure needs of our customers.
It is a track record we intend to build that everyone is committed to delivering great service to our on.
Our involvement and development are also helping to customers because they understand what is important.
Great reduce employee turnover and improve stability in the business.
communication is part of living our values and means we work well together across our business.
This commitment is reinforced Long service award through out Profit Share Scheme which ensures everyone feels Morrisons performance depends on the hard work and a real part of the challenges and successes in the organisation.
Recognising this, we have always placed a high value on the huge commitment that our Equal opportunities and disabilities people make.
Each year, in recognition of those employees who Equal opportunities are offered to all, regardless of race, have reached 25 years unbroken service with the Group, we colour, nationality, religion, sex, marital status, disability or age.
Many of our people begin their All applicants and employees are treated equally in respect of careers working in our stores, progressing to senior roles in the recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment Group or simply staying with us because they like the working policies and practices.
All decisions are based on merit.
The long service awards are our way of saying The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for thank you.
employment made by people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal opportunity to all disabled applicants and employees who have a disability, or who become disabled during the course of their employment.
This applies to recruitment, career development, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies and conditions.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken and, where practical, modifications are made to the work environment or business practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
1,000 10% employees consulted on discount our employees receive developing our values every time they shop with us Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
