18 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Taking good care of the planet Climate change, waste and sustainability Our three main commitments are to: reduce the Groups carbon footprint cumulatively by 36% by 2010 based on 2005 baseline, prevent waste, including halving the volume of waste to landfill and using 15% less own-brand packaging by 2010, source responsibly and sustainably, including by improving local, organic, Fairtrade and in-season ranges.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategy The CSR strategy is aligned with the Groups vision to be the food specialist for everyone and to deliver the brand values of freshness, service and value.
It is structured around the three principal areas of environment, society and business.
For each area, the relevant stakeholders have been identified and their requirements and needs are considered through engagement.
Each issue is assessed in terms of material risk or business opportunity to decide the appropriate action consistent with the Groups responsibilities.
CSR governance Championed by Chief Executive, Marc Bolland, turning CSR strategy into reality is governed by the CSR Project Team Recyclopedia comprising Board Directors and senior operational directors.
Recyclopedia is our own unique labelling scheme for own brand The CSR Project Team reports regularly to the Board and packaging, which helps to increase awareness of which packaging evaluates and identifies new initiatives, creates targets for elements can be recycled and where.
In November 2007, operational management and monitors their progress.
Each Recyclopedia won the award for Best Supermarket Recycling of the three principal areas has a cross-functional steering Initiative at the prestigious National Recycling Awards.
group chaired by a member of the CSR Project Team.
Projects The Recyclopedia guide has three easy to recognise symbols: and activities agreed by the steering groups are supported a big grin, for packaging which is 100% recyclable or home by a number of working groups and delivered by operational compostable, management as part of day-to-day business as usual.
smiling, for items which are partly recyclable or not recyclable everywhere yet, CSR report not smiling yet, for packaging which is not recyclable yet but The full CSR report is available online at www.
or by contacting the CSR Team see inside back cover.
Each symbol incorporates a speech bubble giving information about the packaging components recyclability and how to find out about local recycling facilities.
Environment T aking good care Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 19 Taking good care Taking good care as we go about of shoppers our business Work, neighbours and living Sourcing, supply and engagement Our three main commitments are to: Our three main commitments are: be an employer of choice, bringing the best out in our people, product stewardship through provenance and food authority enabling them to reach their potential and improving retention to ensure the traceability and safety of food produced and sold, and satisfaction, supply chain integrity through implementation of fair and be neighbourly, by giving to good causes and fundraising ethical trading standards and being a decent and loyal for our Charity of the Year, customer to our suppliers, help encourage a better standard of living by consistently satisfaction for all stakeholders by engaging positively and offering quality and value, improving our product ranges delivering our promises to them.
and providing useful information to customers.
Bakery apprentice programme 100% British sourcing In 2007, our Bakery Apprentice Scheme reached its tenth Support for the British Farming industry is of particular anniversary.
This highly successful programme was specially importance to us as we are closer to source than any other designed by our in-house training team to provide employees retailer.
We recognise that we share particular mutual with the craft skills required to become qualified bakers.
This commitments with the British Farming industry and we nine month, intensive course is one of the largest schemes of work hard to fulfil our stated commitment to build long its type in the country.
For up to eight months, rigorous training term partnerships with our suppliers.
and development is conducted within a store bakery production In November 2007, we were the first of the top four area, where employees learn all aspects of the bakery trade.
The supermarket chains to commit to selling 100% British fresh pork scheme also includes four one week sessions of tuition at one and lamb all year round, having met with key representatives of of four leading Craft Bakery Colleges, where apprentices receive the industry and listened to their concerns during what had been technical, theory and practical skills in a specialist environment.
a difficult time for the British farming industry.
In March 2008, Upon completion students are awarded with a nationally we reinforced our support by committing to selling only British accredited NVQ level 2 Bakery qualification.
fresh beef, whilst all of our fresh and frozen chicken has been 100% British for many years.
Society Business Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review 20 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Taking good care continued Preventing waste We have achieved 18% of our target to reduce volume of waste to landfill by 50% by 2010.
A number of packaging initiatives, including the introduction of Prepared for You packaging for foods freshly prepared in-store, have helped reduce own-brand packaging by 7%.
Customer awareness about what can be recycled has been increased through our award-winning Recyclopedia own-brand packaging labelling scheme see case study on page 18.
Our in-house active management of food Carbon footprint reduction waste delivers one of the lowest levels of waste in the food Our carbon reduction strategy includes the implementation of retail sector.
more than 100 projects aimed at reducing our carbon emissions.
During 2007, a total of 115,718 tonnes of carbon has been Sourcing responsibly saved.
Since the baseline of 2005 we have made a cumulative A range of targets including timber from recycled or certified reduction of 374,190 tonnes of carbon, which is 70% sustainable sources, fish complying with our sustainable sourcing of our target.
policy, own-brand eggs to be free range, increasing the range of Organic and Fairtrade products, and indicating the country of origin through labelling, have been met, exceeded or have made good progress.
What we include in our Carbon Footprint A significant point of difference between our Carbon Footprint and that of our competitors is that emissions from our own supply chain of manufacturing, processing and packing facilities are included.
Refrigeration Waste External Manufacturing, Transport and Stores Customers suppliers processing distribution and packing Group and facilities third party Offices Staff and business travel Carbon Boundary Environment Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 21 Employer of choice Product stewardship Our people remain at the heart of our vision and plans and we The traceability of product and ingredients is paramount for have worked with employees to clarify the important values for food safety and quality.
The successful implementation of a new our Group.
This is supported by the introduction of an online data system has increased the efficiency and detail of product Leadership Academy for our senior managers and an ongoing information that can be accessed easily.
The targets set for food communications and engagement strategy.
We continue to safety standards, assurance and responsible sourcing continue to invest significantly in training and development.
Targets are being extended to cover farm animal welfare policies, pesticide residues monitoring, and enhanced testing of Be neighbourly imported products.
We have continued to support good causes with over 577,000 donated during the year.
The 1m target set for our Charity of Supply chain integrity the Year 2007, Asthma UK, was exceeded with colleagues and In 2007, the Morrisons Ethical Trading Code was implemented customers raising 1.1m to help fund vital research projects.
with suppliers in Africa, Asia and South America and in 2008 we will be conducting an audit exercise.
Long term relationships Encourage a better standard of living with suppliers continue to be developed, built on a foundation of The good shopkeeping principles that underpin being food continuing compliance with the Supermarkets Code of Practice specialist for everyone have achieved further recognition with and the Morrisons Buyers Charter.
Customer Service and Availability Gold awards from the Grocer trade magazine.
Good progress has been made on labelling ownSatisfaction for all stakeholders brand foods with Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs.
Targets were Through active participation with specialist interest groups exceeded for increasing Eat Smart and Free From ranges, and and forums ranging from government initiatives and charitable good progress has been made in reducing salt and removing causes, to specialist CSR forums, we aim to address and meet hydrogenated fats from our own-brand products.
the needs of key stakeholders.
Fresh sustainable fish Closer to source All the fish sold on our fresh fish counters has never been frozen Operating from two Soil Association registered farms, Acorn and is sourced from 100% sustainable stocks and caught using Dairy has supplied Morrisons since 2002 with fresh organic milk.
the least environmentally harmful fishing methods.
In 2007, Initially supplying our stores in the Darlington area, for the last all of our fresh fish counters were certified under the Marine three years the dairy has supplied our own label Jersey milk Stewardship Council Chain of Custody traceability programme nationally and now Definitely Yorkshire milk to all of our stores to sell products from certified fisheries.
This certification in the North.
ensures that all stages of the supply chain, from catch to counter, are certified.
Society Business Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
