34 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Board of Directors Executive Directors 1 Sir Ken Morrison CBE 1 Sir Ken Morrison CBE 2 Marc Bolland Chairman retired 13 March 2008 3 Mark Gunter Sir Ken Morrison CBE aged 76 has been with the Group, 4 Martyn Jones which bears the name of his father, since finishing national 5 Roger Owen service in 1952 and was Chairman and Managing Director 6 Richard Pennycook from 1956 to 1997 at which time he relinquished the Managing 7 Sir Ian Gibson Directors role.
During his period in charge, the Group has grown 8 Brian Flanagan from a small market trader to one of the leading superstore 9 Paul Manduca operators in the country.
Sir Ken was awarded the CBE in 10 Susan Murray 1990 and knighted in the 2000 New Years honours list for 11 Nigel Robertson services to the food retailing industry.
He is the Chair of the Nomination Committee.
6 51 12 1 2 Marc Bolland 4 7 9 Chief Executive 8 3 10 Marc Bolland aged 49 joined the Group on 1 September 2006 as Chief Executive Officer from Heineken NV, based in the Netherlands, where he was most recently Chief Operating Officer and executive board member.
He held a number of senior roles at Heineken over the last 20 years, including having responsibility for the brand and marketing strategies.
He is also currently a Non-Executive Director of Manpower Inc. Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 35 Non-Executive Directors 3 Mark Gunter 7 Sir Ian Gibson Group Store Operations Director Deputy Chairman appointed Chairman 14 March 2008 Mark Gunter aged 49 joined the Group in 1986 as a Store Sir Ian Gibson aged 61 joined Morrisons as Non-Executive General Manager.
In 1993 he was appointed Regional Director Deputy Chairman in September 2007.
He is also Non-Executive and subsequently Stores Director in 1999.
He was appointed Chairman of Trinity Mirror PLC.
Previous Board appointments to the Board of the Group in 2000 as Store Operations Director include Chairman of BPB PLC, Deputy Chairman of Asda Group with additional responsibility for retail operations, retail fuel, PLC, and a Director of Chelys Limited, GKN PLC, Greggs Plc, retail projects and Company-wide security.
Prior to joining Northern Rock Plc, and a member of the Court of the Bank of Morrisons, he gained wide experience in UK food retailing, England.
Sir Ian enjoyed a distinguished 30-year career in the which included working at Iceland, Fine Fare, Tesco, motor industry, most recently as President of Nissan Europe.
8 Brian Flanagan 4 Martyn Jones Brian Flanagan aged 55 was appointed to the Board as a NonGroup Trading Director Executive Director in July 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Martyn Jones aged 49 joined the Group in 1990 as Trading Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is also a Manager for frozen foods before being promoted to Trading Non-Executive Director of The Financial Services Authority Operations Director in 1993.
He was appointed Grocery and Personal Navigation Systems Limited.
Previously he has Director in 1997 and then Senior Trading Director in 2002. worked for the Mars Corporation for 26 years and possesses He was appointed to the Board of the Group on 8 March 2007. a broad international business experience.
He has held senior management positions in finance, information systems, 5 Roger Owen manufacturing, purchasing and was, most recently, the global Group Property Director Vice President of Business Transformation for Mars inc. Roger Owen aged 59 has been with the Group since 1975 and was appointed Building and Services Director in 1979.
He joined 9 Paul Manduca the Board in 1987 as Property Director and has full responsibility Senior Independent Director for site acquisition, construction and estate management.
Paul Manduca aged 56 was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, 6 Richard Pennycook Nomination and Remuneration Committees and is the Chair Group Finance Director of the Audit Committee.
He is also a Director of Aon UK Richard Pennycook aged 44 joined the Group as Group Finance Limited, Development Securities PLC, JPMF European Fledgling Director in October 2005.
He is a qualified accountant and a Investment Trust Plc, JSC KazMunaiGas Exploration Production member of the Society of Turnaround Professionals.
Prior to Plc, Henderson Diversified Income plc as well as other joining the Group, he was the Group Finance Director of RAC Plc, companies.
Until recently he was the Chairman of Bridgewell the quoted specialist motoring and vehicle management company.
Prior to that, he was the Global CEO of Rothschild He has been involved as Finance Director in turnarounds of H P Asset Management Limited and a Director of Deutsche Asset Bulmer Holdings PLC, Welcome Break Holdings Ltd and Laura Management Limited.
Other previous roles include Finance Director of J D Wetherspoon plc and various senior positions in Allders plc.
10 Susan Murray Susan Murray aged 51 was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
She is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and became the Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 20 October 2005.
Currently, she is a Non-Executive Director of Compass Group plc, SSL International plc, Enterprise Inns plc, Imperial Tobacco Group Limited and Littlewoods Stores Limited.
11 Nigel Robertson Nigel Robertson aged 48 joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Most recently he was the Chief Executive Officer of Chelsea Stores Holdings Ltd.
He was previously the Managing Director of Ocado, the online grocery shopping business set up in partnership with Waitrose.
Prior to this he held senior positions in Marks and Spencer Group PLC both in the UK and USA.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
