Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 03 A tribute to Sir Ken Morrison Chairmans statement continued The Board pays tribute to Sir Ken On 13 March 2008, Sir Ken Morrison We are proud to pay tribute to Sir Ken Morrison on his retirement retired as Chairman of the Group.
from the Company after 55 years of inspirational and dedicated Sir Ian Gibson succeeded him as leadership.
During this time he has transformed Morrisons from Non-Executive Chairman.
a small, family business into the UKs fourth largest food retailer and a top five food producer, with 375 stores and 117,000 Sir Ken has accepted the position of colleagues, serving over nine million customers a week.
In this ambassadorial role, he will continue the strong An intuitive retailer, Sir Kens passion and flair were evident relationship with employees, communities from his early years, when during school holidays he could always and shoppers which has characterised his be found working in the familys market stalls and small shops.
This hands-on approach has characterised his career, throughout which he has never been happier than when out on the shop floor, taking a personal interest in ensuring customers needs are met.
Sir Ken has always had customers as his focus: not as 55 years with Morrisons a business technique, but as a lifelong part of his character, 1952 Sir Ken joins Morrisons forming his view of what Morrisons should be.
1958 First town centre shop opened Through bold and innovative leadership Sir Ken has created and built the business, from establishing the first out of town 1961 Victoria first supermarket opened self-service supermarket in Bradford, through to expansion 1967 Morrisons floated on the Northern nationwide with the acquisition and integration of Safeway, Stock Exchange which involved the biggest store conversion programme in UK retail history.
He has given Morrisons a leading edge with 1978 Morrisons moves out of Yorkshire with creative in-store features like Market Street and a unique acquisition of Whelan Discount Stores vertically integrated structure, together with a competitive 2000 Sir Ken awarded a Knighthood for offer renowned for always delivering great value for money.
services to retailing Sir Kens determination to avoid cost and waste throughout his career has underpinned the commitment to that goal.
2001 Morrisons joined the FTSE 100 Sir Ken has won the loyalty and admiration of employees throughout 2004 Morrisons acquired Safeway the business with his down-to-earth nature and belief in team- 2008 Sir Ken retires as Chairman work: and his pride in the achievements of those around him has never been more apparent than in his desire to attend each and every one of the Groups 25-year service celebrations.
Suppliers also hold Sir Ken in high regard and having always shown great empathy, he has nurtured many mutually beneficial, long-standing relationships that have seen both businesses grow together.
Under Sir Kens stewardship, Morrisons has received wide recognition from the business world, winning many awards.
His personal contribution has also been deservedly recognised on many occasions.
Having received a number of industry accolades, he was awarded the CBE in 1990 and honoured with a Knighthood in 2000 for his services to retailing.
Sir Ken is a consummate retailer and his achievements are remarkable.
His wholehearted devotion and strength of purpose over five decades have taken Morrisons from modest beginnings, to national household name.
A creator and builder with great passion and flair, his contribution to retailing has been invaluable and we owe him a great debt of gratitude for his lifes work.
We are privileged to have known and worked with Sir Ken and those following in his footsteps will cherish his legacy of success.
We wish Sir Ken a well-earned and long and happy retirement.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
