12 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Closer to source At Morrisons we believe that being close to means we take what the farmer produces and grade it and sort it ourselves, they are not left trying to offload some of their crop source is something which makes us different.
not taken up by other retailers.
Our pricing policy allows us to This is especially important in an environment price individual products so, for example, with broccoli we can where many customers are asking questions sell sizes that are often rejected by other retailers.
This means such as where does the food come from?, are the producer can sell their whole crop to us and not just those the producers being treated properly?
and that are often regarded as cosmetically preferable.
We believe how can we cut down on the resources it takes this offers producers a fairer deal.
When it comes to livestock, rather than buy finished packed cuts from a wholesaler we work directly with selected farmers and Our vertical integration had its roots in security of supply and buy those animals which we believe will give us the best cuts of a drive for value for money for our customers.
Again, our buyers will have direct relationships with our frequently used at Morrisons was why pay someone else for producers in most cases.
We source some 10-20% of our cattle something you can do yourself just as well?
In addition, there from auction as we believe this allows smaller farmers to supply were occasions where long-standing relationships may have us and it allows us flexibility of supply.
ended if Morrisons had not stepped in to take control of supplying ventures.
All of our produce and livestock comes from farms which hold a relevant quality qualification such as the Farm Assured In time this became a core part of our strategy where 80% of or Assured Produce Scheme.
In addition, we adhere to the our own label fresh food is produced from our own plants with Supermarkets Code of Conduct and have our own Buyers product and livestock most likely sourced directly from producers Charter when dealing with our suppliers.
and bought by Morrisons own buyers.
In this way we control the quality and provenance and by cutting out the middleman can From source, fresh to Morrisons deliver good value to customers.
With fresh produce we will in most cases take directly from the field to our own produce plants where we wash, grade and pack Start with the source the produce then transport it in reusable trays to our stores.
We are likely to have more direct relationships with our This can give us a real advantage in the freshness of some of our producers than other retailers and we know exactly where the produce: we can get carrots, for example, from the farm to the produce comes from.
We have some unique practices.
buyers deal directly with producers, other retailers may deal through wholesalers.
We operate whole crop purchasing which --- --- Our own buyers deal directly with the producer to either select We own our own production process for 80% of our fresh food the livestock we believe is good enough quality or to purchase ensuring that we control the freshness and the quality of what whole crops of produce which is fairer to the farmer and offers is supplied to our stores.
This is true for the vast majority of good value and good quality to our customers.
produce and meat products as well as supplying our own pre-packed bread products from our own bakeries.
By cutting out the need for any middlemen we also ensure great value.
From selection to the packhouse Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 13 We are the only retailer to buy the livestock directly then undergone a major rationalisation programme in recent years, transport the animals to our own abattoirs.
From there the significantly reducing the number of road miles travelled.
meat is supplied to our stores in primals large cuts and then Additionally, we have led the way in the introduction of cleaner cut in-store by our trained butchers.
Otherwise the meat will Euro 5 engines, with 58% of our fleet converted by the end of go to our own meat processing plants to become pies, burgers, 2007 versus the target date of 2009.
When compared to the sausages and sausage rolls.
It gives us Euro 1 standard of around 15 years ago, these engines emit both a control over our own quality and animal welfare as well around 75% less nitrogen oxides and 94% fewer particles.
as, we believe, a cost and value advantage.
In-store, vertical integration continues Bread from scratch As you will see from our section on stores, we continue the Not only do we pack our own produce and process our own meat philosophy of doing the best we can to ensure freshness, quality we also bake our own bread.
We have three bakeries across the and value by doing things ourselves when we believe this is best.
country producing 90 million loaves of bread in 2007 08.
We do We fillet our fish, cut our meat, bake fresh bread from the raw not rely on third-party bakers, we use our own recipes in our own ingredients not baked off frozen dough, finish off cakes, bake facilities to bake 90% of Morrisons own label pre-packed bread.
We source the flour from top quality mills, we dont grind that Managing the chain ourselves leads to several benefits ourselves!
We believe that to be the food specialist for everyone we need Delivered to store with our own fleet to provide fresh quality food at great value with great service.
Our own distribution network moves over 16 million cases of By being closer to source i. e. dealing directly with producers product to stores every week, delivering the freshest food daily and then managing the process ourselves means we manage in the most cost-effective manner.
Our turnaround from order to the freshness and quality and are not reliant on others.
It also supply in fresh foods is an average of 12 hours which we believe helps us manage the value: we do not have to pay for a thirdis the best in the industry: our distribution network works very partys management, marketing and sales operation, as owning closely with our own production facilities to achieve this.
the supply chain means this is not required.
In addition to all of this, we ensure that there is the minimum of transportation We have 12 distribution centres, operated by ourselves and by between sites.
In many cases our plants and distribution centres specialist providers, for example, Wincanton and Exel.
We have are next to each other, or we can transport directly from plant over 700 tractor units and around 1,800 trailers, covering up to to store therefore we aim to cut back upon food miles.
156 million kilometres per annum in delivering to our stores and collecting product from our supplier base.
Our network has --- We own and operate a very modern fleet, ensuring freshness and The doing things ourselves story continues where we make and cost control.
We manage fresh produce very tightly and we also prepare more products in-store than any other retailer with more have industry-leading turnarounds between order and delivery.
fishmongers, butchers and bakers than anyone else.
This enables us to deliver fresh product to our customers every day at great value, helping us to become the food specialist for everyone.
delivered to all our stores.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
