Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:29 Page 43 The limited power granted to the Directors at last years Annual Directors General Meeting to allot equity shares for cash other than pro Brief particulars of the Directors in office at the date of this rata to existing shareholders expires no later than 28 February report are listed on page 41.
Further details of the Board 2009.
Subject to the terms of the section 80 authority, the composition as well as the Companys procedure with regard Directors recommend Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting to the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained that this authority should be renewed so as to give them the in the Corporate governance report on page 45.
The Directors ability, until the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009, to standing for re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting issue ordinary shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing are Robert Marchbank, Stephen Webster and John Whybrow.
shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to a limit of Each Director, being eligible, offers himself for re-election and 5 per cent of the ordinary share capital issued at the date of this each, following a performance evaluation by the Non Executive report.
The Directors currently have no intention to issue ordinary Directors during the year, continues to be considered by the shares, other than pursuant to the Companys employee share Board to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his schemes and any share dividend alternatives.
recommend that you vote in favour of Resolutions 8 and 9 to maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, Directors interests in shares including any issues to finance business opportunities should appropriate circumstances arise.
The interests of the Directors in office at 31 July 2008, and of their families, in the ordinary shares of the Company at the A Special Resolution will also be proposed Resolution 10 in the following dates were: Notice of Meeting to renew the Directors limited authority last 31 July 2008 1 August 2007 granted in 2007 to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares G Davis 10,664 10,664 in the market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of A J Duff 7,006 7,006 66,198,659 ordinary shares being 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital at the date of this report and also sets the C A S Hornsby 89,323 68,366 minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
This authority R H Marchbank 29,101 26,760 will enable the Directors to continue to respond promptly should J I K Murray 10,000 7,000 circumstances arise in which they consider such a purchase F W Roach 42,420 36,898 would result in an increase in earnings per share and would N M Stein 10,500 6,500 be in the best interests of the Company.
S P Webster 60,784 55,535 J W Whybrow 85,284 70,284 The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 allow shares purchased by the Company There were no changes to the shareholdings of those Directors to be held as treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for in office at the date of this report.
cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The Company holds no shares in treasury but the Directors currently intend that any shares which are purchased will be held Donations in treasury.
The authorities to be sought by each of Resolutions 9 The Groups charitable donations in 2008 totalled 1,591,000 and 10 are intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the 2007: 2,019,500.
Company as treasury shares and to the sale of treasury shares.
The Directors consider it desirable for these general authorities At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, to be available to provide flexibility in the management of the shareholders have passed a resolution, on a precautionary Companys capital resources.
basis, to approve donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure as such terms are defined in CREST section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 as amended and sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement has repeatedly confirmed that it operates a policy of not giving system for stocks and shares.
any cash contribution to any political party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention of changing Substantial share interests that policy.
The Directors propose to seek, once more, authority At 31 July 2008 and, unless otherwise stated, at the date of this for the Group to make political donations and or incur political report the Company had received notification of the following expenditure in respect of each of the heads identified in material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and Resolution 11 in the Notice of Meeting in amounts not exceeding Transparency Rules: 125,000 in a total aggregate, which they might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the terms of the Number of Percentage of Companies Act 2006 and which would not amount to shares held issued voting donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
The authority Name millions share capital sought by Resolution 11 in the Notice of Meeting will last until Capital Research and Management the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
Company 33.51 5.064 UBS Global Asset Management Traditional 33.30 5.033 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 26.88 4.065 Capital Group International, Inc. 21.58 3.261 Silchester International Investors Limited 20.15 3.046 Barclays plc 17.97 3.020 On 16 September 2008, Capital Group International, Inc. notified the Company that their material shareholding had fallen below 3 per cent.
Report of the Directors 43 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:29 Page 44 Report of the Directors For the year ended 31 July 2008 Permanent UK employees are invited to join the Companys Creditor payment policy pension arrangements which include both defined contribution All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and and defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal UK scheme conditions of trading with their suppliers.
It is the Groups policy has one corporate and two individual trustees.
The chairman of that payments to suppliers are made within agreed terms and the trustees is David Tucker and, save for an independent trustee, are, where applicable, consistent with the UK Governmentall of the other trustees and trustee directors are UK-based backed Better Payment Practice Code.
Copies of this Code employees or former employees of the Group.
The other main can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the Companys UK scheme provides benefits for employees of the William Wilson registered office.
At 31 July 2008, the Company had no trade Group, which has, with effect from July 2008, three membercreditors 2007: nil.
The amount of trade creditors for the Group nominated trustees and three Company-nominated trustees.
as at 31 July 2008 was equivalent to 58 days 2007: 59 days The chairman of the trustees is Ian Percy CBE and all of the other of trade purchases.
trustees are UK-based employees of the William Wilson Group or of the Company.
Permanent employees outside the UK are offered Auditors and audit information membership of their employing companies pension arrangements.
 LLP are willing to continue as auditors of the Company and Resolution 6 in the Notice of Meeting Employees are offered a range of benefits depending on their local environment and are encouraged to become shareholders in the concerning their reappointment, and Resolution 7 concerning the determination of their remuneration, are to be proposed at Company, where possible, through participation in the Companys the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors in office at the date of this report confirm that, so Employment policies far as they are each aware, in respect of the consolidated financial The Group remains committed to equality of opportunity in all statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2008, there is no of its employment practices.
It is Group policy that the selection relevant audit information of which  LLP of employees for training, development and promotion should be are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that ought determined solely on their skills, attributes and other requirements to have been taken as a Director to be aware, in respect of the which are relevant to the job and which are in accordance with consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended the laws of the country concerned.
Priority is given to the training 31 July 2008, of any relevant audit information and to establish of employees and the development of their skills is of prime that  LLP are aware of that information.
Employment of disabled people is considered on merit with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out Employee communication and involvement the function required.
Arrangements to enable disabled people The Group places particular importance on involving its to carry out the function required will be made if it is reasonable employees: keeping them regularly informed through informal to do so.
An employee becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered retraining.
The Group continues to operate bulletins, such as its management magazine Directions and on a largely decentralised basis: this provides encouragement for other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys intranet, on matters affecting them as employees and on the the development of entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous issues affecting their performance.
A European Works Council control framework exercised by a small head office team.
Local management is responsible for maintaining high standards EWC has been operating since 1996 to provide a forum for of health and safety and for ensuring that there is appropriate informing and consulting Europe-based employees on such matters as significant developments in the Groups operations, employee involvement in decision making.
managements plans and expectations, organisational changes within the Group and also for employee representatives to consult Group management about concerns over any aspect of the Groups operations.
At the date of this report, there were 27 EWC representatives of which 21 were employee representatives and six were management representatives.
Employee representatives are appointed from each European country in which Wolseley operates, with more than one employee representative appointed from the UK, France and Denmark.
44 Report of the Directors Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Our business Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information WO40011 R&A 42-124 3 10 08 14:29 Page 45 Corporate governance report Including the report of the Audit Committee Compliance with the Combined Code Board procedures and responsibilities The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate A 12-month rolling programme of items for discussion by the governance and recognises that it is accountable to the Board is prepared to ensure that all matters reserved and other Companys shareholders for good governance.
The principal key issues are considered at appropriate times.
The Board governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the met 10 times during the year and Director attendance for London Stock Exchange are contained in the Combined Code each meeting is shown in the table on page 48.
Together with on Corporate Governance the Code, adopted by the Financial the Group Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, the Reporting Council www.
uk corporate and published in Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly informed June 2006.
The Code was most recently revised in June 2008 and is consulted on all matters reserved to it.
Board papers Revised Code and the Company is already in a position to and other information are delivered at times to allow Directors comply with this Revised Code.
This report, together with the to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
Report of the Directors and the Remuneration report, describes how the Board applied the principles of good governance, The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed as contained in section 1 of the Code, and seeks to demonstrate necessary, to take independent professional advice at the how the principles of good governance have been applied, and Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is continue to be applied, during the year under review.
in addition to the direct access that every Director has to the Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate governance The Board and compliance is implemented throughout the Group.
The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time critical business needs.
The Following their appointment, formal comprehensive and tailored Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership, induction is offered to all Directors.
This is supplemented by necessary to enable the Groups business objectives to be met, meetings, as required, with major shareholders, visits to key and to review the overall strategic development of the Group as locations within the Group and meetings with members of the a whole.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its Executive Committee and other key senior executives.
Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the between the Non Executive Directors, both with and without Executive Committee, as referred to on page 46. the presence of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the Boards annual timetable.
The Board Board composition has also arranged to hold at least two Board meetings each year at divisional locations to help all Board members gain a As at 31 July 2008, the Board of Directors was made up of nine deeper understanding of the business, whilst also providing members consisting of the Chairman, four Executive Directors and senior managers from across the Group the opportunity to four Non Executive Directors.
The Chairman and the Non Executive present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more Directors are each considered by the Board to be independent of informal occasions.
management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The During the year the Non Executive Directors reviewed the Board considers that each of the Non Executive Directors brings performance of both the Chairman and the Group Chief his own senior level of experience and expertise.
Biographical Executive and, together with the Chairman and the Group Chief details of the Directors currently in office are shown on page 41.
Executive, reviewed the performance of each of the Executive The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and Directors.
A full evaluation of the Boards performance will be the remuneration of both the Executive and Non Executive carried out during 2008.
The Chairman has confirmed that Directors is detailed in the Remuneration report on pages 51 and should any Director have any concerns or observations which 52.
The distinct roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are they wished to raise, these should be notified to him directly or acknowledged and set out in writing.
The Chairman has confirmed to the Company Secretary, to be addressed appropriately.
The that he would not chair any other major companys board of Chairman has further confirmed there were no items which had directors.
Gareth Davis is the Companys Senior Independent been brought to his attention during the year.
Director and is available to shareholders where communication through the Chairman or the Executive Directors would not be As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors appropriate.
Robert Walker stepped down from the Board as a are encouraged to take up an external non-executive position Non Executive Director on 31 October 2007.
The Nominations on the board of a non-competitor company, for which they Committee, and the Board as a whole, considers succession may retain payments received in respect of such appointment.
planning and the appropriate composition of the Board.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to the Boards approval and, generally, outside The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third of appointments for Executive Directors are limited to one the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director company board.
The Board monitors the extent of Directors will seek re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the Board Meeting at least once every three years.
Additionally, new is not compromised.
Details of external directorships and the Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first fees retained are shown on page 58. opportunity after their appointment.
It is Board policy that Non Executive Directors are normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is then reviewed and extended for up to a further two three-year periods.
It is also Board policy that Non Executive Directors should not generally serve on the Board for more than nine years and that, in cases where it is proposed to exceed this period, the Director concerned will retire annually and offer himself for re-election.
Details of the Directors seeking re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting are given in the Notice of Meeting.
Corporate governance report 45 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
