How we behave Directors report Once again, this year the Directors report includes reviews from the chairmen of three Board committees: Philip Lader, as chairman of the Company and its Nomination Committee: Paul Spencer, as chairman of the Audit Committee: and Jeffrey Rosen, as chairman of the Compensation Committee.
It also contains an analysis of the Companys compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Review of the Companys governance and the Nomination Committee Dear share owner record year for your Company, 2008, in many ways: but in these times, WPPs directors have had little inclination or time to reflect A on past achievements.
Current worldwide economic conditions underscore the Group chief executives and Jeremy Bullmores assertions earlier in this Annual Report that this period wont be tidy.
rigorous, common-sense corporate governance modeled on the continuing evolution of best practices, particularly in risk management: vigilant stewardship of WPPs considerable assets, tangible and intangible: and intense assessment and review of finance, industry, and operations indicators, as well as managements strategic initiatives and standards of creative services.
These practices contributed, in part, to 2008s record billings, record revenues and record operating profit.
One measure of your Boards commitment is that we met, as a full Board or in committees, 39 times in 2008, in addition to far more frequent informal contacts between directors, senior management, operating company leaders, professional advisors and share owners, among others.
Especially noteworthy among the past years tasks and issues were: evaluating and approving the acquisitions of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and other companies which enhance our strategic position and provide attractive returns on investment: monitoring the integration and performance of prior additions to our diverse portfolio of complementary companies: WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 107 How we behave Directors report attending to the details of Jersey statutory requirements and the Groups re-domicile in Ireland, which was authorized by share owners overwhelming support: consulting with management on the Groups response to rapidly-changing general economic conditions, with particular focus on the most important income statement and balance sheet issues: increasing our understanding of new media and relatively new geographic markets which are transforming the global communications and marketing services industry in which the Group competes: devoting special attention to developments in interactive media, including a Board meeting in Silicon Valley with briefings by founders of major businesses in that arena: meeting face-to-face, through formal presentations and informal discussions, with more than 100 WPP business leaders, including the CEOs of the Groups principal brands, as well as with clients, government officials and executives of relevant companies: managing a performance-driven remuneration program that allows the Group to attract, motivate and retain the talented people upon whom our success depends: one Report by Philip Lader above which closely aligns their interests with those of share Chairman of the Company owners and optimizes the budgetary flexibility of variable and chairman of the Nomination Committee personnel costs: reviewing and approving financial statements, critical accounting policies upon which they are based, and supporting systems of reporting and internal controls: and for each of the Groups major operating companies, focusing on their key people, major clients and principal competitors through a detailed Brand Check, at every Board meeting, that measures performance, anticipates events, and gauges risk.
This level of Board attention, we believe, is appropriate to WPPs global breadth, functional scope, and complexity, especially amidst heightened standards of corporate governance, rapidly-changing economic conditions and the transformational strategic opportunities and threats to which your Company is responding.
Among the Boards most critical responsibilities is planning for the succession of the Group chief executive and other key executives.
These individuals skills, resourcefulness and dedication are particularly critical to WPP, a business built on creativity.
The entire Board therefore devoted extensive time to this subject in 2008, as we have for the past six years.
Two separate Board meetings occasioned all non-executive directors discussion of backgrounds, performance, development opportunities and potential roles for approximately 200 senior managers and rising stars of the parent and operating companies.
For each such position, potential candidates were identified.
108 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How we behave Directors report Not coincidentally, the Groups structure and devolution helped us focus on what was practicable, what would of responsibilities to leaders of each of our tribes as well best serve the share owners interests, what was right as the fact that some of these businesses, if independent, and honorable.
would rank among our industrys largest provide extensive Renewal is important for any Board, nonetheless: and senior management experience to several dozen WPP while valuing the experience of long-term service, we have executives, some of whom could readily undertake parent sought to recruit to your Board and its committees new company roles.
directors with considerably different professional, regional The most comprehensive of these reviews was directed to and generational perspectives.
To this end, during 2008, the Group chief executives position.
From the internal field Esther Dyson and Lubna Olayan were appointed as of proven talent and a range of potential external candidates, members of the Nomination Committee: and following the non-executive directors and the Group chief executive David Komanskys retirement, Orit Gadiesh also joined exchanged views in a totally frank, highly specific manner that committee.
At that time, Bud Morten, having about the candidates best qualified to succeed him.
After overseen the successful implementation of Sarbanes-Oxley that session, on several other structured occasions and at compliance, stepped down from the Audit Committee other times, the non-executive directors, in the absence of and was replaced by Timothy Shriver, who in his second the Group chief executive, further discussed the succession year on this Board brings a fresh view, demonstrated candidates and process.
We continue to believe strongly, commitment to corporate social responsibility, and however, that lest public discussion of this subject foster considerable other skills to that committee.
speculation and distraction the content of these ongoing These changes in the Audit and Nomination Committees deliberations should remain strictly confidential.
membership, implementation of new rules governing the As to the Boards own performance, as well as the disclosure and approval of directors , contributions of individual directors, Board committees, revision of committee terms of reference, and the previously and the chairman, we undertook, once again in 2008, mentioned Board self-evaluation and succession planning a rigorous self-evaluation.
All directors completed a illustrate the 2008 work of the Nomination Committee, confidential questionnaire in this regard and identified which I also chair.
Members converse regularly and opportunities for improvement.
The full committee and, by invitation, with were then held between each director and either the the participation, in whole or in part, of the Group chief chairman or the senior independent director, who executive, the Company Secretary, the senior independent also led the non-executive directors assessment of my director, and the Group chief counsel meets as required to performance as chairman.
Based on this process, we monitor this agenda, to assess the Boards composition, and continued our tradition of implementing changes to to consider potential new members, identified from a variety enhance the Boards performance of its responsibilities.
of both internal and external sources.
Your Board is comprised of independent-minded men Committed to rigorous standards of corporate and women from Europe, the US, Asia and the Middle governance, the Board seeks to comply with the Combined East with broad international experience, from academia, Code on Corporate Governance: and in the Boards opinion, Wall Street and the City of London, management consulting, the Company has done so throughout the financial year advertising and internet start-ups, consumer-products and ended 31 December 2008.
Moreover, WPP Group plc and its manufacturing industries, government and non-profit successor, WPP plc, follow NASDAQs rules, have devoted organizations.
The comparatively long tenure of several extensive time and resources to ensure compliance with the directors, in our judgment, has been instrumental to the US Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, and, where practicable, Boards in-depth understanding of our unusually complex, seek to comply with guidelines issued by institutional global enterprise.
Newcomers and long-serving directors investors and their representative bodies.
alike challenge even our most well-tested assumptions and Several of these entities express the view that directors iconic executives.
who have served for more than nine years should no longer We regretted that, after six years of service, David be considered independent: nor, by definition, should the Komansky retired from the Board in early 2009.
As I have stated before, this Board fully observations invariably were insightful and unvarnished.
understands their positions, but respectfully does not agree.
Without hesitation, he cut to the chase and brought to A worldwide enterprise of WPPs scale and range of our sessions not only compelling candor and wit, but also commercial activities benefits enormously from long-term wisdom forged by long experience in the financial services directors who are actively engaged in the Groups industry, as CEO of a major public company and from governance.
I continue to submit, on behalf of the Board, boardrooms of prominent global companies.
He always that independence should be determined not by such an WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 109 How we behave Directors report arbitrary standard as tenure, but on a case-by-case basis, Responsibilities of major public companies non-executive with full disclosure to share owners of any appearance of directors have increased substantially in the past decade.
Packs of WPP reading materials are distributed near-weekly: Any share owner who could observe the contributions of few days pass without substantive communications among our senior independent director, Bud Morten, for example, your non-executive directors: fewer days still, between senior would attest that his experience, judgment and commitment managements and our BlackBerrys messages.
Consequently, of time constitute an invaluable asset of the Group.
Only I am immensely grateful for the prompt attention and such a dedicated veteran can routinely comprehend conscientious efforts of my colleagues, as well as those at important implications and connections in WPPs worldwide WPP who directly support the Boards work and the very operations.
Regularly provocative challenges to opinions able professionals who meet the seemingly endless legal, and assumptions expressed in Board presentations would regulatory, tax, accounting and administrative demands of be welcome only from a respected colleague with such a more than 100 jurisdictions and 2,400 offices.
longstanding record of diligence and discernment.
Bud will, Share owners, of which management is a significant part, at some point, elect to devote less time to the Group, and our understandably, will not have been pleased by most of their Board will then appoint a new senior independent director.
investments performance in this economic climate.
With the Until then, my fellow directors and I appreciate the extent indiscriminate collapse in stock markets around the globe, to which his efforts exceed customary board workloads WPPs share price declined significantly, notwithstanding and reiterate our conviction that share owners are well the Companys record achievements in 2008.
To continue to served by his genuine independence.
We continue to require, create value, our Company must serve each client creatively, nevertheless, that non-executive directors who have served must compete effectively every day.
For that commitment, on the Board for nine years or more submit themselves for the Board thanks each and every one of the Groups 135,000 re-election annually.
It is with their imaginations, The Board does not view my position as non-executive hours, tenacity and dedication that WPP intends to generate chairman as compromising my independence.
It is their superior returns for its share owners, however untidy considered judgment one they formally review on an these times may be.
annual basis that such continued service, as well as my We who serve on WPPs Board appreciate our fellow chairmanship of the Nomination Committee and share owners trust in our stewardship of your interests.
membership on the Compensation Committee, help ensure continuity and coordination of related Board matters.
Philip Lader 14 April 2009 110 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008
