How were doing Healthcare Communications ghg today.
A second outstanding win came in the fourth quarter when we were named Professional Agency-of-Record for Colgate Palmolive Oral Care Worldwide.
ghg also increased Report by Lynn OConnor Vos below its US business with Novartis, Boehringer Ingelheim, President and chief executive Essilor and Den-Mat, while Catalyst online, a leading search optimization company and now part of GroupM, grew at a double-digit rate.
ghg Paris and ghg Cologne won assignments from Merck for Gardasil, Colgate, Pfizer and Novartis.
WG Consulting, the premier market access strategies company, won assignments from three of the top five healthcare companies in Europe.
The team was also awarded preferred supplier for the Department of Health in the UK being quoted by the Minister of Health as a known and trusted partner.
We expanded our digital suite of technology companies with the acquisition of Osprey Communications, a leading healthcare technology and interactive solutions agency.
This investment strengthens our capabilities in a rapidly growing marketing sector, and gives us the opportunity to digitize medical education.
In addition, IMsci, in partnership with Osprey, created breakthrough medical education platforms for Novartis and Ciba, among others.
BrandEdge, our specialty marketing consulting division, experienced double-digit growth.
The company continues long-standing relationships with Calpis USA and Siemens Medical Solutions.
New business wins included Bayer Scherings Yaz franchise, Melafind, a novel, hand-held imaging device that detects suspicious pigmented skin lesions, and Omnicare, to reposition the companys messaging for their Purchasing and Technology Software groups.
Vogel-Farina, the specialty oncology agency had a fantastic year, experiencing double-digit growth in 2008 and winning new projects from Novartis, Forest Laboratories, Tolerx, Acceleron Pharma, Abbott, Novartis, Genzyme and In 2008, ghg proved itself resilient and steadfast in its Cell Therapeutics Inc.
The agency received the Rx Club commitment to provide clients with big ideas, access to the Award of Excellence in the mixed media campaign, direct best services and innovative campaigns.
In spite of a very mail, and premiums promotions categories.
difficult year, the company succeeded in realizing some ghg remained a leader in its recognition for our creative breakthrough wins, achieving double-digit growth in several work around the world.
Accolades included the Cine Golden areas branding, marketing consulting, search and digital, Eagle for medical animation: an award from the Association as well as expanding our scope of work.
of Medical Illustrators AMI for vaccine solutions: a Manny ghg made strategic infrastructure changes and award for best consumer website on behalf of Essilor: four acquisitions, and effectively incorporated digital thinking silver Davey awards for work with Calpis, Siemens into our portfolio of products and services to continue Healthcare Diagnostics, Astellas Pharma and Strativa driving digital performance to a new level.
Our allPharmaceuticals: and best PSA from MM&M for pro bono encompassing practice includes professional marketing, work done on behalf of the Helen Keller Foundation.
ghg consumer marketing, digital marketing, global branding, Paris won a Fragonard Trophy for best ads in animal health, sales solutions, access strategy, scientific visualization and and ghg Germany was recognized with a Comprix award for medical education.
One of the most significant accomplishments was the win, In 2008 we began to diversify our client mix, which in partnership with sister WPP companies, of a significant ranges from OTC and traditional pharmaceutical to dental, portion of the J&J pharmaceutical brands portfolio.
oncology and animal health and, as a result, the company The win was based on a unique integrated model that has a healthy outlook for 2009.
This diversity and an addresses the need for change in the healthcare industry integrated structure has significantly decreased our exposure WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 69
