Who runs WPP Non-executive chairman Board of Directors Philip Lader Chairman of the Nomination Committee Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 63 Member of the Compensation Committee Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Executive directors Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, he previously served in several senior executive roles in the Sir Martin Sorrell US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Chief executive Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before Paul Richardson entering government service, he was executive vice president Finance director of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths US Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee holdings and president of both a prominent American real Mark Read estate company and universities in the US and Australia.
Strategy director A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley, Chief executive, WPP Digital a director of Lloyds of London, a director of RAND, Marathon Oil, Rusal, AES Corporations and Songbird Estates plc Canary Non-executive directors Wharf, a trustee of the Smithsonian Museum of American History and the Atlantic Council and a member of the Council Colin Day Member of the Audit Committee on Foreign Relations.
Esther Dyson Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 64 Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination Committee Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, becoming Orit Gadiesh Group chief executive in the same year.
He is a non-executive Member of the Nomination Committee director of Formula One msorrell@wpp.
com David Komansky retired 6 February 2009 Christopher Mackenzie retired 24 June 2008 Paul Richardson Finance director Age 51 Stanley Bud Morten Senior independent director Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in Koichiro Naganuma 1996 after four years with the Company as director of treasury.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in Lubna Olayan Member of the Nomination Committee finance, information technology, procurement, property, treasury, taxation, internal audit and corporate responsibility.
John Quelch He is also the Country Manager for Italy.
Jeffrey Rosen He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Association Chairman of the Compensation Committee of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a non-executive director of Member of the Audit Committee CEVA Group plc, Chime Communications PLC and STW Timothy Shriver Communications Group Limited in Australia, the last two being Member of the Audit Committee companies associated with the Group prichardson@wpp.
com Paul Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee Mark Read Strategy director and CEO, WPP Digital Age 42 Members of the Advisory Board Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has been WPPs director of strategy since 2002 and is also chief Jeremy Bullmore executive of WPP Digital.
He is a member of the Supervisory John Jackson Board of HighCo and a director of CHI & Partners.
He worked at WPP between 1989 and 1995 in both parent Company Secretary company and operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining WPP in 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy firm of Marie Capes Booz-Allen & Hamilton and founded and developed the company WebRewards in the UK mread@wpp.
com 102 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Colin Day Non-executive director Age 54 David H. Komansky Non-executive director Age 69 Colin Day was appointed a director in July 2005.
He is David Komansky was appointed a director in January group finance director of Reckitt Benckiser plc, having 2003 and retired on 6 February 2009.
He was chairman been appointed to its board in September 2000 and became of the Board of Merrill Lynch & Co, Inc, serving until his a non-executive director of Cadbury plc in December 2008. retirement on 28 April 2003.
He served as chief executive Prior to joining Reckitt Benckiser, he was group finance officer from 1996 to 2002, having begun his career at director of Aegis Group plc and previously held a number Merrill Lynch in 1968. of senior finance positions with ABB Group plc and fide La Among many professional affiliations, he serves as Rue Group plc.
He was a non-executive director of Imperial a director of Black Rock, Inc. and as a member of the Tobacco plc until February 2007 and of easyJet plc until International Advisory Board of the British American 30 September 2005. Business Council.
Active in many civic and charitable organisations, he serves on the Board of the New York Esther Dyson Non-executive director Age 57 Presbyterian Hospital.
Esther Dyson was appointed a director in 1999.
In 2004 she Christopher Mackenzie Non-executive director Age 54 sold her company, EDventure Holdings, to CNET Networks, the US-based interactive media company.
She left CNET at Christopher Mackenzie was appointed a director in 2000 the end of 2006 and now operates as an independent investor and did not seek re-election at the AGM on 24 June 2008. and writer, again under the name of EDventure.
She has He is chairman and chief executive of Equilibrium Group, been highly influential for the past 20 years on the basis a London-based investor group and executive chairman of her insights into online information technology markets of Borets, a leading international oil services group.
He is and their social impact worldwide, including the emerging also a board member of the Abdul Latif Jameel Group and markets of Central and Eastern Europe and Asia.
KazMunaiGas Exploration and Production JSC.
He is a An active investor as well as an analyst observer, she member of Merrill Lynchs Global Advisory Board.
He served participated in the sale of Flickr to Yahoo!
and of Medstory as the chief executive of Brunswick Capital in Russia, the to Microsoft.
She sits on the boards of non-listed start-ups president and chief executive officer of Trizec Properties including Boxbe US, Evernote US, 23andMe US, and as the president of GE Capital Europe.
US, NewspaperDirect Canada, CVO Group Hungary, Voxiva Stanley Bud Morten Non-executive director Age 65 US and Yandex Russia.
She sat on the consumer advisory board of Orbitz until its sale to Cendant.
She is also active Bud Morten was appointed a director in 1991.
He is in public affairs and was founding chairman of ICANN, a consultant and private investor.
He is currently the the domain name policy agency, from 1998 to 2000.
Independent Consultant to Citigroup Smith Barney with She currently sits on the board of the Sunlight Foundation, responsibility for its independent research requirements and which advocates transparency in government.
is one of the five public members of the Investment Advisory Council of the State of Connecticut.
Orit Gadiesh Non-executive director Age 58 Previously he was the chief operating officer of Punk, Ziegel & Co, a New York investment banking firm with Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April 2004.
She is a focus on the healthcare and technology industries.
Before chairman of Bain & Company, Inc. and a world-renowned that he was the managing director of the equity division expert on management and corporate strategy.
She holds an of Wertheim Schroder & Co, Inc. in New York.
He is a MBA from Harvard Business School and was a Baker Scholar.
former non-executive director of Register.
com, which She is a member of the International Advisory Board at was sold to a private equity firm in November 2005.
Haute Ecole Commerciale in France, as well as a member of He is also a non-executive director of The Motley Fool, the Foundation Board for the World Economic Forum and Inc. a private company.
the Board of Directors of The Peres Institute for Peace.
She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a trustee for Eisenhower Fellowships and a member of the Business Committee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 103 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Koichiro Naganuma Non-executive director Age 64 Jeffrey A. Rosen Non-executive director Age 61 Koichiro Naganuma was appointed a director in February Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director in December 2004.
He is president and group chief executive officer of He is a deputy chairman and managing director of Lazard.
Asatsu-DK, also known as ADK.
Joining the agency in 1981, He has over 30 years experience in international investment he began his career with the account service of global clients banking and corporate finance.
He is a member of the in the agency.
His mandate thereafter expanded to the total Council on Foreign Relations and is President of the Board operation of the group.
of Trustees of the International Center of Photography in He replaced ADK chairman Masao Inagaki on the New York.
ADK is Japans third largest advertising and communications company and ninth largest in the world.
Timothy Tim Shriver Non-executive director Age 49 Lubna Olayan Non-executive director Age 53 Tim Shriver was appointed a director in August 2007.
He is Chairman and CEO of Special Olympics, serving over three Lubna Olayan was appointed a director in March 2005. million Special Olympic athletes and their families in 180 Ms Olayan is the deputy chairman and chief executive officer countries.
In recent years, he has produced films for Disney, of the Olayan Financing Company, a subsidiary and the holding Dream Works, Fox Searchlight and Hallmark Hall of Fame.
entity for the Olayan Groups operations in the Kingdom Since January 2007 he has been writing a column for of Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.
Ms Olayan is a Board Member of Saudi Hollandi Bank, He co-founded the Collaborative for Academic, Social a publicly listed company in Saudi Arabia.
She is on the and Emotional Learning CASEL and currently chairs the International Advisory Board of the Council on Foreign CASEL Board.
He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a member of the Board of Directors of INSEAD Relations and is also a non-executive director of Malaria and a member of the Board of Trustees of Cornell University No More, Neogenix Oncology, and he is the founder and and KAUST King Abdullah University of Science & President of the Center for Interface Action on Global Technology.
Ms Olayan joined the International Advisory Poverty.
He serves on the advisory committee of Main Board of Rolls-Royce in October 2006.
Street Advisors and Leeds Equity.
John Quelch Non-executive director Age 57 Paul Spencer Non-executive director Age 59 John Quelch was appointed a director in 1988.
He is Senior Paul Spencer was appointed a director in April 2004.
Associate Dean and Lincoln Filene Professor of Business He is a financier, with 20 years experience in the financial Administration at Harvard Business School.
Between 1998 management of a number of blue chip companies, including and 2001 he was Dean of the London Business School.
He British Leyland PLC, Rolls-Royce PLC, Hanson PLC and also serves as chairman of the Massachusetts Port Authority.
Professor Quelchs writings focus on global business He served as UK chief executive of Royal & Sun Alliance practice in emerging as well as developed markets, PLC between 1999 and 2002 and the chairman of State international marketing and the role of the multinational Street Managed Pension Funds Ltd.
He is also chairman corporation and the nation state.
He is a non-executive of the Association of Corporate Treasurers Advisory Board, director of Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. and Pepsi NS&I National Savings, the UK government-owned retail Bottling Group Inc.
He served previously on the boards of savings institution, and Sovereign Reversions Group plc.
Blue Circle Industries plc, easyJet plc, Pentland Group plc He is also a non-executive director of TR Property and Reebok International Limited.
Investment Trust plc and Nipponkoa Insurance Europe Limited and Independent Trustee of the Rolls Royce Group and BAT Group pension funds.
Paul is a governor of Motability, a UK charity for the disabled.
