How we behave Directors report Review of the Audit Committee or for certain categories of work, are delegated to the director of internal audit for pre-approval.
All fees are Report by Paul Spencer summarised periodically for the committee to assess Chairman of the Audit Committee the aggregate value of non-audit fees against audit fees.
The level of fees for 2008 is shown in note 3 on page 152.
Other work carried out by the committee in Dear share owner 2008 included: monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial uring 2008, Bud Morten, Jeffrey Rosen and Colin statements and reviewing significant financial Day were my colleagues on the committee.
Tim reporting judgments: D Shriver joined the committee on 12 February 2009 reviewing internal financial control and internal and Bud Morten stepped down at the same date.
audit activities: We held eight meetings this year, which were also assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in respect attended by invitation for all or part of any meeting by the of reviewing and reporting on the systems and key elements external auditors, the Companys chairman, the Group of risk management as they affect the Group: finance director, the director of internal audit, the Group the review and appointment of the external auditors and chief counsel and the Company Secretary.
Preparatory approval of their remuneration and terms of engagement: meetings were also held with the internal and external monitoring the external auditors independence, auditors as well as members of the Companys senior objectivity and effectiveness: management.
The committee received presentations from the reviewing the Group Treasury policy with particular heads of Treasury and Legal.
The committee also received focus on debtors, funding and the continued ability of reports from the Disclosure Committee in relation to the the Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Disclosure Committees review and work on financial financial statements: reports.
The Board received regular reports on all matters of reviewing reports on any material litigation involving particular significance arising at the committee meetings.
Group companies: The committees terms of reference, which are reviewed reviewing any significant mergers and acquisitions and with the Board annually and were updated at the time of debt financing by the Group including the acquisition of the Scheme of Arrangement in October 2008, are available Taylor Nelson Sofres plc in the preliminary stages before for inspection on the Companys website at www.
com a full Board review: and are on display prior to and at all general meetings of reviewing the Groups pension obligations: the Company.
monitoring the accounting and legal reporting During the year, the committee and its members were requirements, including all relevant regulations of the formally assessed by the chairman of the Company for their UK Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ and the Jersey technical suitability to be members of the committee and also Financial Services Commission with which the Company for the committees overall effectiveness.
The Board has must comply: designated me as the committees financial expert for Sarbanesin conjunction with Paul Richardson, the director Oxley Act SOX purposes and as having recent and relevant responsible for corporate responsibility in 2008, ensuring financial experience for the purposes of the Combined Code.
systems are in place to monitor social, environmental and The committee has once again overseen the progress ethical issues which may affect the Group other than issues towards compliance with Section 404 of SOX for 2008, which fall within the remit of the Compensation Committee through regular status reports submitted by the internal and receiving reports on new initiatives being implemented and external auditors.
by the Group to reduce carbon emissions: and The committee received and reviewed regular reports maintaining established procedures for the confidential on both our Right to Speak helpline, which is made available receipt and treatment of concerns raised by our people.
to our people to enable them to communicate confidentially I would like to thank my colleagues on the committee, on matters of concern and the actions taken in response to the head office executives and the external advisors for those calls.
their help in what has been a particularly turbulent year.
The committee has established a policy regarding nonI would also like to give special thanks to Bud Morten.
audit services that may be provided by the external auditors, His knowledge, wise comments and probing questions, which prohibits certain categories of work in line with coupled with his support to me, have been invaluable to relevant guidance on independence, such as ethical standards the committee and the Company.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board and SOX.
Other categories of work may be provided by the auditors if it is Paul Spencer appropriate for them to do so.
The provision of such services 14 April 2009 and associated fees are either pre-approved by the committee, WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 111
