How were doing Specialist Communications Report by Andrew Scott below Direct, promotion, digital and Chief operating officer interactive marketing International Specialist Communications and Bridge Worldwide, a leading US digital and relationship Mary Ellen Howe see page 73 marketing agency, continued its strong revenue growth by Chief operating officer focusing on its long-time Fortune 100 base.
Winning over Specialist Communications, North America 35 awards in digital marketing and effectiveness categories and driving digital innovation led to record sales and new Specialist Communications comprise individual business business, including DHL, GE and Luxottica.
units with separate and distinct marketing expertise by Given the economic imperative to redefine value, industry, audience segments or medium.
Our clients benefit Bridge led the launch of eSaver for Procter & Gamble, from their depth of knowledge and strategic focus: the an innovative coupon technology that loads savings directly Group benefits through the flexibility these companies offer to consumers loyalty cards.
Also for P&G, Bridge won as partners for sister WPP companies where appropriate.
an Effie for Thermacares content-driven mock-umentary Additionally, we are able to capitalize on the trends in Men With Cramps.
client demand for new expertise.
Our role in managing this For Abbott, Bridge led the re-launch of the Strong Moms portfolio is to help these companies grow on their own terms relationship marketing program and two major product and support co-operation opportunities across the Group.
innovations for Similac infant formula.
These initiatives drove the brand to record 2008 sales and share leadership.
Bridge pioneered a well-received four-week live internet improvisational comedy series in partnership with MediaCom and MSN for ConAgra Foods.
Leveraging the Healthy Choice Fresh Mixers product benefit of fresh from your desk, Working Lunch was a 300-episode series on MSN that allowed users to affect the live action from their desks.
Marketing with Meaning, Bridges platform to help clients use technology to ensure that their marketing, in addition to the brand, adds value to consumers lives, is becoming the new way to drive a brands higher-order purpose.
com has a loyal following: the book is slated for 2009 publication.
Recognizing the agencys continuing focus on its people and its culture, Bridge was named one of the Top 25 Best Places to Work by the Great Place to Work Institute for a third consecutive year.
MJM leveraged its market position as a leading corporate event company with 25 years of expertise in creating and implementing training programs, product launches, investor meetings and national sales meetings.
MJM has focused its core capabilities on improving the performance of clients human capital by informing, motivating, and inspiring through face-to-face internal communication programs.
MJMs new direction is evidenced by its work for the American Express Pacesetters program, a long-running employee recognition event.
During the year, MJM delivered brand communication and training to long-time client AstraZenecas multi-location sales force by creating a dynamic webcast that resulted in greater message consistency and substantial cost reduction.
UK agency EWA continued to focus on adding value to client communications through customer insight and highlevel, multi-channel customer service initiatives.
New clients during 2008 included, Wiltshire Farm Foods, Lifelong Learning UK, Kraft Kenco and DWP through COI.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 71 How were doing Specialist Communications Mando Brand Assurance enjoyed international wins from Demographic and sector marketing Danone in Portugal, Danacol in Italy, McDonalds China and Nestl in Australia.
There were major campaigns from new The Food Group expanded beyond its core foodservice clients, TomTom, Mars and Kraft.
The German office won market to land retail marketing assignments for Dannons new business from supermarket Edeka, cartridge supplier Frusion and la Crme brands and the Italian Trade Pelikan and Beiersdorf for Nivea for Men.
In addition, the company became agency relationship advanced with two soccer campaigns: of record for Dawn Foods, Inc. a major bakery goods They Score You Score and Find the Next Rooney.
manufacturer, which supplies product to national chains Headcount had another busy year of field marketing in such as Dunkin Donuts and Panera Bread.
The Food the UK, with their work for Tourism Ireland winning Gold Group continued its work with Kraft Foods, Ventura at the Field Marketing & Brand Experience Awards as Most Foods, TABASCO and the Florida Department of Citrus.
New assignments came from The Food Groups Nutrition Culinary Consultants Defra, Digital UK, Environment Agency, Imperial Tobacco, practice launched a health and wellness SmartBrief, Kraft, Learndirect, Luxottica, Subway, Top Up TV and a twice-weekly summary of primarily nutritional information Warner Home Video.
distributed to thousands of procurement decision-makers in Despite the downturn in the automotive industry, design the food and healthcare sectors.
N CC also provided and production agency Warwicks was able to increase its nutritional culinary assignments for PepsiCo, Nordstroms business with LTi, manufacturer of the iconic black London and Simplot, a major supplier of potato, vegetable and fruit cab.
The relationship with the AGCO Group saw additional products to the food industry.
work with the Massey Ferguson and Challenger brands.
Geppetto, the youth marketing agency, developed Aliaxis and Wolseley Groups were also new to Warwicks integrated marketing campaigns for clients as varied as client list.
Wal-Mart, Pepperidge Farm and Almar Sales, and undertook innovation projects for a range of consumer products companies interested in leveraging the power of youth.
Custom media Pace Advertising remains one of the pre-eminent specialists in the real estate sector, working for leading Forward continued its growth in the digital content sector, national homebuilders such as K. Hovnanian, as well securing additional online work from both Ford and Tesco as leading luxury brands such as The Setai Group.
The company continues to consolidate its position During 2008, Pace expanded its positioning to as a supplier of integrated content for major brands, encompass a broader lifestyle sector, including hotels combining its heritage in bespoke editorial production and hospitality, spas and restaurants, and luxury lifestyle with a first-class knowledge base of the role of content in products, and continued to invest in strategic digital new media.
2009 marks the 60th anniversary of the firm, 2008 was another good year for inflight and custom WPPs first US acquisition.
The launch of UK Cinema Edinburgh-based architects and interior designer BDG advertising brand Pearl & Dean on the Virgin Atlantic McColl won work across a variety of sectors during 2008, entertainment system added a popular new dimension to including commissions for Sun Microsystems, Bonhams and an already expanding media enterprise which saw significant Glasgow City Council.
This was in addition to ongoing work growth in new markets: Dubai with Emirates: and China in both private and public sectors for organisations including with an international media representation agreement for A T Osborne, Standard Life, Balfour Beatty, BP and the AirMedia, a leading airport and airline advertising business University of Edinburgh.
across Chinas domestic and international airports.
The 2008 was an award-winning year for BDGworkfutures publishing division expanded its operations to hotels, with their work for Siemens and Network Rail winning winning the Fairmont Groups new in-room magazine awards at the British Council of Offices.
Internationally, contract, and Air Canadas enRoute magazine celebrated BDGworkfutures was appointed by ABSA in South Africa its 50th anniversary with an impressive array of industry to develop their property portfolio strategy, whilst in the UK awards for both print and digital.
Spafax was awarded the government sector remained an area of growth with new No.
1 supplier in the Qantas recognition program against commissions from the London boroughs of Lambeth and suppliers of all IFE products, caterers, in-flight products Southwark, and Her Majestys Treasury.
And Spafax clients British Airways, Contract furniture company Dovetail consolidated its Emirates, Singapore Airlines and Swiss all won Avion market position with major new projects at the Royal Best Inflight Entertainment awards as judged by 55,000 Institute of Chartered Surveyors, BAT and Burberry.
Existing worldwide airline passengers participating in opinion polls client relationships held up well, with continued business at administered by the industry polling specialist Skytrax.
Deloittes London campus, Bloomberg and Conoco.
72 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Specialist Communications Ecosse, continued to provide event and production services to Experian, Prudential and Royal Bank of Scotland.
The Farm Group enjoyed another busy and successful year in 2008 and maintained its dominant position in the very competitive London post-production market.
It supplied post-production on award-winning primetime entertainment programs such as X Factor, Britains Got Talent, Friday Night with Jonathan Ross, Ross Kemp on Gangs, Gavin and Stacey, Peep Show and Lead Balloon: as well as dramas including The Devils Whore, Wallander, Shameless and Wild at Heart.
The Farms editing team won the Royal Television Societys award for best editing on Deal or No Deal.
Rent, the equipment hire division formed after the merger of Metro Broadcasts Soho business into The Farm, refocused its activities to concentrate on supplying new small HD cameras.
This policy is proving successful and the client base and revenues are expanding.
In the future 2009 promises to be a challenging year as the recession deepens and our businesses realign to focus on client priorities.
However, we will continue to focus on developing and nurturing our talent, particularly in the digital area, as well as managing the cost base and pursuing individual client opportunities.
Media and film production services In the last year, MRC hit its stride as one of the worlds leading independent studios in television, film and digital.
Among the 2008-09 releases are upcoming films Bruno starring Sacha Baron Cohen, This Side of the Truth starring Ricky Gervais, The Box starring Cameron Diaz as well as films currently in production with Matt Damon and M. Knight Shyamalan.
In television, MRC has Mike Judges next animated show The Goode Family and Bob Sagets show Surviving Suburbia, as well as returning shows such as Life and Time of Tim and Rita Rocks.
In digital, MRC had one of the biggest hits of the year with Seth MacFarlanes cavalcade of cartoon comedy.
Metro had a good year in 2008 with considerable growth in event and web-cast support for its long-standing client Shell, helped by Metros innovative use of Shells internal office space.
Other highlights included managing the graduate recruitment roadshows for Accenture, Linklaters, Ernst & Young and Deloitte.
The Edinburgh office, Metro WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 73
