How were doing Agency networks JWT raised serious debate inside and outside the industry like HSBCs Lumberjack spot: created fully integrated campaigns such as Happy Jetting for JetBlue and Spit Report by Bob Jeffrey below It Out for Cadburys Stride, both out of New York: and Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer produced innovative work like the Alexandre Herchcovitch campaign out of Brazil, that turned Johnson & Johnsons At 145 years old, JWT has a proven track record of leading Band Aid into a fashion accessory.
brands through times of heightened anxiety, like the one the The quality of our creative output has attracted more world is facing now.
Weve done this the only way we know world-class talent to JWT and we now have one of the how by pioneering.
Innovation is in our lifeblood.
We see opportunity in Our rising profile also contributed to significant challenge, we look at what could be rather than what is, additional business among existing clients our growing we answer What if?
Most important, relationship with Diageo, for example, led to global wins we have the passion to make our ideas happen.
on the Jose Cuervo and Baileys brands and to several high-profile new business wins across the globe.
We were awarded Microsofts enterprise software and service business and we led a team of sister WPP companies in a competitive pitch to secure the lions share of Johnson & Johnsons pharmaceutical brands.
The quality of our creative output has attracted more world-class talent to JWT, and we now have one of the strongest creative line-ups ever In our first full year as Nokias global network, we took on additional responsibilities for the worlds largest mobile manufacturer.
And we forged dozens upon dozens of new relationships on the local level, becoming the agency of record for Wal-Mart in Canada, Pizza Hut in Singapore and Vodafone in Egypt, among other high-profile clients.
Our pioneering spirit, backed up by the breadth and The integrated work we provide for these clients is depth of talent and knowledge across our global network, indicative of the type of digital, activation, direct marketing has helped us maintain many enduring relationships: and field force marketing capabilities weve aggressively built Unilever 105 years, Kimberly-Clark 80 years, Kelloggs across the agency.
Over the past several years, weve focused 77 years, Rolex 61 years, Shell 46 years, and the list on building an integrated model that provides stronger and goes on.
It has also translated into winning creative and more effective creative than either traditional stand-alone substantial business results for us and our clients.
agencies or siloed digital shops can offer.
In 2008, we achieved our best year ever at the Cannes As a result, weve seen our digital and activation expertise International Advertising Festival.
We took home 39 Lions yield more work from clients, including Johnson & Johnson, across several categories including the first Grand Prix for Schick, Cadbury and fide Beers.
For Nestl, for instance, our India for our Times of India campaign making us the No.
4 Paris office provided online consumers with an interactive global network at the competition.
editing suite they could use to direct their own movie about We also won 38 Effie awards in almost every region the lengths the main characters would go to get their hands around the world, proving that solid creative work equals on Extreme ice cream.
For Bayers Berocca, our London real business results for our clients.
Our winnings included office launched a viral piece that gained popularity on a Grand Effie award for Times of India, a Grand Prix award YouTube.
Weve also seen the ongoing success of clients such for Wilkinson Swords Fight for Kisses, and 12 Gold Effies.
as the U. S. Marine Corps and HSBC through our increased Our single-minded focus on delivering truly pioneering collaboration and integration with our CRM network, work has never been stronger.
We developed creative that RMG Connect.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 37 How were doing Agency networks Founded in 2002, RMG Connect manages customer brands.
The common thread throughout this work is our relationships online and offline using data, technology, AnxietyIndex, a six-year-old proprietary research tool that planning and creative.
It is now a network of more than tracks the level and intensity of consumer anxiety and the 900 people in 32 offices across North America, Asia, Europe drivers of it.
and Latin America producing award-winning integrated This type of intelligence allows us to offer the agility, work for global brands.
resourcefulness and foresight that todays economic climate Our inherent understanding of how to build strong, demands.
Despite the ongoing challenges of the auto and data-driven results and leverage social networks is nowhere luxury industries, for instance, we continue to produce great more apparent than in our continued success with the strategic work in partnership with 64-year client Ford and U. S. Marine Corps, one of our largest and longest-running 42-year client fide Beers.
Our North America operations combined online For the introduction of Fords 2010 Mustang, we tapped communities, social networks and an enhanced web presence into the passion for the iconic pony car by asking filmmakers in a new campaign that achieved recruiting targets for from all over the world to share their Mustang Stories the Marines.
the best of which were produced, promoted on TV and showcased online.
Our marketing communications also helped the Ford F-Series become Americas top-selling vehicle The explosion of digital media, for the 27th consecutive year.
For fide Beers, we positioned diamonds as a symbol not just of love but of a meaningful, and the constantly changing unfaltering and resilient love a long-term investment.
opportunities they present to address JWTs pioneering spirit has stood and will stand the test of time.
The trust and reassurance inherent in an audience of one, plays directly our people, our companies and our brand reflect the to our strengths professionalism, global breadth of knowledge and talent that our clients seek during turbulent times.
The explosion of digital media, and the constantly We understand that the challenges were presented with changing opportunities they present to address an audience represent enormous opportunities, and in 2009 we remain of one, plays directly to our strengths.
As consumers mission-focused on developing pioneering work that drives continue to enjoy relationships with brands and each other growth for us and our clients.
across a myriad of different channels, we will always look for innovative ways to connect them.
With the economy in recession, we understand that effective communications are more important than ever.
To that end we created an Economic Task Force, bringing together our smartest minds across disciplines to examine how the downturn is affecting consumer attitudes and behaviors and, most important, what this means for 38 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008
