How were doing Media Investment Management MediaCom Report by Stephen Allan right Chief executive officer We will look back on 2008 as a year of significant progress as well as change for MediaCom.
And despite the downturn in the global economy, our network continued to deliver revenue and profit growth.
In the summer I returned to MediaCom from GroupM UK and succeeded Alexander Schmidt-Vogel as CEO, a role in which he had served since 2002.
He joins GroupM Global Trading as its CEO.
We owe a huge debt of thanks to Alexander.
His vision and leadership transformed us into a global media agency.
During my first 100 days, I set out a very ambitious agenda for our organisation, driven by our ambition to become the No.
1 global media agency by the London 2012 Olympics.
Underpinning this ambition is our desire to be the best company to work for in every market where we operate, and in keeping with our belief in People First, Better Results According to RECMAs latest definitive buying billings we recognise the need to retain and recruit the best people.
report, released in September 2008, MediaCom added more Nowhere was this better demonstrated than in the UK where billings than any other agency network, moving the agencys MediaCom featured once again in the 2009 Sunday Times ranking from No.
Best 100 Companies To Work For report.
Our new business success continued in 2008 with wins Our first-ever global staff survey revealed that our people which included Discover Financial Services and New Line are very excited and positive about MediaComs future and Cinema in the US, Queensland Government in Australia, that they regard the company as a fun place to work.
I hope TUI Travel and E. ON in the UK and OBI in Germany.
that the roll-out of our Freshness program will enable us We also expanded many of our current client relationships to build on these survey results.
Freshness aims to give our such as Wrigley in Mexico, SpecSavers in the Nordics, BSH people a brilliant and differentiated work experience which in Spain and many new assignments from Procter & Gamble.
in turn leads to greater business success and increased In 2008 our digital business continued to set the pace for staff loyalty.
Underpinning our success in digital To ensure that we consistently deliver best-in-class services marketing is our ability to deliver innovative and measurable around the world, we put in place the additional central results for each client through the application of our resources to achieve our goal.
Key CEO appointments were proprietary media, technology and analytics.
made regionally and locally to create a new team with a proven For many clients we are pioneering the use of social media, track record of managing existing clients and winning new enabling these marketers to distribute messages among millions business.
In addition to this, our global management team was of consumers and communities more efficiently and effectively strengthened by the appointment of a chief financial officer and than ever before.
chief HR and talent officer.
Search also continues to evolve from its origins as an online We have also strengthened our global functional leadership direct response medium.
At MediaCom we have integrated team by making new appointments in Business Science, search specialists to work side by side with strategic planning Consumer Insights, ROI, Direct Marketing, client services teams.
Our structure allows marketers to seamlessly integrate and marketing.
It is a true sign of the strength in depth of our search into a wide range of communication programs, whether people that we were able to fill almost all of these new roles selling online, selling offline, building consumer relationships from within our own ranks.
or building brand awareness and preference.
And while 2008 was about building for the future, it was The current economic climate is quite possibly the most also about doing great work now.
This was reflected in the challenging that our industry has ever faced.
However, I am number of significant external awards that were received confident that MediaCom can run a little faster than our throughout the network a staggering 107 accolades competitors and seize an opportunity to grow our market throughout the year, including five Agency of the Year position in 2009.
The strengths of MediaCom clearly lie in awards in Singapore and the UK three for London, one our people and the world-class clients we act for.
