How were doing Agency networks Bates 141 Report by Jeffrey Yu right Chairman As the largest Asia-only network, we operate in the fastestchanging region in the world.
Increasingly, Asia is leading many of the changes that are shaping our world today.
Because of this, we have built our whole agency philosophy and offering around Change.
To reflect our Change vision and strategy, Bates 141 unveiled a new look in 2008.
The refreshed brand reflects the significant broadening of our capabilities to offer end-toend solutions, to help our clients change consumers mindsets and behaviors.
Across our markets we won top brands, including multinational brands Arla, Bayer, Dell, Diana, Fiat, Google, IKEA, Merck, MSN, S&W and Unilever as well as creative awards.
We were voted top agency in Taiwan by top Asian brands Sony, J&J Xian Janssen Pharmaceutical, industry publication ADM magazine, as well as the top Nissan, Jollibee, Henderson Land, New World Development, roster agency for Uni-President.
Apollo Hospital, Telkom Indonesia and Vitasoy.
We continued to create work based on ideas that change We also added new skills to the network.
We were very mindsets and behaviors of consumers, but also the hearts proud that Singapore-based creative boutique 10AM decided and minds of our communities.
Following the Sichuan to join us.
Since its inception, 10AM has garnered a string of earthquake, we helped raise approximately US$30,000 to local, regional and international accolades.
We successfully rebuild one of the devastated elementary schools Hong Qi.
completed our acquisition of Chinas top integrated activation In Cambodia, we partnered with the children of Sunrise agency to form BatesMeThinks.
We also enhanced our digital Orphanage to produce a short film based on their stories to offering in China, picking up a majority stake in Chinese help the kids learn new skills and broaden their horizons.
digital hot shop Bates E-Vision in 2008.
Bates 141 now Operating in todays hyper-connected world means that provides full national coverage in China and the complete we are able to monitor global changes and apply them gamut of marketing services.
But the really interesting changes are happening 2008 saw changes in our leadership with a slew of locally in Asia in the cities, towns and villages.
In order promotions and high-profile hires.
Our pre-eminent Change to spot, understand and leverage change for our clients, our Agent Digby Richards was promoted from COO to CEO Change Agents are on the ground, capturing these constant for the network.
In Vietnam, Tue Nguyen was promoted changes.
Tapping into this network, we published several from general manager to managing director.
We also thought leadership initiatives in 2008, including a Change appointed marketing veteran Fattweng Wong to managing Dictionary in English and Simplified Chinese.
We also director, Malaysia, and Fareeda Jia to chief integration published Top 20 Market Change reports for several director in China.
These have been picked up by the Singapore In India, we formed an executive committee headed up Ministry of Trade and Industrys Futures Group, and are by regional executive creative director and India chairman, being used as content in their overseas trips and events.
In 2008, we put more of our people through our In Hong Kong, we doubled our digital business volume, I. D. E. A. S. training program, as well as training in as a result of expanding our digital competency with new digital, activation, creative and other professional and offerings including search engine optimization, CRM management skills.
Our Young Change Agents career program develops our In Indonesia, for the first time Bates 141 is on the Unilever rising stars into our future leaders.
We won Merck, and we were assigned the activation chosen from across the network.
We now have a good mix of business for Telkom Indonesia after winning the brand talent throughout our network, led by a core of regional and advertising retainer in 2007. geographic leaders.
As the fastest-growing agency for three consecutive years Change has been part of our DNA and modus operandi in Taiwan, we bucked the trend of a tough economy.
In 2009, helping our clients thrive on change 141 won IKEA and Bayer, and garnered more than 50 will be key to how we add value to their businesses.
