How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group Landor Associates Full report on page 43 Landor had another successful year and continued to expand Report by Craig Branigan below its global network with the addition of a Geneva office, Chairman and chief executive officer the expansion of its Singapore office, and the continued strong performance of its recently opened Mumbai and Despite the challenging economic climate in the second half Beijing operations.
of the year, the Branding to Design B to D Group continued to deliver strong results in 2008.
Landor, The Brand Union, Lambie-Nairn and The Partners all enjoyed a record year.
The Brand Union Full report on page 66 Group companies continued to leverage shared resources in talent and technology, exchange knowledge and best The Brand Union built upon the success of its relaunch to practices and gain access to significant new business deliver record results and firmly establish its unique Brand opportunities.
In 2008, the Cannes Lions International Mastery approach, with strong growth in new markets such Advertising Festival introduced design as a category: three as the Middle East.
of our companies left Cannes with a Gold Lion, reflecting the strong creative excellence of the group.
I am pleased to say that this was further strengthened by the welcome Fitch Full report on page 67 addition of Fitch to the group in 2008.
Fitch had a challenging financial year, impacted by the slump in the retail sector.
However, it still delivered a year of stellar creative performance, winning a number of prestigious awards.
Lambie-Nairn Lambie-Nairn had an exceptional year in 2008, with a substantial increase in year-on-year growth and operating profit growth.
It expanded its geographical footprint with the opening of a Munich office off the back of the continuing growth of its largest client, O, and established its reputation 2 in the worlds fastest-growing media market with significant wins of Abu Dhabi TV, Al Arabiya Dubai, and Al Doha Qatar.
It celebrated the global launch of BBC News on TV, radio and online, and the rebranding of BBC Worldwide.
Under the leadership of CEO Christian Schroeder, it continued to build its position as a leader in screen-based experiential branding, culminating in the winning of a Gold Lion at the Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival for its work with the Business Channel.
VBAT Building on its 2007 recovery, VBAT saw growth in business in 2008.
Led by chairman Eugene Bay, VBAT continues to build its international portfolio with new business wins in Europe, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Chile.
The integration of MPG retail led to growth in its retail offer, with the addition of fashion labels JC Rags, DEPT and SNS Bank retail projects.
VBAT continued to strengthen its long-term partnerships with Heineken, Campina Group and Nederlandse Spoorwegen the Dutch railroad company.
