Why we exist Our mission Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to companies with all the necessary marketing and To develop and manage talent: communications skills: companies with strong and to apply that talent, distinctive cultures of their own: famous names, many of them.
WPP, the parent company, complements these throughout the world, companies in three distinct ways.
for the benefit of clients: First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, to do so in partnership: control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor to do so with profit.
relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated centrally.
For the operating companies, every administrative hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit of etween them, WPP companies have tens of professional excellence.
They range from Second, the parent company encourages and enables Fortune 500 global giants through single-nation operating companies of different disciplines to work together B start-ups to the smallest of specialist charities.
for the benefit of clients.
Such collaborations have the Diverse as they are, they have one thing in common: in additional benefit of enhancing the job satisfaction of our pursuing their objectives, they face formidable competition.
The parent company also plays an across-the-Group Growing affluence in many parts of the world combined role in the following functions: the management of talent, with overcapacity and over-supply in almost every significant including recruitment and training: in property management: consumer market has put more and more power into the in procurement and information technology: in knowledge hands of consumers, accelerated by technology.
As always, if they are to succeed or even to survive with And finally a relatively recent development, this profit every competitive company needs an intrinsically WPP itself can function as the 21st-century equivalent of appealing product or service.
But that, though it remains the full-service agency.
For some clients, predominantly the most fundamental of requirements, is no longer enough.
those with a vast geographical spread and a need for Just as competitive costermongers arrange their apples in marketing services ranging from advertising through appealing displays and polish them lovingly to catch their design and website construction to research and internal customers eyes, so all companies need to display their communications, WPP can act as a portal to provide a single wares compellingly.
point of contact and accountability.
They need access to high-quality information, strategic No two clients are structured in precisely the same way.
advice and specialist communications skills.
And its in the Within WPPs operating companies, teams can be tailornature of specialist and creative talent that it is unlikely to made to match any and all.
flourish within the confines of a manufacturing or service company.
People with specialist talents work best and contribute more when recruited, trained and inspired by specialist companies.
