How were doing Agency networks Ogilvy Group 2008 was a year unlike any in our 60-year history.
It was a year that will be remembered for the massive fourth quarter Ogilvy & Mather upheaval in financial markets and the shockwaves that reverberated throughout the economies of the world.
There Report by Shelly Lazarus below were signs of trouble early in the year, but no one could have Chairman predicted that they would portend a paralyzing credit crisis, the steepest dive in consumer confidence in more than 40 years, and the most severe economic downturn since the Great Depression.
Our industry is at the center of this perfect storm.
As the recession gathered force, we took actions to minimize its impact on our business.
Despite our best efforts, client spending cutbacks and delays in new business caused us to fall short of our goals for growth.
Yet there were some units and practices that had an exceptional year.
OgilvyOne our digital, interactive, and direct marketing business started out the year with robust growth from existing clients and with new business wins.
Throughout the year, the OgilvyOne team continued to build its reputation as an industry leader through the work of our network of Ogilvy Digital Innovation Labs, and with our Verge digital media conferences held around the world, despite the fact that new projects were scarce in the fourth quarter.
Ogilvy Public Relations had an outstanding year.
The team launched new practices to meet client demand for communication strategy and support in these critical and growing areas.
They established a presence in six new locations, bringing their total offices worldwide to 70.
Throughout 2008, they grew their business with many existing clients, won several new assignments, and achieved significant revenue growth year-over-year.
And we were delighted that Ogilvy PRs leader, Marcia Silverman, was named 2009 PR Professional of the Year by PRWeek, with one judge noting: This year caps a long-term stellar career.
Ogilvy Healthworld continued to grow its capabilities, revenue and profits in 2008.
Offering the full range of marketing services from strategic planning and marketing analytics, to medical education and clinical trial recruitment, OHW brought in new product lines and brands from all the major pharmaceutical companies.
OgilvyAction made important strides in 2008, establishing itself as an industry leader in in-store shopping behavior, extending its presence into new markets, and solidifying relationships with global and local clients.
While the team missed the mark on revenues in 2008, they are well positioned for growth in 2009 as changing consumer behavior at point-of-purchase will become critical for clients in the weak economy.
We formally launched our RedWorks production and design unit during this year, calling upon Ogilvy creative veteran, Fred Schuster, to become its first CEO.
Focused Miles Young above on high-quality, cost-effective, digital and traditional brand Chief executive officer communications, RedWorks networked delivery system is 32 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 2007 Mark Schfer
