How were doing Media Investment Management Mediaedge:cia Notable growth and innovation across the world came from MEC Interaction and MEC Access, our digital and sport and entertainment capabilities.
Report by Charles Courtier below, In May we held our global conference in Beijing, Chief executive officer gathering the most senior MEC managers from around the world.
Here we reviewed, debated and assessed the outlook In last years report we remarked that change in the industry for the coming years, looked at the changes sweeping across was gathering pace in 2008.
What we couldnt know was our business and defined our priorities.
The theme was how ferocious that change would be.
While there is no Staying Ahead.
We looked at how we stay ahead from two question the business conditions were much more challenging perspectives: following our two most successful years ever than 2007, Mediaedge:cia MEC held its own in a difficult year.
2006 7, and navigating the immediate future, which is such a challenging business environment.
Creating success for our clients requires us to think about reach, engagement, about their reputation and about the transactions they need to achieve their business goals Continuing to adapt our business model is crucial in these circumstances.
The pace of change demands flexibility in our approach.
Addressable, mobile and social media now touch the majority of consumers.
Creating success for our clients requires us to think about reach, engagement, about their reputation and about the transactions they need to achieve their business goals.
Our thinking cannot be confined by the rules of broadcasting and advertising but considers channels, content and behaviours that influence the longand shortterm effects of marketing.
This requires a genuinely holistic view of clients media communications.
We defined the integration of our capabilities the delivery of One MEC as a key goal in 2008.
We made great strides here by combining and driving the strategic thinking from across all disciplines creating the platform that integrates our thinking, with digital touching everything, underpinned by insight and ROI.
We are more clientand consumer-centric, both practically and organisationally, than ever before.
The consumer remains at the heart of our business and their Active Engagement with our clients brands is our core objective.
As we look ahead at 2009, we realise that short-term MEC globally was boosted by a number of geographies financial pressures are a feature in both our clients that performed extremely well.
China, India, Italy, Latin businesses and our own.
Our focus must be on helping our America, Poland and the UK were all star performers in clients navigate these unusual times, delivering business- 2008, delivering growth beyond the marketplace trend.
Some building ideas and driving the greatest efficiency and effect key new business wins played a big role in maintaining our from their marketing investment.
Internally, our priority momentum Orange in Poland and the UK, Henkel in is our people: developing and nurturing this talent.
It is Germany, Italy and Mexico, Visa across Europe and Sony the strength of our people, and the shared values of us Electronics across Latin America: this followed on from all in MEC that will help us manage this turbulence and our Sony win in Asia Pacific at the end of 2007. emerge stronger.
