How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Cohn & Wolfe The new Cohn & Wolfe integrates a great entrepreneurial spirit with the expanded reach, capabilities and infrastructure of a leading global agency.
Our entrepreneurial enterprise Report by Donna Imperato below comprises a rich creative heritage, market-leading digital Chief executive officer capabilities, a deep client portfolio and an amazing roster of talent.
There is a palpable energy and enthusiasm all across It was an historic year for Cohn & Wolfe, one of significant our network as our people strive to fulfill the promise of our growth through merger and acquisition, exciting change and expanded reach and capabilities.
Through our acquisition of leading On the new business front, we had a good year despite European technology agency, AxiCom, and our successful the many merger-related demands.
Our enriched offerings merger with Grey Groups public relations network, GCI helped land prestigious accounts that span multiple markets Group, Cohn & Wolfe became a true global competitor with and regions.
In 2008, we added Abbott Pharmaceuticals, expertise across all practice areas and offices in 55 markets.
Axa Insurance, Bank of America, Bayer Pharmaceuticals, Blu-Ray, Boehringer Ingelheims Oncology franchise, ExxonMobil, Ferraro, GE Energy, Husqvarna, Illyco, Major League Baseball, McNeil Consumer Health, Nivea, SanDisk, Virgin Atlantic and Zillion TV.
In the US, we solidified our position as a market leader in the consumer and healthcare sectors.
Our digital media practice created pioneering work for Dell, Darden Restaurants, Nike, SanDisk and other marquee brands.
The AxiCom acquisition gives us tremendous technology capabilities on both sides of the Atlantic.
Our Sustainability and Energy practices are among the most respected in their industries.
And the merger created a strong regional platform across EMEA which proved critical in winning new business, and will position us well for 2009 and beyond.
There is a palpable energy and enthusiasm all across our network as our people strive to fulfill the promise of our expanded reach and capabilities Informed creativity continues to be the hallmark of our programming and our success.
We again invested in internal programs that ensure our ideas are not only inspired but effective.
Our Creative Catalyst Network is a worldwide incubator of ideas a community of creative thinkers brainstorming virtually via The Den, our employee intranet.
To recognize the great creative work across Cohn & Wolfe, we launched the Charlie Farley Awards, named for our beloved and late creative director.
And our Brand Planning group continues to fuel the creative process and keep every idea relevant with market intelligence and brand insights.
We are proud to have won the prestigious WPPED Cream award in 2008 for best Public Relations campaign within WPP and shared in winning the WPP Partnership award for 62 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008
