What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight Overproduction, discounting and Silvio Berlusconi, Italys Prime Minister, could not countenance more unemployment in the Mezzogiorno.
the hegemony of Big Retail keep The same issue faced the British government with Rover our clients awake at night particularly during an election resulting in subsidising workers to stay in work during the campaign and it faces the Obama administration with GM and Chrysler today.
he single biggest long-term issue facing clients in The critical issue in the 19th and 20th centuries was most industries is overcapacity.
In fact, it is difficult how to produce goods and services, and to make sure they to find many cases where the opposite is true.
In the 21st century, it is convincing T Tequila, perhaps, where it takes seven years to grow the consumer to purchase products, services or brands in the the herb.
Or high fashion companies like Rolex and Hermes, first place.
In such circumstances, differentiation becomes where historically supply is limited although in the current critically important and differentiation is what our business fiscal crisis conspicuous consumption is less acceptable.
also true that commodity-based industries such as oil and Historically, maintaining technical or product differences steel faced undercapacity issues for some time, being was easier.
Today, keeping a technological lead is difficult.
overwhelmed by Indian and Chinese demand.
But most Product life cycles are being shortened and brand cycles sectors are facing problems similar to those in the car and lengthened.
Again, an example from the car industry.
truck industry, where companies can make 80 million units Less than a decade ago it took, perhaps, five years to design, and consumers buy 60 million.
Today, it can be done in 18 months.
Facing faster and more aggressive Japanese, South US sales of new passenger vehicles units, m Korean and German manufacturers, the Americans have been obliged to play catch-up.
In future, Chinese and Indian Total 18 manufacturers will stimulate further response.
including fleet So intangible differentiation is becoming more important.
16 Retail Psychological, lifestyle and emotional differences are 14 significant.
The suit or dress you wear, the car you drive, the 12 holidays you take, how you spend your leisure time all say 10 a lot about your personality and preferences.
Some say such 8 intangible appeal is immoral or at least unsavoury.
Preying 2000 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 on peoples vulnerabilities, it is argued, is unethical.
Source: JD Power Associates, Power Information network We believe that fulfilling peoples desires or dreams is almost always justifiable and satisfying for the consumer and it is a key role for the advertising and marketing services industry.
Average vehicle age before trade-in months 80 Discounting a profitless prosperity 75 In a low-inflation, overcapacity market with little or no 70 pricing power, many manufacturers have turned to price 65 promotion and discounting.
The best example is the car and 60 truck industry.
General Motors still seemed to believe until 55 recently that it had a balance sheet advantage over its 2004 05 06 07 08 09 competitors, particularly in Detroit.
Why else would it Source: JD Power Associates, Power Information network introduce heavily price-based competition such as five-year Jan 1-25 only.
zero-coupon financing or discounts of $4,000 to $5,000 a unit?
Probably, the most extreme case was Hyundai in Overcapacity issues are particularly difficult to deal Korea offering negative interest rates on financing a form with in  industries like automobiles.
One dealer in America offered a buy one, Governments are not enthusiastic about shutting down get-one-free deal on sports utility vehicles SUVs.
Luckily, capacity and increasing unemployment.
They also like to it was a failure.
increase capacity by offering inducements to locate new If you give cars away it is only to be expected that production facilities in development regions.
Thus the best consumers buy them.
No surprise, then, that the American thing for the European car industry would probably have auto market stood at 16 or 17 million units before the credit been for GM to absorb Fiats production capability.
But crisis, or that housing markets and house prices showed WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 91 What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight 1 Top advertising categories 2008 UK m Top advertising categories 2008 US $m YOY% 10 YOY% 15 10 Local services & amusements 5 Retail Government, social, political 5 Financial organisations Direct response 0 Travel & transport Media & advertising 0 Telecommunications Telecommunications Cosmetics & toiletries Retail -5 Average Auto, domestic -5 Average Finance Pharmaceuticals -10 -10 Personal care Mail Food Motors Auto, products -15 order non-domestic Entertainment -15 & the media -20 0 5,000 10,000 -20 0 600 1,200 $m m Top advertising categories 2008 Brazil BRLm Top advertising categories 2008 India $m YOY% 35 YOY% 100 Cellular phone service 30 80 25 Internet service Independent Retail 60 retailers 20 Cellular phones Education 15 40 Automotive Cars Jeeps Events Average 10 Tourism, Average Corporate Leisure, Culture Brand image Service Personal care Beverage 20 Two wheelers Finance Real estate 5 Real estate Telecommunications Food 0 0 6,000 12,000 0 0 500 1,000 BRLm $m Top advertising categories 2008 Russia $m Top advertising categories 2008 China CHYm YOY% 80 YOY% 70 60 70 Business Industrial Motor & auto Agriculture Personal 50 60 services Retail 40 Foodstuffs Medicines 50 Cosmetics Household & hygiene goods 30 Toiletries Chemical 40 Property Retail & Beverages 20 Media service Average Automotives 30 Finance Average Miscellaneous 10 Mobile services Telecoms 20 Soft drinks 0 Pharmaceuticals & health products Foodstuffs 10 -10 Entertainment 0 0 400 800 0 35,000 70,000 -20 $m CHYm Source: GroupM 92 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight similar buoyancy, when fixed-term money was being given A similarly unfortunate trend is occurring in the food away at such low interest rates, despite the shudders in the industry.
Packaged goods companies continue to try to build sub-prime markets.
share by discounting and price competition, particularly as The problem is that consumers grow used to such distribution concentrates.
They pay higher trade discounts and discounting and wait for new car or truck introductions and slotting allowances, and fund increased promotional activity.
the discounting that goes with them.
Auto manufacturers face Just like the media owners, the food manufacturers are profitless prosperity and break-even economics at full capacity.
being squeezed by a second factor obesity.
Diabetes is a Hence the decision by Dieter Zetsche at Daimler to dispose pandemic and a huge area of public concern.
Increasingly, of Chrysler what did Cerberus do on branding?
and the commodity-like food companies find themselves in a weak strategies of General Motors and Ford to cut capacity.
position, in contrast to the health-based or wellbeing Interestingly, Japanese and Korean manufacturers, and some segments of the packaged goods industry, which do not German ones too, have tended to resist excessive discounting, suffer from the same phenomenon.
Here, companies are offering lower levels of $1,000 or $2,000.
Instead, they more focused on product innovation, research and concentrate on design, new products and branding to build development or science, along with branding, to build a price premium, although even they have problems now.
As a result, brands and margins If you focus on price, you build commodities.
If you focus are more robust and volumes greater.
on innovation and differentiation, you earn a price premium Recent accounting changes in the US force companies and create brands.
This seems to be the approach of Alan to show gross and net sales, at least temporarily.
As a result, Mulally at Ford, as he brings a laser-like focus on the Blue more data is available on the balance between advertising and Oval and disposes of peripheral brands.
According to Cannondale, our marketing of the inadvisability of discounting came when General and channel management consultancy in the US, the average Motors had to lower its earnings forecast for 2008 by 80%.
consumer packaged goods company spends 17% of sales on Recent comments and actions by GM do indicate a slight trade promotion price cuts basically and only 8.7% on branddifference in approach and a shift to more focus on product building advertising.
Many CEOs know what they spend on although, even having taken government money GM and advertising, but not on trade promotion.
Often the latter exceeds Chrysler face Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
Of the Big Three, only the former, even in heavy-spending above-the-line companies.
Ford, who resisted the siren calls of government aid, looks It may well be that manufacturers will seek to cut trade solvent.
More competition from the Chinese and Indians, spending and boost brand-building advertising, particularly particularly Tata, will ram the point home.
Even now, at a time when the trade is consolidating at such a rapid rate.
Chinas Geely, a four-door, five-seat car, may be introduced Bribing customers for distribution is a recipe for ruin.
Again, into America, at under $10,000.
Price promotion just does it is branding and product differentiation that must come not work.
BrandZ Top categories 2009 Meanwhile, retail concentration continues Year-on-year growth in total category value One of WPPs media partners sells 10% of its cover sales Category Brand value growth through Wal-Mart.
To the media owner, this is life or death.
Mobile operators 28% To Wal-Mart it is a rounding error and the province of the Soft drinks 24% third or fourth level of procurement, making the publishers Coffee 18% life a misery.
More people visit Wal-Mart in the US in a week Fast food 16% than go to church on a Sunday.
Indeed, some have suggested Beer 15% that the supermarket chain is the new religion.
Wal-Mart, luxury 10% with $401 billion of sales, is the seventh largest country retail 7% by retail sales.
It accounts for 8% of US retail sales, Tesco for Spirits 5% 13% of UK retail sales.
Both enjoy 30% of grocery sales in technology 2% their domestic markets.
At last years Microsoft CEO Personal care 2% conference, Lee Scott, then boss of Wal-Mart, targeted a Water 2% doubling of its US market share to almost 20% of retail sales.
Motor fuel -5% Some 15% of Procter & Gambles worldwide sales already Financial institutions -6% go through Wal-Mart.
If this was a business unit on its own, Apparel -9% it would rank among the worlds top 50 FMCG companies.
Cars -22% Other examples include Kelloggs at 20%, Kraft at 16% and Insurance -48% PepsiCo at 12%.
Source: Millward Brown optimor WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 93 What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight Influence over and control of distribution is not a new wanted to stimulate the Japanese birth rate, as one way issue.
After all, advertising was developed in the 19th century of strengthening the economic growth rate.
That is one by manufacturers to appeal over the heads of wholesalers or reason why the rapid inclusion of Turkey into the EU is so retailers direct to consumers.
Increasing retail concentration important: another source of population growth, as well as not only in the US but also in Europe and Latin America immigrants to stimulate economic growth and access to the will emphasise the importance of focusing on product Muslim world.
innovation and branding, along with better understanding All this points to the growing importance of attracting, of point-of-purchase consumer behaviour and emphasis on recruiting, developing, training, motivating, incentivising and packaging, display and retail design.
After all, as a senior Asia retaining human capital.
In a less differentiated world, it will Pacific Procter & Gamble executive said recently, depending become more and more important for companies to stand on which P&G brand you are talking about, something out through the quality and responsiveness of their people.
between 30% and 80% of purchasing decisions are made at Making sure that your people buy into your strategy and the point of sale.
Procter calls it the first moment of truth.
structure will be increasingly important.
Living the brand Pepsi chief executive Indra Nooyi calls for concentration on operationally will be critical.
retail theatre, rather than lavish, costly TV commercials.
Other FMCG leaders call for agencies to start with the shelf and not a 60-second TV commercial.
Internal alignment drives success WPP believes an understanding of distribution and retail is essential and it is one of our core practice development Given the scale of strategic and structural change going on areas.
The Store, our global retail practice, links more than inside companies, one of the most important challenges 900 professionals working on retail business and issues facing CEOs is to communicate that change internally.
around the world, updating them on the latest developments Internal communication to secure internal alignment is, and trends subject to client confidentiality.
Management perhaps, a polite way of putting it.
Probably the biggest Ventures with more than 50 global retail analysts block to progress for our clients and perhaps ourselves along with Cannondale and Glendinning Associates, is internal politics.
Turf, territory and ego prevent productive both experts in channel management, supplement and change.
If the chairmen or CEOs of our clients saw what consolidate our knowledge of global retailing.
TNS Retail & we saw, they would be horrified.
If they and we devoted Shopper adds to our armoury.
half the time that they or we spent on internal politics on In addition, OgilvyAction gives WPP an even broader the consumer, client or competition, they and we would be distribution offer with its focus on product categories that considerably more successful.
have been denied access to traditional media.
Our new You could argue that most of the communication we acquisition, Smollan, has over 15,000 people focused on co-ordinate is aimed at internal audiences rather than retail brand management in South Africa, China, India and, external ones.
Some people, such as David Ogilvy and Allan next, Brazil.
Leighton when long ago he was at Asda have maintained that ensuring your internal constituencies are on side is often more important than external ones.
Only when internal The quest for talent communications are working can your company talk positively to customers, potential customers, suppliers, While there is certainly too much production and capacity potential employees, journalists, analysts, investors, in general, one resource is in ever shorter supply in the government and NGOs.
Every statistic points to a Building such virtuous circles in a uni-branded company reduction.
The slowing birth rate, declining marriage rates, is one thing.
Inside a multi-branded company such as higher divorce rates, more single-parent families, smaller WPP, which has grown by acquisition, our tribes operate families, ageing populations all these factors are reducing independently to deal with dis-economies of scale and client the supply of talent.
Even countries with strong, younger conflict.
Things are far more complicated.
Trying to ensure demographics, such as Mexico, will face similar situations over 110,000 people face in the same direction at the same by 2020.
Some governments are trying to stimulate the birth time is not easy.
On the other hand, once achieved, internal rate.
The Chinese government is said to be reviewing the unison and common focus make a very powerful army.
one-baby policy and Russia is worried about its ageing It may not be fashionable to talk about charismatic or 145 million population.
strong CEO leadership: the focus is more on the CEO as Western Europe and Japan face significant longer-term coach, mentor or team leader.
But our experience is that the economic growth issues as a result of the declining proportion most successful companies with which we work have CEOs of young people and an overall population decline.
The who understand the importance of the brand, have a strong elected and then rejected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan vision and implement that through a strong CMO.
94 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight General government deficit as % of GDP After all, at long last, it is understood that all business strategy is really marketing strategy, starting with the f 2009 consumer and working backwards from there.
Most of f US 2010 our companies develop internal communications through Advertising, Media Investment Management, Information, Insight & Consultancy, Public Relations & Public Affairs, Britain Branding & Identity, and Healthcare and Specialist Communications.
However, no single operating entity Japan exists within WPP to execute internal communications on a worldwide basis.
Still an opportunity for the future.
France Politics and events remain key Italy We were spoiled in the 1990s.
All you had to do was go into the office.
With what we thought was a tightly-controlled Germany Rubin Greenspan US economy dominating and Friedmanite economics driving the global economy, life was relatively Canada easy despite the worlds second-largest economic engine, Japan, being out of order for 12 years or so.
Strong growth, 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 low inflation and high, but not full levels of employment, drove a more than 10-year bull market, such as we have not Source: Standard & Poors f Forecast.
The speculative blowouts around the internet in 2001 and 2002, and sub-prime and insurance monoline crises economy through government spending and guarantees, starting in October 2007 were perhaps inevitable and, given there seems little doubt that the current difficulties will be their size, lengthy corrections were necessary.
Overall, the overcome in the short term.
After all, the US and UK have past seven or so years have had their share of pain.
even resorted to quantitative easing or printing money.
But The US economy was in a political cycle in 2004, as the what happens in the long term?
There seem to be two government used fiscal spending to stimulate the economy.
First, the hair shirt route of reducing Rates of growth in US government spending were back to government deficits by cutting state spending and increasing where they were 35 years ago at the height of the Vietnam taxes, thus increasing unemployment and encouraging a War.
In 2005, the tragedy of Katrina, and the continuing higher propensity to save.
All very painful stuff as we saw on demands of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq continued a smaller scale in the 1970s and 1980s.
The three-day week to fuel the government spending spree.
In 2006, the latter and rubbish piling up in the streets is the nearest, I think, we conflict continued the acceleration in government spending.
have been to the current crisis since the Great Depression.
It is no accident that governments in many countries are Or, which seems more likely, we inflate our way out long the largest advertising spenders: ministries use marketing to term.
It will be difficult for government or even central banks reinforce their policies and build electoral popularity.
Perhaps to know when to withdraw the current support, particularly for political reasons, President Bush failed to deal with the as President Obama faces mid-term elections in 2010 and twin fiscal and trade deficits.
He chose not to raise taxes and Prime Minister Brown by May 2010 and Chancellor Merkel Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke did not hike interest this year.
It would be very unpopular politically to wear the hair All this was thrown into sharp relief by the sub-prime, shirt by increasing unemployment.
Much easier to inflate insurance monoline, private equity and house price crises our way out of it, reducing the real value of debt and that started to hit hard in the third quarter of 2007.
Everyone increasing long-term interest rates.
It is doubtful, however, but Goldman Sachs seemed caught unawares and even the that the redistributive policies of the new US president will be masters of the universe were, for a short time.
Economic enough to deal with the debt burden and, in any event, may policy is in sharp reverse, with massive injections of liquidity have harmful effects on entrepreneurial motivation and and significant lowering of interest rates being the corporate activity or eventually be rejected at the ballot box.
cornerstones of the new economics, as banks continue to If this scenario plays out, the high-saving countries refuse to lend to one another and third parties.
Brazil, Russia getting its act together again as oil prices rise, Given the massive Keynesian fiscal stimulus of around India, China and even Japan will benefit and pull further $13 trillion and counting being pumped into the worlds away from the West.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 95 What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight Inflation, of course, as long as it is controlled, is not Technology and media M&A deals 2008 bad for our clients or us.
By giving our clients pricing power, Value of branding and innovation become even more important, as transaction Target name Acquiror name $m long as private label does not become too dominant.
Clearwire Corp Investor Group 3,200 Getty Images Inc Hellman & Friedman llC 2,037 Cnet networks Inc CBS Corp 1,808 No end to consolidation C&M Communications Co ltd Kookmin Cable Investment Inc 1,463 triZetto Group Inc Apax Partners Worldwide llP 1,364 Mergers continue apace, albeit with a sharp deceleration of teranet Income Fund Borealis Infrastructure Mgmt 1,218 activity because of the credit crisis.
NewsCorp took Dow Sony BMG Music entertainment Sony Corp of America 1,200 Jones, Google took DoubleClick, Microsoft snapped up Fast Search & transfer ASA Microsoft Corp 1,191 aQuantive, Yahoo!
took Right Media, Microsoft took liberty Surf Groupe SA Illiad SA 1,135 Yahoo!, Pfizer took Wyeth, Merck took Schering-Plough, InBev took Anheuser-Busch, Vodafone went for Hutchison Source:  Essar, Danone took Royal and Numico, Bank of America took Merrill Lynch, Carphone Warehouse took Best Buy and Announced global M&A activity $tn Thomson Corp merged with Reuters.
Consolidation among media owners also continues Deal 50 2.0 1.3 1.5 2.2 3.0 4.0 5.0 2.9 unabated.
NewsCorp takes and disposes of DirecTV, volume Comcast tried to take Disney, Carlton and Granada merge 40 000 to monopolise ITV and BSkyB takes a blocking stake.
30 Legislation has favoured more consolidation in the US and 20 the UK, although recent events and changes in administrations 10 may alter that.
Even in Brazil, which has been fiercely 0 protectionist, you can buy 30% of Globo or Editora Abril.
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 And in Australia, recently introduced legislation relaxing Source: thomson Financial, March 2008 media ownership rules triggered a media asset bidding frenzy.
Germany allows foreign ownership of TV channels.
Italy concentrates further through the Gasparri Bill.
rather than reductions in agencys commissions.
Like-for-like Clients and media owners are not alone: retail consolidates, revenue growth in the last four years has consistently been too.
Morrison takes Safeway: Boots and Alliance merge and well above WPPs overall like-for-like growth.
Often savings privatise shortly thereafter.
In Latin America, Wal-Mart on gross media budgets of 5-10% are achievable.
enters the north east of Brazil by acquiring part of Aholds Media savings are driving client centralisations and are a interests, Lider consumes Carrefours Chilean interests, quick kill in showing efficiencies, as Nestl and Unilever have and Jumbo buys Disco in Argentina.
The traditional media owners are not only having to Rumours surround Wal-Mart and Carrefour and Home fend off disintermediation by new technologies, but the pricing Depot and Kingfisher.
pressure from significant consolidation of media budgets.
But In line with the laws of big numbers, the challenge to even on the creative side, voracious procurement departments Wal-Mart, Tesco and Home Depot will be how they can and ill-judged price competition by agencies themselves are successfully manage expansion outside their home markets.
driving consolidation the $100 million pitch win headline in Tesco already has over half its square footage outside Britain AdAge or Campaign is more satisfying than real revenue.
We but much less of its profits and has sent its UK managing have seen two of our competitors desperately write cheques or director to the West Coast to manage its US expansion as subsidise account pitches to the tune of $20 to $28 million to Fresh n Easy.
It will not be simple: the demands are different retain accounts globally or in the UK.
and the model will be significantly based on rehabilitating blighted areas on the West Coast.
And early signs are mixed.
As a result, it is no surprise that agencies are also Where does that leave us?
Certainly in the one area where there are big economies of scale media buying consolidation is significant.
Growing consolidation in our industry is reducing the To negotiate with a Rupert Murdoch, Sumner Redstone, Mel available resources for clients.
It is ever more difficult to find Karmazin, Bob Iger or Jeff Zucker, larger scale is essential.
co-ordinated resources that can deliver what clients require, Media buying, or what we call Media Investment particularly if they are an international, multinational or Management, is one of WPPs fastest-growing businesses, global company.
Smaller, countryor city-based operations driven by clients looking for media-buying efficiencies cannot offer the depth of coverage or breadth of resources.
96 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight One interesting recent development is the growing interest professionals, particularly when they have enjoyed a taste in outsourcing parts or all of the marketing function.
this is an opportunity for us and is being driven by CEOs As the new specialist media investment management focus on costs and their analysis of their investment in agencies have grown in power, new media technologies have marketing services.
Instead of concentrating solely on developed and the media agencies have developed strong amounts spent outside the organisation, closer examination client relationships.
The creative agencies have become is being made of amounts spent inside the company.
WPP has increasingly discomforted and called for re-integration.
become involved recently in outsourcing projects in the This is not possible in our view: the toothpaste is out of automotive and internet services industries.
Media agencies have declared UDI and won other areas, including advertising, direct marketing and their independence.
They will not report again to account, research, there is interest in what can be done in outsourcing planning or creative management.
Clearly this tends to make internal marketing should not develop traditional creative capabilities, even departments more defensive about their functions.
We have under the guise of digital.
seen much of this, for example, in the media buying area.
If clients want better co-ordination between creative and media agency which in some cases needs to be improved the best way to do it is by housing the media planners in the Super-agencies then and now creative agency, but with them remaining employed by the media agency.
The creative agencies have paid a heavy price for Formed initially in response to the pressures of consolidation ignoring the importance of media.
The medium is increasingly and to house conflicting accounts, the super-agencies becoming more important or as important as the message.
or what we at WPP prefer to call the parent companies Today, the new super-agencies have a big opportunity.
really represent the full-service agencies of the 21st century.
Clients still require, first and foremost, creativity and great In the 1960s if you visited, for example, JWT in Berkeley creative ideas.
Second, but increasingly, they want better Square, London, you would find a creative department, co-ordination although it is no good co-ordinating a lousy a marketing department, an account handling department, idea.
Finally, they want it at the lowest possible price.
The a media department and a public relations department.
challenge is therefore to provide the best ideas in the best There would be a merchandising department, a direct co-ordinated or integrated way at the lowest price.
mail department, a packaging department, a production Until recently, this might have been seen as a fad, but now department, an experimental film department, a market the concept may be taking root.
Four major multinational research department and a conference department.
Even clients three of them with origins or significant parts of a home economics department with two fully equipped their business in Asia invited four or five of the largest kitchens plus an operations research department designing holding or parent companies to present for their global a factory for Mr Kipling cakes.
Long before the phrase advertising and marketing services business.
In all cases integrated communications came into common use, the presentations included advertising and media investment integrated communications were exactly what such full management, and direct and in one case research.
All these service agencies provided.
clients were looking for an integrated global solution to their Over time and as a result of two pressures these needs and for groups that can offer alternative solutions departments became unbundled.
Clients sought to reduce potentially a weakness of the single network.
costs and the media and craft specialists within agencies, In all four pitches, a group or parent company solution feeling under-recognised as members of a mother agencys was selected.
WPP tribes were successful in two of them.
department, looked for greater recognition and reward in In the third and fourth, we were constrained by significant free-standing, specialist companies of their own.
Importantly, this involved a split between the creative The CEO of one eliminated parent company in the first agency and the media agency, reducing costs from round of the first pitch declared that this was not a trend.
approximately 15% of gross media costs to about 12%.
After at least four similar pitches, he has changed his mind Good media people left and started independents such and is pursuing a holding company approach.
In addition, as Carat, Media Planning Group, CIA and Western many other group pitches have taken place particularly in International, which grew organically and by acquisition.
pharmaceuticals, and public relations and public affairs The same pattern was seen among packaging, market that have been under the trade papers radar.
The only issue research, merchandising, PR and other specialist skills.
preventing this from being a trend is whether clients can be Many such companies have now been re-absorbed into the convinced of the benefits.
superagencies, but in an inter-dependent or autonomous The middle of the road is becoming an increasingly form.
Strong media or marketing services specialists do difficult place to be, with traffic coming from both not like, understandably, to be subsumed under advertising directions.
Agencies excluded from the super-agency pitches WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 97 What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight because they lack the scale and resources must be feeling procurement seemed to start in the pharmaceutical industry uncomfortable.
Our business is polarising between big and and then moved elsewhere.
It may work in media buying, small.
In 2007, this trend was reinforced, when a high-tech where there are clearly economies of scale, but not necessarily client called a high-profile competition among the top five in media planning or other creative areas.
holding or parent companies for its advertising and It is true we must improve our processes and eliminate marketing services across the globe.
It used over 800 agencies waste, but can you buy ideas or our peoples creativity in worldwide and spent $1.5 billion on marketing, of which such a mechanical way?
Increasingly, pressure on price will $150 million was on agency fees.
The account was bigger drive our best creative resources to clients and categories than a BBH, a Weiden & Kennedy or a Crispin Porter on its where their services are rewarded appropriately.
The objective is to create a totally new agency for its marketing clients still appreciate that great advertising ideas needs and we are currently doing just that, not only for the and copy deliver outstanding results.
Reducing marketing anchor client, but for others, too.
Not easy to do, but an costs indiscriminately, particularly in industries with heavy indication of where things are going.
fixed production costs, will only result in having to spread those costs over fewer unit sales.
The procurement process seems to be based on the idea Fees, outsourcing and procurement: that what we provide is low value-added, and that, because the way forward?
we are dependent on significant revenues from large clients, we can be squeezed.
This thinking may be flawed.
First, The days of 15% gross commissions 17.65% on cost are what we do is critical.
There is a limit to how far costs can long gone.
Commission levels have receded to around 12% be reduced: but there is almost no limit apart from 100% gross for full service, including media planning and buying, market share to how far you can grow revenues.
Second, or, as we put it, Media Investment Management.
Production in an increasingly undifferentiated world, what we do commissions have largely been reduced or eliminated, differentiate products and services, tangibly and intangibly although there are interesting procurement opportunities is becoming more and more important, particularly in the for agencies themselves in television production.
slower-growth markets of the US and Western Europe, where While commissions persist, fees are becoming more overcapacity, commoditisation and retail concentration are popular with clients, although that momentum seems to more pressing issues.
They now represent at least 75% of our business.
Usually time-based, with incentives, they are used almost exclusively in our marketing services business, Corporate responsibility: a no-brainer?
which accounts for 56% of our revenues.
In advertising, they account for well over half of our business.
If you are in the business of building brands, products, Fees have a number of advantages and, on balance, services or corporate brands in the long term, corporate we prefer them.
They are not seasonal, in a business where responsibility is surely a given.
If you want to build longspending tends to be concentrated in the second and fourth term profitability, you dismiss the environment, society, quarters.
January, however, has generally become a more government, NGOs or the press at your peril.
If clients cut or do not spend or would only ignore these constituencies if you were in business continually re-brief us, we still get paid.
for a quick buck or short-term profit.
Finally, when fee-driven, we tend to plan our annual Many companies have made an increasingly important business better.
Fees have also tended to dampen volatility in virtue and value of positioning their brand, goods or services our operating margins.
In the most recent cycle, our margins as corporately responsible.
BP in the oil and energy industry, peaked at 14.5% and bottomed at 12.3%.
In this cycle, they HSBC in banking, and Wal-Mart and M&S in retail are have already reached 16% old UK GAAP basis.
previous cycle in the early nineties, they peaked at 10.5% However, three recent events have heightened the and bottomed at 5.6%.
importance and significance of CR or Global Corporate I cannot remember a time, in the 30 or so years I have Citizenship and made them very fashionable.
First, the deal been in the industry, when clients have been so focused between Warren Buffett and Bill Gates, involving an on cost.
Given overcapacity, low inflation and lack of exchange of Microsoft and Berkshire Hathaway stocks, to pricing power, and high management turnover and, enable the Gates Foundation to do even greater charitable most importantly, the current economic crisis, that is work.
Second, the decision by Sir Richard Branson, at the perhaps understandable.
second Clinton Global Initiative in New York, to donate up However, the question remains whether the procurement to $3 billion in profits from his Virgin companies to good process can successfully purchase creative services in the causes.
And finally, the decision by James Murdoch at BSkyB way door handles or widgets are bought.
The emphasis on and his father Rupert Murdoch at NewsCorp to espouse 98 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 What we think New markets, new media & consumer insight carbon neutrality along with Al Gores influential film An Inconvenient Truth.
All of these events have made it fashionable for chairmen and CEOs to embrace corporate responsibility and embarrassing for them if they do not.
Consumers will not consume luxury in the same way as they did recently, at least for some considerable time in the future.
Responsible consumption will become more important, rather than conspicuous consumption.
Consuming less in a more socially responsible way will be crucial in relation to society, the environment and economy.
Thus social responsibility will be more significant to the consumer, our clients, governments, NGOs and all constituencies.
Conclusion The maxi-quadrennial year of 2008 was good but challenged, particularly in the second half, by the global crisis.
2009, especially in the first half, will be a very tough year.
The second half will probably look relatively better, as the unprecedented fiscal stimulus kicks in and 2010 may see a recovery of sorts.
The question remains, however, over the long term.
Do we make it easier for future generations by taking the pain now by cutting spending, increasing taxes and unemployment and saving?
Or do we take the easiest way out by inflating, with long-term interest rates rising?
Ironically, we are being asked to spend and lend our way out of this recession when that is what got us into this trouble in the first place.
In either scenario, new geographical markets, new media and consumer insights will become more important.
So WPPs strategy remains appropriate.
Furthermore, globalisation, overcapacity and the shortage of human capital, the web, internal communications, concentrating distribution, corporate responsibility, and a balance between global and local organisational structures will drive the importance of branding and differentiation, and advertising and marketing services to new heights.
