How were doing Letter to share owners your Company is approximately 8.5 billion.
Dear share owner Following our 2008 results, our listed debt has maintained investment grade status with the rating agencies Moodys and PPs twenty-third year was in many ways another S&P.
Equity analysts also appear comfortable with average record year despite the financial catastrophes net debt levels of around 2.5 times headline EBITDA.
Our performance conformed in would equate to approximately 3.5 billion based on a pro W many respects to the financial model we have forma 2008 EBITDA, including TNS for a full year.
developed, with both revenues and headline profits rising in the 5-10% range on a constant currency basis.
Despite these record results, disappointingly, total share A tale of two halves owner return declined, with your share price falling over one-third from 647.0p to 402.5p during the year, principally Our reported revenue growth of almost 21% reflected the due to the chaos in the financial markets.
Dividends, strength of the euro and US dollar against sterling, as well however, rose 15% to 15.47p.
Since the year end, your share as the impact of TNS.
On a constant currency basis, which price has increased to 419.0p at the time of writing.
Given excludes the impact of currency movements, revenues were the considerable management share ownership in your up 9.0%.
On a like-for-like basis, excluding the impact of Company, management has shared that pain, which has not acquisitions and currency, revenues were up 2.7%.
Revenue, been reduced by issuing options to senior management at including 100% of associates, is estimated to total over bargain-basement prices or re-pricing old ones.
In October 2008, the Company successfully completed 2008 was largely a year of two contrasting halves.
A the acquisition of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc TNS, a major strong first half although second-quarter growth wobbled a information, insight and consultancy group, operating in little, with like-for-like growth of 4.3%, which compares over 80 countries with almost 17,000 people worldwide.
with overall growth of 5.0% for 2007, and a weaker second Our results include the contribution of TNS for the last half with slowing organic growth of 1.4%, as the impact of two months of the year.
the sub-prime and insurance monoline crises, that started Billings were up over 16% to 36.9 billion.
Revenues towards the end of 2007, was intensified by the collapse, were up almost 21% to 7.5 billion.
Headline PBIT margin emergency acquisition and restructuring of financial was flat at 15.0% against a target of 15.3%, including TNS.
institutions in many parts of the world.
Headline PBIT that is, profit before goodwill write-downs, Revenue growth slowed as the year progressed: on a investment gains and write-downs, amortisation and like-for-like basis, growth of 4.8% in the first quarter slowed impairment of acquired intangible assets, share of exceptional to 3.8% in the second, 3.0% in the third and then flattened to gains losses of associates, one-off costs of changes to our 0.1% in the final quarter of the year.
However, we suffered less corporate structure, finance income costs and taxation what in the final quarter than some of our major competitors, who a mouthful!
was up over 20% to 1,118 million, crossing experienced negative overall growth.
This trend will continue 1 billion for the first time.
in the immediate short term: our own budgets prepared late Headline EBITDA or headline earnings before interest, last year indicate a like-for-like revenue decline of 2% for taxation, depreciation and amortisation, which is a key 2009, whilst more recent forecasts for the advertising industry metric that private equity firms, for example, use for valuing as a whole indicate a decline of 4% or more, so we expect to companies rose over 20% to 1.3 billion.
continue to increase market share in spite of the downturn.
Headline profit before tax was up over 18% to 968 Our total revenue in 2008 surpassed that of all our million.
Reported profit before tax was up almost 4% to competitors, regaining the No.
1 position for the third time.
747 million, reflecting goodwill and investment write-downs.
Like-for-like revenue growth was positive across all Diluted headline earnings per share were up over 21% to regions other than North America, which was almost flat, 55.5p and diluted reported earnings per share down 1% to although revenues in the fourth quarter were stronger than 37.6p, again reflecting goodwill and investment write-downs.
There were conflicting trends in North America as, Free cash flow remained strong at 777 million.
Net debt on the one hand, smaller businesses may be more rapidly averaged 2.2 billion in 2008, up just over 600 million at affected by the recession and, on the other hand, FMCG 2008 exchange rates, principally reflecting the net acquisition companies may be maintaining their brand investment cost of TNS and other, smaller acquisitions.
Net debt at 31 spending, even in more difficult times.
December 2008 was 3.1 billion compared with 1.3 billion last year.
Headline interest cover in 2008 was 7.5 times.
In the first two months of 2009, average net debt was 3.2 billion, the seasonal cash outflow at this time of year remaining the this letter to share owners should be read in conjunction with and as part same as last year.
With a current equity market capitalisation of the management report set out in the section headed Directors report on of approximately 5.3 billion, the total enterprise value of pages 107 to 137.
18 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Letter to share owners Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East years ago.
The influence of the faster-growing markets outside continued to be the fastest-growing of our geographic regions, North America and Western Europe is increasing rapidly.
with Africa and the Middle East being the fastest-growing sub-region.
Asia Pacific remained strong across the region, with mainland China up almost 9% and India up 21%, Strongest growth in public relations and media although Japan and Australia were weaker.
Continental Europe and the UK, although suffering from the deterioration Growth was encouraging across all communications services in economic conditions, both grew over 2% like-for-like.
In sectors Advertising, Media Investment Management, 2008, Continental Europe remained two-paced, with Western Information, Insight & Consultancy, Public Relations Continental Europe softer and Central and Eastern Europe, & Public Affairs, Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Russia and the other CIS countries, in particular, more Specialist Communications although this last sector lagged buoyant.
Of the big five Western European markets, Spain the others, particularly in the second half of the year.
and Italy were weakest, France and Germany were stable and Public Relations & Public Affairs was the fastestthe UK was stronger.
growing communications services sector with constant Markets outside North America now account for over currency revenue up 6.9% and like-for-like growth of 65% of our revenues, up from 62% in 2007 and 58% five 4.9%.
Particularly strong were Hill & Knowlton, BursonMarsteller, Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide and Clarion in the UK.
Overall operating margins for this sector 1 Constant currency revenue growth by geography % remained flat at 16.6%.
New technologies and new media have, once again, 08 4.6 demonstrated the power of editorial publicity through North America 07 7.6 fast-growing new services such as MySpace, YouTube, 08 7.2 Facebook, Flickr and Wikipedia, along with the risks UK 07 4.0 and difficulties of making money on social networking 08 9.6 sites through advertising, as even experts like Facebook Continental Europe 07 7.0 have found on two occasions.
In addition, Public Relations 08 16.9 Asia Pacic, Latin America, & Public Affairs have benefited from the impact of polling Africa & Middle East 07 13.7 techniques, which have provided a more scientific basis for the industry.
What you know is becoming more important than who you know.
2 Headline PBIT margins by geography % Advertising and Media Investment Management revenue grew by over 4% in constant currencies and by 3.6% on a 08 16.8 like-for-like basis.
Operating margins rose by over 1 margin North America 07 17.3 point to 17.5%.
08 13.0 In 2008, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, JWT, Y&R UK 07 12.0 Advertising, Grey and United generated estimated net new 08 14.3 billings of 865 million $1.6 billion.
GroupM, the Groups Continental Europe 07 13.5 media investment management company, which includes 08 14.1 Asia Pacic, Latin America, Mindshare, Mediaedge:cia, MediaCom and Maxus, Africa & Middle East 07 15.0 generated estimated net new billings of 1.3 billion $2.4 billion.
Information, Insight & Consultancy continued to show Revenue by geography m resilience in difficult economic conditions.
On a constant currency basis, revenues grew 27.8%, largely as a result of North America 8,000 the acquisition of TNS, with like-for-like revenues up 3.0%.
UK 6,000 Gross margin grew by 2.9% on a like-for-like basis.
Overall Continental Europe operating margins fell by 0.2 margin points to 11.3%.
4,000 Asia Pacic, Latin America Africa & Middle East This part of the industry certainly seems to have a lower 2,000 beta, growing less rapidly in the upturn and more steadily in the downturn.
0 Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist 04 05 06 07 08 Communications was the slowest-growing segment of our business as the significant growth in direct, digital 1 See definition on page 176.
2 the calculation of headline PBIt is set out in note 31 of the financial statements.
and interactive services was overpowered by slower growth WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 19 How were doing Letter to share owners in Healthcare and Specialist Communications.
Revenues rose Profits up: margins firm by 7.6% in constant currency and were marginally higher on a like-for-like basis.
The Specialist Communications segment Headline PBIT margins remained at 15.0%, slightly down of our business includes a number of smaller companies, from the target margin of 15.3% for 2008, on the same basis, largely in the US and Western Europe, which have including TNS for two months, 0.2 margin points up on 2007 particularly felt the impact of the recent slow-down and on the same basis.
As a consequence, operating margins were down The Groups like-for-like headcount continued to grow faster by 1.6 margin points to 12.6%.
than like-for-like revenue growth in the first half and third Marketing services rose to almost 56% of our revenues quarter, although this did not have a significant negative impact in 2008, up from 54% in 2007, due to strong growth in on achieving the Groups operating margin target of 15.5% Public Relations & Public Affairs and the impact of TNS excluding TNS and 15.3% including TNS, until the Beijing on Information, Insight & Consultancy.
This proportion bounce, anticipated in the Groups budget and reforecasts for should increase to around 62% in 2009, reflecting a full the third quarter of 2008, failed to materialise.
In the fourth years contribution from TNS.
It is no longer accurate to quarter, better than anticipated revenue growth also better call us an advertising agency.
than some competitors, combined with decisive action to reduce like-for-like headcount growth, improved relative performance.
The average like-for-like headcount growth for the year of 1 3.9%, contrasted sharply with the year end like-for-like Constant currency revenue growth by sector % headcount growth of 1.3%, as headcount fell through a mixture 08 4.4 Advertising and Media of non-replacement, the attrition rate and increased severance.
Investment Management 07 5.1 Incentive payments including the cost of share-based 08 27.8 Information, Insight compensation fell by over 7% to 214 million from 231 & Consultancy 07 4.5 million.
Excluding these incentive payments, headline PBIT Public Relations 08 6.9 margins remained strong at 17.8%.
Incentives represented & Public Affairs 07 12.6 almost 17% of headline operating profit before bonuses and 7.6 Branding & Identity, Healthcare 08 income from associates, against almost 21% in 2007.
Our and Specialist Communications 07 14.1 objective remains to pay out approximately 20% at maximum and 15% at target, so our performance against our objectives is clear.
Part of the Groups strategy is to continue to ensure that 2 Headline PBIT margins by sector % variable staff costs freelancers, consultants and incentive payments are a significant proportion of total staff costs and Advertising and Media 08 17.5 revenue, as this provides flexibility to deal with volatility in Investment Management 07 16.3 revenues and recessions or slow-downs.
In 2007, the ratio 08 11.3 Information, Insight of variable staff costs to total staff costs fell marginally by & Consultancy 07 11.5 0.3 percentage points to 12.7% and in 2008 to 11.4%.
As a 08 16.6 Public Relations proportion of revenue, variable staff costs were 7.4% in 2007 & Public Affairs 07 16.6 and 6.6% in 2008.
These variable staff costs provide a shock 12.6 Branding & Identity, Healthcare 08 absorber to operating margins as revenues come under and Specialist Communications 07 14.2 increasing pressure.
We estimate that at least half of these variable staff costs can be reduced in the course of a recession.
There is, therefore, a potential buffer of around 3 margin points.
On a reported basis, the Groups staff cost-to-revenue ratio Revenue by sector m improved slightly to 58.2%.
As a result of all this, headline PBIT rose to 1,118 million Advertising and Media 8,000 Investment Management almost $2 billion, up over 6% in constant currencies.
Although 6,000 Information, 2008 was a successful year overall, some of our first-generation Insight & Consultancy businesses continued to suffer, resulting in a combined goodwill 4,000 Public Relations and investment write-down of 115 million compared to 44 & Public Affairs 2,000 million in 2007.
Reported PBIT, therefore, fell by 6% in Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist Communications 0 constant currency to 922 million.
04 05 06 07 08 Net finance costs excluding the revaluation of financial instruments were 150 million, up from 111 million last year, reflecting higher interest rates and increased average 1 See definition on page 176.
net debt due to cash spent on acquisitions, including TNS.
20 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Letter to share owners Reported pre-tax profits, therefore, declined by over 13% Industry prospects in 2009 and 2010 in constant currency to 747 million, although still above $1 billion for the fourth consecutive year.
Although the US Presidential Election, the Beijing Olympics The Groups tax rate on headline profit before tax and the UEFA football championship had the usual positive was 25.3%, the same as 2007.
Diluted headline earnings maxi-quadrennial effect on client spending in 2008, per share were up 5.5% in constant currency to 55.5p and worldwide advertising and marketing expenditures only diluted reported earnings per share were down over 18% on rose about 2-3% in the year.
Share owners approved the proposed Despite the overall slow-down in the industry growth change in tax domicile to Ireland in November 2008 with rate, three engines of relative growth remained.
Asia Pacific, an unprecedented vote.
Over 64% of our share owners voted Latin America, Africa and the Middle East and Central and of those 99.5% voted in favour, a turnout and positive and Eastern Europe, iconically represented by the BRICs vote which has not been achieved by your Company before and those of the Next 11 markets where we are present in similar situations.
Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam, continued to grow faster and now represent almost 27% of the Groups TNS joins the Group, at last approximately $15 billion pro-forma including TNS revenue.
As did new media and the application of technology TNS is a company whose people, brands and work we have in the form of internet, PC, mobile, video content and social long admired competitively and it will add significant value networks, which now account for almost 25% of Group to the Group.
TNS is a market leader in Continental Europe revenues.
And finally, as did consumer insight and with strong positions in the UK, Asia and the Middle East Information, Insight & Consultancy, which now account and is a major supplier of consumer panel, media intelligence for almost 27% of Group revenues, on a proforma basis.
and TV and radio audience measurement data.
It is As the first year of the quadrennial cycle, there are no competitively strong in key industries, including automotive, minior maxi-quadrennial events in 2009 to boost client technology, healthcare and retail and packaged goods.
It is true that 2009 was always likely to be a The combination of TNS and the other companies within weaker year, but the unprecedented current financial crisis Kantar the Groups Information, Insight & Consultancy has triggered a vicious recession across the globe.
Our budgets business has created the second-largest global insight, for 2009 initially indicated flat like-for-like revenue growth, information and consultancy group and the fourth-largest but revenue out-performance in the fourth quarter of 2008 information services company in the world, after Thomson versus forecast and the prudent addition of further budgeted Reuters, Nielsen and Bloomberg.
This combination now revenue contingencies, resulted in final budget revenues for provides leading positions in shopper research and 2009 being down 2% like-for-like, with relative decreases marketing, Media outside of the US, Healthcare, in costs.
GroupM forecasts that global advertising spending Communications and Innovation.
In a recently announced equivalent to approximately 40% of the Groups revenues reorganisation, TNS Custom Research has now been merged will fall by over 4% in 2009 versus 2% growth in 2008. with Research International and four specialist research The first half is budgeted to be weaker than the annual units have been formed Kantar Media, Kantar Healthcare, average, with a relative improvement in the second half, Kantar Retail and Kantar Worldpanel.
partly due to weaker comparatives in the second half of 2008.
TNS performed well in line with its revenue and profit Geographically, there are relatively brighter spots forecast at the time of its acquisition.
Our estimates of budgeted in Asia Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East, synergy benefits are being met and in fact being exceeded.
reflecting the continued relative strength of the BRIC or The cost benefits identified will also be realised sooner than more accurately BIC and Next 11 markets.
Central and originally anticipated and the cost ratios will be in line with Eastern Europe, as a whole, remains relatively softer, as our original projections.
Integration has gone well so far and Russia is under extreme pressure, exacerbated by the falls the new organisational structure for the combined Kantar in the oil price and the rouble, although we expect Russia and TNS has been implemented.
The cost of the acquisition to recover quickly, when the oil price does.
Discipline is of TNS including debt was 1.6 billion and was funded already being restored.
The US and Western Europe remain principally by debt.
Our goal remains that the return on relatively weaker, with recession biting hardest there and in capital from TNS will exceed the cost of capital within three Southern Europe.
years from the date of acquisition.
There are similar differences functionally.
Media Investment Management, Information, Insight & Consultancy, Public Relations & Public Affairs, Healthcare Communications and direct, digital and interactive show relative strength, whilst Advertising, Branding & Identity and Specialist Communications remain under the greatest pressure.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 21 How were doing Letter to share owners Incentive plans for 2009 will place increased emphasis Given the politically unpleasant implications of the on operating margins in conjunction with operating profit first route and imminent general elections in the UK and growth, although objectives will continue to include Germany and mid-term Congressional elections in the US, improvements in staff costs-to-revenue ratios and qualitative the second course is more likely.
As a result, those countries Group objectives, including Group co-ordination and that are capital rich and have saved like Brazil, China, co-operation, talent management and succession planning.
India, Japan and eventually, when the oil price rises again, At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit data Russia will benefit even more.
And the Groups strategic for the first two months of 2009 and this does show a focus on the BRICs and Next 11, on the new media and difference in the trend of revenues against last year, although on consumer insight, will benefit even more.
operating profits were better than budgeted.
The first two There is also evidence in recent years of a growing focus months of 2008 were, in any event, relatively strong months on top-line growth.
Given a low-inflationary environment, for like-for-like revenue growth, at almost 6%.
limited pricing power and more concentrated retail distribution, clients are increasingly coming to the view that there is only one long-term way to compete through Revised margin objectives innovation and branding.
Promote on price and you create commodities.
Innovate and differentiate, you create brands Operating margins for 2009 are targeted to be flat at and the right to demand a premium from the consumer.
14.3%, including a full year of TNS, equivalent to the There is a growing realisation that cutting costs alone will 15.0% achieved in 2008.
Operating margin targets have, not deliver growth targets promised to Wall Street and the therefore, been reset at 14.8% for 2010, equivalent to City of London.
There is a limit to cost reduction, but no 15.5%, pre-TNS.
In the longer term, we continue to believe ceiling on top-line growth at least until you reach 100% we can improve our operating margin to over 18% including market share.
Reinforcing this trend, strategic advisors, such TNS, equivalent to the previous target of 19%, excluding as management consultants like McKinsey and Bain, counsel TNS.
This is challenging, of course, but not so outrageous a switch in focus from costs to revenues.
Corporate strategic as some believe, given that our best-performing companies plans are increasingly concentrating on managing for in each services sector already perform at a combined Group growth, as well as managing for value.
Beyond the financial crisis A recovery of sorts in 2010?
In the long term, the outlook for the advertising and Although the economic gloom has heightened recently, with marketing services industry appears favourable.
Increasing further earnings disappointments, surprise dividend cuts, globalisation, overcapacity of production in most sectors continued financial restructurings and rights issues, we and the shortage of human capital, the developments in new still believe there will be a recovery of sorts in 2010, partly technologies and media, the growth in importance of internal driven by weak comparatives, as the effects of massive communications, the need to influence distribution, the new Keynesian fiscal injections, quantitative easings and interest focus on corporate responsibility issues such as climate rate reductions take hold.
These already approximate to change and the focus on global and country organisational $13 trillion or approximately 20% of worldwide GDP of structures, underpin the need for our clients to continue $64 trillion.
to differentiate their products and services, both tangibly 2010, a so-called mini-quadrennial year, should also and intangibly.
benefit from the impact on client spending on the Winter Moreover, the continuing growth of the BRICs, Next 11 Olympics in Vancouver, the FIFA World Cup in South Africa and other faster-growing geographical markets, will add and the mid-term Congressional elections in the US.
China, significant opportunities in Asia Pacific, Latin America, especially, also may see stronger growth due to the impact of Africa and the Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe the Shanghai Expo and the Asian Games in Guangzhou.
along with the growth of new BRICs such as Vietnam, The more interesting question, probably, is how the West Pakistan, Indonesia and Bangladesh.
Advertising and in particular will emerge from the current crisis and reduce marketing services expenditure as a proportion of gross the colossal government deficit needed to fund the early stage national product should eventually resume its growth.
There seem to be two possible routes.
First, In these difficult times, meanwhile, we are committed to the more prudent and painful reduce government spending, working with our clients to improve the effectiveness increase taxes and unemployment and learn to save again.
quality and efficiency cost of their spending.
Secondly, inflate our way out of the problem and continue Given these shortand long-term trends, your Company to spend and lend, with significant resultant increases in believes it has the right strategic priorities new markets, new inflation and long-term interest rates.
22 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Letter to share owners Including associates, the Group had over 135,000 revenue growth and ghg needs to overcome the impact of full-time people in 2,400 offices in 107 countries at the year FDA non-approvals on products that clients have assigned end.
It services 345 of the Fortune Global 500 companies, to them.
At Young & Rubicam Brands, our plans are also 29 of the Dow Jones 30, half of the NASDAQ 100, 33 of the largely implemented, the one remaining task being to Fortune e-50, and over 700 national or multinational clients continue to strengthen the Y&R advertising agency, although in three or more disciplines.
More than 440 clients are served the business is showing increased strength following the in four disciplines and these clients account for over 58% of change in leadership two years ago.
The Group also works with over 310 clients in six or more countries.
Our third priority, in the long term, or over the These statistics reflect the increasing opportunities for next five to 10 years, is to: developing client relationships between activities nationally, 3 increase the combined geographic share of internationally and by function.
We estimate that over 35% revenues from the faster growing markets of Asia Pacific, of new assignments in the year were generated through the Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and joint development of opportunities by two or more Group Eastern Europe, from around 27% to one-third.
New integration mechanisms, sensitive to global aim to increase the share of revenues of marketing services and local opportunities, including WPP Global Client from around 62% now including TNS on a full year basis Leaders and Country Managers, continue to be developed.
There is an increasing number of major client creative and increase the share of more measurable marketing services integration opportunities at a Group level.
such as Information, Insight & Consultancy or consumer The Group continues to be extremely successful in most, insight, and direct, interactive and internet from around if not all, of the integrated marketing competitions that 40% of our revenues to 50%.
It is very rare for us not to reach the final round, at least.
These opportunities 1 Revenue by geography vs peers $bn range from the creation of teams across the Group to the integration of various operating units and to the creation North America 20 of individually tailored agencies to meet clients needs.
Europe 16 The Groups integration record leads its competitors by Asia Pacic, Latin America, 12 5 a considerable distance.
Africa & Middle East 8 4 Our key priorities 0 2 3 4 4 WPP Omnicom IPG Publicis Havas Our reason for being, the justification for WPPs existence, 1 Source: WPP sterling revenues converted @ $1.85 1 based on the average continues to be to add value to our clients businesses and exchange rate for 2008, adjusted to include a full year of tnS.
omnicom, IPG, Publicis and Havas company presentations for 2008. our peoples careers.
Our goal remains to be the worlds 2 omnicom.
Assumes non euro currency europe, i. e. Switzerland, turkey, norway, most successful provider of communications services to Denmark, Sweden and eastern europe are ca 3% of revenue and Canada is 1.5% of revenue.
multinational and local companies, not just the largest.
Assumes Canada is ca 1.5% of revenue.
To that end, we have three key strategic priorities.
4 Havas and Publicis figures assume $1 0.68 based on the average exchange rate for 2008.
Asia Pacific, latin America, Africa and Middle east.
First, our immediate priority is to weather the current financial crisis successfully.
Compared with the last 1 Revenue by discipline vs peers $bn 1 downturn, our people are stronger: they are better resourced, motivated and incentivised than when we exited Marketing services 20 the last recessions in the early 1990s and 2000s.
The Company is also more profitable, more liquid and better Advertising & media 16 structured.
In the most recent economic cycle, margins 12 peaked at 14.5% and bottomed at 12.3%, as opposed to 8 10.5% and 5.6% the previous time.
4 0 Second, in the medium term, to build upon the 2 2 WPP Omnicom IPG Publicis Havas successful base we have established with the 2 acquisitions, for example, of TNS, Young & Rubicam 1 Source: WPP sterling revenue converted at $1.85 1 based on the average exchange rate for 2008, adjusted to include a full year of tnS.
omnicom, IPG, Brands and Grey.
At Grey, the new management structure is Publicis and Havas company presentations for 2008. now in place and the planned integration is now completed.
2 Havas and Publicis figures assume $1 0.68 based on the average exchange rate for 2008.
Grey Advertising still needs to raise its game in terms of WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 23 How were doing Letter to share owners Change in variable costs % Our six specific objectives 2008 15 9.2 12.7 11.4 5.3 7.4 6.6 Continue to raise operating margins to the 1 2007 levels of the best-performing competition.
12 2002 9 Continue to increase flexibility in the cost structure.
2 6 3 Improve total share owner return.
3 0 Variable staff costs Variable staff costs Continue to enhance the contribution of as a % of staff costs as a % of revenue 4 the parent company.
Place greater emphasis on revenue growth.
5 Third, to improve total share owner return by maximising the return on investment on the Further improve the quality of our creative output.
3 Companys almost 800 million or $1.2 billion free 6 cash flow.
There are broadly three alternative uses of funds: Capital expenditure, which usually approximates the Our six objectives are summarised below, together with depreciation cost.
Pressure here has eased as technology an assessment of how we performed against them in pricing has fallen, although we are investing more in real 2008.
These objectives represent our key performance estate following lease renewals, particularly in New York, indicators KPIs.
Mergers and acquisitions, which have historically taken First, to continue to raise operating margins to the the lions share of free cash flow.
Here we have raised the levels of the best-performing competition.
15% has hurdle rate on capital employed so that our return on 1 been achieved for two consecutive years.
19%, or over capital may be increased.
Even so, there are still interesting 18% post-TNS, is much tougher, but not out of the question.
opportunities, particularly outside the US, where pricing BBDO, Dentsu and McCann have done so historically, remains lower, despite the recent financial crisis, and where although the pressure became too great in some instances.
there is a closer fit with the Companys strategic objectives.
Private transactions remain more attractively priced at Headline operating margins vs peers % single-digit price-earnings multiples.
Our acquisition focus in 2008 was again on the twin WPP 20 opportunities of faster-growing geographic markets and IPG new technologies, totally consistent with our strategic 15 Omnicom objectives in the areas of geography, new communication 10 Publicis services and measurability.
5 Havas Dividends or share buy-backs.
We were the only 0 WPP including FTSE 100 company to consistently increase its dividend associates -5 by 20% per annum for the 10 years up to 2007.
Given dividend cover Based on headline operating profit as defined on page 177, excluding share of results of four times headline earnings and a dividend yield of over of associates, and sourced from relevant public filings, adjusted to a comparable 1% in recent years although current yields are in excess of basis to WPP.
4%, we believe we can continue to increase the dividend.
Second, to continue to increase flexibility in the cost A rolling share buy-back program appears to offer a more structure.
Great strides have been made in recent significant benefit to total share owner returns.
Peak flexibility historically was in 2000, when we boosted the target level of the share buy-back program variable staff costs made up 6.6% of revenues.
At 7.4% in from 2-3% of the outstanding share capital to 4-5%, 2007, 7.7% in 2006, 7.6% in 2005 and 7.8% in 2004, we spending over 400 million in that year on buy-backs.
have seen new peaks: and once again we have a sufficient In the first half of 2008, we bought back almost 19 million shock absorber in our cost structure for when revenue shares, equivalent to 1.6% of share capital, at a cost of growth weakens, as it will do as a result of the current 112 million, but then withdrew from the market during financial crisis.
The decrease to 6.6% in 2008 illustrates the TNS bid process.
the value of this flexibility as revenue growth started to tail For the two years following the acquisition of TNS, off in the year, yet we were able to maintain an operating we will limit our share buy-back program to a target of 1% margin in line with the prior year.
of share capital per annum and dividend growth at 15% per 24 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Letter to share owners annum, subject to review by the Board.
We expect these All our clients, whether global, multinational or actions, together with a reduced level of acquisition spend local, continue to focus on the quality of our thinking, targeted at 100 million per annum, to generate surplus co-ordination of communications, and price.
In response, cash and a reduction in borrowing levels.
we focus on talent, structure and incentives.
1 Distributions to share owners m Training and development Buy-backs 600 2.7% 3.6% 4.8% 6.6% 4.7% Dividends paid Talent and its management therefore remain the lynchpin 450 of our reason for existence: that is what our clients pay us 300 for.
Development of our people and the way we manage that talent is a critical determinant of performance: and on that 150 critical dimension, we continue to make significant progress.
0 In the creation of extremely attractive working 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 environments, with highly competitive incentives, we 1 Sum of share buy-backs and dividends paid divided by average shares in issue for increasingly differentiate ourselves from our competitors the relevant period, as a % of the average share price for the relevant period.
and improve the attraction of WPP companies as destinations for talent.
Our quarterly reviews with the operating Fourth, we will continue to enhance the contribution companies have been restructured, consequently, to give of the parent company and build unique integrated more time and attention to talent and to clients.
Our 4 marketing approaches for clients.
WPP is not just a recruiting efforts throughout 2008 were especially fruitful, holding company focused on planning, budgeting, reporting as we successfully targeted and attracted top talent within and financial issues, but a parent company that can add and beyond our industry, often competing with investment value to our clients and our people in the areas of human banking, management consulting and private equity offers.
resources, property, procurement, information technology The war for talent is fierce and there is more to be done.
We will continue to do this The blueprint for our executive development curriculum through a limited group of 300 or so people at the centre has been completed and our new client leadership training in Dublin, London, New York, Hong Kong and Shanghai.
program, Maestro, has been successfully introduced.
The This does not mean that we seek to diminish the strength of parent company and each of our operating companies installed our operating brands.
Our objective is to maximise the added its own approach to performance assessment and succession value for our clients with their businesses and our people planning, aimed at developing the careers of their people, with their careers.
improving the quality of feedback, coaching and mentoring Many of our initiatives are possible because of the scale and providing for orderly succession.
We continued to on which we now operate.
In the optimum use of property, scrutinise and modify our compensation practices, both to in information technology and in procurement generally, offer competitive and appropriately-based rewards to our we are able to achieve efficiencies that would be beyond the people and to attract outstanding talent from elsewhere.
reach of any individual operating company.
But it is also clear that there is an increasing requirement for the centre to complement the operating companies in Communications professional development and client co-ordination.
It is a relatively recent development for certain multinational A communications services company must be a model of marketing companies, when looking to satisfy their global excellent external and internal communications.
To that end, communications needs, to make their initial approach not we accelerate the understanding of the Groups vast resources to operating companies but directly to parent companies.
with a raft of regular communications through our websites Such assignments present major, and increasingly and in print: our online FactFiles profiling Group resources frequent, opportunities for the few groups of our size.
It is companies products: our monthly public online news absolutely essential that we have the professional resources bulletin, e. wire: our award-winning global newspaper, and the practice development capability to serve such clients The WIRE, voted best internal newspaper globally at the comprehensively, actively and creatively.
The recent highrecent LACP Inspire awards: our annual Atticus Journal profile, high technology pitch that we won against all our of original marketing thinking: The WPP Reading Room, competitors, to build a totally new agency for that clients an extensive online library of thinkpieces both public and needs, is the most extreme and exciting and difficult original from WPP professionals worldwide: our annual example of this.
Similar initiatives involving some of the Corporate Responsibility Report: and this consistently-award worlds largest marketers continue to gain momentum.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 25 How were doing Letter to share owners Property management Practice development In property management we continue to optimise our real Finally, in practice development we continue to develop estate portfolio through the award-winning WPP Space horizontal initiatives in a focused set of high-potential areas Program, with investment in property databases and systems, across our vertical operating brands: in media, healthcare, innovative design and a continuous review of our key new technologies, new faster-growing markets, internal locations.
This has enabled us to hold the increase in square communications, retail, entertainment and media, financial footage in our portfolio to 5% p. a. over the last three years, services, hi-tech and telecommunications and corporate while for the same period, revenue excluding the impact responsibility.
Specifically, we continue to invest in sharing of currency increased by 6% p. a.
As a result, average insights and developing initiatives through The Channel in square foot per head is down 8% from 236 sq ft in 2006 media and research and The Store in distribution and retail.
In key geographic markets we are increasingly We have achieved the medium-term objective of a 7% co ordinating our activities through WPP Country Managers.
establishment cost-to-revenue ratio set in 2002, when the We continue to believe that increasing co-ordination is same ratio was 8.4% and our future priority in managing required between our brands at the country and global levels, the property portfolio of approximately 19 million sq ft as the arguments for investment in regional management worldwide is to ensure growth in additional square footage become weaker.
As experience in Italy has demonstrated, is far less than the growth in revenues and headcount.
however, the activities of Country Managers must be closely In the short term our objectives will be to manage our aligned and monitored.
In addition, we are appointing lease expiries so that we can reduce our portfolio in line an increasing number of WPP Global Client Leaders to with any short-term reductions in headcount and revenue.
co-ordinate our efforts on behalf of clients and to ensure they get maximum benefit from their relationships with WPP operating brands.
We are focused currently on our Procurement top 30 global clients, which last year grew revenues at 3.6% on a like-for-like basis.
In procurement, we continue to set ourselves the goal of Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal strategic being the undisputed leader of procurement practice in alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice development the global advertising and marketing services industry.
initiatives have therefore been reinforced in such areas as We aim to benchmark ourselves regularly against our healthcare, retail, internal communications and media competitors and our clients.
Through intensified investment and entertainment.
This has been especially important to in procurement people, processes and technology, our goal manage our portfolio of direct investments in new media, is to maintain the ratio of bought-in costs-to-revenue at including 24 7 Real Media, under WPP Digital, and where around 15%, by leveraging Group scale across all of our our investments are working with our agencies and people major markets, and focusing on those spend categories most to bring new technology capabilities and understanding to favourable for global, regional and local supply contracts, our clients.
All these initiatives are designed to ensure that such as in IT, telecoms, travel, professional services, facilities we, the parent company, really do as well as being perceived and production.
to inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, support and incentivise our operating companies to achieve their strategic and operational goals.
IT In IT we continue to consolidate our core technology Growing our revenues infrastructure with the objectives of reducing cost and improving quality.
This enables our operating companies Fifth, to continue to place greater emphasis on to concentrate their efforts on client-related developments revenue growth.
One legitimate criticism of our and other internal business-focused applications.
5 performance against the best-performing competition The convergence of mobile, voice and data is our comparative level of organic revenue growth.
communications has allowed us to take advantage of 2000 was a bumper year but unsustainable.
In 2001, we new offerings in the telecommunications sector to drive disappointingly moved back into the middle of the pack.
efficiencies and to provide enhanced support to our But there was a significant revival in 2002 and 2003, when increasingly mobile workforce.
we were one of only two of the major companies that showed revenue growth.
2004 was punctuated with a number of high-profile wins, resulting in the second strongest organic growth performance in the industry, and 2005 and 2006 saw strong growth again among the leaders in the industry.
26 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Letter to share owners New business wins in 2007 were unprecedented in the Australia, New Zealand, China, Singapore and Vietnam: history of WPP, and revenue growth again impressed in Information, Insight & Consultancy in the US, the UK, against the competition, particularly the Big Four.
Spain, Brazil and India: in Public Relations & Public Affairs In 2008, revenue growth trailed a little behind our in the UK, China, Korea and India: in direct, internet and major competitors, although the fourth quarter held up interactive in the US, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, better than the competition.
Estimated net new billings of Russia, China, India, Japan and Malaysia: and in Branding 2.9 billion in 2008 reflected a consistently high level of & Identity in the Netherlands.
The Group was ranked first in We will also enhance our leadership position in two of the three major industry new business surveys in Information, Insight & Consultancy by further development 2008 and was, therefore, the leading group overall in new of our key brands with particular emphasis on North business acquisition, excluding re-appointments, as is the America, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Continental and industry convention.
We will continue our growth of research panels and have established a Kantar-wide operational capability, which will be consolidated with the same function Organic revenue growth vs peers % at TNS.
We will reinforce our growing position in media research through Kantar Media, which includes our WPP 15 investments in television audience research through the IPG 10 former TNS Media Intelligence and TNS Media Research, Omnicom 5 and IBOPE and Marktest, which, combined, are among the Publicis market leaders outside North America.
Havas 0 In addition, we intend to reinforce our worldwide -5 strength in direct and interactive marketing and research 2006 2007 Q108 Q208 Q308 Q408 through our traditional channels such as OgilvyOne, Wunderman, G2, RMG Connect, Blanc & Otus and Our practice development activities are also aimed Lightspeed.
Although the early 2000-2001 compressions at helping us position our portfolio in the faster-growing in financial valuations initially offered significant functional and geographic areas.
So far in 2009, the opportunities, we will now also invest directly in the Group has made acquisitions or increased equity interests new channels through start-ups, particularly as US and in Advertising and Media Investment Management in Italy French valuations in search, for example, are still prohibitive, and South Africa: in Information, Insight & Consultancy despite the financial crisis.
Other opportunities will be in the UK and US: in direct, internet and interactive in sought to enhance our online capabilities.
France, South Africa, the US and Vietnam.
Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist expertise These acquisitions continue to move us forward to in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive and to our previously described strategic priorities: expanding identify new high-growth areas.
the market shares of our businesses in Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East to one-third: in marketing services to two-thirds: and in Information, Creativity remains paramount Insight & Consultancy, direct and interactive, to one-half.
We intend to expand our strong networks Ogilvy Our sixth objective is to improve still further the & Mather, JWT, Y&R, Grey, United Network, Bates 141, quality of our creative output.
Despite the growing Mindshare, Mediaedge:cia, MediaCom, TNS the 6 importance of co-ordinated communications and newly combined TNS Custom Research and Research price effectiveness, the quality of the work remains and will International, Millward Brown, Kantar Media, Kantar remain paramount.
If you drew a graph plotting creative Healthcare, Kantar Retail, Kantar Worldpanel, Hill & awards as a proxy for creativity against margins for any Knowlton, Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide, Bursongroup of agencies, there would be a very strong correlation.
Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, OgilvyOne, Wunderman, The more awards, the stronger the margins.
The clients OgilvyAction, G2, 24 7 Real Media, CommonHealth, procurement department fades into the background when Sudler & Hennessey, Ogilvy Healthworld, ghg, The Brand the work is strong.
Of the three things we do strategic Union, Landor and Fitch in high-growth markets or thinking, creative execution and co-ordination creative where their market share is insufficient.
execution is undoubtedly the most important, and that In 2008, in addition to the acquisition of TNS, we means creativity in its broadest sense.
strengthened our position in Advertising and Media Clients look for creative thinking and output not just Investment Management in the US, the UK, Denmark, from advertising agencies, public relations and design France, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Ukraine, the companies, but also from our media companies and our Middle East, Kenya, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala, research companies.
Millward Brown remains arguably one WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 27 How were doing Letter to share owners of our most creative brands.
Witness the BrandZ Top 100 And finally Most Powerful Brands Study published annually each April with the Financial Times.
For well over a year now, long before the word recession We intend to achieve this objective by stepping up our was officially permitted to re-enter the global economic training and development programs: by recruiting the finest vocabulary, WPP companies, both singly and in external talent: by celebrating and rewarding outstanding collaboration, have been priming themselves to apply creative success tangibly and intangibly: by acquiring strong their skills and experience to their clients new needs.
creative companies: and by encouraging, monitoring and There are well over 150 papers published by WPP people promoting our companies achievements in winning creative and others on the impact of recessions on marketing.
Our thanks go to Robyn Putter, who left the Group the parent company itself and its operating companies have in November, for his work in championing the WPP creative filleted these papers and indeed have added to them.
There product and community: and we welcome the appointment are no magic solutions and no great surprises.
In essence, of John OKeeffe to the position of worldwide creative the way for marketing companies to survive recessions, and director of WPP.
2008 saw the second annual WPPED even to emerge stronger from them, is to do what the best Cream awards, our internal award scheme for outstanding of marketing has always done: be obsessed by the ultimate work across the Group.
Your Company also amassed the individual user.
Not markets, not consumers, not target second largest points tally at the 2008 advertising and groups, not plural anything: the individual.
marketing services festival in Cannes please refer to our If there is a characteristic that straddles all our website, www.
companies, it is a fascination with the human mind and At the same time we are committed to achieving all these how it responds to different stimuli.
We have stressed before objectives as a significantly responsible corporate citizen of in this letter the crucial importance of insight: some new the world at large and the communities in which we operate.
understanding that in turn reveals an opportunity.
As a parent company, we continue to develop practical It will be the driving purpose of our own talented principles and policies for our companies charitable individuals, in all our operating companies of every giving and services to the environment, education, the discipline, to help our clients identify those opportunities arts and healthcare based on best practice guidelines.
the opportunities that all recessions, when looked at in We conservatively calculate that the WPP organisation retrospect, invariably open up and seize upon them: contributed an estimated 14.6 million worth of time, individual by individual, one by one.
skills, materials and money to social and community These are the people whose talents were sought and causes in 2008.
A summary of the Groups approach to valued by our clients in 2008 and to whom our success is corporate responsibility can be found on pages 118 to 125. due.
We thank them for their skills and their resourcefulness.
Please also see our annual and unique in our industry They will be even more valued, by both their clients and by Corporate Responsibility Report on the work our clients and the Board of WPP, in the months to come.
our people do in these increasingly important areas.
Philip Lader The future Chairman A colossal amount remains to be done challenging our clients, and therefore us.
It seems certain that once these Sir Martin Sorrell objectives are achieved, they will be replaced by new ones.
Group chief executive As companies grow in size, most chairmen and CEOs become concerned that their organisations may become flabby, slow to respond, bureaucratic and sclerotic.
Any Paul Richardson sensible business leader aggressively resists this phenomenon: Group finance director we all seek the benefits of size and scale without sacrificing this letter to share owners should be read in conjunction with and as part the suppleness and energy of a smaller firm.
And, for the first of the management report set out in the section headed Directors report on pages 107 to 137. time, new technologies now make this possible on a global platform.
WPP wants the scale and resources of the largest firm together with the heart and mind of a small one.
28 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Letter to share owners Forward-looking statements In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may include forward-looking statements as defined in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking statements may include, among other things, plans, objectives, projections and anticipated future economic performance based on assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, government compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In addition, you should consider the risks described under the caption Principal risks and uncertainties on page 114, which could also cause actual results to differ from forward-looking information.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 29 Reports from our operating brands Agency networks p32-49 Media Investment Management p50-55 Information, Insight & Consultancy p56-59 Public Relations & Public Affairs p60-63 Branding & Identity p64-67 Healthcare Communications p68-70 Specialist Communications p71-73 WPP Digital p74 -75
