How were doing Media Investment Management Maxus Our new vision is grounded in media, in all forms.
We will stay connected to what people watch, read, listen to, drive by, download, interact with and distribute to their Report by Kelly Clark below friends, to their families, and throughout their communities.
Chief executive officer But media today are increasingly addressable, enabling our clients to identify, talk to, and build relationships with very Maxus is an agency in transition.
In 2008, we added more specific communities and, increasingly, individuals.
This than 20 new accounts to our global roster.
Ten new clients gives us rich information about peoples attitudes, preferences joined us in the US, in categories as diverse as entertainment, and behaviors.
Our clients are asking us to use the data travel and financial services.
In Australia we won Rebel delivered via addressable media to help them identify their Sport, a leading sports retailer: in Turkey we won most promising prospects and convert them to loyal, MediaMarkt, Europes largest consumer electronics retailer: profitable customers.
and we won Fiats business in 14 new markets across Europe.
Maxus India was named Media Agency of the Year at the annual Bangalore Advertising Awards.
In the US, we won the We have ambitious plans to Media Plan of the Year award for Welchs from Mediaweek transform Maxus into a different type magazine, and the David Ogilvy Award from the Advertising Research Foundation for our work on Church & Dwights of agency that breaks through the Arm & Hammer brand.
conventional agency disciplines Were proud of these accomplishments: but the steps we took in 2008 to lay the groundwork for our future were even more important.
To achieve this vision, we are strengthening our skills in areas like database management, digital marketing, e-commerce and customer segmentation.
We have been hiring people who have these skills, and we are working with our sister companies especially at WPP Digital to accelerate our capabilities in these areas.
Expansion is central to our plans.
To deliver our new model globally, were building an indigenous network.
Not a traditional top-down structure, but rather a nimble and aggressive partnership of national agencies that share a common vision, attitude and way of working.
We already have strong positions in some important markets including India, China and Russia where our agencies are run by smart, ambitious, local business people.
We are well-represented in the other important growth markets in Asia and Eastern Europe.
In December we re-branded WPP agency BJK&E in the UK under the Maxus banner, and we did the same in Spain with CICM, another WPP agency.
More developments are planned in Europe and North America in 2009.
We now operate in 30 of the top global markets and, through the resources of our parent GroupM, we can serve client needs in over 100 countries worldwide.
And in every market, GroupMs unmatched scale and trading expertise ensure our clients get the best access to media at the best prices.
We have ambitious plans to transform Maxus into a I was named the agencys first global CEO in October, different type of agency that breaks through the conventional and Ive already visited more than 20 Maxus offices around agency disciplines.
Our aim is to combine the disciplines the world.
In each market, Ive been inspired by our peoples of communications planning and customer relationship passion, creativity and drive, and by the strength of our client marketing into a new model called Relationship Media relationships.
With a compelling new vision, a clear plan for a model that is powered by creative media thinking and building our network and aggressive new business goals, sophisticated, real-time customer data.
2009 should bring even greater success.
