How were doing Agency networks Young & Rubicam Brands global assignments: LG, Danone waters and the consolidated Bacardi Rum business.
Wunderman added Southwest Airlines, AT&T, as well as Novartis.
Burson-Marsteller had Report by Peter Stringham below solid organic growth from clients like Hewlett-Packard, Intel Global chief executive officer and Nestl.
Landor had tremendous client wins in China and India.
Other wins across all our companies are noted in the following reports: clearly we demonstrated our ability to Young & Rubicam Brands is one of the largest groups of create tangible opportunities.
Our intent this year is to help communications services companies within WPP.
The Brands our clients find their opportunities in a volatile marketplace.
companies have the longest history of working collaboratively All of the Young & Rubicam Brands companies are now to deliver communications solutions to clients some of the completely digitally integrated.
Wunderman made four companies have been working together over 30 years.
Its a digital acquisitions and built KnowledgeBase Marketing model that works.
Every one of our major global clients use around the network.
With Blast Radius and ZAAZ among more than two Young & Rubicam Brands companies, over their digital properties, Wunderman now has a completely 90% use at least three, and more than half use four of our global digital network.
In fact, around the world, more than 800 clients digital across all its practices.
Cohn & Wolfe has enhanced engage us across multiple disciplines.
its digital expertise with its acquisition of Axicom.
And, at the beginning of 2009, Y&R formalized its long-standing relationship with VML, one of Forresters most highlyranked digital companies, and will build the digital partnership globally through Y&Rs network.
In select markets, including Y&Rs headquarters NY agency, the digital operation will be known as VML Y&R.
We helped raise the level of discussion in the industry with thoughtful new books.
The Brand Bubble by John Gerzema, Y&Rs Chief Insights Officer, and Ed Lebar, CEO of our BrandAsset Consulting unit, used BrandAsset Valuator data to analyze how companies have overvalued their brands.
Simon Silvester, head of Planning for Y&R EMEA, authored AAAGH!
a look at the profound impact of the recession on marketing.
And Allen Adamson, managing director of Landors New York office authored his second book to critical acclaim, BrandDigital, focusing on best digital practices and the brands that are utilizing them.
The year brought tremendous industry recognition and awards around the world for Y&R Brands companies, reflecting the high creative standards we hold across all our companies.
Young & Rubicam Brands is built on the proposition that each of our companies is Best Alone, but we are collaboratively Better Together.
To advance our collaborative offering, we tapped into our own strong talent base to create two new roles.
Lee Aldridge moved from Landor to become global brand officer, helping us shape and build our brand through thought leadership strategies and programs.
Celia Berk moved from BursonMarsteller to Y&R Brands as chief talent officer to help 2008 put us in a strong position to manage the great us recruit, retain and nurture a new generation of talent uncertainty of the global economy this year.
Our revenues able to work across disciplines and geography.
were up, with some of our companies achieving double-digit We expect that the marketplace in 2009 will continue to growth.
Growth was both organic and from focused new be uncertain and volatile.
We are ready to support our clients business efforts across the Brands.
Y&R won three major through these difficult times.
Young & Rubicam Brands has WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 39 How were doing Agency networks more than simply an integrated offering: we are rooted in a the most gratifying.
Our win of LG at the beginning of the collaborative culture that ensures that our clients are getting year developed into a 50-market assignment by years end.
the most appropriate and most powerful combination of Already the agency of record for Danones dairy division, we marketing communications resources, talent and work.
We drew the massive Danone water assignment, which includes are committed to helping our clients meet their challenges most of Danones water brands except Evian and spans and find their opportunities in todays marketplace.
Europe, Asia and Latin America.
We also consolidated Bacardi rums at Y&R after a review, winning brands that include Flavours and Gold Rums.
Indeed, eight of our top 10 Y&R clients grew this past year, both horizontally and vertically.
2008 also saw the resurgence of Y&R North America.
Report by Hamish McLennan below Tom Sebok returned to Y&R where he spent his formative Global chief executive officer years in the industry, taking on the critical role of president and CEO of the region.
John Berg joined the North America In 2008, Y&Rs performance can be characterized by network as president and CEO of Y&R San Francisco.
three words: reinvention, relevance and resurgence.
Despite New business flourished in the region, with new national the uncertainty that continues to hover over the global clients like Office Depot, DoubleTree Hotels, Cellular South, marketplace, 2008 was one of solid progress and performance.
Giant Eagle, Rubbermaid, Bonefish Grill and, most recent, We reached into our DNA and embraced Raymond hotels.
In Advertising Ages annual agency report, we Rubicams founding credo to Resist the Usual.
Resist the were named the No.
usual in the search for talent.
Resist the usual in approaching We continued to invest in the emerging markets of the client challenges.
Resist the usual with smart consumer world.
We made a major commitment in the Middle East by research.
Resist the usual by creating content for new media.
taking a majority stake in Team Y&R, a long-standing joint But above all, resist the usual with creativity.
venture and a creative leader in the region.
We reinvigorated our operations in China, and brought in Marcus Rebischini to be the chief creative officer of Asia.
In Latin America, we continued to have the No.
1 agency in Brazil, a creative powerhouse in Argentina and a network of top-flight creative agencies across the region.
In Australia, Nigel Marsh, a noted industry luminary, joined as our group CEO and has taken important steps to recharge our agencies there.
Agencies in Brazil, London, Melbourne and Barcelona helped raise our profile and outperformed in their markets.
Y&R also continued to make its mark as thought leaders.
John Gerzema, along with Ed Lebar of BrandAsset Consulting, published The Brand Bubble, a prescient look at how companies have overvalued their brands and strategies for combating same.
Additionally, we continued our tradition The banner headline for the year remains our creative of leading seminars with some of the worlds top thinkers reinvention, sparked by the arrival of Tony Granger, one of and players.
This year, we brought Rupert Murdoch and the industrys top creative leaders, as global chief creative Peter Chernin to Cannes, where they offered their thoughts officer.
Kerry Keenan joined as director of creative content on the media and marketing landscape to a standing-room globally.
Across our network, top new talent has refreshed only audience.
In New York, Scott Vitrone and Ian Y&R took home more Gold Lions at Cannes last year Reichenthal joined from TBWA Chiat Day, and we have than previously and has begun to take home prizes in new infused our New York headquarters group with talent that content and digital categories.
SAA Y&R Tel Aviv, for hails from around the world and across the creative content example, won four Lions at Cannes, Gold at the Clios and spectrum, including digital, viral and ambient.
Although swept the national Israeli creative competitions for its Tony has been with us less than a year, he has attracted Missing Soldiers event.
a disproportionate share of the worlds creative talent, We began 2009 with the announcement that we have organized it as a true global network and created a creative formalized our partnership with VML, naming them our infrastructure and culture that is already producing global digital partner.
VML is a highly-rated digital brand, spectacular work.
known for its innovative thinking and resources.
In New In 2008, we drove revenue growth with three major York, our existing digital operations united with VMLs global gains, proving once again that organic growth is often under the name VML Y&R.
We will carry this structure 40 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Agency networks and name around the world.
Matt Anthony, VMLs CEO, Wunderman added chief global digital officer to his responsibilities.
In addition, we announced our partnership with MARS, Report by Daniel Morel below a leading shopper marketing agency, which we will also Chairman and chief executive officer build out around the world.
Both offerings increase our relevance to marketers and address the challenges they After 50 years in business, there isnt a better credo for face today and tomorrow.
marketers to embrace today than something said long ago: With our agency network stronger than ever, we are If it doesnt sell, it isnt creative.
Lester Wunderman not positioned to help our clients weather the global recession only understood these words, he energized them with action with greater capabilities and creativity.
and founded our agency, and an entire industry on the basis of creating communication that sells.
This is especially relevant for our clients who, in turbulent times, must VML continue to invest to keep current customers and retain their competitive edge.
Report by Matt Anthony Chief executive officer For the second consecutive year, Advertising Age named VML one of the top interactive marketing agencies in the US, and Forrester Research awarded VML the top score for innovation in its Wave report: Interactive Marketing Agencies Q4 2007.
VML led the re-launch of one of the worlds largest e-commerce sites for Sams Club and developed criticallyacclaimed mobile applications to drive retail traffic to www.
com: for PetSmart, were building the foremost online pet social network at www.
com: we provided the industry-first objective automotive comparative tool for Ford of Canada at www.
ca: for the American Cancer Society, VML is constructing a content rich, fully-interactive online community at www.
Creative inspiration continues to flourish at VML: the In 2008, we celebrated our first 50 years not by looking agency received more than 100 awards and recognitions in back but by looking ahead to a future that has never been 2008 for work produced on behalf of dozens of partners, more welcoming or in greater need of measurable, including campaigns for Colgate-Palmolive, Microsoft, accountable advertising.
We invigorated our brand with Burger King, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Ford, Ernst & a new look that signals that Wunderman and its 20 Young, HSBC, Sprint Nextel, Xerox and Vanguard.
companies continues to embrace the challenges and New client engagements included ESPN, Office Depot, opportunities of the ever-connected, mobile consumer Zurich Financial, Giant Eagle, Interstate Bakeries, Avid so does our constant effort to expand our presence and Technology, Humana, Cartoon Network, Jgermeister data and internet resources.
Sydney Frank Importing Co. Sperian, AECOM, PetSmart KnowledgeBase Marketing went global, extending its and Vetstreet.
reach to Latin America, Europe and Asia.
We completed four VML continued to expand its digital proficiency, including acquisitions: AGENDA Asia, Actis Russia, Designkitchen mobile marketing, emerging technologies including VMLs US and Kassius France : they join digital powerhouses proprietary SEER online activation resource social Aqua Online, Blast Radius, These Days and ZAAZ to form networking integration, analytics and optimization, as well the backbone of our global digital infrastructure.
The as planning and research and user experience acumen.
strength and power of what weve built is best realized in The VML digital network is stronger than ever, with Wundermans substantial role in Deliver, WPPs digital VMLs base of operations in Kansas City and a growing production network that gains efficiency by channeling work presence in New York, Seattle and London.
VML agency to low-cost digital hubs.
Studiocom, based in Atlanta, advanced its work for While our agency network is big and wide reaching, Coca-Cola and Dunkin Donuts: and GT, headquartered clients value our ability to operate seamlessly.
They respect in London, was Revolutions UK Digital Agency of the the science we apply to the customer experience because Year in 2008. measuring results online or in any channel delivers better WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 41 How were doing Agency networks business outcomes.
They value our record of attracting, messages for a growing list of clients.
In the US, we formed training and sustaining the right talent and welcome our the Issues & Crisis Group, a team of experts that now newest leaders: Christoph Stadeler as head of our global works on the most sensitive and complex crises and issues automotive business and Niland Mortimer, who leads our management challenges our clients face.
Key clients like Microsoft, Ford, Citi and Nokia, and new accounts including Southwest Airlines, AT&T and Novartis, have put their faith in our ability to deliver sophisticated campaigns better than our competitors anywhere in the world.
Wunderman was particularly successful in Asia, where we infused the region with data, digital and creative talent that enhanced our ability to serve growing Microsoft and Nokia business in Japan, India, China and Korea.
In three years, Latin America has quadrupled in size and transformed into a world-class digital network.
Growth stems from expanding relationships with anchor clients including Colgate, Diageo JW Red Label, Microsoft and Telefonica.
What draws clients in is our unique ability to be both local and global.
Campaigns emerge from best practices and efficiencies gained as a global network.
We blend our global More clients faced internal communications needs presence with an acute understanding that all relationships as they underwent expected and unexpected change.
For instance, B-M helped lead the successful internal Aware of the challenging economy, we head to 2009 on communications for the global launch of the newly track to break the billion-dollar mark.
We know how to formed Thomson-Reuters brand.
reach this milestone: balance our power, size, network In 2008, we received major new assignments from resources and digital expertise with local insight, execution, Hewlett-Packard, Sony Ericsson and Huawei.
We also innovation and nimble response.
worked on significant corporate responsibility projects for Intel, Visa and BP and product crises for companies like Nestl.
Burson-Marsteller This was another year of geographic expansion for B-M. We merged our EMEA operation with Asdaa PR, one of Report by Mark Penn above right the leading PR firms in the Middle East, and kicked off the Worldwide chief executive officer relationship with a landmark study of the attitudes and lifestyle habits of Arab youth across six Middle East nations.
Burson-Marsteller B-M grew its revenue in 2008 while During the year, we also established a South Asia network expanding profit margins to levels near the upper-end of of affiliates.
the PR industrys historic range.
An increasing number of Each of our four geographic regions performed well clients sought out B-Ms advice on crisis matters and issues in 2008.
Our Asian operation, particularly China, was management, two of our core strengths.
Our new Strategy bolstered by some key client assignments related to the Team, which includes top former White House counselors, Beijing Olympics.
B-M EMEA enjoyed a resurgent London was kept busy with a wide range of clients in the financial, office, which was named Consultancy of the Year by the transportation and energy sectors which faced unexpected UKs PR Week.
B-M Latin America again proved to be the crises in the wake of the Wall Street credit crisis.
strongest regional public relations network in Latin America This was the third year of the DIGS strategy for B-M posting its eighth consecutive year of revenue growth.
modernizing its offerings by being more Digital, Integrated, We made several key hires in 2008, adding former Global and Strategic.
Our digital business roughly White House counselor Karen Hughes as our new global quadrupled in size in the last three years, pioneering online vice chair and Gail Cohen as new head of our global press conferences, for instance for the US government Healthcare Practice.
Digital is now fully integrated As we enter 2009, we feel optimistic but cautious about into everything we do.
our business as more clients are seeing the increased value We strengthened our offering of evidence-based of PR in a changing and more digital world.
We continue to communications with new tools and by working closely expect our crisis, issues management and digital capabilities with Penn, Schoen & Berland to research key facts and to do well.
We also believe our strong public affairs 42 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Agency networks capabilities in political centers around the globe will grow Hamburg offices respectively and the promotion of Tammy in importance as governments seek policy solutions to key Anthony to global client leader for P&G.
challenges related to the economy, health care and energy.
2008 was a year to celebrate the Tiger and the Dragon as our new offices in Beijing and Mumbai began to establish powerful new client relationships.
Clients in Beijing now Landor Associates include ICBC, Chinas largest bank: Beijing Capital Land, Beijings leading property developer: Wang Fu Jing, Chinas Report by Charlie Wrench below largest department store chain and Haier.
In an even shorter Chief executive officer time, Mumbai has built an equally impressive client list led by Caf Coffee Day think Starbucks, Tata Group and the Despite the challenging economic climate, 2008 proved to Taj Hotel chain.
Along with our Singapore office, we are be another record year for Landor, with new highs reached well positioned for growth in India and Southeast Asia.
in both revenue and operating profit.
We continued to expand our service offering, with It was also a good year in terms of strengthening our increased revenues derived from our innovation, digital, platform going forward.
strategy, brand engagement, financial services and naming First and foremost, we continued to invest in our practices.
We also made great progress in developing our One Landor vision of providing clients with an ever sustainability offer.
We gave the keynote speech at the more coherent global offer.
Amongst our One Landor Landor-sponsored Economist Conferences Branding highlights, we were delighted to be appointed by Procter Roundtable in Beijing, taking the opportunity to share our & Gamble to three new billion-dollar global brand global Green Brands Survey.
Our much applauded and partnerships, Chinas leading electric goods company Haier award-winning One Degree program was rolled out across chose us as their partners in building their brand globally, News Corporation globally and we worked on sustainability and Kraft invited us to extend our European partnership engagements for Nissan, Verizon, Mattel and the Dow into the US and China.
We also launched Cascade Green, a 100% carbon-offset beer in Australia.
In the future, Landor will continue to be well positioned as leaders in the field of brand-led business transformation and creators of desire the world over.
Sudler & Hennessey Report by Jed Beitler See page 44 Chairman and chief executive officer Sudler & Hennessey is one of the worlds most successful and sought-after healthcare communications networks.
We continued to build on our successes by bringing Established Innovation services and geographic offerings to meet the They say that cobblers children are often the worst shod ever-changing needs of our clients within human and animal but 2008 was definitely a strong year in terms of building our health industries, including pharmaceuticals, biotech, own brand: Landor.
com was relaunched as a more proactive fast-moving consumer goods, foods, device diagnostics, marketing site and immediately won a handful of prestigious governmental and non-governmental organizations.
web awards : we published two new books and distributed S&H continued to strengthen its relationships with many Perspectives, a compendium of the best of our thought of the top global and regional healthcare companies by leadership pieces: we were highly active on the speaker expanding our base of pharmaceutical clients in the areas of circuit, receiving record levels of media coverage in the year.
foods nutrition and packaged goods as well as governments Ultimately, the success of any creative business is a and NGOs.
function of its capacity to attract and motivate great talent, Technology remains crucial to the networks ongoing making the introduction of Paige DeLacey as our new chief promotional, educational and training efforts.
In 2008, we talent officer a key hire in 2008.
Other notable leadership continued our focus on supporting client technology needs changes included the promotion of Cheryl Giovanonni to through augmentation of our systems in our S&H Digital lead our European region, the introduction of Nick Foley division, attracting new talent and expanding our overall and Felix Stockle as managing directors of our Sydney and delivery across a wide variety of interactive solutions.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 43 How were doing Agency networks In 2008, the creativity within the S&H network and San Francisco and new managing directors in New York, was recognized through over 45 awards from various Chicago and San Francisco.
Enhanced client international and regional competitions around the world, relationships, growth on 90% of our top 10 accounts, new including the Globals, the Rx Club Awards, the MANNY business wins Kodak, Aetna and Boehringer Ingelheim and Awards, the MM&M Awards, the IN-AWE Awards, and a financial turnaround that saw a strong margin improvement.
We developed a new, powerful branding Our focus going forward continues to revolve around approach, Effective Energy, that delivers against real superior creativity, expanded capabilities in the digital arena business issues and we anticipate this tool to be very useful and better talent.
Whereas 2009 will be challenging for all, to clients in todays environment.
the Hispanic marketplace continues to grow and offer robust opportunities for those that can offer superior insights and solutions.
Bravo will continue to succeed by providing its clients what they need most: outstanding performance.
Cohn & Wolfe Full report on page 62 Report by Donna Imperato Chief executive officer It was an historic year for Cohn & Wolfe, one of significant growth through merger and acquisition, exciting change and new opportunities.
Through our acquisition of leading European technology agency, AxiCom, and our successful merger with Grey Groups public relations network, GCI The Sudler & Hennessey network strengthened its senior Group, Cohn & Wolfe became a true global competitor with staff to oversee its global operations.
Max Jackson was expertise across all practice areas and offices in 55 markets.
appointed as president for S&H EMEA.
Louisa Holland The new Cohn & Wolfe integrates a great entrepreneurial and Rob Rogers are now co-CEOS for The Americas.
Rob spirit with the expanded reach, capabilities and infrastructure Rogers also serves as president of S&H Asia Pacific and of a leading global agency.
chief creative officer for the New York office.
To further strengthen our delivery for our international clients, we appointed new regional managing directors for Canada, Robinson Lerer & Montgomery South Asia and Greater China.
We also increased our services, offerings, and geographic footprint in India, Report by Linda Robinson Turkey and Singapore as well as the CEE markets Chairman including Lithuania and Hungary.
Robinson Lerer & Montgomery RLM, a New York-based strategic communications firm, serves the directors and The Bravo Group senior management of companies in every major industry.
RLMs practice areas include reputation-building programs, Report by Eddie Gonzales crisis management, corporate campaigns, M&A, Chairman and chief executive officer restructuring and reorganizations, CEO transitions, litigation, strategic marketing, governance issues and 2008 was a transformative year for the Bravo Group with regulatory matters.
In these areas, RLM furnishes both major progress in product quality, talent additions, client strategic planning and tactical implementation of satisfaction and financial performance.
communications programs that address every external Bravos enhanced product quality was recognized and internal audience of a client organization.
with Advertising Age creative awards in digital and In 2008, RLM turned in solid results in an non-traditional channels.
Additionally, the Association extraordinarily challenging year.
Of particular significance, of Hispanic Advertising Agencies AHAA recognized Bravo the firm provided crisis communications services for several for outstanding strategic planning and insights.
Bravo moved prominent institutions in the financial industry.
2 in Advertising Ages Hispanic Agency the firm was retained for numerous assignments in M&A rankings for 2008. transactions and corporate litigation matters, and it New talent was added throughout the entire organization continues to furnish strategic marketing services to clients with new creative directors in Miami, New York, Chicago in various industries.
