How were doing Agency networks Ogilvy Group 2008 was a year unlike any in our 60-year history.
It was a year that will be remembered for the massive fourth quarter Ogilvy & Mather upheaval in financial markets and the shockwaves that reverberated throughout the economies of the world.
There Report by Shelly Lazarus below were signs of trouble early in the year, but no one could have Chairman predicted that they would portend a paralyzing credit crisis, the steepest dive in consumer confidence in more than 40 years, and the most severe economic downturn since the Great Depression.
Our industry is at the center of this perfect storm.
As the recession gathered force, we took actions to minimize its impact on our business.
Despite our best efforts, client spending cutbacks and delays in new business caused us to fall short of our goals for growth.
Yet there were some units and practices that had an exceptional year.
OgilvyOne our digital, interactive, and direct marketing business started out the year with robust growth from existing clients and with new business wins.
Throughout the year, the OgilvyOne team continued to build its reputation as an industry leader through the work of our network of Ogilvy Digital Innovation Labs, and with our Verge digital media conferences held around the world, despite the fact that new projects were scarce in the fourth quarter.
Ogilvy Public Relations had an outstanding year.
The team launched new practices to meet client demand for communication strategy and support in these critical and growing areas.
They established a presence in six new locations, bringing their total offices worldwide to 70.
Throughout 2008, they grew their business with many existing clients, won several new assignments, and achieved significant revenue growth year-over-year.
And we were delighted that Ogilvy PRs leader, Marcia Silverman, was named 2009 PR Professional of the Year by PRWeek, with one judge noting: This year caps a long-term stellar career.
Ogilvy Healthworld continued to grow its capabilities, revenue and profits in 2008.
Offering the full range of marketing services from strategic planning and marketing analytics, to medical education and clinical trial recruitment, OHW brought in new product lines and brands from all the major pharmaceutical companies.
OgilvyAction made important strides in 2008, establishing itself as an industry leader in in-store shopping behavior, extending its presence into new markets, and solidifying relationships with global and local clients.
While the team missed the mark on revenues in 2008, they are well positioned for growth in 2009 as changing consumer behavior at point-of-purchase will become critical for clients in the weak economy.
We formally launched our RedWorks production and design unit during this year, calling upon Ogilvy creative veteran, Fred Schuster, to become its first CEO.
Focused Miles Young above on high-quality, cost-effective, digital and traditional brand Chief executive officer communications, RedWorks networked delivery system is 32 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 2007 Mark Schfer How were doing Agency networks a compelling business opportunity, especially in the current for fans around the world on behalf of our client, Lenovo: environment where clients are demanding quality, value, engaged people in the personal journeys of Louis Vuitton and efficiency.
In 2009, we expect to bring this important lovers like Catherine Deneuve and Keith Richards: delighted platform fully online, integrating across our creative and a generation of Canadians by refreshing a cereal brand from product hubs around the world to offer a seamless experience their youth with an inventive campaign for new Diamond and outstanding product.
Shreddies: revived the flagging Capri Sun juice brand and From a geographic perspective, Ogilvy & Mather Asia made it cool again with a modern look and irreverent Pacific was once again the leading player in the fastestmessage: inspired people with a new Smart Planet initiative growing region in the world.
Though not immune to the from IBM: gave new meaning and momentum to the economic downturn, the region managed to grow its revenue American Express My Life.
campaign with and stature, being named Network of the Year in 2008 by spots featuring cultural heroes such as Tina Fey and Martin both Campaign Brief Asia and by Media magazine.
Media Scorsese: commissioned a stage play to bring Doves Pro-Age magazine named OgilvyOne the regions top Digital Agency philosophy, Beauty has no age limit to a broad audience: during the year, and crowned Ogilvy Singapore South East produced a British Telecom-sponsored television series to Asia Agency of the Year.
Singapore also garnered the Agency showcase the power of collaboration: delivered 400,000 of the Year title for the second year in a row at the Creative pizzas in the ultimate sampling campaign for Krafts Delissio Circle Awards, as well as being named Marketing Agency of brand: and more so much more.
the Year by Marketing magazine.
Our colleagues in India were highly decorated with While 2008 was certainly a difficult O&M India chosen as the No.
1 agency for the sixth year running by the countrys leading business and financial daily, year, we clearly saw once again how the Economic Times, and O&M Kolkata being named the passion, commitment and creativity Advertising Club of Calcuttas top agency for the third consecutive year.
on behalf of our beloved brands can In Latin America, Ogilvy Argentina, Ogilvy El Salvador fuel success and Punto Ogilvy Uruguay each brought home Agency of the Year Awards bestowed upon them by key industry organizations in their countries.
These investments in imagination and creative quality come back to us in the form of respect for our work, as long-term partnerships and as new business wins.
In 2008, Creativity is the very soul of we added many new brands to our Ogilvy Group roster including Barclays, British Airways, Europcar, Heineken, our business.
Today, it is needed IKEA, Johnnie Walker Black Label, ProChile, Siemens, more than ever, and it is needed Stolichnaya Vodka, Vodafone and Zurich Financial among others.
across a much broader spectrum While 2008 was certainly a difficult year, we clearly than ever before saw once again how passion, commitment and creativity on behalf of our beloved brands can fuel success and change the Our talented creative teams captured a major share of world for the better.
As we charge into 2009, we do so with the worlds awards for creative excellence and marketing a new CEO, Miles Young, with whom I am proud to serve effectiveness: 37 London International Awards: 26 Cannes in my continuing role as chairman.
Lions: 24 Clios including two Best in Show awards : 15 One I am gratified to have such an Ogilvy successor in Miles, Show Pencils: 11 DMA Echos: eight Caples: a D&AD Yellow someone who in his long career with the company has Pencil: and dozens of the highly coveted Effies for our work addressed changing business models and morphing markets in Budapest, El Salvador, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, not to mention the ups-and-downs of economies with India, Malaysia, Romania, Ukraine and the US.
clear vision and great ingenuity.
Creativity is the very soul of our business.
Today, it I know, as does Miles, that 2009 will be a profoundly is needed more than ever, and it is needed across a much challenging year.
But I am optimistic, because I know that broader spectrum than ever before.
It is needed to build our strong culture, our creative spirit and great resolve, brands, to instill confidence, and to enlarge the space in as well as the many lessons weve learned in 60 years in this which transactions take place.
business, will serve us well.
In 2008, Ogilvy creativity spanned media, disciplines and the globe.
Our teams brought the Olympic experience to life WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 33 How were doing Agency networks OgilvyOne Worldwide Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh below Report by Marcia Silverman below Chairman and chief executive officer Chief executive officer Despite the challenging environment, we accomplished much in 2008.
OgilvyOnes successes were strongly linked to the core client trends of 2008: the rising needs for marketing innovation and accountability.
The fastest-growing part of our business again in 2008 was Neo@Ogilvy, our search, digital media and performance marketing offering.
Neo makes a compelling promise to allow clients to get the most out of their new media investments.
Since its inception in 2006, Neo has expanded into 33 markets.
Consulting and Analytics remains a critical pillar in OgilvyOnes growth plan.
In 2008, we grew strongly in all regions.
Consulting and Analytics was a decisive contributor to our major business wins of 2008, including the British Airways loyalty program, IKEA, Sears and Zurich Financial.
Digital marketing now represents over half of OgilvyOnes revenues, and we must continue to innovate to stay ahead of the pack.
Entering 2008, we were rated No.
1 in Forresters Interactive Agency Report.
In the course of the year we won Agency of the Year honors in Singapore, In the face of global economic challenges and political Hong Kong, Germany, the UK and the Asia region.
transitions, we at Ogilvy PR have aggressively reinvented To keep our clients at the leading edge, we expanded our ourselves to meet client needs and continuously recast what Ogilvy Digital Innovation Labs in 2008 we now have hubs makes us unique.
More specialized offerings, in Singapore, New York, London, Beijing and So Paulo.
new training, increased collaboration among staff across These labs are not just a place to showcase interesting geographies and among practices and profitable growth.
technology and creative: we work directly with clients to Four key achievements in 2008 demonstrated our create commercially-viable campaigns and applications.
determination to meet emerging client needs and target The next wave of digital innovation is in mobile, and areas of growth: OgilvyOne will be ready.
In 2008, we created marketing Our industry-leading 360 Degree Digital Influence alliances with top global mobile partners including Acision offering became an official practice, enhancing our ability and iconmobile.
We added new staff members around The two vital growth themes for 2009 are digital and the world and trained the majority of agency staff on the data.
Measurable marketing is more relevant than ever best ways to put interactive and new media capabilities to before.
OgilvyOnes core promise of We sell, or else work for our clients.
resonates with the chief marketing decision-makers.
We leveraged our deep experience in corporate reputation and social marketing to quickly establish capabilities in the high-demand areas of corporate social responsibility and cause marketing.
In addition to helping clients create missionbased brands, promote green products, shape environmental policy and build a positive legacy, all practice areas are fully integrated with our new sustainability specialization, Ogilvy Earth.
As organizations increasingly request senior-level talent as strategic counsel, we revamped our Strategy Planning group to be able to bring more insight, strategy and creativity into clients communications programs.
We opened new offices in Buenos Aires, Copenhagen, Kolkata, Karachi, Milan and Tunis, bringing our total number of locations worldwide to 70.
34 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Agency networks These achievements were driven by two imperatives: the of marketing communication services, including strategic need to extend the scope of our counsel to existing clients, planning, medical education, professional and DTC and the desire to engage with new ones.
Because of our advertising and CRM, public relations, clinical trial commitment to innovative thinking and collaboration, recruitment, interactive media and market analytics.
several marquee clients have now been on our roster for more Today, OHW is one of the truly integrated global offerings than a decade, including The Centers for Disease Control with major 360 Degree assignments for Johnson & Johnson and Prevention 1987, The American Chemistry Council and Boehringer Ingelheim.
1991 and The Society of American Florists 1989.
In 2008, We launched several new brands this past year, including we broadened our relationships with LexisNexis, FM Global Sanctura for Allergan, Xyzal for Sanofi-aventis and Concerta and Unilever, extending our engagement with these iconic Adult for Johnson & Johnson.
All were 360 Degree enterprises into new markets.
Year over year, the number campaigns, and Sanctura and Concerta were combined of multi-market clients we serve grew by 30%.
healthcare provider HCP and consumer assignments.
Our new business wins in 2008 included the Lance Our Asia Pacific business was up in double digits largely Armstrong Foundation, Chevron, Virgin America, due to the extraordinary performance of the team from SunPower, ProChile, Nike and TJ Maxx.
Our Digital Pharmax OHW in Korea.
In its first full year as part of Influence practice made history for client Lenovo by enlisting our global team, Pharmax OHW surpassed expectations, some of the worlds greatest athletes to blog during the bringing in a raft of new assignments from its roster of Beijing Olympics.
We were also awarded 16 new government clients, including Pfizer, Sanofi-aventis, Merck and Handok.
contracts, including the National Cancer Institute.
In Sydney, OHW successfully added new brand assignments While 2009 will be a challenging year for the entire from Novartis, GSK, Mundipharma and Novo Nordisk, and marketing communications industry, Ogilvy PR is optimistic our OHW Singapore team was awarded assignments from that our areas of strength position us well to thrive in 2009.
GSK, Nestl Nutrition and Bayer Schering.
Our Digital Influence, Government Relations, Corporate In Europe, we saw increased consolidation of Reputation, Public Affairs and Social Marketing practices pharmaceutical marketing investment in 2008, resulting in will be the cornerstones upon which we will continue to growth in the number of our pan-European clients.
The UK build our business.
had a strong year, growing its global business with wins at Our confidence was reinforced by PRWeek, a leading the World Health Organization and with Wyeth.
France US industry publication, that named Ogilvy PR above all had an excellent year, beating its budget and improving communications agencies as the firm best positioned to its margins and profitability.
Germany, with global wins succeed in 2009, citing that Ogilvy PR has the full package at Merz and Intendis, is set to build its international great service: strong leadership: and a hard-working, capabilities.
Russia is an important market for pharma straightforward, and diligent culture.
and we solidified our position there in 2008, working on multiple brands for Pfizer.
We see this as a growth region and are committed to increasing our presence there in 2009 Ogilvy Healthworld and beyond.
Partnerships and promotional activities were a focus Report by Tro Piliguian for OHW Europe last year.
Our partnership with Ogilvy Chief executive officer PR OHPR wrapped up its first year, and joint ventures with other WPP companies have enabled us to grow Ogilvy Healthworld OHW continued to show good business with Bristol-Myers Squibb, now our largest year-on-year growth particularly in light of current market client in Europe.
conditions, decreasing access to physicians, and dramatic In addition, we raised our profile significantly when we reductions in prescription drug revenues and their associated were invited to partner with the Prix Galien, the health care marketing budgets.
North America and Asia showed equivalent of the Nobel Prize.
Created in France in 1970, especially strong growth.
2008 was the fourth consecutive the Prix Galien is now bestowed in 11 countries, and year of revenue and profit growth.
Ogilvy Healthworld is the first and only agency ever asked In North America, we had modest growth in revenues to join with the organization in promoting this pre-eminent and profits.
We attribute at least part of our success to the industry award.
fact that pharmaceutical companies no longer able to rely We are proud of our accomplishments during the past on a stream of blockbuster drugs began to recognize the year, including the many creative accolades we received at enduring value of brands and started to invest in them.
the Medical Marketing and Media, DTC Perspectives and As brand builders, this gave us an opportunity to create the Pharmaceutical Advertising and Marketing Excellence better, deeper, richer stories, and to tell them across multiple Awards.
As part of the Ogilvy family, we are looking media.
It challenged us to develop a full 360 Degree range forward to more sharing and collaboration in 2009.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 35 How were doing Agency networks OgilvyAction Report by Rick Roth Chief executive officer We began 2008 with confidence and momentum, but as our clients were faced with enormous financial pressure during the second half of the year, many of them made significant cuts in marketing spend.
However, it didnt stop us from making progress against our nearand longer-term objectives.
We focused on building our credentials across the industry, extending our presence into critical new geographies, and solidifying our business with both global and local clients.
Its rare to pick up a business publication today without reading about the growing importance of shopper marketing.
Our promise, To Turn Shoppers Into Buyers, has struck a nerve with our clients and prospects.
In each of our regions we added strong new talent to bolster our credentials in shopper marketing, trade marketing, digital retail activation, and Last Mile Analytics practices.
The biggest news for OgilvyAction in 2008 was the launch of our global shopper marketing study called Shopping Decisions Made In Store, or SDMIS.
The front-page attention we received from the industry and the coverage we garnered in global business press, across the web and in retail blogs has been remarkable.
With SDMIS, we offer marketers a closer look at how shoppers buy and how we can influence their behavior.
Our study was the first of its kind, and it has given us traction and momentum with many of the worlds most sophisticated marketers, putting our young company on the map in a very differentiated way.
We also made a number of key acquisitions, formed joint ventures and added several new offices in high opportunity and emerging markets in 2008.
We landed several important new clients as a result of our Last Mile expertise and strong creative product.
Much of our growth came from existing Ogilvy clients, but we have also been building important local business independently.
Analytics fuel our insight capability and help us to prove return on investment, but we get results for our clients and fame for our work by doing brilliantly creative brand activation programs.
In 2008, we won awards for our work in every region.
2009 promises to be highly challenging.
But we see more of it coming and are prepared to navigate the slow yet certain recovery.
There isnt a marketer on the planet who isnt committed to winning with shoppers and trade customers.
In this economy, that need takes on even greater importance, and the OgilvyAction value proposition becomes that much more imperative.
