How were doing Agency networks United Network Report by Ewen Cameron right Chief executive officer and Laurence Mellman Chief operating officer 2008 was a year of substantive progress that saw United make strides in its mission to become a primary source of world-beating ideas for a new generation of global brands.
This was best represented by the global multimedia campaign developed by United and creatively led by Sra Rushmore United in Madrid for the International Olympic Committee IOC, in the build-up to the success that was Beijing 2008.
The campaign, entitled The Best of Us, included heavy use of digital and viral media in order to engage with the IOCs global youth audience.
Looking towards Vancouver 2010, Cole & Weber United in Seattle Uniteds new creative lead on the IOC post-Beijing will bring their well-honed, in-house talents in integrated youth marketing to the next phase of The Best of Us campaign.
United [made] strides in its mission to become a primary source of world-beating ideas for a new generation of global brands In New York, Berlin Cameron United continued to enjoy in Paris won a hard-fought pitch for Seikos global creative success in its role as a key creative resource within crossduties.
A close collaboration between LDV United in Group client teams.
The agency deepened its relationship Antwerp and BTS United in Oslo led to a network win with Team Ford and in the process developed a criticallyfor the EUs Safer Internet campaign.
The pan-European acclaimed campaign for Lincoln cars.
On the international work, aimed at protecting children from the dangers of the front, Berlin Cameron Uniteds global work for LVMH internet, will break in early 2009. brands Hennessy and Belvedere continues to break new In Latin America, we continued to develop global ground through its effective and innovative usage of branded campaigns for Coca-Cola, and our reputation as a creative content.
And finally, on VitaminWater, Berlin Cameron powerhouse in the region remains enviable.
Uniteds irreverent work in the US has helped to pave the While progress and a strong creative showing were way for VitaminWaters global brand launch in 2009.
2008s headlines for United, the network was affected by Uniteds offices in Europe enjoyed another year of the economic crisis, with client spending and revenues down impressive new business wins, coupled with high quality and across markets.
And while 2009 is expected to be a tough award-winning creative.
1861 United in Milan successfully year, we believe that it is also one in which world-class defended the coveted Sky Italia business, picked up IKEA creative ideas are more important than ever in helping in late 2008 and grew revenues on existing client Vodafone.
to grow our clients brands and businesses within an In Madrid, Sra Rushmore United continued to break new increasingly difficult environment.
We look forward to ground with a series of world-class campaigns for The this challenge, and will continue to push the boundaries Coca-Cola Company, while Les Ouvriers du Paradis United of creativity across media and geography.
