How were doing WPP Digital Report by Mark Read below We have four distinct strategies: Chief executive officer Our first goal is to work across WPP to ensure that For most brands, in most sectors, in most markets in the 1 each WPP company is digitally-equipped.
Digital cannot world, digital marketing has now come of age.
In 2008 how be silo-ed in our digital agencies.
It fundamentally changes brands managed their digital capability was fundamental to the way every marketing discipline works, from advertising their success.
Marketing will never be the same again.
Digital to public relations to market research.
Each WPP company is no longer a specialist need or skill its something that is developing its digital capabilities and producing innovative, every brand and every marketer has to embrace.
effective and award-winning digital campaigns for its clients.
WPP Digital represents WPPs total commitment to digital.
We are supporting them through initiatives such as our Our agencies and people are at the cutting edge of the trends training program, Digital Acceleration, which has been and the capabilities needed.
We exist to accelerate WPPs adopted by many Group companies for their people development of world-class capabilities in digital marketing and clients.
We are making excellent progress.
Some 25% of WPPs Our second goal is to bring new digital talent and revenues or around $3.5 billion came from digital and direct 2 capabilities into the Group, through the acquisition of marketing in 2008.
These figures are well up on 2007 and leading digital agencies which can work across the Group, the trend is accelerating in 2009 as traditional media finds it operating under the WPP Digital umbrella.
Not only did harder to engage with consumers in a way that delivers value these agencies collectively deliver excellent financial to our clients.
performance in 2008, but the quality of their work was recognized in new client assignments, industry accolades and awards.
BLUE, a full-service digital agency focused on resultsdriven marketing solutions, is headquartered in Singapore with regional offices in Beijing, Shanghai, London and Palo Alto.
In 2008 BLUE won several new engagements with leading brands including Starwood Hotels Group, Motorola and Aviva.
In addition, BLUE continued to create and execute digital initiatives for global leaders such as Johnson & Johnson, Hewlett-Packard, SAP, Microsoft and Singapore Airlines.
During the past year BLUE also partnered successfully with sister WPP agencies, including Enfatico, Y&R and Grey, providing specialist digital resources for clients such as Dell, Danone and Procter & Gamble.
Quasar is Indias largest full-service interactive agency, headquartered in Delhi with a team of more than 100 digital specialists.
Quasar continued to develop its relationships with an elite list of clients, such as Microsoft, Visa, Monster.
com, General Motors, Reuters, Kingfisher Airlines and AVIVA Life Insurance.
During 2008, it opened offices in Bangalore and Mumbai.
Creative hotshop Johannes Leonardo won two Gold Lions at the 2008 Cannes Advertising Festival and the WPPED Cream Award for the best piece of advertising across WPP with their breakthrough film for the up-and-coming soccer brand, Nomis.
Based in New York, Johannes Leonardo works with many leading companies including Tumi, HSBC, Vodafone, Nestl, HP and Chanel on everything from advertising to product innovation.
Schematic, a full-service interactive agency headquartered in Los Angeles, added Dell, Blockbuster, Sun Microsystems, Reliant Energy and Honeywell to its client roster in 2008.
It continued to work with Nokia, Microsoft, Target, Thomson Reuters and other leading clients, growing each 74 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing WPP Digital of those relationships and its revenues substantially.
24 7 partnered with GroupM to create the Schematic received particular acclaim for its creation of breakthrough ZEUS targeting database and introduced the NBCOlympics.
com site, which over 50 million viewers its new market-leading digital buying service, B3.
used to watch Olympic events, and its TV widget platform, 24 7 Real Media also strengthened its presence in Asia which Yahoo!
and Intel launched at CES, the worlds largest through a new search partnership with Dentsu and CCI as consumer technology tradeshow.
Thanks to innovative well as launching a media network, ITOP, in partnership projects like these, Schematic was placed on both Advertising with Ogilvy in China.
Age and Adweeks lists of fastest-growing digital agencies, Towards the end of 2008, WPP Digital launched Deliver, and won the OMMA Award for the Best Web Design and a low-cost, high-quality production group that leverages Development firm.
Our specialist mobile agency, iconmobile, more than 700 digital experts in lower-cost countries such benefitted from the growing interest in mobile marketing.
as Costa Rica, India, Singapore and South Africa.
Deliver The success of the iPhone and the launch of Googles has already started work with two significant clients.
Android in particular are encouraging clients to find ways to engage consumers through mobile devices.
Our fourth goal is to build new relationships to bring 4 innovation and ideas to our clients, agencies and people.
Our third goal is to develop new digital marketing A major focus has been on data and analytics.
During 3 technologies and production platforms that bring the 2008, we made investments in Proclivity, a company benefits of scale to our agencies and clients.
We believe our providing technology for online retailers to understand distinct focus on digital marketing technology will be a and predict customer behaviour, and Yield Software, which source of competitive advantage relative to our traditional offers a self-service platform for optimising online marketing.
In May, we entered into a partnership with Yahoo!
to 24 7 Real Media made significant progress during develop new media trading platforms connecting to Yahoos the year in strengthening its business and in applying its Right Media Exchange that promise to allow us to buy online proprietary technology across WPP.
24 7s leading media media more effectively.
network, with over 135 million unique users worldwide, Finally, in November 2008, we launched the Google WPP experienced significant growth and was named as the Marketing Research Awards Program to support research fastest-growing Top 10 Ad Network in October 2008 by into how online media influences consumer behaviour, ComScore.
Several new media partners, including BBN, the attitudes and decision-making.
A prestigious committee of largest business-to-business online advertising network, and Professor John Quelch, Senior Associate Dean of Harvard Realogy, a global provider of real estate and relocation services, Business School and a non-executive director of WPP, Dr. joined 24 7s media network to engage their target audiences Hal Varian, Googles chief economist, and Professor Glen with greater precision, transparency and return on investment.
Urban, former Dean of the Sloan School of Management at 24 7s award-winning ad serving and search engine the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has selected the marketing technology platforms more than doubled volumes, first recipients of the Awards from more than 100 entries as the technologies were made available to all WPP from the US, Europe and Asia.
In the future WPP Digital is at the heart of WPPs future.
The possibilities of what can be achieved are only constrained by the limits of our imagination.
Brands like Google, Facebook, MySpace, eBay and Twitter did not even exist only a decade ago.
This is a very exciting time for marketing services because digital offers opportunity for marketing innovation like never before in history.
We are very committed to ensuring that all disciplines, and all agencies in WPP will fully embrace digital.
Specifically in our WPP Digital group of more specialist agencies, over 1,000 people have enjoyed the most successful year ever and we would like to thank them for their hard work and pioneering spirit.
Whatever the future holds and we all David Moore above left Jonathan Hsu above right know 2009 is more challenging one thing is certain.
Digital Chairman Chief executive officer will be the critical success factor in brand marketing for our 24 7 Real Media 24 7 Real Media clients and an essential driver of growth for WPP.
