How we behave The Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the The fees payable to non-executive directors represent success of the Company by directing and supervising compensation in connection with Board and Board the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to committee meetings, and where appropriate for devoting share owners for the Groups financial and operational additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group performance.
Responsibility for the development and in a wider capacity.
implementation of Group policy and strategy and for Details of directors remuneration and service contracts day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board form part of the report of the Compensation Committee to the Group chief executive and other executive directors.
For the year under review, Philip Lader continued as chairman of the Board, responsible for the leadership of the Board.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the Group chief executive, Election of directors continued to be responsible for the development and implementation of policy and strategy and for the day-to-day As a matter of policy the Company requires all directors to operations of the Group.
The biographies of the current submit themselves for re-election by an ordinary resolution Board members appear on pages 102 to 104. of share owners at least every three years or every year in the All directors are fully briefed on important developments case of those directors who have held office for more than in the various business activities which the Group carries nine years.
Directors may be appointed by share owners by out worldwide and regularly receive extensive information ordinary resolution or by the Board on the recommendation concerning the Groups operations, finances, risk factors and of the Nomination Committee and must then stand for its people, enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations re-election at the next Annual General Meeting where they as directors.
The directors are also frequently advised on may be re-elected by ordinary resolution of the share owners.
regulatory and best practice requirements which affect the The Board recommends that share owners vote in favour Groups businesses on a global basis, but particularly in the of the Resolutions to re-elect the relevant directors, namely US and the UK.
Colin Day, Lubna Olayan, Jeffrey Rosen, Esther Dyson, During 2008, the Board met 15 times formally Stanley Bud Morten and John Quelch and sets out their and held 24 committee meetings throughout the year.
reasons for this recommendation in the Appendix to the With the exception of John Quelch, Paul Spencer and Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Mark Read each absent for one meeting, Orit Gadiesh absent for two meetings, Colin Day and David Komansky each absent for three meetings, Timothy Shriver absent Conflicts of interest for four meetings, Lubna Olayan absent for six meetings and Koichiro Naganuma who was only able to attend one The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board meeting, there was full attendance at all formal meetings to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where of the Board during 2008. a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly The Board was composed of 15 directors in 2008 conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational which has reduced to 14 following the retirement of Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for David Komansky on 6 February 2009.
Three members directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered are executive directors and 10 plus the chairman, are for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in non-executive directors.
The Board considers that eight of the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise the 10 non-executive directors, in addition to the chairman, a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act are independent, with John Quelch and Koichiro Naganuma honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests being the only non-executive directors considered by the of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions Board to be not independent.
when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think The shareholdings of non-executive directors are set out this is appropriate.
Non-executive directors do not participate in the Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any Companys pension, share option or other incentive plans, authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant minutes.
but may receive a part of their fees in ordinary shares of the The prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding Company and may participate in the Companys deferred whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational compensation program.
Conflicts and the Board believes that the systems it has in The Board considers that the non-executive directors place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts remuneration conforms with the requirements of the continue to operate effectively.
112 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How we behave The Board of Directors Committee meetings update, an interim report at half year and a trading update and presentation at the Annual General Meeting.
The attendance of non-executive directors at meetings of the The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue committees of the Board during 2008 was as follows: with share owners and their representative bodies through executive and non-executive directors in relation to Nomination Audit Compensation remuneration and corporate governance matters as and Committee Committee Committee 3 when appropriate.
The chairman provides feedback to Philip lader 2 7 10 the Board on issues raised with him by share owners.
Bud Morten n a 8 n a WPPs website, www.
com, provides current and Jeffrey rosen n a 6 10 historical financial information, including trading statements, Paul Spencer n a 7 n a 1 news releases and presentations and the Companys esther Dyson 1 n a 7 statement of its corporate governance practices.
David Komansky 2 n a n a Colin Day n a 7 n a 1 lubna olayan 1 n a n a 2 Internal control Christopher Mackenzie 1 n a n a 1 Appointed to the nomination Committee on 23 July 2008.
2 WPP operates a system of internal control, which is retired on 24 June 2008.
3 By invitation, the chairman attended all but one of the Audit Committee meetings.
maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as During 2008, the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities Exchange Act chaired by Paul Richardson, met once on a formal basis and 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has had many informal discussions.
Its report for 2008 starts on complied throughout the year with the Turnbull Report page 118. and has also complied with the relevant provisions of the The Disclosure Committee, which met six times during Securities Exchange Act 1934.
2008, is comprised of senior executives from Group financial The Board which receives advice from the Audit reporting, internal audit, treasury, legal, tax, human resource Committee has overall responsibility for the system of and investor relations departments.
The purpose of the internal control and risk management in the Group and Disclosure Committee is to add further assurance to the has reviewed the effectiveness of the system during the year.
Board and its committees in relation to the content of major In the context of the scope and complexity of this system, financial public statements and advises the Audit Committee the Board can only give reasonable, not absolute, assurance and the Board on their disclosure obligations generally and against material misstatement or loss.
The system of controls the Disclosure and Transparency Rules so as to enable the is designed to manage, but may not eliminate, the risks of Board to comply with all relevant provisions.
failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For certain joint ventures and associates, WPP operates controls over the inclusion of their financial data but places reliance upon the systems of Share owner relations internal control operating within our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners boards relating to the The relationship with share owners, potential share owners effectiveness of their own systems.
and investment analysts is given the highest priority by The principal elements of internal control are the Company.
The Company has a well-developed and continuous program to address the needs of share owners, investment Control environment institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information about the Company, its strategy, performance and The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of of the Companys current and potential share owners, this the Groups system of internal control.
program includes regular visits to investors, particularly by The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, the reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board sets out the deputy Group finance director and the head of investor principal obligations of all employees.
Directors and senior relations, in the UK, Continental Europe and the major executives throughout the Group are required each year financial centres in North America and also in Asia Pacific to sign this Code.
The WPP Policy Book which also is and Latin America.
The Company provides a preliminary regularly updated includes the Code of Business Conduct announcement, an interim management statement at the end and human resource practices, as well as guidance on of the first and third quarters which includes a trading practices in many operational areas.
Breaches or alleged WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 113 How we behave The Board of Directors breaches of this Code of Conduct are investigated by the Global economic risk director of internal audit and the Group chief counsel.
The Group is subject to recessionary economic cycles.
The Group has an independently operated helpline, Right The current global credit crisis could adversely impact our to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that they feel business, results of operations, ability to raise appropriate unable to raise locally.
A number of issues have been raised finance and financial condition.
during 2008 through this helpline, all of which have been followed through and investigated where appropriate and Client risks reported to the Audit Committee.
The Group competes for clients in a highly competitive industry, and client loss may reduce market share and Risk assessment decrease profits.
The Group receives a significant portion of its revenues Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations throughout from a limited number of large clients, and the loss of the world is given the highest priority by the Group chief these clients could adversely impact the Groups prospects, executive, the Group finance director, the chairman of business, financial condition and results of operations.
the Audit Committee and the Board, as it is essential to The Group may be unable to collect balances due from the creation and protection of share owner value and the any client that files for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent.
development of the careers of our people.
The Board realises A reduction on client spending and a slowdown that WPP is a service company and its ongoing prosperity in client payments could adversely affect the Groups depends on being able to continue to provide a quality service working capital.
to its existing and potential clients in a creative, efficient and economic way.
Employee risks At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive The Group is dependent on its people and, like all service presents a Brand Check review of each of the business providers, is vulnerable to adverse consequences from the operations, including a monitor of risk, providing feedback loss of key people.
on the business risks and details of any change in the risk profile since the last Board meeting.
International business risks The Brand Check covers such issues as: The Group is exposed to the risks of doing the possibility of the loss or win of major business e. g. as business internationally.
a result of a change of senior management at a major client : Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely loss of a key executive of the Group: affect the Groups consolidated results of operations.
introduction of new legislation in an important market: The Group may have difficulty repatriating the earnings corporate responsibility: of certain of its subsidiaries.
political instability in an important market: and changes in accounting or corporate governance practice.
Mergers & acquisitions Each operating group undertakes monthly and quarterly The Group may be unsuccessful in evaluating material procedures and day-to-day management activities to review risks involved in completed and future acquisitions.
their operations and business risks.
These are formally The Group may be unsuccessful in integrating any communicated to the Group chief executive, other executive acquired operations with its existing businesses.
directors and senior executives in quarterly review meetings Goodwill and other acquired intangible assets recorded and, in turn, to the Board.
on the Groups balance sheet with respect to acquired The Board is firmly of the opinion that the monitoring of companies may become impaired.
risk is strongly embedded in the culture of the Company and of the operating companies, in a manner which the Board Regulatory and legal risks considers goes beyond the Turnbull recommendations and The Group may be subject to certain regulations that the requirements of Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities could restrict the Groups activities.
Changes in tax laws or their application may adversely affect the Groups reported results.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Group may be exposed to liabilities from allegations that certain of its clients advertising claims may be false The Board has considered the principal risks and uncertainties or misleading or that its clients products may be defective.
affecting the Group as at 31 December 2008 and these are Civil liabilities or judgments against the Group or its summarised below.
As set out above, the Group has specific directors or officers based on US federal or state securities policies in place to ensure that risks are properly evaluated laws may not be enforceable in the US or in England and and managed at the appropriate level within the Group.
114 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How we behave The Board of Directors Control activities and monitoring Sarbanes-Oxley section 404 Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set The provisions of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal Act require the Companys management to report on the control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of these policies and procedures is monitored within the in its Annual Report on Form 20-F which is filed with individual businesses and by the Companys director of the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The 2007 internal audit and the Group chief counsel.
assessment and related report from the external auditors Operating companies are required to maintain and confirmed that the Companys internal control over update documentation of their internal controls and financial reporting was effective and included in the processes.
This documentation incorporates an analysis Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year of business risks, detailed control activities and monitoring, ended 31 December 2007.
The 2008 assessment and related together with controls over security of data and the provision report will be included in the Companys Annual Report of timely and reliable information to management.
IT and on Form 20-F that will be published in the coming months.
financial controls are also included.
The internal audit department was responsible for reviews and testing of the documentation and the relevant controls Going concern for a majority of the Group during 2008, the results of which were reported to the Audit Committee.
The directors are required to consider whether it is appropriate to adopt the financial statements on the basis Financial reporting that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practice, the Group prepares Each operating company annually updates a three-year annual and longer-term plans and in reviewing this strategic plan which incorporates financial objectives.
information and in particular the 2009 three-year plan These are reviewed by the parent companys management and budget the directors believe that the Company and the and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
Therefore the Company and the Group continue to adopt The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
development of operating company budgets which build Further details of the Groups financial position up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each and borrowing facilities are decribed in note 24 of the financial year, operating companies prepare detailed budgets financial statements.
for the following year for review by the parent company.
The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board before being adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported Responsibilities in respect of the preparation of monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally and globally financial statements by the business groups and by Group management on a consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
The results The directors are responsible for preparing the financial are compared to budget and the previous year, with full-year statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
forecasts prepared and updated quarterly throughout The directors have elected to prepare financial statements for the year.
The Company reports to share owners four times the Group in accordance with International Financial a year.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs and have At each year-end, all operating companies supply their also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company full-year financial results with such additional information as in accordance with UK accounting standards.
This information is consolidated to allow the requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in Group to present the necessary disclosures for International accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Accounting Standards IAS.
financial statements present fairly for each financial year The Disclosure Committee gives further assurance that the Companys financial position, financial performance publicly-released information is free from material omission and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation or misstatement.
of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 115 How we behave The Board of Directors In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be Substantial share ownership achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors are also required to: As at 14 April 2009, the Company is aware of the following properly select and apply accounting policies: interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: present information, including accounting policies, Massachusetts Financial Services Company 4.84% in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable Invesco plc 4.60% and understandable information: and legal & General 4.39% provide additional disclosures, when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other The disclosed interests of all of the above refer to the events and conditions on the entitys financial position and respective combined holdings of those entities and to interests financial performance: and associated with them.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue The Company has not been notified of any other holdings as a going concern.
of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for Profits and dividends safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities The profit before tax for the year was 746.8 million and for the preparation of a directors report and directors 2007: 719.4 million.
The directors declared a second remuneration report.
interim dividend of 10.28p 2007: 9.13p per share to be The directors are responsible for the maintenance and paid on 6 July 2009 to share owners on the register at 5 June integrity of the Company website.
Jersey legislation and 2009 which, together with the first interim ordinary dividend United Kingdom regulation governing the preparation and of 5.19p 2007: 4.32p per share paid on 10 November 2008, dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation makes a total of 15.47p for the year 2007: 13.45p.
The directors confirm that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Parent company charitable donations auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken, as a director, in order WPP, the parent company, made charitable donations of to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit 201,000 2007: 218,077.
Collectively, WPP companies information and to establish that the Companys auditors together with the parent company made an estimated are aware of that information.
4.3 million of charitable donations in 2008.
More detailed The following information, together with the letters information regarding the Groups support of charities is set from the chairmen of the Nomination, Audit and out in the section dealing with corporate responsibility on Compensation Committees, the statements regarding pages 118 to 125. directors responsibilities and statement of going concern It is the Companys policy not to make payments set out above and the directors remuneration and interests for political purposes.
in the share capital of the Company set out on pages 133 to 137, are included in the Directors report, which also includes the sections Letter to share owners, Who runs WPP and Significant agreements and change of control What we think.
In addition to the financing agreements to which the Company is a party, details of which are given in note 24 on page 162, the Company is a party to an agreement with Asatsu-DK Inc dated 3 August 1998 pursuant to which WPP subscribed for 20% at that time of the share capital of Asatsu and Asatsu subscribed for approximately 4% at that time of the issued share capital of WPP.
The respective shareholdings may only be transferred following a procedure set out in the agreement.
WPP and Asatsu are each entitled to nominate a non-executive director to the board of the other subject to retaining its shareholding in the other.
116 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How we behave The Board of Directors Each of the 600 million 4.375% bonds due in December Articles of Association, to allot shares up to a maximum 2013, 400 million 6% bonds due in April 2017, 500 nominal amount of 41,216,440 of which 5,873,805 could million 5.25% bonds due in January 2015, 750 million be allotted for cash free of pre-emption rights.
In the year 6.625% bonds due 2016 and the 200 million 6.375% bonds under review no shares have been issued for cash free from due November 2020, contain provisions which are triggered pre-emption rights.
Details of share capital movements are on a change of control of the Company.
The holders of such given in note 26 on pages 164 to 167. bonds have the right to repayment at par if the Company is non-investment grade at the time of the change of control or becomes non-investment grade within 120 days of the Authority for purchase of own shares announcement of the change of control.
In addition the Group has a $1.6 billion Revolving Credit At the Annual General Meeting in 2008 share owners passed Facility due August 2012, a 650 million term facilities a special resolution authorising the Company, in accordance agreement expiring July 2010 and a 600 million Revolving with its Articles of Association, to purchase up to 117,155,289 Credit Facility agreement expiring July 2011, the terms of of its own shares in the market.
This authorisation was which require the consent of the majority of the lenders if replaced as part of the Scheme of Arrangement when a a proposed merger or consolidation of the Company would resolution was passed, authorising the Company, in alter its legal personality or identity.
accordance with its Articles of Association to purchase up The impact of a change of control on WPPs incentive to 117,476,114 of its own shares in the market.
In the year plans is dealt with on page 132. under review, 18,820,814 shares all of which were cancelled were purchased at an average price of 5.96 per share as part of the Companys share buy-back program.
Articles of Association There are no restrictions on amending the Articles of Supplier payment policy Association of the Company other than the need to pass a special resolution of the share owners.
The Company has no trade creditors because it is a parent company and does not generate trading revenues.
Accordingly, no disclosure can be made of year-end trade Group activities creditor days.
However, the Groups policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms The principal activity of the Group continues to be the of each transaction and to ensure that suppliers are made provision of communications services worldwide.
The aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms Company acts only as a parent company and does not trade.
The average trade creditors for the Group, expressed as a number of days, were 46 2007: 48.
Share capital Auditors The Companys authorised share capital consists solely of 175,000,000 ordinary 10 pence shares.
The Company Deloitte LLP were appointed as auditors of the Company on operates an American Depositary Receipt program.
The incorporation and the directors will propose a resolution at rights and obligations relating to the ordinary share capital the AGM to re-appoint them.
are outlined in the Articles of Association: there are no restrictions on transfer, no restrictions on voting rights By Order of the Board: and no securities carry special voting rights with regard to control of the Company.
At the Annual General Meeting in June 2008, share owners passed resolutions authorising the Company, in accordance with its Articles of Association, to allot shares up Marie Capes to a maximum nominal amount of 43,812,326.40 of which Company Secretary 5,867,764.45 could be allotted for cash free of statutory 14 April 2009 pre-emption rights.
These authorisations were replaced as the sections headed letter to share owners, Who we are and What we part of the Scheme of Arrangement when resolutions were think should be read in conjunction with and as part of the section headed passed authorising the Company, in accordance with its Directors report.
