How were doing Agency networks Grey Group Greys performance was driven by our steadfast focus on these strategic goals: Making creativity our singular priority: Greys Report by Jim Heekin below breakthrough creative work, epitomized by the E TRADE Chairman and chief executive officer baby, shone on the world stage from award shows to the Grey Group and Grey Super Bowl, delivered growth for our clients and burnished our reputation.
2008 was a year of momentum for Grey Group as our Brand Acceleration: We expanded the reach and strategic priorities began to take hold and bear fruit across sophistication of our global strategic platform for developing our global network.
This dynamism was evident in our outstanding creative ideas and communications plans with growth from new and current clients, improved profitability maximum impact across channels.
Despite a difficult Total Communications offering: We delivered a seamless, economic climate, we moved closer to our goal of becoming integrated offering, uniting the creative expertise of Grey a premier Total Communications company dedicated to with the activation marketing expertise of G2, creating a powerful ideas that accelerate our clients brand potential.
Talent: We reaped the benefit of the sweeping infusion of world-class talent we recruited in 2007 and 2008 in creative, planning, digital and management worldwide.
Professional development: We extended the outreach of Grey University, our comprehensive leadership development and training program, with Digital Acceleration courses: a unique partnership with Google: and the launch of the new G Channel, our online learning portal.
New resources: We added to our digital and mobile marketing offerings by forging joint venture partnerships with sister companies Bridge Worldwide and iconmobile.
In addition, we increased our digital centers of excellence and recruited renowned digital creative leaders, resulting in significant new assignments.
Grey continues to rank among the top tier of global advertising agencies thanks to the reach and resources of our network in 96 countries.
Our blue-chip client roster counts one-fifth of all Fortune 500 companies and our legacy of launching and sustaining leading brands continues to grow in todays new media landscape.
Grey New York and Grey London continued their upward trajectories led by new management teams.
Once again the famous E TRADE Talking Baby TV campaign, guided by Tor Myhren, Grey New Yorks chief creative officer, made Super Bowl history in 2009.
It ranked among the highest rated Advertising Age and Adweek, most popular WSJ.
com poll and most watched YouTube, breaking new records in social media, garnering millions of dollars in free publicity and a raft of awards, including One Show and London International recognition.
In addition, Grey New York had three of its commercials, for E TRADE, Canon and Diageos Captain Morgan, chosen for Advertising Ages Top 10 Best List of 2008.
Grey London, led by David Patton, CEO, and Jon Williams, chief creative officer, was shortlisted by Marketing magazine for Creative Agency of the Year, calling its performance one of the biggest turnarounds of 2008.
Grey Londons Matrix-inspired TV commercial, Timesculpture for Toshiba, which broke new ground in 3D technology, was named in Campaigns Top 10 TV and Cinema Ads of 2008.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 45 How were doing Agency networks Tim Mellors, vice chairman of Grey Group and Greys short film tracing the struggle of a deaf Thai girl worldwide chief creative director, who leads our Worldwide to become a talented violinist, originally intended as cinema Creative Council, continued his efforts to elevate our creative advertising for Procter & Gambles Pantene, exploded into a performance.
In 2008, Grey won nine Cannes Lions, three TV and online sensation, winning a 2009 New York Festival Clios, two One Show Pencils and the Grand Prix, as well Silver World Medal.
Notably, Grey EMEA Please go to www.
com to see more of our successes.
became the first agency to win the Euro Effies Agency of In a year fraught with economic uncertainty, we are the Year honor for the fourth consecutive time.
certain of one thing: Grey Group must single-mindedly In addition, Grey Latin America won the two biggest pursue our strategic priorities, only faster, smarter and Iberoamerican Festivals: FIAP and SOL.
Globally, weve even more effectively to be the kind of marketing partner doubled our award performance in the past three years, our clients expect and deserve.
We have the people and demonstrating a growing creative strength in Latin America plans in place and the will to do so.
The bedrock of Grey is its long-standing and dynamic partnerships with global clients.
The agencys vitality was G2 Activation Marketing represented in the significant new assignments we received from Procter & Gamble, Diageo, GlaxoSmithKline, Wyeth, Report by Joe Celia below Allergan, Playtex, Eli Lilly and Boehringer Ingelheim.
Chairman and chief executive officer, G2 Worldwide We were proud to win such new clients brands as BMW Vice chairman, Grey Group of North America, LongHorn Steakhouses, Interstate Bakeries Corp. Major League Baseballs World Baseball I am pleased to report G2 continues with solid progress, Classic, Pure Inventions, Green Earth Technologies, and is ranked among the top five marketing services Travelport, Sony Ericsson WTA Tour and Word & Brown networks globally.
The network now numbers 86 offices in the US: Hong Kong Tourism globally: Chevrolet in central in 42 countries and over one-third of the top 100 global Europe: Telefonica in Spain: Telecom Italia and Five Media brands choose us as an agency partner.
We enter 2009 with the strong foundation needed We strengthened our global leadership with the to face a tough business environment.
We will continue appointment of top-flight professionals: Nirvik Singh was to rely on the key pillars which have brought us this far, appointed chairman and CEO of Grey Group Asia Pacific and to see us through the challenges that lie ahead.
Riccardo Ferraris was appointed chairman of the Grey Latin We experienced solid growth with our top five key America Leadership Council and CEO of MatosGrey, Brazil.
global clients, BAT, Procter & Gamble, Adobe, Aetna Both executives have achieved a track record of success during and Campbell Soup Company, with over half of these their two decades at Grey and their promotions underscore experiencing strong double-digit growth.
We expanded our commitment to growing our best people.
our business significantly with other long-standing clients, Our Eye on Asia proprietary trends study once again opened a window into that vital regions psyche and gave our clients actionable information on topics ranging from green marketing to the recession.
It showcases Greys thought leadership to the worlds media.
We produced some of the most leading-edge creative work across platforms, breaking new ground in brand experience and building relationships: Greys US election eve Obamccain poster: Let the issues be the issue, in which each candidates skin color was switched, generated a global tsunami of online and press attention virally, with no media support.
Grey introduced Ellen DeGeneres, an unconventional choice and TVs every woman in our long-running campaign for Procter & Gambles CoverGirl, the No.
1 mass cosmetics brand, generating worldwide publicity and sales success.
Greys offbeat humor for Diageos Captain Morgan, appealing to men 21-24, via cable, the web and events, has made it the category leader and a top three spirits brand in America.
46 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Agency networks notably Volkswagen, Kraft, Nestl, Boehringer Ingelheim role as president of our G2 Interactive group to bring his and ABN Amro.
Globally, our relationship with BAT multidisciplinary marketing expertise to bear across all our reached new heights.
In EMEA, Joshua G2 in London and North American businesses.
Wendy Lurrie joined G2 from Argonauten G2 in Germany collaborated to win and work her position as general manager, DraftFCB, to lead G2s together on a digital assignment from Heineken, promoting Relationship Marketing group.
Tom Conti expanded his the most recent James Bond movie.
In the US, G2 was role to head G2 Interactive across the US.
Jay Farrell, former appointed promotional marketing agency of record for vice chairman of OgilvyAction North America, was named Heineken USA.
G2 today serves Heineken in five key president of G2 Promotional Marketing in the US, taking markets across all major regions around the world.
over from Nick Hoadley who returned to England, to assume In 2008, we added key engagements to our roster across the role of managing director of Joshua G2, a cornerstone a range of sectors and geographies.
Significant new brands agency within our network.
included in the US, ING Direct and Krafts South Beach Diet: Additional new leadership roles in 2008 included Will in EMEA, UBS, a second major brand, Juvena, from La MacKenzie moving from Russia to a new role in Australia Prairie, Samsung, Danone, Sara Lee and Vodafone: in Latin and Jeremy Powell taking on the country manager role in America, Google, St Regis Luxury Hotels, Playtex, Hasbro Russia after a successful period in Japan.
Sergio Brandao, and Amstel Light: and in APAC we added Visa and Baskin CEO G2 Brazil, was elevated to role of regional director Robbins to our roster.
for BAT, after 18 months of successful leadership of our In April 2008 we acquired a majority stake in the leading Brazil office.
In Italy, WPP company Promotions Italia, the events marketing agency in India, Chateux Hospitality, No.
1-ranked agency in that market, was formally aligned better known as RAMS Relationships, driving the expansion within the G2 network and its president, Diego Masi, joined of our global activation marketing capabilities and forging our management team.
our position as a key player in total communications in the Our industry and clients are facing difficult times.
We continued to build our capabilities in this In addition to being challenged with severe economic region, deepening our relationship with marketing services pressures, our clients are also faced with a myriad of new agency, Star Echo, a 2007 acquisition, partnering with them communications tools and channels.
The G2 model, a on multiple engagements in this market.
multidisciplinary service portfolio combined with a clear We constantly strive to stay ahead of a fast-changing discipline-neutral approach, enables us to offer clients a way marketing environment.
In 2008 we fielded a Global CMO to navigate this new world and bring solutions to meet their Study, to gain an insight into the minds and hearts of marketing challenges.
marketers, helping us to better match and develop our We will continue to break new ground in shopper capabilities to the needs of the marketplace and our clients.
marketing, digital communications and relationship In addition to our top five position among the global marketing, all areas in which we excel, and deliver on marketing services networks ranked in Advertising Age, our mission to build profitable and sustainable customer G2 was recognized with a range of industry accolades and engagements, while growing our clients brands and rankings.
We climbed 60 places to rank No.
We are committed to continuing our progress magazine Top 100 Agency US ranking and were placed in the years ahead.
13th in the global WON Report for our digital creative awards.
Individual agencies in the LATAM region, Colombia and Brazil, each received Agency of the Year awards from important regional bodies.
Throughout the world, G2s work received recognition from a range of industry awards including the Effies, the WEBBYs, The Art Directors Club, The One Show and Cannes Young Lions.
Other major initiatives in 2008 included our second G2 Economist Conferences Annual Media Convergence Forum in the US, where the worlds best-known chief marketing officers gathered to discuss the critical themes affecting marketers today: a panel at Cannes in June on Sustainability and the Shopper, debating the recent rise in ethical and environmental concerns: and in EMEA, the Annual Brand Survey: Brands We Love in partnership with UK publication, Marketing.
We consolidated management of all US operations under a new position, CEO G2 US, elevating John Paulson from his WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 47
