How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board Dear share owner proposals for LEAP III, commencing in 2009 are being developed and will be put to share owners, probably he work of the Compensation Committee in 2008 took at the AGM: place against a background of increasingly challenging following the reorganisation in November 2008, the T business conditions in the economy as a whole and executive directors became entitled to a fee for their services for the marketing services industry.
In this environment, as directors of the Company the Groups new holding the committee maintained its focus on ensuring that the company.
The aggregate of each executive directors base Companys compensation policies at all levels were aligned to salary and directorship fees became the same as that share owner interests, were fair to the Companys employees, directors base salary alone before reorganisation: and enabled the Company in a continuing competitive the base salary of Sir Martin Sorrell, Group chief executive, market for talent to retain, incentivise, and recruit the and the fees of Philip Lader, chairman, were scheduled for talented people who are vital to the Companys success.
Before a formal review was taken, each of them separately advised the committee that he did not think it appropriate to be considered for an 2008 highlights increase in view of the current business conditions.
The committee agreed with their request despite being minded The committees work during 2008 included: to consider an increase for each of them: a review of the total compensation packages of the the committees policy is to review non-executive director Groups most senior executives relative to marketplace fees bi-annually.
Following its scheduled review and in light benchmarks to ensure competitiveness: of current business conditions, the committee recommended a review of the total compensation packages of both to the board that the fees for non-executive directors not be Paul Richardson and Mark Read: increased other than for a small increase to the fee for the a full review of the effectiveness and operation of all of Audit Committee chairman: WPPs share incentive plans: an increase to the base salary and fees for Paul Richardson the approval of all incentives including the Renewed from 500,000 to 550,000 was approved, effective Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan LEAP, payable in cash 1 July 2008: and in shares, for senior executives throughout the Group and as Mr Richardson is now based in the US, his base salary setting appropriate targets for the Group chief executive and has been converted into US dollars.
To avoid currency other executive directors: fluctuations, effective 1 January 2009, his base salary will consideration of the design details for LEAP III the be $830,000: he also receives fees of 100,000 in respect of incentive plan that, with share owner approval, would his directorship of WPP plc: and replace Renewed LEAP following its expiry in 2009: and Mark Reads base salary and directors fees were reviewed a review of the fees for the chairman in his absence, for and have been increased from 275,000 to 325,000 with the chief executive in his absence, and a recommendation effect from 1 January 2009. to the Board as to the fees for the non-executive directors.
As always, the time and support given by my fellow committee members, Philip Lader and Esther Dyson, and the ongoing advice and counsel of Bud Morten, the former What changed in 2008?
chairman of the committee, are greatly appreciated.
The committees thanks also go to Marie Capes the Company Details of all elements of compensation and any changes Secretary, Mark Linaugh the chief talent officer and made to them are found in the following pages.
To Adrian Jackson the director of compensation and benefits.
summarise, the key decisions and changes to compensation during the year were as follows: the first awards under Renewed LEAP vested in March Jeffrey Rosen 2008.
The committee exercised its discretion under the Chairman of the Compensation Committee fairness review to reduce the size of the payout: 14 April 2009 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 127 How were rewarded Compensation Commitee report Composition of the Compensation Committee These three principles are themselves derived from both our mission statement see page 12 and our six business During 2008, the Compensation Committee comprised objectives see pages 24 to 28. the following: WPP competes on the basis of its intellectual capital.
Jeffrey Rosen chairman of the committee : This intellectual capital is created entirely by its people, Esther Dyson: and and the committee endeavours to strike the right balance Philip Lader.
of fairness for both employees and share owners.
For this No member of the committee has any personal financial reason, compensation plans are designed to be competitive, interest other than as a share owner as disclosed on page 137 performance-driven and aligned to share owner interests.
in the matters to be decided by the committee, potential The committee regularly reviews fixed and variable conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or compensation against appropriate benchmarks.
day-to-day involvement in running the Groups businesses.
The chart below shows the proportion of total The terms of reference for the Compensation Committee remuneration which is variable due to the linkage to are available on the Companys website and will be on performance compared to fixed remuneration.
display at the AGM, as set out in the Notice of AGM.
Split between xed and variable compensation % Fixed Variable 0 20 40 60 80 100 Advisors to the Compensation Committee Sir Martin Sorrell The Compensation Committee regularly consults with Group executives, particularly the Group chief executive who was Paul Richardson not present when matters relating to his own compensation or contracts were discussed and decided, the chief talent Mark Read officer and the director of compensation and benefits.
The latter two individuals provide a perspective on information provided to the committee and are a conduit for requests for WPP is committed to aligning executive performance and information and analysis from the Companys external reward with share owner interests.
During the year, the committee was advised by perspective, this is encouraged in a number of ways: Towers Perrin.
Advice was also received from Hammonds TSR is the sole performance target for both Renewed LLP on legal, tax and governance issues relating to LEAP and LEAP III to be proposed to share owners : compensation and benefits.
Hammonds LLP provides share ownership is encouraged for the WPP Leaders legal advice on a range of matters to the Group.
approximately the top 200 executives, all of whom have The committee receives advice on the following: ownership goals of 40,000 ordinary shares: analysis of competitive compensation practices and all employees are given a share focus through the use determination of competitive positioning: of the Worldwide Ownership Plan: and base salary and fee levels: almost 50% of the compensation package of executive annual and long-term incentive plans and awards directors is paid in the form of shares the value of ESA including awards made under Renewed LEAP: and expected value of Renewed LEAP.
the policy for employees relating to WPP share ownership: Split between cash and share-based compensation % pensions and executive benefits: changes in accounting, taxation, legal and regulatory practices: Cash Shares 0 20 40 60 80 100 governance issues relating to compensation and the role of the committee: and Sir Martin Sorrell policies for preventing and addressing employee harassment and discrimination.
Paul Richardson Mark Read The link between compensation and business objectives TSR performance All executive compensation at WPP is governed by three guiding principles: The Companys TSR for the period from 31 December 2003 the need to be competitive: to March 2009 is shown on the graph on the opposite page, being performance-driven: and top left.
The FTSE 100 is the Index the Board considers most alignment to share owner interests.
128 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were rewarded Compensation Commitee report relevant for the purpose of comparison and Omnicom, light of current business conditions.
His compensation Interpublic and Publicis are shown as these are the package therefore remains unchanged.
companies with whom the Companys performance is As reported last year, Paul Richardsons base salary was most commonly compared.
reviewed during 2007 and an increase from 450,000 to 500,000 effective 1 July 2007 was approved.
This was over Relative TSR Rebased to 31 December 2003 four years from his previous increase.
It was also agreed that an additional increase of 50,000 would be considered effective 1 July 2008 depending on a further review at that WPP 200 time.
The committee considered that the revised base salary FTSE 100 150 of 550,000 appropriately positioned him relative to both the Omnicom 100 FTSE 100 and WPPs closest industry competitors.
Since Interpublic Publicis December 2008, Mr Richardson has been entitled to annual 50 fees of 100,000 in respect of his directorship of WPP plc, 0 and his base salary became 450,000 at that time.
Effective 31.12.03 31.12.04 31.12.05 31.12.06 31.12.07 31.12.08 1 January 2009, the committee changed Mr Richardsons base Measured on a common currency basis.
salary to $830,000 as Mr Richardson is now based in the US: his 100,000 fee remains unchanged.
This change was designed to protect Mr Richardson from the exchange rate Key elements of shortand long-term variations that have been very volatile.
His base salary was remuneration calculated using an exchange rate of $1.85 to 1 which was the exchange rate used by the Company for the purposes The principal elements of WPP executive remuneration of its accounts during 2008, as detailed on page 146 and currently comprise the following: subsequently cross-checked against appropriate US base salaries and fees fixed : benchmarks to ensure that it did not result in his remuneration short-term incentives paid in both cash and shares which exceeding those benchmarks.
Mr Richardsons next regular vest in the medium-term of two years variable : and review will not be before July 2010. long-term incentives paid in shares variable, and in Mark Reads base salary was last increased on 1 January certain instances, subject to both co-investment and 2007.
As with Sir Martin Sorrell and Paul Richardson, Mark performance conditions.
Read became entitled to fees of 100,000 in respect of his Pension contributions, life assurance, health and directorship of WPP plc.
His base salary at that time became disability, and other benefits are also provided.
When reviewing his compensation the committee felt that his base salary and fees were considerably below the Base salary and fees median for his role and position as a director of the company.
Current salary and fees Effective date Since his appointment to the Board in 2005, Mr Read had Sir Martin Sorrell 1,000,000 1 Jan 2007 grown substantially both in experience and in strategic Paul richardson $830,000 and 100,000 1 Jul 2008 importance.
It was therefore felt that an increase in his Mark read 325,000 1 Jan 2009 base salary from 175,000 to 225,000 was justified.
The implementation of this increase was, however, deferred until Fees are paid to executive directors in respect of their 1 January 2009.
Base salaries and fees for the senior Salary increases throughout the Group in 2009 will be people at WPP are normally reviewed every 24 months.
When authorised on a performance and competitive basis.
salaries are reviewed this is done so within the context of: total compensation: Retirement benefits the current mix of fixed and variable compensation: the performance of the relevant business unit: All pension benefits for the Companys executive directors pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group: and are currently on a defined contribution basis and only the general market conditions.
aggregate of base salary and fees is pensionable under any In determining suitable benchmarks the committee Company retirement plan.
Details of pension contributions looks at similar roles in competitor organisations and, for the period under review in respect of executive directors if appropriate, general industry data for organisations are set out on page 133. of comparable size and complexity.
The form and level of Company-sponsored retirement Sir Martin Sorrells base salary was last increased on programs vary depending on historical practices and local 1 January 2007 and prior to that on 1 September 1999. market considerations.
The level of retirement benefits Although he was due a review in 2008, he informed the is regularly considered when reviewing total executive committee that an increase would not be appropriate in remuneration levels.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 129 How were rewarded Compensation Commitee report Short-term incentives This resulted in the following bonus payments in respect of 2008, shown as a percentage of salary: Each year WPP sets challenging financial performance Bonus percentage Bonus percentage conditions for each operating company.
Performance against paid in cash paid in shares ESA Target Max Actual Target Max Actual these targets determines the size, if any, of the incentive pool Sir Martin Sorrell 100 200 125 67 100 75 for that unit.
In aggregate, incentive payments in 2008 were Paul richardson 80 120 80 100 133 100 down compared with 2007.
This trend was also reflected in Mark read 50 75 62.5 67 100 83.5 the bonuses paid to executive directors.
Individual targets both financial and strategic for the operating company CEOs are also set by WPP and in turn, In some countries an opportunity exists to defer part of these CEOs set similar targets for their direct reports.
Payment the annual bonus for four years in the form of WPP shares.
is in the form of both cash bonuses and Performance Share At the end of the deferral period a 25% match is applied to Awards PSA which vest a further two years after grant.
the original shares subject to continuous employment.
No In a similar way, the Compensation Committee sets executive director participated in this plan in relation to the objectives for Sir Martin Sorrell and the other executive bonus paid for 2008. directors.
The extent to which these objectives are met will determine the size of both the annual cash bonus STIP and Long-term incentives the Executive Share Award ESA, the portion of the annual bonus paid in shares which vest a further two years after grant.
During the year the committee reviewed the operation and Consistent with previous years, for 2008 each director effectiveness of all share-based plans including ESAs and PSAs.
was measured in the three areas shown below: A similar review had previously taken place in 2005 which led Group financial objectives to significant changes in the design of the incentive plans.
Determined at the start of each year: examples of measure In contrast this review found that the current plans were: include margin improvement and operating profit growth.
effective in their operation: Individual strategic objectives valued by participants, particularly for their simplicity: Determined at the start of each year: examples of measure competitive within the marketplace: and include relative financial performance, advancing CSR aligned to the overall business objectives of the Company.
strategy and improving back office synergies.
No major structural adjustments were therefore felt Key business objectives necessary at this time although the committee will continue Determined at the end of each year: examples of measure to keep this under review.
include improving creative reputation and developing As part of the Group reorganisation completed in digital strategy.
November 2008, a new Executive Stock Option Plan and Each of these three elements is equally weighted for cash a new Worldwide Ownership Plan were adopted to replace bonus purposes i. e. one third of the bonus is payable for the the earlier versions of these plans, under which new awards achievement of each objective.
Except for the Group could not be granted after the reorganisation.
financial objectives, the exact measures differ by each individual executive director.
Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan No changes were made in 2008 to the levels of short-term Renewed LEAP incentive payouts for achieving either target or maximum performance.
2008 was the fifth year of operation for Renewed LEAP After considering each of these areas and the respective and awards were once again granted to the Groups measures for each executive, the committee assessed the key executives.
Details of these awards can be found on following levels of performance against target bonus payable page 135. in cash shown as a percentage of target bonus : Under Renewed LEAP, which was approved by share owners in 2004, participants have to commit and retain WPP Group Individual Key shares investment shares in order to have the opportunity to financial strategic business objectives objectives ob jectives earn additional WPP shares matching shares.
The number Cash Cash Cash of matching shares that a participant can receive at the end % of amount % of amount % of amount target 000 target 000 target 000 of the investment and performance period depends on the Sir Martin Sorrell 75% 250 120% 400 180% 600 Companys TSR performance measured over five years Paul richardson 75% 110 100% 147 125% 183 four years in the case of awards made in 2004.
Mark read 75% 34 150% 69 150% 69 Because relative TSR may not always reflect the true performance of the Company, the Compensation Committee is required to perform a fairness review on the basis of 130 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were rewarded Compensation Commitee report which it may, in exceptional circumstances, decide to vary Share incentive dilution for 2004 to 2008 the number of matching shares that will vest.
Factors the committee considers in its fairness review of any awards The dilution, as at 14 April 2009, was well below 10%.
It is include, amongst others, various measures of the Groups intended that Renewed LEAP awards, the ESAs, the PSAs financial performance such as growth in revenues and in and Restricted Stock Plan awards will all be satisfied with earnings per share and any evidence of distortions in the purchased shares held either in the employee share ownership share price of either WPP or the peer group such as bid plans ESOPs or in Treasury.
The first award cycle for the 2004 to 2007 performance Dilution % period vested at the start of 2008.
Details of the payout can be found in the table on page 135.
However, it should WPP 12 6.0 7.2 6.6 5.7 5.4 be noted that as was fully disclosed in last years Report 10 & Accounts, although the result of the TSR calculation 8 indicated a vesting level of 3.27 matching shares, after the 6 operation of the fairness review there was a net reduction of 4 0.67 such that the final number of matching shares awarded 2 was 2.60.
These figures take into account the impact of both 0 the bid premium contained in two of the comparator 04 05 06 07 08 companies and the large currency swings over the performance period.
The second award cycle for the 2005 to 2009 performance period vests at the start of 2010.
Restricted Stock Plan Other than to satisfy awards under the short-term plans ESA and PSA, the principal use of the Restricted Stock Plan is for awards under the WPP Leaders and WPP Partners programs.
These programs are used to further align the interests of about 1,100 of our key executives with the interests of share owners.
In both programs awards are made to participants that vest three years after grant provided the participant is still employed within the Group.
Some executives at the head office participate in these programs but no awards are made to executive directors.
Executive Stock Option Plan In order to attract or retain key talent it is sometimes necessary to make special grants of options.
Only 15 grants were made in 2008 and none of these were to executive directors.
Worldwide Ownership Plan The Worldwide Ownership Plan is an all-employee plan that makes annual grants of stock options to employees with two years of service who work in wholly owned subsidiaries.
As at 31 December 2008 options under this plan had been granted to approximately 72,000 employees over 34 million ordinary shares.
Any executive who participates in one of the other share plans described above does not receive grants in this plan.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 131 How were rewarded Compensation Commitee report Key elements of shortand long-term remuneration Performance Objective Participation period Conditions Change of control Short-term Base salary to maintain package All employees.
n a Salary levels are n a competitiveness determined by taking a at all levels within number of relevant factors the Group.
into account, including individual and business unit performance, level of experience, scope of responsibility and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Cash to incentivise delivery of Approximately 10% 1 year Achievement of challenging the cash bonuses of executive directors do not crystallise bonus value at all levels within of employees are performance goals on a change of control.
eligible to receive a financial and non-financial performance bonus.
at the individual and business unit level.
Performance to incentivise delivery Key operating 1 year Achievement of challenging See note below for restricted Stock Plan.
share awards of value and to align company performance goals with interests of executives.
financial and non-financial share owners.
executive to incentivise delivery Key head office 1 year Achievement of challenging See note below for restricted Stock Plan.
share of value and to align executives and individual annual bonus awards with interests of executive directors.
Long-term renewed to incentivise longParticipation offered 5 years relative tSr performance on a change of control, the investment period for all leAP term performance by only to those key against a group of key outstanding awards ends, the number of vesting shares comparing WPPs tSr executives currently communication services are determined at that date and any other rights cease.
against the tSr of key no more than 20 comparator companies, the number of shares that vest may be reduced to comparators and to people whose subject to a fairness review prevent adverse uS tax provisions applying.
maximise alignment with contributions by the Compensation the Compensation Committee may determine that share owner interests transcend their Committee.
outstanding awards are exchanged for equivalent awards.
through a high level day-to-day role, of personal financial including executive commitment.
restricted to encourage a share Directors and n a typically three-year the vesting period for all outstanding awards is deemed Stock Plan ownership culture and senior executives retention period.
long-term retention of the operating the Compensation Committee may determine that as well as supporting companies and outstanding awards are exchanged for equivalent awards recruitment.
senior executives of or that outstanding awards are unaffected by the change the head office.
executive to provide a tool to occasional use only 3 years Conditions, if any, are the number of shares or ADrs is pro-rated down in Stock promote retention and to deal with special determined at the time accordance with the change of control date.
the Compensation Committee may determine that outstanding awards are unaffected by the change of control.
Worldwide to develop a stronger employees with n a three-year vesting period.
the number of shares or ADrs is pro-rated down ownership ownership culture.
at least two years in accordance with the change of control date.
not the Compensation Committee may determine that offered to those outstanding awards are unaffected by the change of control.
participating in other share programs or to executive directors.
