How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Hill & Knowlton Report by Paul Taaffe right Chairman and chief executive officer In 2008 Hill & Knowlton enjoyed one of the finest years in its eight-decade history.
Our international network strength, our investments in BRIC countries and other emerging markets and our range of services gave H&K a distinct competitive advantage.
Revenues, margins and the number of both large clients and transnational assignments were all at their highest levels ever.
We saw dramatic growth from non-US multinational companies and sovereign investors, especially in China, the Middle East and parts of Europe.
The resource economies of Canada and Australia also boomed.
We acquired financial specialist Rikes Communications in Hong Kong and took a majority interest in our South Korean partner, Synergy.
We are now among the largest and fastest-growing operations in China in 2009, our 25th anniversary year, we will be expanding our network there to include major commercial centers across the country.
Our two largest industry sector practices, technology and healthcare, expanded considerably as did our work in the energy sector and in consumer goods and services.
We continued to focus on delivering real, measurable business impact for our clients, allowing us to consolidate business with existing clients and win new ones, motivate and an employee-penned book, Enterprise 2.0: How Social staff and attract new talent.
We continued to invest in Software Will Change the Future of Work explored the top people with senior hires in healthcare, technology, impact of online social networks inside organizations.
internal communications, corporate and financial and Blanc & Otus, H&Ks stand-alone technology government affairs.
communications company saw an accelerated uptake of its Clients increasingly required speedier communication range of offerings, especially its new social media services.
execution and digital expertise driven by a shift in Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates continued to budget from traditional to digital media and accelerated advance its clients interests as the 2008 US election by economic necessity.
With digital thinking increasingly campaign rhetoric evolved into the governing agenda.
integrated into all our practices, disciplines and counsel, we launched new offerings such as full participation marketing We continued to focus on and influencer marketing, allowing clients to understand and leverage the new conversations around their brands.
delivering real, measurable business We introduced a sustainable enterprise offer for clients impact for our clients focusing on the risks and opportunities at all points of the value chain.
Anticipating a growth in environmental communications in 2009, the Year of Copenhagen, Finally, continuing a tradition of excellence, H&K was we announced our own sustainability manifesto, creating named one of the best places to work in Canada and earned a green team that ensures we deliver against our own a gold award for quality from the National Quality Institute.
We took on Iwokrama, a Singapore was again named No.
1 agency in a vote by its peers.
2 Guyanan rainforest scientific preserve, as a pro bono The economic pressures facing our many clients have led client, campaigning against rainforest destruction.
to an immediate focus in helping them through reputational New intellectual capital underpinned the firms thought and brand challenges.
However, economic uncertainty also leadership: H&Ks Corporate Reputation Watch studied the is creating new kinds of demand.
Diversification of client factors shaping the global war for talent: a Clean Tech survey services and solutions is a very real opportunity for H&K looked at success strategies for eco-friendly technologies: in the short term.
