How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy The Kantar Group Report by Eric Salama right Chairman and chief executive officer As the old joke goes Sam comes home for dinner and is greeted by his parents.
Mum, he says, in one word, good.
There is so much that is positive, exciting, satisfying about our business: the way in which we are adding value to clients and how we are simplifying the way in which clients can access our best capabilities.
At the same time none of us can go a day without recognising and dealing with the impact that the economic situation is having on our clients and people.
From an internal point of view, the big news of 2008 was the acquisition of TNS, a business and a set of people who are every bit as good, professional and passionate about their clients as we hoped they would be.
Much has been made of the size and scale of the enlarged Kantar Group.
It is true that we are now the No.
2 business in all but two of the largest 10 markets in the world and in all of the 10 most important emerging ones: that we have leadership positions in areas such as media, healthcare, retail: and that we remain the pre-eminent player on issues such as communication effectiveness and customer satisfaction.
But being big and being global is of no inherent advantage working relationship between client, creative partners to our clients and to our people unless we make it so.
Equally we can be proud of the fact that our talent is applied to societal and public policy projects at a local level: The big news of 2008 was the running the British Crime Survey in the UK: testing a government scheme in France designed to bring the long-term acquisition of TNS, a business and unemployed back into the workforce: running the largest a set of people who are every bit as longditudinal societal survey in Germany, which is used in policy making by various federal departments: being the good, professional and passionate Gates Foundation partner in India and helping devise the about their clients as we hoped they most effective ways of getting people to vaccinate themselves.
Our clients and people do not and should not care would be about our size or internal structures but they care very deeply about the experience they have in working with and for us.
We have to have our best talent focused on clients: How we are structured is only a means to an end, so this develop the best solutions for the needs of the marketplace: review of 2008 starts with a look externally and then reports have mechanisms that ensure that knowledge is shared on how we are positioned and what still needs to be done.
around the world so that clients can benefit from best practice: preserve our ability to understand consumers and service clients locally as well as globally: ensure that Client needs we are nimble and proactive: create environments in which people can thrive, learn and develop satisfying careers.
In many ways, 2008 saw an acceleration of the trends we Sometimes it all comes together globally.
Clients were more focused on insights 2008 Advertising Research Foundation gold awards for than data and in ensuring that those insights were used work on Wal-Mart, Hewlett-Packard, Arm and Hammer effectively, and they were more focused than ever in getting and Interstate Brands, Millward Brown was recognised for the balance right between revenue-driving innovation and the effectiveness of the research and for a productive budget allocation optimisation.
56 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy Better listening: Clients have become more explicit in 1 their desire to have continual feedback and insights from their consumers.
As Kim Dedeker of Procter & Gamble said recently: We must get back to really listening to our consumers, recognising that this is more than understanding, its a way of acting, that it is a 24 7 365 endeavour and that we recognise the emergence of the unprompted voice.
In this respect, the capabilities we have within Cymfony and Precis in understanding and monitoring conversations both online and in traditional media, as well as the renewed emphasis which we have put on observational and ethnographic research, are critical.
Red Dot Square, Research International and id Magasin have been at the forefront of using technology and qualitative skills to observe and interpret shopper behaviour, while Added Values semioticians have done much to unlock consumer reactions which would have otherwise remained hidden.
Eileen Campbell above Chief executive officer, Millward Brown Better storytelling: As I highlighted last year, research 2 and insights are not an end in themselves.
Clients invest with us because they want to make better decisions, so we must deliver our work in engaging ways that propel clients of the WPPED Cream Award for Research was a board game to act and to facilitate that action.
The appointment of Aziz for Vodafone developed by Added Value a Monopoly-style Cami as Kantars first creative director has been followed by way of helping senior management discover for themselves the appointment of Izzy Pugh and Nina Jenkins as creative the way the brand is perceived in different markets and the directors at Added Value UK: also by the further development extent to which communication is consistent.
of MB Productions, the focus at TNS on client portals as a way of delivering information and a host of working Real-time information: Some information is only of partnerships with companies such as Landor and Ideo, which 3 value if it is immediate and granular.
TNS Medias have enabled us to deliver our work in ways that inspire pre-eminent position in developing return path data in action.
The quality and speed with which we have developed markets such as the US with DirectView, the UK with new packaging for one of our clients has been enhanced by Sky, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa has enabled working jointly with a creative team rather than handing second-by-second analysis of viewing and measurement of off our insights to that team in a sequential way.
The winner previously unmeasured channels.
CompetePros syndicated solution for online measurement and analytics has been further strengthened by its new partnership with Omniture.
In both cases clients have an ability to judge, analyse and act in ways they have never been able to before.
Reliable data: The insights we develop and the stories 4 we tell would be of little value if they were not based on reliable data.
This is obviously the case where our data collection is used as the industry currency.
RIs service measurement compiles the data for the UK Retail Price Index: TNS Media, IBOPE and others gather TV audience figures in more homes and markets around the world than anyone else.
We are also the industry currency for many readership and radio measurement contracts around the world.
Worldpanel is substantially increasing its consumer panel sizes in markets such as China and Spain and introduced scanning technology in many markets.
But the client desire for reliable data extends beyond these currency services.
Clients such as Procter & Gamble, Coca-Cola, Pedro Ros above Washington Mutual and industry bodies such as the ARF Chief executive officer, TNS are very focused on the quality of the data and the extent WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 57 How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy TNS Healthcare has rolled out Influence 3.0 to help clients understand the influencers on physician and patient decision-making.
Millward Browns AdIndex, used by many clients to benchmark the effectiveness of their online advertising, is now well established in Asia.
All Global has launched a Palliative Care Panel, unique and much needed.
IMRBs authoritative syndicated study of The Islamic Consumer revealed some extraordinary insights and differences across countries and was well timed.
The Futures Company has rolled out its Monitor and Streetscapes services globally, enabling clients to understand trends and see examples of those trends in action, globally, online.
Describing these innovations in this way doesnt do them justice.
They are not simply a random list, but a selection of carefully thought-through and well-executed product Jean-Michel Portier above innovations which help clients deal with contemporary issues.
Chief executive officer, Kantar Media A new way of going to market to which the shift online may or may not have resulted in approaches which are well validated.
Consumers are As the words above demonstrate, we have no shortage of concerned about their privacy, while many regulators do not solutions to address client needs, no shortage of ambition for understand some of the differences between our work and our business and for the role we want to play in driving the that of the direct marketing industry, or some of the issues industry forward and no shortage of talent which is able to which surround online tracking.
In early 2009 we appointed George Pappachen as our first Post TNS, we have substantially stronger capabilities: chief privacy officer, to work with clients to put in place and our challenge is to make our structure as client friendly as to hold us to appropriate high standards.
But our response has gone far beyond standard setting and enforcement: Lightspeed has developed real-time fraud and verification tools which are now applied routinely to online surveys: InTouch is a multi-company project team piloting new ways of designing surveys and gathering feedback from consumers.
Our investment and innovation in these areas will continue.
Where you need us to be: Clients are looking to roll 5 out methodologies and approaches around the world, get the balance right between global and local, and deal with the challenges and opportunities which the fragmentation of media and the emergence of new competitors and needs are driving.
So it is no surprise that much of our innovation has involved extending the reach of our services and developing contemporary offers: RIs MicroTest Nouveau is unique in incorporating word-of-mouth in forecasting the take-up that new products and services will generate.
Mattson Jacks Epidatabases have been extended into BRIC markets.
CHSs National Health and Wellness Study the industry Sharon Potter above standard has been extended into Japan and will be Worldwide chief executive officer, Kantar Operations launched in China later this year.
58 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 How were doing Information, Insight & Consultancy possible, ensuring that we are able to deliver to our clients consumers as well as lowering the cost of these services.
the best of Kantar when they need it.
As I said earlier, structures are of no interest to clients.
So, recognising the desirability of having a multi-branded But getting the structure right facilitates better work and approach both for our people and for its ability to nourish easier access.
We now have a set of capabilities and a and develop specialist and focused capabilities we have structure which should enable even better work and even adapted the way we go to market.
However, structure without talent and In merging TNS with Research International we have attitude is of no use to anyone.
created a custom research business which has strong sector In the 18th century a Cantar was a measurement of the expertise, a wide range of services and strong local strength.
weight of a cannon ball: in the 19th century it was a measure The new business will sit well alongside Millward Brown and of the Egyptian cotton crop.
Added Value, all three being global networks but all three In the 21st century we would like Kantar to be a measure positioned to address different client needs.
In creating Kantar Healthcare through the combination We want our people to be inspired by the tools they have of TNS Healthcare, Ziment and Mattson Jack, Kantar access to and by the environments in which they work.
In Media through the combination of TNS Media and KMR turn, we want them to inspire our clients through the rigour, and Kantar Retail through the combination of Cannondale, imagination and intelligence of their work and the creativity Glendinning, MVI, Retail Forward and Red Dot Square with which it is delivered.
It is a lofty goal against which we have clarified our specialist offers.
we will measure ourselves in our employee engagement and customer satisfaction surveys.
We know that we are successful in many places at many times.
But we have a deep-seated ambition to see that inspiration in every part of our business applied to all of our clients, every day.
And finally... You can tell a lot about people when times are not good.
The last few months have not been easy and people have naturally been concerned about their situation.
But throughout this period the people at Kantar have responded magnificently.
They have focused on their clients and on the quality of work and they have taken and implemented difficult decisions fairly and with appropriate regret.
And throughout we have continued to donate time and money to the likes of UNICEF and to communities who have suffered natural disasters.
I am a very lucky CEO to be able to work with such a talented and giving group of people.
Anne Hedde above President and group chief executive officer, Lightspeed Research In rebranding Kantar Worldpanel we are stating our ambition to marry attitudinal and behavioural data to better understand what people purchase and why they have done so, as well as being able to better predict what they are likely to purchase in the future.
And in bringing together the best operational expertise which exists in Kantar Operations with that of TNS and in merging the TNS access panels with Lightspeed, we are making clear our intention to elevate the importance of data quality, privacy and of finding new ways of engaging with WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 59
