What we think Im Sorry Youve Lost Me Five Words No Brand Should Ever Have to Hear By Jeremy Bullmore 008 may be remembered as the year when In times of recession, the kaleidoscope is given a numbers finally lost their capacity to shock.
At the beginning of the year, two billion dollars The point of all this, and demonstrated over those last 2 was a lot of money.
By the end of it, two trillion 70 years, is that the most successful recession marketers are dollars was rather less: or so it seemed.
Logically, the fact those astute enough and nimble enough to find new patterns of a corporation facing losses of 100 billion should be four amid the confusion and seize the new chances.
Every brands times more chilling than one facing losses of 25 billion new chances will be slightly different and all gains made will but logic doesnt come into it.
There comes a moment when be at someone elses expense.
numbers so distance themselves from personal experience But probably the biggest single risk facing recession that comprehension snaps.
And when comprehension goes, marketers is exactly the same as the biggest single risk so, more worryingly, does any sense of personal involvement.
that faces successful companies at all times but with a Unimaginable vastness is so remote from anything weve frighteningly higher level of intensity: and thats the risk of ever seen or touched that it simply doesnt connect.
Its like losing touch with their ultimate users.
Success brings growth: being told that Planet Earth is just one of several million greater size demands delegation and the introduction of other planets out there.
If we departments: and real people stop being real people and were told that we were one of just five, that would be a become demographics.
It neednt happen but it does.
As it is, we shrug and think and the companies behind those brands slowly and of something else.
imperceptibly come to seem as remote from reality as trillions Children may get their heads round money by relating it of dollars do.
And the ultimate consumer response is exactly to their pocket money or to the price of a candy bar.
Their the same: Im sorry youve lost me.
parents may try to keep one foot on the ground by mentally As many of those published papers demonstrate, its easier relating money to salaries or house prices.
to lose users in times of recession than at any other time.
How many houses could you buy for two trillion?
How Tough times make people think more.
When people think much R&D could you finance?
more, they re-assess their behaviour.
And if their brands Im sorry youve lost me.
have drifted away from them into some fide-personalised As governments around the world finally and grudgingly stratosphere, its now that theyll notice and do something acknowledged the existence of recession and in most about it.
cases many months earlier companies everywhere began Suddenly, theyre lost: and as everyone has always known, ransacking their records, their lofts and their memories: to retrieve a lost user takes a great deal of time and a great what were the secrets of weathering recessions even of deal of money.
coming out of them with greater strength?
There are more However, theres some surprisingly good news.
Despite than 150 published papers on the subject, spanning more the continuing growth of marketing companies and their than 70 years.
brands, its more possible now for them to keep in sensitive Most analyses agree.
Tough times make people think touch with their ultimate users and to close any gaps that more.
When people think more, they re-assess their may have developed than during any previous recession.
Those companies whove confused customer Not simpler, certainly, and no cheaper: just more possible.
habit with customer loyalty quickly discover that theyre Two great interlocking things have happened to not the same.
Price:value relationships slither about a bit: marketing communications since the last recession of price, which is both objective and quantifiable, becomes a this scale.
We seem to have developed a rather deeper lot easier to hang on to than something called value, which understanding of how the most persuasive marketing is neither.
Unless underpinned by intrinsic quality, added communications work.
And there are now many more value begins to seem little more than fancy packaging.
ways to engage with any given audience.
1100 00 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 What we think Im Sorry Youve Lost Me To simplify perhaps unfairly: there was a time when digital was a curious word to have emerged as the name mass communication was thought to be something of a for a form of mass communication that gets closer to monologue.
Transmitters transmitted and receivers received.
conversation than anything before it.
And well maybe even The ability to transmit was limited to those in the possession come to see that interactive media, with their ability to of relatively few transmission facilities: just media owners involve real people with real things and real ideas, have much and advertisers who could afford to rent those facilities.
in common with those most primitive of communications The receiving public, that overwhelming majority, had little devices: demonstrations.
Whether in market squares or jungle choice but to receive and remain silent.
clearings, showing, involving, achieving participation and Unfortunately, their enforced silence was interpreted responding to feedback remain as powerful a way of keeping by many as passivity.
A style of mass commercial in touch with those all-important people out there as they communication developed that was often didactic, at ever have.
Claims of product superiority It wont be tidy.
But there really shouldnt be any excuses, were repeatedly asserted and consumers were instructed during recessionary times or not, for brands to lose their to consume.
followers through becoming too remote.
Defendants of this style point to its effectiveness.
Sales went up, they rightly say.
Paid-for brand Jeremy Bullmore is a member of the publicity has always contributed to brand fame.
And brand WPP Advisory Board fame has a simple competitive value.
But what this style of communication never managed to achieve, and never will, is that willing complicity between sender and receiver thats the mark of all the most effective persuasion.
In the words of Arthur Koestler, The artist rules his subjects by turning them into accomplices.
Receivers have never been passive.
No receiving brain accepts claims and assertions without challenge.
Every receiving brain filters such messages through its own experience and its own prejudices and reaches its own conclusions.
And just as this long overdue insight always intuitively understood by the best natural communicators became more generally understood and legitimised, along came the internet.
And suddenly, hallelujah, it wasnt just media owners and advertisers who had access to transmission facilities.
Anyone with a computer and internet access was now a potential publisher.
And publish they did, in their millions and so they will for evermore.
The myth of the passive obedient consumer, however attractive to a certain kind of marketing mind, has been blown for good.
And in its place is an infinitely more complicated but altogether healthier state of affairs.
For companies deeply concerned not to lose touch with their users wherever they may be and however disparate things have never looked better.
Through one set of lenses, the fragmentation of media is an advertisers nightmare: and so is the ability of lowly consumers to answer back.
Through another set of lenses, both developments offer an amazing new potential.
After a century during which corporations got bigger and bigger, more and more global, and almost inevitably more and more remote from their ultimate users, the trend has begun to turn.
The pattern is far from fixed and even the vocabulary seems still to be in development stage.
Well probably look back on this time and realise that old media and new media had more in common than we realised and that WPP AnnuAl rePort 2008 1101 01
