04 Introduction Atkins Business Segments Design and We report our activities Engineering Solutions in a number of business Highways and segments, reflecting how Transportation we manage the business according to different Rail markets and geographies.
Middle East, China and Europe Management and Project Services Asset Management This chart illustrates the relative size of our segments by revenue.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Introduction 05 Revenue We deliver high value engineering and innovative design to a wide range of clients in the public, regulated and private sectors.
Our areas of operation include water, environment, nuclear, power, aerospace, defence, oil and gas and infrastructure design.
374m Our principal activities are transport planning, design of new roads and road improvements, development of intelligent transport systems, management of road maintenance and integrated road network management.
275m We provide services covering a wide range of engineering disciplines, including signalling, civils, electrification and specialist services in strategic planning, safety, systems integration and asset management.
208m In the Middle East, we provide design, engineering and project management services for buildings, transportation and other infrastructure through our seven offices in the Gulf and India.
In China we provide planning, urban design, architectural and 192m engineering services to the mainland market and Hong Kong.
Our European business comprises operations in Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Portugal and Poland.
We provide management and IT consultancy and programme, project and cost management services.
We are one of the largest project managers and cost consultants worldwide through our Faithful Gould brand and one of the 20 largest management 213m consultants operating in the UK.
We provide independent property asset management services, focusing on delivery of top quality facilities management services to selected public and private sector clients.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
