20 Reviews Operating and Financial Review Segmental performance Design and Engineering Solutions % change Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year Financial metrics Revenue 373.6m 320.8m 16% Operating profit 30.2m 27.0m 12% Operating margin 8.1% 8.4% -0.3pp Share of post-tax JV losses Work in hand 39% 40% -1.0pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 5,024 4,405 14% 12% Average staff numbers 4,722 3,980 19% Operating profit Note 2007 has been restated to exclude the results of European businesses previously included within Design and Engineering Solutions that are now included within the Middle East, China and Europe segment.
2007 operating profit is before exceptional costs of 1.1m in relation to the Metronet supply chain contracts.
Revenue by client type Revenue by market Revenue by size of job Public Sector: Local Government Architecture and Design Contracts 1m Public Sector: National Government Water Contracts between 0.1m and 1m Regulated Nuclear Contracts 0.1m Private Sector Defence Oil & Gas Aerospace Environment Other WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 00.0 00.0 00.0 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 21 Design and Engineering Solutions had as AWE, BAE Systems, Rolls-Royce, General Agency.
Wins during the year included a a good year with growth in revenue of Dynamics and Thales.
The integration of three-year appointment with Northumbrian 52.8m 16%.
Operating profit increased Advantage, acquired in March 2007, has Water to provide multi-discipline design by 3.2m 12% with a slight reduction been successful and has added to our and water modelling services and our in margin attributable to re-organisation capability in this sector.
We continue appointment as a preferred supplier for 1.5m and costs associated with the to provide significant and successful the provision of scoping and feasibility integration of the Advantage and Nedtech independent assessment and challenge services to Severn Trent Water for their acquisitions 1.0m.
We have successfully to the multi-billion pound Future Rapid AMP5 programme.
added over 600 staff during the year, with Effect System FRES programme.
a significant proportion of this growth Public and Government concern with global occurring in our office in Bangalore, India We have seen a growing demand for our warming, the scarcity of natural resources where we now have 325 people.
nuclear and power capabilities as a result and increased environmental legislation of increased confidence in the nuclear power has led to strong demand for our services.
Our 1,600-strong multidisciplinary design generation sector which was boosted by Carbon emissions, climate change and business works on a strong portfolio of the publication of the UK Governments ecological footprint are critical issues and public and private sector projects in the UK nuclear power white paper in January we have won work in these areas for as well as internationally.
Staff numbers have increased by Southern Water and the Environment Agency the year has been mixed with successes on over 20% to 500 in this business, which amongst others.
There is strong demand projects such as the London Olympic Park, is performing ahead of expectations and, for our planning, and contaminated land which has employed around 300 staff, after the year-end, we were selected by capabilities which are being deployed on being partially offset by a disappointing year British Energy to continue as part of their the ongoing ground remediation and in our UK regional businesses.
During the Technical Support Alliance to provide environmental works at the Olympic Park year we have refocused the latter to create engineering and technical support to their in east London, and for our geotechnical a national business which subsequently fleet of nuclear power stations in the UK and tunnelling expertise.
won appointment to all three regional until 2012, with options to extend beyond framework contracts to provide design this date.
Our nuclear training academy Outlook services for the Learning and Skills Council.
has proved successful with more than 200 The outlook for Design and Engineering Our current international projects include attendees on a range of courses to date.
Solutions is good with current prospects the Centaurus hotel in Islamabad which stretching into the medium term.
Around will be Pakistans tallest building.
Our oil and gas business has continued to 80% of our workload comes from publicly grow with high levels of activity in a funded and regulated sectors where we have Our aerospace business continues to grow buoyant sector assisted by record oil prices.
a diverse range of key clients.
Consequently as it benefits from strong relationships with It now employs approximately 300 people.
we are well positioned for the year ahead clients such as Airbus and Rolls-Royce.
The Increasing internationalisation of our with our broad base of complementary acquisition in December 2007 of the Dutch business has seen recent contract awards technical skills remaining in considerable consultancy Nedtech Engineering BV has such as a dynamic simulation study for demand.
This is most notably the case in increased the range of services we can Shell in Malaysia and structural integrity the water sector, where a number of AMP5 provide to our aerospace clients, principally management work for both BP Egypt and bids are progressing, and in nuclear and oil Airbus, where we now satisfy their BP Trinidad.
The business has also increased and gas where focus is increasingly directed requirement of being a trans-national its workload in the important liquefied toward the next generation of supply as well supplier.
This acquisition added around natural gas industry with a number of as maximising the efficiency and longevity 50 people with expertise in the areas of significant projects awarded.
Increasing environmental airframe and aero engine design and our awareness is also strengthening demand for aerospace business now has over 300 staff.
Our water and environment business our services, highlighting the need for We have recently been awarded contracts continues to make very good progress leadership in Carbon Critical Design.
to provide certification analysis for the and now employs almost 1,800 staff.
Airbus A400M military transporter and Performance in the year was good and A330F long-range freighter aircraft.
was boosted by a full years revenue from the Southern Water contract, which There is steady demand for the services commenced at the beginning of the of our defence business which provides financial year.
Ongoing programmes of technical and commercial consulting water resources and flood defence work services to the UK Ministry of Defence have continued under framework contracts MoD and to defence industry clients such with water companies and the Environment WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
