24 Reviews Operating and Financial Review Segmental performance Continued Rail % change Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year Financial metrics Revenue 208.2m 215.1m -3% Operating profit 11.9m 5.2m 129% Operating margin 5.7% 2.4% 3.3pp Work in hand 65% 69% -4.0pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,669 1,669 129% Average staff numbers 1,703 1,648 3% Operating profit Note 2007 has been restated to exclude the results of European businesses previously included within Rail that are now included within the Middle East, China and Europe segment.
2007 operating profit is before exceptional costs of 2.6m in relation to the Metronet supply chain contracts.
Revenue by client Revenue by activity Revenue by size of job Network Rail Signalling Contracts 1m Metronet Design Contracts between 0.1m and 1m Others Communications Contracts 0.1m Consultancy and other WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 25 The Rail segment performed well this year During the year we have secured work on Outlook and delivered an operating profit of 11.9m, a number of major strategic programmes In the short term the outlook for our an anticipated and substantial improvement including Thameslink, Crossrail, the Rail segment remains good with 65% on the prior year driven by increased InterCity Express programme, Network of 2008 09 budget revenue secured by activity in our higher margin design Rail enhancement frameworks and major 31 March 2008.
The UK rail market business and the impact of the change in stations including Birmingham New Street.
continues to demonstrate steady growth, the contractual arrangements on our work Additionally we had success in the with increasing demand for innovative for London Underground.
As expected,  renaissance of solutions to meet the need for revenue reduced slightly, partly due to the electrification, in particular the Glasgow a capacity-enhanced, reliable railway.
changes at Metronet and also due to to Edinburgh line where we have been a reduction in volumes of pass-through appointed by Network Rail acting on Over the longer term a significant increase expenses on our re-signalling contracts.
Our work in spending on enhancements, and continued involves feasibility studies and outline plans spending on major signalling works is We continue to derive around half of our for the electrification of approximately expected.
We are well placed to meet those revenue from large re-signalling contracts 100 miles of main and branch lines in the demands with the breadth and depth of for Network Rail.
During the year Glasgow to Edinburgh corridor ahead our multidisciplinary expertise.
approximately 60% of that work consisted of works required for the Commonwealth of significant projects at Basingstoke and Games in 2014. the Rugby Nuneaton section of the West Coast Main Line upgrade.
Our delivery As anticipated, there has been a decline performance has been good which has in revenue from our work on the London helped us secure work with Network Rail Underground, through Metronet and on a number of additional projects.
The Trans4m, which reduced by around re-signalling requirement for Network Rail one-third.
On 18 July 2007 the Metronet remains significant with spending anticipated infrastructure companies entered PPP to remain at approximately the same level Administration and on 30 August 2007 the over the next few years.
Our strong contracts with Trans4m were terminated.
reputation for delivery and our relationship Since then we have continued to provide with Network Rail makes us well placed station and civils design, civils inspection to win a significant share of this market.
and assessment capability to Metronet under a series of short-term contracts.
The other part of our business focuses on Following the transfer on 27 May 2008 design and consultancy services.
Performance of certain of the trade and assets of the in the year has been good as we have Metronet infrastructure companies to new benefited from an improving market as entities established by Transport for Network Rail and other Passenger Transport London, we have entered into longer-term Executives bring more enhancement projects contracts with the successor companies for to market.
Significant projects during the the provision of consultancy, design and year include the Glasgow Airport Rail Link, engineering support.
where we are providing design and technical consultancy for the new railway Our investment in Metronet and line running from Glasgow Central station Trans4m is discussed on page 33 under to the international airport, and Farringdon Discontinued Operations.
Station where we have been appointed by Network Rail Thameslink to provide detailed design for the upgrade of this major interchange between Thameslink, London Underground and Crossrail.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
