46 Governance Directors Report The directors present their annual report on The directors recommend a final dividend Directors and officers of the Company the affairs of the Company and the Group, of 16.5p per ordinary share in respect of the and its subsidiaries benefit from directors together with the Financial Statements and year ended 31 March 2008, to be paid on and officers liability insurance cover in the independent auditors report, for the 26 September 2008 to ordinary shareholders respect of legal actions brought against year ended 31 March 2008.
These will be on the register on 15 August 2008.
In addition, directors of the Company laid before shareholders at the Annual subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
are indemnified in accordance with the General Meeting AGM to be held at If approved, this will mean a total dividend Companys Articles of Association and to 4.30pm on Wednesday 3 September 2008. of 24.0p per ordinary share will have been the maximum extent permitted by law.
All Details of the business to be considered paid for the year to 31 March 2008 directors have deeds of indemnity that are at the AGM, together with an explanation 2007: 20.0p when added to the interim in force as at the date of this report.
These of all of the resolutions, are set out in the dividend of 7.5p per ordinary share paid indemnities are available for inspection by separate Notice of Meeting.
Further details shareholders at the Companys registered regarding dividend payments can be office during normal business hours and Principal activities and business review found on page 118. will be available for inspection at the AGM.
WS Atkins plc is the ultimate holding company of a group of companies.
Detailed Directors Neither the insurance nor the indemnities information on the Groups principal The names and biographical details of provide cover where the relevant director or activities, its performance during the past those persons serving as directors of the officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
year and its prospects for future development Company as at the date of this report are are reported in the Chairmans Statement set out on pages 44 to 45.
No directors The Board of directors may exercise all pages 6 to 7, the Chief Executives Statement were appointed to or retired from the the powers of the Company, subject to pages 8 to 12, the Human Resources Board during the year to 31 March 2008. the provisions of relevant legislation, the Review pages 14 to 17, the Operating Companys Memorandum and Articles and Financial Review pages 18 to 37, and Under the Companys Articles of Association of Association and any directions given the Corporate Responsibility Review pages all directors appointed during the year by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The statements and reviews are must retire at the AGM and may offer Specific powers are detailed in the Companys incorporated into this report by reference, themselves for re-appointment.
Additionally, Articles of Association, including the power together with the list of the principal one-third of directors must retire at each to issue and buy back shares, along with subsidiary undertakings and the countries AGM and they may also offer themselves the rules for the appointment and removal in which they operate note 41 to the for re-election.
Raj Rajagopal, who was appointed by the Directors interests in the Company and Acquisitions and disposals made by the Board as a director on 24 June 2008, will the Group are described in the Directors Group during the year are described retire at the AGM and, being eligible, offer Remuneration Report in table 5 on page 59. in notes 10 and 15 to the Financial himself for re-appointment.
Articles of Association James Morley and Ed Wallis will retire by Company law has undergone substantial rotation at the AGM, and being eligible, change since January 2007 when the Post-balance sheet event will offer themselves for re-election.
It is phased implementation of the Companies On 1 April 2008 the Group sold its holding proposed that James Morley, having served Act 2006 the 2006 Act commenced.
The in Modern Housing Solutions Prime on the Board since 2001, be appointed Articles of Association of the Company in Limited receiving cash of 3.9m and until the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
their current form no longer fully reflect generating a profit on disposal of 2.5m.
Ed Wallis will be subject to retirement by legislation and best practice and it is therefore rotation at future AGMs in accordance proposed that the Company should adopt Results and dividends with the Companys Articles of Association.
new Articles of Association at the AGM.
The Group profit after tax for the year of Details of the key differences from the 100.0m 2007: loss of 57.3m is shown The Board considers that the performance current Articles of Association together with in the Consolidated Income Statement on of those directors proposed for re-election details of where a copy of the proposed new page 64. continues to be effective and that they Articles of Association can be inspected are demonstrate a strong commitment to their contained in the separate Notice of Meeting.
In addition, the Board considers that the performance of the director proposed for re-appointment will be effective and that he too demonstrates the necessary commitment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 47 The final phase of implementation of the Corporate governance to become shareholders through 2006 Act is currently scheduled to take and remuneration the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
It is therefore A report on corporate governance is on Approximately 10% of UK employees anticipated that further changes to the pages 50 to 55 and the Boards report on participate in the Share Incentive Plan.
Articles of Association will be proposed directors remuneration is on pages 56 to 60. to shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
Supplier payment policy Corporate responsibility The Groups policy is to agree terms and Political donations A summary of the Groups corporate conditions for its business transactions It is the Groups policy not to make political responsibility activities is contained on with suppliers and to endeavour to abide donations and not to incur political pages 38 to 42.
In addition, the Group by these terms and conditions, subject expenditure, either in the UK or overseas.
provides additional information on corporate to the supplier performing its obligations.
Accordingly, the Group made no political responsibility, which includes detailed donations and incurred no such expenditure information in respect of health and safety, The Company, as a holding company, during the year and has no intention of the environment, the community, people did not have any amounts owing to trade making any such donations or incurring and suppliers on the Companys website creditors as at 31 March 2008. such expenditure in the future.
com the provisions previously contained in the Share capital and share purchases Companies Act 1985 and now enacted in Employees As at the date of this report, the Companys the 2006 Act relating to donations and The Group is committed to the fair and share capital consists of 104,451,799 expenditure covered by this disclosure are equitable treatment of all its employees, issued and fully paid ordinary shares each wide.
The Board has therefore sought irrespective of sex, race, age, religion, with a nominal value of 0.5p per share, authority in the past for the Company and disability or sexual orientation.
To this end, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Of its main trading subsidiary, Atkins Limited, policies have been implemented to ensure these, 3,941,000 ordinary shares are held to make such donations and incur such this is practised at recruitment and then in treasury the treasury shares.
Shares expenditure up to a limit of 100,000 so continues throughout an individuals may be held in certificated or uncertificated as to prevent an inadvertent breach of the employment with the Group.
Further details of the Companys relevant legislation.
The Board considers it encourages recruitment, training, career authorised and issued share capital, including prudent to once again seek such authority development and promotion on the basis changes during the year, can be found at the Companys forthcoming AGM, of aptitude and ability, without regard to in note 31 to the Financial Statements although this will be subject to a revised disability.
It is also committed to retaining on page 104. overall aggregate limit for the Company and retraining as necessary employees and its subsidiaries of 90,000 and to the who become disabled during the course At the AGM held in 2007, the Company provisions of the 2006 Act.
The authority of their employment.
was granted authority by shareholders to will not be used to make political donations purchase up to 10,445,179 ordinary shares, within the normal meaning of that Employees are routinely informed of representing 10% of the Companys expression.
Further details are contained financial results and significant business ordinary share capital as at 26 June 2007. in the Notice of Meeting.
issues via the use of email, voice conference, This authority will expire at the forthcoming the Companys intranet and in-house AGM and, in accordance with current best Charitable donations publications.
During the year work was practice, the Company will seek to renew it.
During the year, the Group made charitable successfully undertaken to refresh and donations of 191,527 2007: 205,813. reinvigorate the Companys intranet to The Board, mindful of the benefit of The beneficiaries of these donations were enhance employee communications.
maintaining an efficient balance sheet, local charities serving the communities announced a share buyback programme in which the Group operates or charities An annual survey is carried out to obtain on 27 November 2007 intended to return working in areas relevant to the Groups feedback from employees.
This survey up to 100m to shareholders.
The Group intends to continue is confidential and is used alongside a review of the strength of the Groups its focus on local charities in the next consultation with employees and union balance sheet following the disposal of financial year.
Lambert Smith Hampton and the resolution of the uncertainty surrounding the Groups Employee involvement in the Groups investment in Metronet.
performance continues to be encouraged through share ownership.
In the UK, employees are given the opportunity WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 48 Governance Directors Report Continued The buyback of ordinary shares in Trustee, Halifax Corporate Trustees Limited, Statement of directors responsibilities the Company commenced on as directed by the participants.
Details The directors are responsible for preparing 29 November 2007 and, as at the date of share-based payments, including the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report of this report, 3,941,000 ordinary shares information regarding the shares held by and the Financial Statements in accordance of 0.5 pence had been repurchased for an the EBTs can be found in note 32 to the with applicable law and regulations.
aggregate consideration of 42,246,673 Financial Statements on page 105. excluding fees and stamp duty, representing Company law requires the directors to approximately 3.8% of the Companys The Company is not aware of any prepare Financial Statements for each issued share capital.
All of these shares are agreements between shareholders that financial year.
The directors have prepared held in treasury.
Following the repurchases might result in the restriction of transfer the Group and Company Financial Statements to the date of this report, the outstanding or voting rights in relation to the shares in accordance with International Financial authority to purchase shares would enable held by such shareholders.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the the purchase of a further 6,504,179 European Union.
The Financial Statements ordinary shares.
Changes of control are required by law to give a true and fair All of the Companys employee share view of the state of affairs of the Company The rights and obligations attaching to the schemes contain provisions relating to and the Group and of the profit or loss of Companys ordinary shares are contained a change of control of the Company the Group for that period.
in the Companys Articles of Association, following a takeover bid.
Under these a copy of which can be obtained on provisions, a change of control of the In preparing those Financial Statements, request to the company secretary.
The Company would normally be a vesting the directors are required to: Articles of Association can only be changed event, facilitating the exercise or transfer by a special resolution passed in a general of awards, subject to any relevant select suitable accounting policies and meeting of shareholders.
then apply them consistently The Company is not a party to any other make judgements and estimates that are Each ordinary share other than treasury significant agreements that take effect, reasonable and prudent shares, which have no voting rights carries alter or terminate upon a change of control state that the Financial Statements the right to one vote on a poll at a general following a takeover bid other than its comply with IFRS as adopted by the meeting of the Company.
There are no bank facility agreement, which provides European Union restrictions on transfer or limitations on the that on a change of control, the Company prepare the Financial Statements on the holding of the Companys ordinary shares is unable to draw down any further going concern basis, unless it is and no requirements for prior approval amounts under the facility.
Further, it is not inappropriate to presume that the Group of any transfers.
Under the Companys party to any agreement with the directors will continue in business, in which case Articles of Association, the directors have or employees providing for compensation there should be supporting assumptions power to suspend voting rights and the for loss of office or employment whether or qualifications as necessary.
right to receive dividends in respect of through resignation, purported redundancy shares in circumstances where the holder or otherwise that occurs as a result of of those shares fails to comply with a a takeover bid.
notice issued under section 793 of the 2006 Act.
Substantial shareholders As at the date of this report, the Company Shares acquired through Atkins employee had been notified of the following holdings share schemes rank equally with all other of 3% or more of the total voting rights ordinary shares in issue and have no special attaching to its issued share capital: rights.
The trustees of the Companys Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs have waived Number of Percentage of their rights to dividends on shares held by Name of holder voting rights total voting rights the EBTs and do not exercise their right to Legal & General Group plc 4,347,000 4.29% vote in respect of such shares.
Shares held Schroders plc 10,143,360 9.99% in trust on behalf of participants in the Share Incentive Plan are voted by the Standard Life Investments Limited 4,962,936 4.75% Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 49 Cautionary statement The directors confirm that they have Going concern Under the Companies Act 1985, a companys directors complied with the above requirements The directors have a reasonable expectation report is required, among other matters, to contain in preparing the Financial Statements.
that the Company and the Group have a fair review by the directors of the Groups business adequate resources to continue in through a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the The directors are responsible for keeping operational existence for the foreseeable Group and the position of the Group at the year-end, proper accounting records that disclose future and therefore continue to adopt consistent with the size and complexity of the business.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the the going concern basis in preparing the financial position of the Company and the Financial Statements.
The Directors Report set out above, including the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, Group and to enable them to ensure that the the Human Resources Review, the Operating and Financial Statements and the Remuneration Auditors Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility Review Report comply with applicable company The Companys auditors, incorporated into it by reference together, the law and, as regards the Group Financial  LLP have expressed Directors Report, has been prepared only for the shareholders of the Company, as a whole, and its sole Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
their willingness to continue in office and purpose and use is to assist shareholders to exercise They are also responsible for safeguarding resolutions for their re-appointment and to their governance rights.
In particular, the Directors the assets of the Company and the Group authorise the directors to determine their Report has not been audited or otherwise independently and hence for taking reasonable steps for remuneration will be proposed at the verified.
The Company and its directors and employees are not responsible for any other purpose or use or to the prevention and detection of fraud and forthcoming AGM.
any other person in relation to the Directors Report.
Approved by the Board and signed on its The Directors Report contains indications of likely The directors are responsible for the behalf by future developments and other forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated maintenance and integrity of the Companys with, among other things, the economic and business website.
Legislation in the UK governing circumstances occurring from time to time in the the preparation and dissemination of Richard Webster countries, sectors and business segments in which the Financial Statements may differ from Company Secretary Group operates.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Principal Risks and legislation in other jurisdictions.
25 June 2008 Uncertainties on page 37 in this document.
These and other factors could adversely affect the Groups results, Disclosure of audit information strategy and prospects.
Forward-looking statements The directors confirm that, as at the date involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
They relate to events and or depend on circumstances in the future this report was approved, so far as each which could cause actual results and outcomes to differ director is aware there is no relevant audit materially from those currently anticipated.
No information of which the Companys auditors obligation is assumed to update any forward-looking are unaware and that he or she has taken statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
all the steps he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
