30 Reviews Operating and Financial Review Segmental performance Continued Management and Project Services % change Key performance indicators 2008 2007 in year Financial metrics Revenue 213.2m 193.6m 10% Operating profit 13.6m 12.8m 6% Operating margin 6.4% 6.6% -0.2pp Work in hand 48% 42% 6.0pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 2,461 2,260 9% 6% Average staff numbers 2,394 2,203 9% Operating profit Note 2007 operating profit is before exceptional costs of 0.3m in relation to the Metronet supply chain contracts.
Revenue by client type Revenue by market Revenue by size of job Public Sector: Local Government Energy Contracts 1m Public Sector: National Government Defence Contracts between 0.1m and 1m Regulated Education Contracts 0.1m Private Sector Commercial Property Finance Transport Pharmaceutical Utilities Other WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 31 The performance of the Management There remains a strong market for our and Project Services segment this year Management Consultants services and was mixed.
The Faithful Gould business, we continue to provide programme which represents approximately 70% management services to support the of the segment, had a good year but the ongoing change programme at GCHQ, Management Consultants business continued where we are approaching the mid-point to perform below our expectations.
Performance in the business was impacted by a loss of Faithful Gould, with principal operations focus following a reorganisation undertaken in the UK, USA and Asia, provides project at the same time as the integration of management and cost consultancy services Mantix which was acquired in June 2006. across a broad range of market sectors.
All Management changes were made during three regions delivered strong performances the year and profits were further depressed with both revenue and operating profit by one-off costs incurred reducing overhead ahead of expectations.
The UK business and simplifying the management structure.
accounts for over 60% of revenue and the North America and Asia Pacific businesses Outlook grew by 11% and 43% respectively.
During Outlook for the segment as a whole is the year many of our markets were strong, good with work in hand at 31 March 2008 including petrochemical driven by high oil representing 48% of budgeted revenue prices: public and regulated sectors where for 2008 09. there is continuing investment: and financial services where we have a growing Faithful Gould is a diverse business which reputation.
We have a limited exposure covers a wide range of markets.
While the to the commercial property sector and, UK is relatively mature, in the USA there overall, there has been no material are further opportunities to deepen our slowdown in work.
services, especially for the large programmes commissioned by the Government, and in the petrochemical and education sectors.
Our Management Consultants business currently has a small share of a large addressable market and there is potential for a recovery from its current position underpinned by existing framework contracts with established clients.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
