14 Reviews Human Resources Review Our people Atkins success depends on attracting and retaining the most talented professionals in their respective fields and providing an environment in which they are able to apply their skills on a variety of complex projects.
Top 20 Top 50 Best Big Companies to Work For Places Where Women Want to Work The Sunday Times, 2008 The Times, 2007 Winner Top 1 00 National Graduate Recruitment Graduate Employers Awards, Construction Sector The Times, 2007 Target Magazine, 2007 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 15 24% Increase in headcount over the past 3 years 82% Employee stability index Overview Headcount growth depends in part on our A related but important measure is the Atkins success depends on attracting and ability to recruit quality staff in a challenging stability of our workforce.
This looks at the retaining the most talented professionals market.
In recent years, we have transformed proportion of staff that have been with in their respective fields and providing an our approach to resourcing, recognising Atkins for 12 months or longer, and has environment in which they are able to that the majority of applications are now remained steady at around 82%.
A stability apply their skills on a variety of complex made online and increasingly come from index of over 80% for the UK our principal projects.
Consequently, being an employer all parts of the world.
We have installed a employment base compares well with of choice is a must for Atkins.
Part of our web-based recruitment platform and created other leading professional services firms.
strength is our ability to meet this challenge a dedicated team of professional recruiters.
Likewise, a stability index of over 50% for for a wide range of professionals including the Middle East is very good for a business engineers, architects, planners, project For the first time, more than 50% of which has grown headcount by over 40% managers and surveyors.
applicants applied online either via our in year.
Our experience is that once website www.
com careers individuals become embedded in the We measure our performance in doing or through job-boards.
This proportion is organisation they will stay for several years.
so in various ways, partly by the collective expected to increase as our recruitment and individual strengths of the people who net widens to encompass previously We have improved our ability to monitor decide to develop their careers with us, inaccessible talent pools.
feedback from those who leave the but also by tracking a number of metrics organisation via an online survey run on including staff retention, employee Our success in recruitment meant that our behalf by an independent organisation.
We vacancy levels remained broadly static also take note of the views of our staff and throughout the year and we attracted Since the survey was introduced in potential staff expressed via internal and over 120,000 applications, representing May 2007, 73% of leavers have provided externally commissioned surveys, with the an increase of around 15% on the previous feedback.
This tells us that the key factors latter resulting in a number of awards.
Of these, 50% were for positions affecting retention are clarity regarding in the UK and a further 43% for positions career progression and personal growth.
Headcount in the Middle East India.
We established Whilst common to most professional Within our continuing operations, a dedicated recruitment team in Bangalore, services organisations, these are areas headcount grew by 1,400 9% after which is servicing the growing number where we feel we can improve our allowing for the disposal of Lambert Smith of applications from the Indian market.
The major areas of growth were Design and Engineering Solutions Applications for graduate training positions On a more positive note, over 80% of 620 staff, 14% growth and the Middle rose by almost 45% in the year to over leavers would recommend Atkins as an East India 750 staff, 44% growth.
This reflected our increased profile employer and would consider working Headcount in our Rail business remained in UK universities and the steady increase for the organisation again.
flat and fell slightly in Highways and in the proportion of applicants from Transportation where around 200 staff across the world.
transferred out at the end of March 2008 with the conclusion of the six-year Retention Northamptonshire County Council contract.
Recruitment success has to be matched by our ability to retain talented professionals.
Our principal measure is staff turnover: the level of voluntary resignations.
Overall staff turnover increased by 1.6% from 13.8% to 15.4% reflecting the high levels of competition for skilled staff.
This was in line with our predictions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 16 Reviews Human Resources Review Our people Continued Employee engagement Another helpful measure is our ranking During the year attendees on Group We know that retention is affected in in the Sunday Times Top 20 Best Big programmes focused mainly on developing particular by the degree to which employees Companies award.
This involves an management capability and capacity are engaged in the business.
We measure anonymous survey of 1,500 Atkins staff increased by 42%.
A major programme the degree of engagement via our annual in the UK, which allows us to compare to develop coaching skills for senior leaders Viewpoint survey covering all our people our performance against other leading was introduced as we seek to improve worldwide.
employers in our sector and more widely.
dialogue around performance and While close analysis of our scores for each development.
This year the level of participation, measured of the elements showed that we had by response rate, increased significantly improved our performance in six of the We also introduced an exciting new to 79% up 6% on 2006 07. eight rankings, we were disappointed that programme Development Dialogue our ranking had slipped one place to 13th.
in partnership with Henley Management We were delighted that our overall Employee College to improve our ability to shape Engagement Index increased to 73%.
We Investment in people the career development of senior leaders now score above benchmark in all areas The skills and capabilities of our people in the business and align their individual when compared to other companies who are critical to the quality of the work we development with their personal aspirations utilise this employee engagement survey.
undertake and to our ability to respond to and our needs as a Group.
This programme Our profile as a Group shows that we new opportunities.
A high priority is placed will enable us to make better use of perform very well in terms of job clarity, on learning and development.
Investment the talents of our senior management client focus and direction, but less well in in training for the year totalled 20.7m population and will enable us to be more areas such as feedback and recognition.
2007: 15.9m and was focused on four effective in meeting their career aspirations.
These results provide us with a clear picture key areas: that will enable us to focus on the areas A comprehensive review of graduate where there is room for further improvement.
developing management capability development was undertaken.
This is and capacity particularly important given the high number Our performance over the six years in professional development in particular of graduates recruited annually, which is in which we have conducted the Viewpoint the development of our technical excess of 350.
This showed that we have survey is summarised below.
skills base several areas of exemplary practice, but also health and safety a priority for our some others where our performance had leadership role fallen below the standards to which we aspire.
A programme of improvements has now been implemented to ensure that graduate development is provided on a consistent, high-quality basis across the Group.
This includes improved engagement with the key professional institutions to ensure that our programmes continue to provide a pathway to professional membership 73 as well as providing a solid foundation 72 71 71 70 of technical and business skills.
66 Externally, our performance as a graduate recruiter was recognised by an improvement in our standing in the Times Top 100 Graduate Employers up from 57 to 43 and by our recognition as the top graduate recruiter in the construction sector in the Target National Graduate Awards.
This is the third time in succession that Atkins has been ranked first.
03 04 05 06 07 08 EEI Employee Engagement Index % UK only WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 17 During the year we provided sponsorship Reward We have now commenced defined benefit for the British Asian Hafta in Birmingham.
We continue to monitor our remuneration closure consultations with a further 400 This event drew together more than 700 practices to ensure that we reward people staff who joined Atkins via TUPE transfer people to celebrate British-Asian culture competitively in each of the markets and from local and central government.
and to recognise people of achievement in regions in which we operate.
Wage inflation They were excluded from the original the Asian community.
We were very pleased across the Group was approximately 7.5%.
consultation pending clarification of their that one of our senior highways engineers This is slightly up on the previous year, due contractual position.
was nominated for an award for her in part to the Middle East where salaries innovative work in partnership with grew by 15%.
Atkins operates in several regions, recruits Over 550 people now participate in our staff from most areas of the world and has We continue to explore ways in which we executive bonus scheme which rewards a workforce whose characteristics are can provide greater flexibility for our staff senior staff across the Group for their evolving with every year.
It follows that our and to support those on maternity and performance against clear targets.
This ability to operate in an increasingly diverse carers leave.
This year we made two provides the opportunity to increase world is critical to our success as an employer notable changes for UK staff: increasing remuneration significantly for delivering and to our ability to meet our clients their ability to buy extra leave to 15 days superior business performance.
per year making it possible to take up to 30% of employees benefited from eight weeks leave per year: and providing discretionary bonus awards which recognise The need to develop a more inclusive laptops with remote access to all those on individual contribution and performance.
organisation is now widely recognised across maternity and adoption leave.
the Group and is driving action at every We have continued to improve level.
We continue to work in partnership communications to ensure that reward with national organisations, including the packages are well understood and UK Resource Centre for Women in Science appropriately valued.
As part of this, Total and Engineering, and collaborate with Reward Statements for senior staff were key clients including Transport for London made available online for the first time.
and the Olympic Delivery Authority.
We participated in several events to raise the In the UK, agreement was reached with the profile of women in the workplace including Trustees of the Atkins Pension Plan for the a major study conducted by Cranfield closure of the main defined benefit section University on diversity in the boardroom.
to future accrual for around 1,600 staff.
This was accompanied by improvements to We sponsored the industry-wide Inspire our defined contribution section benefiting Awards to promote women of achievement those staff affected by these changes and in professions associated with the built the 6,000 existing participants.
Improvements environment and were delighted with the included the introduction of a guaranteed success of our colleagues, with two of our income protection plan for all UK staff three shortlisted nominees winning their providing a safety net in the event of categories.
We were also included in The long-term ill-health or disability.
We are Times Top 50 Places Where Women Want pleased to report that staff retention levels to Work for the second year running.
for those affected by the closure of the defined benefit section have been unaffected.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
