44 Governance Board of Directors Ed Wallis Keith Clarke Robert MacLeod Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Ed Wallis 68 was appointed a director in Keith Clarke 56 was appointed a director Robert MacLeod 44 was appointed group September 2004, taking up the post of in October 2003.
He is a chartered He joined the Group from Skanska AB where accountant, he joined the Group as group engineer.
He was the founding chief he was executive vice president responsible financial controller in March 2003 having executive of Powergen where he also held for its activities in the UK, Poland, Czech previously worked in a variety of senior the position of chairman before retiring Republic, India and China.
He has over financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
Prior to this he gained more than 30 years experience in construction and currently a non-executive director of 30 years of experience working for the engineering, having previously worked for Aggreko plc.
A graduate of Cambridge Central Electricity Generating Board.
the City of New York, Olympia and York, University, he trained at KPMG.
He has a wide range of other board-level Trafalgar House and Kvaerner.
He is chairman experience including the chairmanship of the Construction Industry Council, having Admiral the Lord Boyce of Lucas Varity and London Transport.
He previously chaired its Health and Safety Non-executive Director was invited to become a companion of the Committee.
He is also an advisory board Lord Boyce 65 was appointed a British Institute of Management in 1994 member of the Built Environment Innovation non-executive director in May 2004.
He and in 1997 became a fellow of the Royal Centre at Imperial College, London, a had a distinguished career in the Royal Academy of Engineering.
In 1996 he was member of the Supporters at Large Group Navy and the Ministry of Defence MoD awarded honorary doctorates by both for Open House and patron of the that culminated in his becoming First Sea Brunel University and Aston University.
He is Lord, professional head of the Royal Navy, became chairman of the Natural Environment a member of the Nomination Committee.
in 1998: and then Chief of Defence Staff, Research Council in 2006.
He is chairman professional head of the Armed Forces, of the Nomination Committee and a Alun Griffiths from 2001 to 2003.
He was elevated to member of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Director the peerage in 2003 and was appointed Alun Griffiths 53 was appointed a director Lord Warden and Admiral of the Cinque in March 2007.
He has a background in Ports and Constable of Dover Castle in management consultancy and has led a wide 2004.
He is a non-executive director of range of projects in the areas of restructuring, VT Group plc.
He is a member of the organisational development and privatisation Remuneration and Nomination committees.
in the UK and internationally.
He is an economics graduate and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
He was appointed Group HR director in February 2003.
Alun was appointed to the UK Government-backed Industry Board of the UK Resource Centre for Women in Science, Engineering and Technology UKRC.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 45 James Morley Sir Peter Williams Raj Rajagopal Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director James Morley 59, a chartered accountant, Sir Peter Williams 63 was appointed a Raj Rajagopal 54 was appointed a nonwas appointed a non-executive director in non-executive director in May 2004.
He executive director in June 2008.
He is a non-executive director of The graduated from Cambridge University with several positions at BOC Edwards before Innovation Group plc and Costain Group an MA and PhD in physics and initially being appointed chief executive, a position PLC.
He was previously chief operating pursued an academic career at Cambridge he held until November 2006.
He was an officer of Primary Group Limited and also and subsequently at Imperial College, executive director of the BOC Group plc previously finance director at Cox Insurance London.
After a period with VG Instruments until November 2006 and is a nonHoldings plc, Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc, Limited he joined Oxford Instruments plc executive director of Dyson Group plc.
Guardian Royal Exchange plc and Avis in 1982.
He became its chief executive in Raj is a vice president and Fellow of the Europe plc.
He is senior independent 1985 and was chairman from 1991 until Institution of Engineering and Technology director, chairman of the Audit Committee his retirement in 1999.
He is chairman IET and chairs its manufacturing sector and a member of the Remuneration and of the National Physical Laboratory and panel.
He is a fellow of the Royal Academy Nomination committees.
a non-executive director of GKN plc.
of Engineering, a fellow of the Institution of Sir Peter was elected as fifth chancellor Mechanical Engineers and a fellow of the Fiona Clutterbuck of the University of Leicester on 21 October Chartered Institute of Management.
He is also vice-president of the also an Audit Commissioner, a member of Fiona Clutterbuck 50 was appointed a Royal Society and a trustee of Marie Curie both the Council of Cranfield University non-executive director in March 2007.
He is chairman of the and of the Advisory Board of the Centre is a managing partner within a business Remuneration Committee and a member for Business Research of Cambridge that owns and controls Pearl and Resolution of the Audit and Nomination committees.
He was awarded an honorary insurance group.
Fiona has substantial doctor of science degree by Cranfield experience in all areas of corporate finance, University in 2004 and the IETs IEE Eric including a particular focus on the financial Mensforth International Gold Medal for institutions sector, gained during 15 years outstanding contribution to manufacturing at Hill Samuel and HSBC and latterly seven technology and management in 2003. years at ABN AMRO.
Fiona has advised on a wide range of transactions in many countries, including mergers and take overs, public company acquisitions and fundraisings, and public and private company sales and flotations.
Fiona has an LLB Hons from the University of London and qualified as a barrister in 1980.
She is a member of the Audit and Nomination committees.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
