annual report and accounts 2008 Board of Directors Experience aligned with operating focus The Xchanging Boards experience continues to closely align with Xchangings industry, geographic and sector operating focus.
It comprises two Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors and their expertise are set out below.
3 1 2 3 4 Chief Executive Officer Age: 59 Non-Executive Director Age: 52 Founded Xchanging and has served Joined the Group Board in 2000 as a as Chief Executive Officer of the Group Non-Executive Director and currently chairs since inception.
Formerly a Board the Remuneration Committee and the member of Andersen Worldwide and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
the Managing Partner of Andersen He has considerable experience in the Consulting West Europe.
He is a Fellow operational and retail sectors, working of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, for C&A in Continental Europe, Japan and a William Pitt Fellow of Pembroke College, the UK.
He founded the Andromeda Fund 1.
Nigel Rich 3 Chairman Age: 63 Cambridge and a member of the PCC part of the Entrepreneurs Fund, owned of Holy Trinity Brompton.
by COFRA and was founding Chairman Joined the Group Board as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in November 2006 and of NFTE UK Network for Teaching 3.
He is a member of the appointed Chairman in 2008.
He also Chief Financial Officer Age: 50 chairs the Group Boards Nominations COFRA Advisory Board, and a Director of Joined the Group in 1999 and appointed responsAbility Social Investment Services, Committee.
Currently he is Chairman of Chief Financial Officer in 2003.
Formerly SEGRO and a Non-Executive Director of Irvine Bay Trustee Co, OptiNose, Porticus worked at Caradon plc, where he was UK, Enterprise Education Trust and the Pacific Assets Trust and KGR Absolute Chief Executive Officer of the Industrial Return PCC.
His previous roles include Schwab Foundation.
Richard Houghton Chairman of Exel and CP Ships, Managing has lived and worked in the USA and 5.
Johannes Maret Director of Jardine Matheson Holdings Australia and began his career at Esso Non-Executive Director Age: 58 and Chief Executive of Trafalgar House.
having graduated in Chemical Engineering Joined the Group Board in 2003 as a He is a chartered accountant and was from Cambridge.
He completed an Non-Executive Director.
He is Managing awarded a CBE in 1995.
MBA at Harvard and subsequently Director of Maret GmbH and is Advisory spent five years working in consulting Board Chairman of Bex Beteiligungs, at McKinsey & Company.
Cincinnati Extrusion, Basler Fashion 46 Xchanging plc 4 XCH ar08 front section b. indd 19 31 03 2009 09:52:17 4 XCH ar08 front section b. indd 20 31 03 2009 09:52:35
