annual report and accounts 2008 Our management team A wealth of experience across industries The Xchanging Management Boards XMB experience and capabilities reflect the diverse nature of the BPO market.
The XMB is collectively responsible for developing and delivering the strategy, the three-year plan and the annual budget.
David Rich-Jones Chief Executive Officer Age: 59 Head of European Financial Services Age: 40 Head of Business Lines Age: 48 Founded Xchanging and Chief Executive Joined Xchanging in January 2009 as Head Joined Xchanging in 2000 and is Officer since inception.
Prior to Xchanging of European Financial Services.
Prior to this, Head of Business Lines, responsible he was the Managing Partner for he was a member of the Senior Executive for delivering the sector strategy and Accentures West Europe business.
Committee of the UniCredit Group and financial performance.
Prior to Xchanging, He built up their BPO business.
As such on the management board of Bayerische David was Group Purchasing Director he led the successful accounting Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG.
At UniCredit at Caradon plc, Vice President of Global outsourcing for British Petroleum, the Group he was Deputy Head of Global Purchasing at SmithKline Beecham, and operational outsourcing and technology Operations responsible for the operating Group Purchasing Director IT for National replacement for the London Stock model, sourcing, cost containment and Westminster Bank plc.
He is past president Exchange and the trading systems at real estate.
Matthias has a Masters in of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing Deutsche Brse.
David is a Fellow of the Business Economics and brings more than and Supply.
He has a degree in business Institute of Chartered Accountants, has 16 years of banking and business processing studies and holds a Diplme Suprieur fide a Masters in Finance from Sheffield experience in the financial industries.
La Chambre fide Commerce fide Paris.
University and is William Pitt Fellow 4.
Stewart McCulloch of Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Head of the Americas Age: 35 Head of Insurance Age: 46 2.
Richard Houghton Joined Xchanging in 2002 and is the Joined Xchanging in 2008 and is currently Chief Financial Officer Age: 50 recently appointed Head of the Americas, Head of Insurance, responsible for Joined Xchanging in 1999 and was responsible for delivering the sector delivering the sector strategy and financial appointed Chief Financial Officer, with strategy and financial performance.
Prior to Xchanging he was responsibility for Finance, Legal and Steven started his career in finance and the Chief Executive Officer at Lockton Group Implementation, in September 2003. has held Director-level positions in Companies International and previously Before joining Xchanging, Richard was insurance, technology and venture capital spent five years at Willis and nine years at Chief Executive Officer of the Industrial companies.
Stewart brings Products Division of Caradon plc.
He has Stevens previous roles included Finance 18 years experience in the insurance lived and worked in the USA and Australia Director of a division of XL Capital, and sector and in advising, implementing and began his career at Esso, having Executive Director and Chief Financial and leading change.
He has a Bachelor graduated in Chemical Engineering from Officer of a venture capital plc.
Steven is of Science in Mathematics from Warwick Cambridge University.
He completed an a Fellow of the Association of Chartered University and is a member of the Institute MBA at Harvard and subsequently spent Certified Accountants.
five years at McKinsey & Company.
