annual report and accounts 2008 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Significant agreements statements of the group for the year ended 31 december 2008.
The key customer and supplier contracts and other arrangements essential to the Group are described throughout the business Principal activity and business review review.
Xchanging does not consider itself to be dependent on The principal activity of the Group is the provision of a range a single key supplier.
of complex industry specific processing services to the banking and insurance industries as well as procurement, finance and Significant agreements change of control accounting, and human resources services across industries.
Upon a change of control as variously defined in the respective The principal activity and business review is discussed further agreements of Xchanging plc, a number of significant on pages 1 to 37. agreements take effect, alter or terminate as follows: Business review Customer service agreements The Chairmans statement, operational and financial business Under the terms of the following service agreements, the customer review and performance reviews for the Groups main businesses, may elect to continue to receive such services, or alternatively on pages 1 to 47, provide detailed information on the Group and terminate the contract: its strategy, the operation of the businesses and the results and a. the agreement for the provision of human resource services financial position for the year ended 31 December 2008.
These by Xchanging HR Services Ltd to BAE Systems plc, entered report on the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, into on 19 April 2001 post balance sheet events and likely future developments.
The b. the agreement for the provision of securities transaction information in the review constitutes the business review required services by Xchanging Transaction Bank GmbH XTB to under the companies act and forms part of the directors report.
Oppenheim Partners jr. & Cie. KGaA, entered into on 29 december 2004 Results and dividends c. the agreement for the provision of sourcing and procurement The profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders was to pay services by Xchanging Procurement Services Ltd 29,155,000 2007: 15,336,000.
The Directors recommend the to National Australia Group Europe Ltd, entered into on payment of a dividend of 2.5 pence per share 2007: 2.0 pence.
28 June 2006 Research and development d. the agreement for the provision of claims handling, payment The Group incurs development costs in the design of processes and settlement services by Xchanging Broking Services Ltd and systems that substantially improve those already installed XBS to Aon Limited Aon, entered into on 9 August 2006. in the Enterprise Partnerships, which includes business process Enterprise Partnership shareholder agreements mapping, process re-organisation and software development.
Under the terms of certain Enterprise Partnership shareholders Research and development is discussed further in the Group agreements, the Enterprise Partner may elect to exercise options performance on page 36. over the shares in the Enterprise Partnership, for a share value as The amount capitalised in the year in respect of development variously defined in the respective agreements.
The agreements expenditure was 8,137,000 2007: 4,797,000. are as follows: a.
Deutsche Bank AG DB may elect to call Xchangings shares Charitable donations in XTB under the terms of the shareholders agreement, Donations towards various international, national and local entered into between DB and Xchanging Holdco No.
3 Ltd, charities amounted to 25,000 during the year 2007: 10,000. on 26 May 2004 No donations have been made to political parties.
b. Aon may elect to put its own shares to Xchanging, or call Directors and their interests Xchangings shares in XBS under the terms of the shareholders Details of changes to the Board during the year and up to the agreement, entered into between Aon and Xpanse Ltd, on date of this report are set out on pages 52 and 53.
9 August 2006 c. Allianz Global Investors  mbH AGI Details of Directors service contracts are set out in the Directors may elect to call Xchangings shares in Fondsdepot Bank GmbH remuneration report on page 61. under the terms of the shareholders agreement, entered into the interests of the directors in the shares and share options of between AGI and XTB, on 21 August 2007. the Company are shown on pages 63 and 64.
indd 1 31 03 2009 09:50:07 Governance annual report and accounts 2008 Revolving credit facility The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above Under the terms of the 90m revolving credit facility provided requirements in preparing the financial statements.
by Lloyds TSB Bank plc LTSB to Xchanging plc, entered into The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting on 3 October 2008, LTSB may elect to continue to provide such records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time facility, or alternatively cancel it and require all monies borrowed the financial position of the Company and the Group and to under such facility to be repaid.
enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Share schemes remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 Under the terms of the Xchanging plc 2007 Performance Share and as regards the Groups financial statements, Article 4 of Plan PSP, all PSP awards will vest, normally pro rata to the the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding period of time from grant compared to three years, and subject the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking to satisfaction of the performance conditions.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under the terms of each of the Xchanging BV Approved Share Option Plan, the Xchanging BV Unapproved Share Option Plan, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the Xchanging BV Unapproved G Share Option Plan and the of the Groups website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Xchanging plc 2007 Executive Share Option Plan, option holders governing the preparation and dissemination of financial under each scheme will, with the agreement of the acquirer, statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
release their rights under option in exchange for the grant to Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and them of rights to acquire shares of equivalent market value in Transparency Rules the acquirer.
Each of the Directors confirm that, to the best of each persons Under the terms of the Xchanging plc 2007 Executive Share knowledge and belief: Option Plan, early exercise of options is permitted based on the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the level of performance up to the date of the triggering event.
applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities, financial position and profit of Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect the group and company of the financial statements and auditors the Directors report contained in the annual report includes The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the a fair review of the development and performance of the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance business and the position of the Company and Group, with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the together with a description of the principal risks and Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year uncertainties that they face.
which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end of the financial year and Statement of disclosure of information to auditors of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing in the case of each of the persons who are directors of the those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Company at the date when the report was approved: select suitable accounting policies and then apply so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit them consistently information of which the companys auditors are unaware make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and each of the Directors has taken all the steps he she ought prudent to have taken individually as a Director in order to make state whether applicable accounting standards have been himself herself aware of any relevant audit information followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware explained in the accounts of that information.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, Directors indemnities unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and The Companys Articles of Association provide that the the Group will continue in business.
company may pay for directors indemnities out of its own The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency assets.
The Company has procured directors and officers Rules of the Financial Services Authority to include a management insurance for this purpose.
report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
indd 2 31 03 2009 09:50:07 annual report and accounts 2008 Directors report continued Share capital Substantial shareholders At the date of this report, 219,468,787 ordinary shares of On 27 February 2009, the Company had been notified of the 5 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are following material or notifiable interests in its issued share capital admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
by persons other than the Directors of the Company: number The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary of shares Percentage shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors are 1 General Atlantic 39,093,080 17.81% set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which Fidelity Investment Services Limited 27,909,119 12.71% can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Standard Life Investments Limited 13,058,645 5.95% company secretary.
Blackrock Inc 10,889,394 4.96% Aegon Asset Management 8,726,073 3.97% There are no general restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the times by which proxies 1 The General Atlantic holding is currently held as follows: General Atlantic must be lodged are specified in the Articles of Association or on Partners 55, L. P. 3,061,988 shares 1.43% : GAP-Xchange Partners LLC, SCA 5,144,897 shares 2.40% : GAP Coinvestment Partners L. P. 1,884,941 shares the transfer of ordinary shares.
No person holds ordinary shares in 0.88% : GAP Coinvestment Partners ll L. P. 4,421,863 shares 2.06% : General the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Atlantic Partners Bermuda L. P. 22,614,189 shares 10.55% : GAPstar, LLC Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between 1,563,467 shares 0.19% : GAPCo GmbH & Co. KG, 2,704 shares 0.0013% : holders of ordinary shares that may result in restrictions on voting GAP-W International L. P. 399,031 shares 0.19%.
rights or on the transfer of ordinary shares.
Unless expressly Minority interests specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the the minority interests in the groups subsidiaries at 31 december Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended 2008 are set out as follows: by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Minority interest Interest in Xchanging Group companies The Articles of Association contain provisions governing the The Corporation of 25% interest in appointment, retirement and removal of Directors.
Under the Lloyds Limited Ins-sure Holdings Limited Relationship Deed dated 24 April 2007 between General Atlantic 50% interest in Xchanging and the Company, General Atlantic has the appointment rights Claims Services Limited described in the Prospectus dated 25 April 2007. International Underwriting 25% interest in Association Ins-sure Holdings Limited The Articles of Association grant the Company power to purchase its own shares subject to specific authority being granted by the Aon Limited 50% interest in Xchanging shareholders.
An authority to purchase ordinary shares was granted Broking Services Limited at the Annual General Meeting AGM held on 22 May 2008.
Deutsche Bank AG 44% interest in A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the AGM Xchanging etb GmbH in 2009, details of which are given in the Notice of AGM 2009.
Oppenheim jr. 5% interest in The current authority is described in the explanatory notes & Cie. KGaA Xchanging etb GmbH which accompanied the Notice of AGM 2008.
The details of Allianz Global Investors 49% interest in the replacement authorities to be proposed at the AGM in  mbH Fondsdepot Bank GmbH 2009 are given in the Notice of AGM 2009.
The profits of the Xchanging Group companies in which the minorities have an interest are not necessarily shared in proportion to the shareholding interest in that company, as each of the above individual Enterprise Partnerships has a distinct contractual method of profit share.
indd 3 31 03 2009 09:50:08 Governance annual report and accounts 2008 Employee involvement Going concern The Group is committed to providing employees with information The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group and on matters of concern to them on a regular basis.
This enables the Company have adequate resources to continue in operation the views of employees to be taken into account when making for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the financial statements decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
Employees are set out on pages 65 to 122 have been prepared on the going involved with the Groups performance through our Personal concern basis.
Development Review process and through participation in our Events after the balance sheet date incentive plans.
Details of the acquisition of 75% of the fully diluted share capital Equal opportunities of Cambridge Solutions Limited are set out in the business review The Group is committed to employment policies which follow on pages 24 and 25, and in note 39 to the annual accounts on best practice based on equal opportunities for all employees page 115. irrespective of gender, race, nationality, colour, disability, marital Annual General Meeting status, sexual orientation, age or religion.
All decisions relating The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at to employment practices are objective, free from bias and based 34 Leadenhall Street, London, EC3A 1AX at 11.30am on Thursday upon work criteria and individual merit.
It is the policy of the 21 May 2009.
The notice convening the meeting, together with Group to offer appropriate training and career development details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes for to disabled persons that are, as far as possible, identical to each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also other employees and in line with best practice.
In the event available on the Groups website.
of a member of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made by the Group to continue employment, and arrange appropriate By order of the Board retraining and offer opportunities for promotion.
Policy on payment of creditors Gary Whitaker The Company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the company secretary suppliers contract terms.
The Company had an average of 2 March 2009 49 days purchases 2007: 45 days outstanding in trade payables in 2008.
Policy on financial instruments The policy with respect to financial instruments is covered in the accounting policy note 2 xiii on pages 74 and 75.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
