Babcock International Group PLC 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group overview We operate across a range of markets drawing on and sharing common skills and expertise to deliver innovative solutions.
We seek to work in partnership with our customers to develop long-term relationships.
Marine Defence Rail We are the UKs leading naval support We provide facilities management, We are a major player in the UK business and have a unique role equipment support and training rail infrastructure market and the supporting the Royal Navy and the expertise.
We are the largest provider largest track renewal contractor Ministry of Defence.
In addition we of facilities management support to for Network Rail.
provide support for customers in the the Ministry of Defence.
civil marine, oil and gas and other commercial markets.
1 m 41% Group revenues 19% Group revenues 15% Group revenues Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit 68.7m 27.
5m 0.5m 10.8% operating return on revenue 9.1% operating return on revenue 0.2% operating return on revenue Key activities Key activities Key activities Submarines base porting, ret, refuelling and Facilities management for MoD through two High output and traditional track renewal decommissioning Regional Prime Contracts for the South West joint venture with Swietelsky provides the fastest and East of the UK and most efficient track renewal system in the UK Surface ships warship ret, member of Aircraft Carrier Alliance, commercial design Technical support for the RAF through multiSignalling and control system installation and engineering work activity contracts at RAF Valley and IOS contracts Multi-disciplinary projects and provision for the RAF Hawk and Hercules eets Naval bases management of HMNB Devonport of rail power solutions and HMNB Clyde Building Schools for the Future contract with the London Borough of Hackney Key customers Equipment support supply chain services for MoD Baggage handling systems at London Heathrow Network Rail Transport Scotland Key customers Key customers Nexus Ministry of Defence MoD Defence Estates Regional Passenger Transport Executives fide&S Equipment Support RAF BAA BAE Systems Local authorities represents underlying operating profit which is before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptionals.
Babcock International Group PLC 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Nuclear Networks Engineering and Plant BNS Nuclear Services has grown We operate in the high voltage The division operates mainly in South through acquisition to become one power transmission, mobile and Africa supporting Eskom, the national of the largest civil nuclear engineering xed telecommunications and digital power supplier, and Volvo construction support businesses in the UK broadcast infrastructure markets in the equipment.
In the US we provide operating in the areas of power UK and Ireland.
We are one of three specialist oil pipeline support.
generation, decommissioning and key suppliers to the National Grid.
7m 5% Group revenues 6% Group revenues 14% Group revenues Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit 5.7m 7.
1 m 7.5% operating return on revenue 7.3% operating return on revenue 7.9% operating return on revenue Key activities Key activities Key activities Mechanical system design and engineering Upgrading UKs national electricity grid, working Maintenance and engineering work on power on overhead powerlines, delivering complex station boilers to support the increasing demand Outage support for operational reactors support from design and construction through for electricity in South Africa Waste management and decommissioning to ongoing maintenance Construction, erection and maintenance Safety and risk analysis and project management Mobile and xed telecommunications life cycle of high voltage power lines support from site acquisition through design Sole distributor for Volvo equipment to mining Key customers and implementation and ongoing mast support and infrastructure construction companies and British Energy provider of after sales parts and servicing support Key customers Magnox National Grid Key customers Sellaeld EDF Energy Networks Eskom Scottish and Southern Volvo Scottish Power Vodafone Orange Ericsson HMS Victorious leaves Faslane for her long overhaul and refuelling period at Devonport.
The refuelling, upgrade and revalidation of her reactor and over 80 other submarine design alterations and additions have been incorporated to return her to as new.
Trusted to deliver: Faslane Scotland Photograph by: Mez Merrill: Crown Copyright MOD, image from www.
