Babcock International Group PLC 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and the Company for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the financial year was 67.3 million 2007: 43.4 million.
An interim dividend of 3.30p per 60p ordinary share was declared in the year 2007: 2.40p.
The Directors propose to recommend the payment on 8 August 2008 of a final dividend of 8.20p 2007: 5.65p on each of the ordinary shares of 60p entitled thereto and in issue on 11 July 2008.
Directors Biographies of the Directors who served during the year are shown on page 36.
Each Director served throughout the year.
Directors submit themselves for reappointment at least every three years in accordance with the Combined Code.
Lord Hesketh, who has been a Director since 1993, submits himself for reappointment on an annual basis as required by the Combined Code.
Dipesh Shah, who on 9 June 2008 will have served nine years as a Director, is submitting himself for re-election at the 2008 AGM in July.
If re-elected, he will also subsequently submit himself for annual re-election.
Other Directors retiring and submitting themselves for re-election this year are Mr Rogers, Mr Tame, and Mr Rennocks.
Their fellow Board members unanimously recommend members to vote in favour of the Non-Executive Directors standing for re-election, having rigorously evaluated their performance and the contribution they make to the work and effectiveness of the Board.
Matters more fully dealt with in other sections of the Report and Accounts Some of the matters that have to be covered in this Directors report are dealt with in other sections of the Report and Accounts and are to be treated as incorporated into this Report, namely: Directors share interests: These are to be found in the table on page 50. Business review and post balance sheet events: Pages 7 to 33 contain a review of the Group's activities and likely future developments, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, key performance indicators and details of any important events since 31 March 2008.
Employees: The Companys approach to employee matters including employee communication, public interest disclosure, ethical standards and its policy on disabled employees and employee involvement are dealt with in the Corporate and Social Responsibility section on pages 22 to 25.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, the Group employed an average of 15,002 staff worldwide, of whom approximately 92% were located in the UK.
Principal subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings: These are shown on page 101.
Treasury management, financial risk management and the use of financial instruments: This is covered on page 32.
Changes in asset values: These are dealt with in the financial statements.
Corporate Governance and internal controls: This is addressed in detail on pages 41 to 43.
Acquisitions and disposals: Information regarding the Groups acquisitions and disposals during the course of the year are set out in note 32 on pages 91 and 92 and they are also referred to in the Operating and financial review.
Directors interests in contracts At the date of this Report, there is no contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is significant in relation to the business of the Group as a whole in which a Director of the Company is materially interested.
Significant shareholdings As at 27 May 2008, the Company had been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following major interests in voting rights attached to its ordinary shares which represent interests in 3% or more of its issued ordinary share capital.
Number of 60p Name ordinary shares % Standard Life Investments Limited 23,311,893 10.17 Schroders plc 20,123,434 8.77 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 11,483,477 5.01 JP Morgan Chase & Co 11,376,214 4.96 Legal and General Group Plc 9,263,860 4.04 Lloyds TSB Group plc 8,930,111 3.89 Resolution Investment Services Limited 8,605,622 3.75 The Company is not aware of any other person who has a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company and there are no securities in issue which carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Babcock International Group PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors report continued Employee share schemes The All Employee Share Ownership Plan The Company has an All Employee Share Ownership Plan, which is open to all UK employees including Executive Directors who meet the necessary service criteria.
Under the Plan, employees can buy Company shares in the market out of pre-tax income.
The Plan allows the Company to award free and or matching shares to participants, though the Company has not yet done so.
Shares are bought via a tax-approved employee trust which holds them on behalf of the individual participants.
The shares must generally be kept in trust for at least three years to obtain any tax advantages, and for five years to obtain maximum tax advantages.
Further details of the following executive share schemes are to be found in the Remuneration report on pages 50 to 52: The Babcock 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan the L-TIP This is the Plan that has been used since 2003 to make performance-linked share awards to a limited number of Directors and senior employees in the form of options granted at a nominal or nil price.
The Babcock 1999 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the Babcock 1999 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme the 1999 Schemes Option grants under these Schemes were performance-linked.
No grants under these Schemes have been made to Directors since 2003 or to other employees since 2004.
In respect of the L-TIP and the 1999 Schemes mentioned above, shares are held by the trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust.
The trustees of these Schemes do not intend to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares held by them.
As at 27 May 2008, the total number of ordinary shares in such trusts was 1,715,748, which represented 0.75% of the Companys issued share capital.
Shares are also held by the trustees of the All Employee Share Ownership Plan mentioned above.
The trustees only exercise any voting rights attached to such shares in accordance with directions from the employee on whose behalf they are held.
The trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust waive dividends on shares held by them see note 27 on page 86.
Authority to purchase own shares At the AGM in July 2007, members authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 22.8 million of its own ordinary shares of 60p each.
That authority expires at the forthcoming AGM in July 2008 when a resolution will be put to renew it to allow purchases of up to a maximum of 22.9 million shares just under 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
No shares in the Company have been purchased by the Company in the period from 14 July 2007 the date of the last AGM to the date of this Report.
The Company currently does not hold any treasury shares.
Details of purchases of the Companys shares made by the Babcock Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust are to be found in note 27 on page 86.
Research and development The Group commits resources to research and development to the extent management considers necessary for the evolution and growth of its business.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group donated 105,000 2007: 67,000 to charitable organisations.
No donations were made during the year for political purposes.
Supplier payments The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with practices or arrangements agreed with them.
The Company itself had 33,000 trade creditors at 31 March 2008 representing 38 days and nil creditors at 31 March 2007.
Disclosure of relevant audit information So far as the Directors who are in office at the time of the approval of this Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information namely, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation of their auditors report of which the auditors are unaware.
Each such Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions Under their respective Articles of Association, the Directors of the Company are, and were during the year to 31 March 2008, entitled to be indemnified by respectively the Company and those UK subsidiaries of which they are or were Directors against liabilities and costs incurred in connection with the execution of their duties or the exercise of their powers, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors also disclose qualifying third party indemnity provisions entered into between the Company and two of the Directors Mr A Bethel and Mr K Thomas of International Nuclear Solutions PLC a subsidiary of the Company on 6 and 8 November 2007, which were in force at the date of approval of this Report.
The Company also entered into deeds with the two independent Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC on 22 January 2008, under which the Company agreed to pre-pay any reasonable costs or expenses incurred by those Directors that are not pre-paid by the Companys directors and officers insurance policy in respect of any claim made against them and which is connected with their positions as Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC.
If the Director does not successfully defend any such claim, the Director must repay the Company the amount so pre-paid.
Babcock International Group PLC 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The Companies Acts now require the Company to disclose the information set out below.
References are to the Companys existing Articles of Association Articles.
The changes to the Articles that will be proposed at this years AGM will affect this information to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The information is a summary of the relevant Articles: the full Articles are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person with an interest in their shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require the provision of information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person have failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Appointment and powers of Directors Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year, but any person so appointed must be put up for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the Companys AGM to be held on 10 July 2008, a resolution will be put to shareholders to amend the existing Articles of Association, to incorporate changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006.
Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control The following agreements are those agreements which the Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole that contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a change of control following a takeover bid.
Babcock Marine Partnering Agreement dated 29 August 2002 between 1 The Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited formerly Babcock Naval Services Limited and 3 Babcock International Group PLC Under the Partnering Agreement as subsequently amended, Babcock Marine Clyde Limited provides services to the MoD in relation to the operation of HM Naval Base Clyde.
In 2005, the period of the Agreement was extended and it will now expire in 2013.
In the event of a change of majority control of Babcock International Group PLC, the MoD may request information regarding the new controlling entity and in certain circumstances, including if it is not satisfied as regards the financial affairs and standing of the new entity, serve a Change in Circumstance notice, and thereafter can elect to terminate the Agreement.
In addition, the articles of association of Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL and Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited DRDL, both subsidiaries of the Company, grant the Ministry of Defence certain rights as a special shareholder in circumstances which are deemed to constitute unacceptable ownership, influence or control over either company and which are contrary to the essential security interest of the UK, including circumstances where any non-UK domicile acquires direct or indirect control of more than 30% of RRDL or DRDL.
Such rights include the right to require the sale of shares in RRDL or DRDL and the right to remove directors of DRDL or RRDL.
Babcock International Group PLC 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors report continued Babcock Networks Joint Venture Agreement dated 24 November 2006 between 1 Babcock Networks Limited, 2 AMEC Group Limited and 3 Mott MacDonald Limited to form the unincorporated joint venture known as the Energy Alliance On 16 March 2007, Babcock Networks Limited, AMEC Group Limited and Mott MacDonald Limited, acting jointly and severally as the Energy Alliance, entered into the Area Alliance Agreement with National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC for the provision of services to upgrade National Grids transmission network as part of its Capital Investment Programme.
Under the terms of the Energy Alliance joint venture agreement, if any party undergoes a change of control, then the other parties may suspend or exclude that party from further participation in the joint venture and by extension the Area Alliance Agreement.
Babcock Infrastructure Services Joint Venture Agreement dated 16 November 2005 between 1 Babcock Support Services Limited and 2 DynCorp International LLC to form Babcock DynCorp Limited On 16 November 2005, Babcock DynCorp Limited entered into the Regional Prime Contract East with The Secretary of State for Defence acting through the agency of Defence Estates to provide property maintenance and capital works across the MoD Estate in the East of England.
Under the terms of the Babcock DynCorp joint venture agreement, if either party undergoes a change of control, the other party may require that party to sell its shares in the joint venture at a fair value.
Facility Agreement The Group entered into a 600 million credit facility on 9 May 2007 which provides that, in the event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders may within a certain period call for the prepayment of any outstanding loans and cancel the credit facility.
Share Plans The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
Contracts with employees or Directors A description of those agreements with Directors that contain provisions relating to payments in the event of a termination of employment following a change of control of the Company is set out on page 53.
One senior employee, who is not a Director of the Company, has an agreement with provisions as to termination of employment following a change of control that are equivalent to the provisions for Mr Rogers and Mr Tame described on page 53, except that the provision for mitigation in the event of voluntary resignation within 90 days of the change of control does not apply.
Two other senior employees, who also are not Directors of the Company, have agreements providing for payment as described on that page in the event of a dismissal including constructive dismissal by the Company within 12 months following a change of control, but do not have the right to voluntarily resign and claim any payment.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Savoy Place, 2 Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on Thursday 10 July 2008, at 9.30 am.
The notice of meeting is on pages 102 and 103 and explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed at it as special business are set out on pages 105 and 106.
Auditors  LLP is willing to continue in office as independent auditor, and a resolution to reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approval of report Approved by the Directors on 27 May 2008 By order of the Board A N Dungate Company Secretary 27 May 2008
