Babcock International Group PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors and Company Secretary Gordon Campbell CBE 61 Dipesh J Shah OBE 55 Chairman of the Board Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nominations Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Gordon Campbell joined the Board in October 2000.
Member of the Nominations Committee Until August 2003 he was Group Chief Executive and Executive Chairman.
Since then he has been part-time Chairman.
Dipesh Shah has been a Non-Executive Director since June 1999.
He is currently Chairman of British Nuclear Fuels plc and He is Chairman of HgCapital Renewable Power Partners LLP Chairman of Jupiter Second Split Trust plc.
He is also a and Chairman of Jetion Holdings.
He was formerly Chairman Non-Executive Director of Accsys Technologies plc and Jsst of Viridian Group PLC and Chief Executive Officer of the United Securities Limited.
He is a former Vice President of the Royal Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority.
He was also a Chief Executive Academy of Engineering.
Officer of various businesses within BP and a member of the DTIs Renewable Energy Advisory Committee.
The Rt Hon Lord Alexander Hesketh KBE 57 He is a director of several companies, including Thames Water Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Kemble Water Group of companies, and Lloyds of London Member of the Nominations Committee Franchise Board.
Alexander Hesketh joined the Board in 1993 and has been Non-Executive Deputy Chairman since 1996.
Sir Nigel Essenhigh GCB 63 Independent Non-Executive Director He is Chairman of British Mediterranean Airways Limited and is a Member of the Remuneration Committee Director of a number of other private companies.
He is a former Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Government Chief Whip in the House of Lords and Industry Member of the Nominations Committee Minister at the Department of Trade and Industry.
Nigel Essenhigh has been a Non-Executive Director since Peter Rogers 60 March 2003.
Group Chief Executive He is a former First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Staff.
Peter Rogers joined the Board in June 2002 as Chief Operating He is a Non-Executive Director of the Defence Science and Officer.
He became Group Chief Executive in August 2003.
Technology Laboratory and acts as an advisor to the Northrop Grumman Corporation.
He is a former Director of Courtaulds plc and Acordis BV.
Justin Crookenden 45 William Tame 53 Independent Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director Member of the Remuneration Committee Bill Tame joined the Board as Group Finance Director in Member of the Audit and Risk Committee January 2002.
Member of the Nominations Committee He is a former Finance Director of Scapa Group PLC and is Justin Crookenden has been a Non-Executive Director since a Non-Executive Director of Carclo PLC.
A Chartered Accountant, he spent 17 years in investment John Rennocks 62 banking, initially with UBS, moving to Barclays fide Zoete Wedd in Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 1990, which was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston CSFB.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee During his career, he headed the teams responsible for Member of the Remuneration Committee International Equity Execution and UK M&A and his last role Member of the Nominations Committee at CSFB was as Managing Director UK Investment Banking.
John Rennocks has been a Non-Executive Director since June 2002.
Albert Dungate 51 Company Secretary He is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC and is Chairman of Diploma Plc, Nestor plc and Intelligent Energy Albert Dungate has been Group Company Secretary and General Holdings PLC.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Foreign & Counsel since February 2002.
A solicitor, he was formerly Colonial Investment Trust PLC, JP Morgan Overseas Investment General Counsel and Company Secretary of Arjo Wiggins Trust PLC, Wagon PLC and Inmarsat plc.
He is Secretary to the Companys Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
