Directors Report Results and dividend Financial instruments The Groups financial results are set out in the Financial Information The Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its section and in the Financial Review section of this report.
financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk In light of the rights issue, Xstratas Board has decided to waive the are discussed on pages 37 to 44 of the Financial Review and in Note final dividend for 2008.
As a result, the total 2008 dividend will consist 37 of the Financial Statements.
of the interim dividend of 18 per share, which was declared in August and paid on 10 October 2008.
The Board recognises the importance of Health, safety, environment & community HSEC dividend payments to shareholders and will resume dividend payments A review of health, safety and environmental performance and at the earliest opportunity.
community participation is presented in the Sustainable Development section of this report on pages 21 to 24.
Principal activities Xstrata is a major global diversied mining group, listed on the Political and charitable donations London and Swiss stock exchanges with its headquarters in Zug, In accordance with Xstratas corporate social involvement CSI Switzerland.
Additional information on the Groups operations is policy, no political donations were made in 2008.
Xstratas corporate provided in the Strategy, Financial Review and Operating Review social involvement expenditure supports initiatives that benefit the sections of this report.
communities local to the Groups operations in the areas of health, Review of the business, future developments and post-balance education, sport and the arts, community development, job creation sheet events and enterprise.
In 2008, Xstrata set aside over $84 million for CSI A review of the business and the future developments of the Group, initiatives.
Donations during the year to UK registered charities including the principal risks and uncertainties, is presented in the totalled 368,466.
Chairmans Statement and the Strategy section from page 8 to 29.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position Employee policies and involvement and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on The Groups policy and performance regarding employee involvement, pages 37 to 44. disabled employees, labour relations and employee share schemes is described in the Sustainable Development section of this report A full description of acquisitions, disposals, and changes to Group companies undertaken during the year, including post-balance sheet on pages 21 to 24. events, is included in the Financial Review on pages 37 to 44.
Corporate governance Exploration and Research, Development A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions The Group business units carry out exploration and research and of the Combined Code is set out on pages 91 to 97. development activities that are necessary to support and expand their operations.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 85 Governance Directors Report continued Directors and their interests The directors as at 31 December 2008 were: Director Position First appointed Re-elected Retirement by rotation at AGM Mick Davis Chief Executive 25 February 2002 8 May 2007 Ivan Glasenberg Non-executive 25 February 2002 9 May 2006 Standing for re-election Paul Hazen Non-executive 25 February 2002 6 May 2008 Claude Lamoureux Non-executive 6 May 2008 Robert MacDonnell Non-executive 25 February 2002 9 May 2006 Retiring Sir Steve Robson Non-executive 25 February 2002 8 May 2007 David Rough Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-executive 1 April 2002 8 May 2007 Trevor Reid Chief Financial officer 25 February 2002 8 May 2007 Standing for re-election Ian Strachan Non-Executive 8 May 2003 6 May 2008 Willy Strothotte Chairman and Non-executive 25 February 2002 6 May 2008 Santiago Zaldumbide Executive 25 February 2002 9 May 2006 Standing for re-election Denotes independent director Appointment of directors Powers of the directors The rules for the replacement and appointment of directors are set Subject to Xstratas Memorandum and Articles of Association, out in the Articles of Association.
Directors may only be appointed UK legislation, and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board which may by the shareholders of the Company by ordinary resolution and exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Articles of Association not by the Board of Directors.
Under the terms of a Relationship contain specic provisions concerning Xstratas power to borrow Agreement to which the Company is a party with Glencore money and also provide the power to make purchases of any of International AG Glencore dated 20 March 2002, Glencore, its own shares.
The directors have no existing authority to purchase as a controlling shareholder of Xstrata, can nominate up to three Xstratas own shares.
The directors have been authorised to allot and directors or if lower or higher such number of directors equal to issue ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised under authority one less than the number of directors who are independent directors.
of resolutions of the Company passed at its Extraordinary General At every AGM of Xstrata, one-third of the directors or if their number Meeting, held on 2 March 2009.
Further details of the authorities the is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third, Company will be seeking at the next AGM to issue and allot ordinary but at least one, must retire by rotation.
The directors to retire are shares of $0.50 each are set out on pages 89 to 90 of this report.
those who have been longest in ofce.
Any director who has at the Details of interests in the share capital of the Company of those start of the AGM been in ofce for more than three years since his directors in ofce as at 31 December 2008 are given below.
None of last appointment or reappointment shall retire at the AGM.
As the shares were held non-beneficially.
No director held interests in the between those who were appointed or reappointed on the same day, shares of any subsidiary company.
those to retire are unless they otherwise agree determined by lot.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
On 26 February 2009, Mick Davis, Trevor Reid and Santiago Zaldumbide acquired beneficial interests in ordinary shares in the In accordance with the Articles of Association, four directors will retire Company upon the vesting of deferred bonus shares awarded under and three will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the resolutions that will be put to the AGM are given in the the Executive Committee Bonus Plan.
This resulted in an increase of the total beneficial holdings of Mick Davis of 72,773 shares to Notice of AGM.
Further details about the directors and their roles within 487,262 shares: of Trevor Reid of 34,120 shares to 87,883 shares: the Group are given in the directors biographies on pages 82 to 83.
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares held beneficially held beneficially held beneficially held beneficially Name of director as at 1 January 2008 as at 31 December 2008 Name of director as at 1 January 2008 as at 31 December 2008 Executive Non-executive Mick Davis 195,173 414,489 Ivan Glasenberg Trevor Reid 53,763 Paul Hazen 238,213 238,213 Santiago Zaldumbide Claude Lamoureux 9,000 Robert MacDonnell 394,560 304,560 Sir Steve Robson David Rough 13,604 12,999 Willy Strothotte Ian Strachan 8,666 14,366 86 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 and of Santiago Zaldumbide from nil to 41,947 shares.
On 2 March 2009, the total number are held in trust for the directors by K. B. C. I Limited on terms that of shares held by Batiss amounted to 16,230,000 ordinary shares or the shares will not be transferred to the directors until 18 March 2009 1.66% of Xstratas issued ordinary share capital.
following termination of the rights trading period.
The ordinary issued share capital was increased on 16 January 2008 when the directors issued and allotted six million new ordinary shares In addition to the above interests in shares, the executive directors, of US$0.50 each to K. B. C. I.
Nominees Limited for a consideration along with other employees, also have interests in the share capital of GBP209,400,000.
This issue was made for the purposes of the of the Company in the form of conditional rights to free shares and Companys Employee Share Ownership Trust, an employees share options to subscribe for shares and deferred bonus shares and in the scheme.
The six million new ordinary shares rank pari passu with the case of Mick Davis, shares awarded under the Added Value Incentive existing ordinary shares, trade on the London Stock Exchange and Plan, subject to vesting.
Details of these interests are disclosed in the the SIX Swiss Exchange and were admitted to the Ofcial List on Directors Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 107.
Share Rights With the coming into effect of section 175 of the Companies Act The rights and obligations attached to Xstratas ordinary shares are 2005 on 1 October 2008, a director of a company must avoid a set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company conicts, or possibly may conict, with the interests of the company.
Subject to the Companies Acts as dened in the Articles The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised by the of Association, and without prejudice to any rights attached to directors of the relevant company.
Under the Act, the board of any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with directors of the relevant company has the power to authorise potential such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution or actual conflict situations.
The Board has established effective determine or, subject to and in default of such determination, as the procedures to enable Xstratas directors to notify the Company of any Board may determine.
actual or potential conict situations and for those situations to be reviewed and, if appropriate to be authorised by the Board, subject Ordinary Shares to conditions and for an initial period of one year.
The Nominations Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at Committee undertakes the role of reviewing notications in detail general meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise and making appropriate recommendations to the Board regarding their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on authorisation.
Directors conict situations will be reviewed annually.
a winding up may share in the assets of the Company.
A register of authorisations is maintained.
Deferred Shares Share Capital The holders of deferred shares do not have the right to receive notice On 29 January 2009, the Company announced a 2 for 1 Rights Issue of any general meeting of the Company nor the right to attend, speak to raise proceeds of $5.9 billion in cash.
At the Extraordinary General or vote at any such general meeting.
The deferred shares have no Meeting EGM held on 2 March 2009 to approve the Placing and rights to dividends and, on a winding-up or other return of capital, Open Offer and the related party acquisition of Prodeco from Glencore entitle the holder only to the repayment of the amounts paid upon International AG, a resolution was passed increasing the authorised such shares after repayment of the nominal amount paid up on the share capital of the Company from $750,000,000.50 and 50,000 ordinary shares, the nominal amount paid up on the special voting to $2,250,000,000 and 50,000 by the creation of an additional share plus the payment of GBP100,000 per ordinary share.
The Company may, at its option, redeem all of the deferred shares in issue 3,000,000,000 ordinary shares of $0.50 each in the capital of the at any time but subject to the minimum capital requirement of the Company having the rights and privileges and being subject to the Companies Act 1985 at a price not exceeding GBP1.00 for each share restrictions contained in the Articles of Association of the Company redeemed to be paid to the relevant registered holders of the shares.
and ranking pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of $0.50 each in the capital of the Company.
Special Voting Share Certain rights, that are inalienable under Swiss law, have been As a result of the passing of resolutions at the EGM on 2 March preserved in the Xstrata plc Articles of Association by creating a 2009, the Company has provisionally alloted 1,955,341,080 ordinary special voting share that carries weighted voting rights sufficient to shares which, when issued, will have the effect of increasing Xstratas defeat any resolution which could amend or remove these entrenched issued ordinary share capital to $1,466,505,810 represented by rights.
The holder of the special voting share is the Law Debenture 2,933,011,620 ordinary shares.
Trust Corporation plc which has entered into a voting agreement On 16 October 2006, the Financial Services Authority as UK Listing with the Company, specifying the conditions upon which it is entitled Authority approved the admission to the Ofcial List by way of to exercise its right to vote.
The special voting share does not carry a blocklisting of 13,575,432 ordinary shares of $0.50 each to be right to receive dividends and is entitled to no more than the amount issued upon conversion of the Xstrata Capital Corporation A. V. V. 4% of capital paid up in the event of liquidation.
During the course of the Shares held by Xstrata plc Employee Share Ownership Trusts year, notice was given in respect of 100,000 bonds to convert them At 31 December 2008, the trustee of the Xstrata plc Employee Share into Xstrata Capital preference shares which were then exchanged Ownership Trusts, which is an independent trustee, held 5,073,344 into Xstrata ordinary shares.
The total number of shares issued in the shares under the terms of the trusts for the benefit of employees and year resulting from these conversions totalled 3,620, leaving a further former employees of the Company.
The trusts are discretionary trusts 13,571,812 ordinary shares to be allotted upon conversion of and the shares are held to meet employees entitlements under outstanding bonds.
the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan and Service Contract The Company has in place an equity capital management programme Arrangements.
Employees have no voting rights in relation to the ECMP under which up to 10% of the issued share capital of the shares while they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to Company can be purchased in the market by Batiss Investments Limited exercise the voting rights or to abstain from voting.
During the course of the year, Batiss purchased 6,920,000 by employees through the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan rank ordinary shares of $0.50 each in Xstrata through the ECMP for a total pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 87 Governance Directors Report continued Voting Rights Major Interests in Shares Subject to the rights and restrictions attached to any class of shares: On 2 March 2009, the following major interests in the ordinary issued shares of $0.50 each of the Company had been notied i on a show of hands, every member present in person or by proxy to the Company: has one vote save that neither the holder of the special voting % of share nor any holder of deferred shares shall be entitled to vote Number of ordinary and a proxy appointed by a member on behalf of such members ordinary shares issued share shareholding shall also have one vote: Name of shareholder of $0.50 each capital ii on a poll: Glencore International AG 336,801,333 34.45 Capital Research and Management 51,492,225 5.27 A every member present in person or by proxy except the holder of the special voting share and any holder of the deferred AXA S. A.
41,225,636 4.21 shares shall have: Legal & General Group Plc 29,999,246 3.06 i one vote for each fully paid share: and The voting rights comprised in this interest are directly controlled by Finges Investment B. V. a wholly-owned subsidiary of Glencore International AG ii for each partly-paid share, such proportion of the votes attached to a fully paid share as would mean that such Directors Liabilities proportion is the same as the proportion of the amount The Company has granted qualifying third-party indemnities to paid up on the total issue price of that share: each of its directors against any liability which attaches to them in B the holder of the special voting share shall, on an Entrenched defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted Rights Action, have enough votes to defeat the resolution but, by the Companies Acts.
In addition, directors and ofcers of the on all other decisions, shall have no votes: and Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors & Ofcers liability insurance.
C the holders of the deferred shares shall not be entitled to vote.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice Restrictions on Transfer of Shares In view of the international nature of the Groups operations there There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the is no specic Group-wide policy in respect of payments to suppliers.
Company other than: Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and i the right of the Board to refuse to register the transfer of a conditions for their business transactions and ensuring that suppliers certicated share which is not a fully paid share provided that are aware of the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that payments the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares of that class in are made in accordance with those terms, provided that all trading the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
terms and conditions have been met by the supplier.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certicated Xstrata plc is a holding company with no business activity other than share, unless the instrument of transfer a is lodged, duly stamped the holding of investments in the Group and therefore had no trade if applicable with the Company and except where the shares are creditors at 31 December 2008. registered in the name of a recognised person and no certicate shall have been issued therefor is accompanied by the relevant Articles of Association share certicate and such other evidence of the right to transfer Xstratas Articles of Association adopted by special resolution on as the Board may require: b is in respect of one class of share 19 March 2002, amended by special resolutions passed on 9 May only: and c is in favour of not more than four persons: 2005 and 6 May 2008 may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
ii pursuant to Xstratas share dealing code whereby the directors of the Company require and employees may require approval to deal significant Agreements in Xstratas shares: The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to disclose the following significant agreements that contain provisions entitling iii certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and event of a change of control of the Company: iv where a person whose shares represent at least a 0.25% interest Relationship Agreement in Xstratas shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has The Company is party to the Relationship Agreement with Glencore failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests International AG Glencore dated 20 March 2002.
The Agreement in those shares, except as otherwise provided in the Articles.
regulates the continuing relationship between the parties.
In particular The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders it ensures that a the Company is capable of carrying on its business that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares and for independently of Glencore as a controlling shareholder as such term is voting rights.
dened in the Agreement : b transactions and relationships between Glencore or any of its subsidiaries or afliates and the Company are The Board shall decline to register any transfer of the special voting at an arms-length and on normal commercial terms: c Glencore shall share unless approved in accordance with a voting deed between be entitled to nominate up to three directors or if lower or higher the Company and the holder of the special voting share.
such number of directors equal to one less than the number of directors who are independent directors: and, d directors of the Company nominated by Glencore shall not be permitted to vote on any Board resolution, unless otherwise agreed by the independent directors, to approve any aspect of the Companys involvement in or enforcement of any arrangements, agreements or transactions with Glencore or any of its subsidiaries or afliates.
It is expressed that the Agreement terminates in the event that Glencore ceases to be a 88 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 controlling shareholder of the Company following a sale or disposal each holder has the option to require Xstrata Canada Financial Corp. of shares in the Company or if the Company ceases to be listed on to redeem such 2008 MTN Notes in cash at the principal amount the Ofcial List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
plus interest accrued to but excluding the date of redemption.
$4.68 billion Syndicated Facility $5.459 billion Revolving Loan Facility On 25 July 2007, Xstrata Schweiz AG and Xstrata Finance Canada On 1 October 2008, the Company entered into a $5 billion multicurrency Limited entered into a $4.68 billion multicurrency revolving loan revolving loan facility agreement with, amongst others, Barclays Bank plc facility agreement with, amongst others, Barclays Capital and The as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named Royal Bank of Scotland plc as arrangers and bookrunners, Barclays therein as lenders.
The facility was amended on 30 December 2008 Bank plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions to increase the facility amount to $5.459 billion.
This agreement named therein as lenders the Syndicated Facilities Agreement.
contains change of control provisions, in substance, identical to those set out in the above referenced Syndicated Facilities Agreement.
Upon a change of control, no borrower may make a further utilisation unless otherwise agreed.
The majority lenders, as dened in the Xstrata Plc Long Term Incentive Plan agreement, can also require that the Syndicated Facilities Agreement The rules of Xstratas employee share plans set out the consequences is immediately terminated and declare that all outstanding loans, of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under become immediately payable.
Alternatively, if the majority lenders the plans.
Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and do not require cancellation, but a specic lender does on the basis of participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company internal policy, that particular lender can require that its commitments or, in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent value.
are cancelled and all amounts outstanding in respect of that lenders commitments shall become immediately payable.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at $500 million Notes due 2037 Theater-Casino Zug, Artherstrasse 2-4, Zug, Switzerland on Tuesday On 30 November 2007, Xstrata Finance Canada Limited issued 5 May 2009 at 11:00 am Central European Summer Time.
A live $500 million 6.90% notes due 2037, guaranteed by the Company, webcast will be provided of the AGM through Xstratas website Xstrata Schweiz AG and Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited.
A telephone dial-in facility will also be provided of these notes require Xstrata Finance Canada Limited to make an on a listen-only basis.
Further details of the dial-in facility and webcast offer to each noteholder to repurchase all or any part of such holders will be available from Xstratas website www.
com at least one notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate week in advance of the meeting.
principal amount of the notes so repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the notes repurchased Special Business at the AGM to the date of repurchase, if both of the following occur: The Notice convening the meeting is sent to shareholders separately 1 a change of control as dened in the terms and conditions of the with this Report.
Resolutions 1 to 7 are termed ordinary business while notes of Xstrata: and resolutions 8 and 9 will be special business.
These resolutions are: 2 the notes are rated below investment grade by each of Moodys Resolution 8, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, and Standard & Poors on any date from 30 days prior to the seeks to authorise the directors: date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in A to allot relevant securities as dened in the Companies Act 1985 a change of control as dened in the terms and conditions of the up to an aggregate nominal value of $488,835,270 which is equal notes until the end of the 60-day period following public notice to approximately one-third 33.33% of Xstratas issued ordinary of the occurrence of a change of control.
share capital as at 2 March 2009: and 750 million Notes due 2011 B to allot relevant securities comprising equity securities On 23 May 2008, Xstrata Canada Financial Corporation issued as dened in the Companies Act 1985 up to a nominal amount 750,000,000 5.875% guaranteed notes due 2011, 600,000,000 of $977,670,540 which is equal to approximately two-thirds 6.25% guaranteed notes due 2015 and 500,000,000 7.375% of Xstratas issued ordinary share capital as at 2 March 2009 guaranteed notes due 2020 the 2008 MTN Notes.
The 2008 MTN in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
Notes are guaranteed by each of Xstrata plc, Xstrata Schweiz AG, Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited and Xstrata Finance Canada Limited The Association of British Insurers has revised its guidelines on share and were issued pursuant to the $6,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term allotments following a report of the Rights Issue Review Group.
on the new guidelines, the cap on the annual allotment authority Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes, if: under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 has been increased from one-third to two-thirds of issued share capital but the amount of any 1 a change of control occurs as dened in the terms and conditions authority above one-third has to be applied only to fully pre-emptive of the 2008 MTN Notes : and rights issues, and can be raised for one year only.
If the additional 2 the 2008 MTN Notes carry, on the relevant announcement date authority is taken and a decision is taken to make an issue pursuant of the change of control: to such authority, the ABI expects that all directors wishing to remain in ofce will stand for re-election at the next AGM after the decision a an investment grade credit rating and such rating is either to make the issue in question.
downgraded to a non-investment grade credit rating or is withdrawn: or The authority extends until the end of the next AGM.
The Board does not have any present intention of exercising this authority other than b a non-investment grade credit rating and such rating is for the purposes of Xstratas employee share schemes.
downgraded by one or more notches or is withdrawn: or c no credit rating and a negative rating event as dened in the terms and conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes occurs, Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 89 Governance Directors Report continued Resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution and will empower Auditors the directors to allot for cash, equity securities of a nominal amount A resolution will be put to the members at the forthcoming AGM to not exceeding $73,325,290.50 equivalent to 146,650,581 ordinary reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the Board shares of $0.50 each, representing 5% of the issued share capital to determine the auditors remuneration.
without first offering such securities to existing ordinary shareholders.
Disclosure of information to auditors The authority extends until the end of the next AGM.
Any issue Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of Xstratas auditors, of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to the requirements each director confirms that so far as each director is aware, there is of the UK Listing Authority.
no relevent audit information of which Xstratas auditor is unaware The Board intends to follow the provisions of the Financial Reporting and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have Councils Pre-Emption Group statement of principles regarding the taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant issue of not more than 7.5% of Xstratas ordinary share capital for cash audit information and to establish that Xstratas auditor is aware of other than to existing shareholders in any rolling three-year period.
Electronic proxy voting Going Concern Registered shareholders have the opportunity to submit their votes The directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider to or abstain on all resolutions proposed at the AGM by means of an be appropriate, that the Company has adequate resources to continue electronic voting facility operated by Xstratas Registrar, Computershare in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason Investor Services plc.
This facility can be accessed by visiting they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the www-uk.
As usual, paper proxy financial statements.
cards will be distributed to all registered shareholders with the Notice By order of the Board.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored member and those CREST members who have appointed one or more voting service provider s should refer Richard Elliston to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able Company Secretary to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The Company may treat 2 March 2009 as invalid a CREST proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electronic Copies of the Annual Review and Financial Statements 2008 and Other Publications A copy of the 2008 Annual Report which includes the Overview and Strategy sections, Operating and Financial Reviews, Financial Statements, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Report and Directors Remuneration Report, the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, the 2008 Sustainability Report available in early April and other corporate publications, reports, press releases and announcements are available on Xstratas website at www.
