Xstrata Technology Services supports the processes involved in mining.
It comprises Xstrata Technology, based in Brisbane, a specialist technology solutions provider and Xstrata Process XstrataTechnology Support, based in Sudbury, an independent group which provide highly specialised technological support both to Xstratas operations and to third-party customers.
Services Xstrata Technology Xstrata Technology experienced strong demand for its technology solutions products during most of 2008, although deteriorating economic conditions resulted in a decline in EBIT by 26% due to the deferral of a number of projects following the sudden shortage of funding experienced by some customers following Xstrata Technology Services supports the processes the onset of the credit crisis.
It comprises Xstrata Technology, Xstrata Technologys IsaMill division grew during 2008 as its based in Brisbane, a specialist technology solutions technology was adapted for mainstream grinding applications.
Orders were received from Australia, Europe, USA, Mexico and provider and Xstrata Process Support, based in South Africa, with most of the mills to be commissioned in 2009.
Sudbury, an independent group which provide During the year, four new ISASMELT furnaces were designed, including the first Isaconvert furnace for Mopani Copper highly specialised technological support both to Mines in Zambia.
This furnace will improve the environmental Xstratas operations and to third-party customers.
performance and efficiency of copper smelting compared with conventional converter technology.
Xstrata Process Support Financial and operating data Xstrata Process Support provides high expertise technical services to the minerals sector and demand for its services from Xstratas Year ended Year ended $m 31.12.08 31.12.07 operations continues to be strong.
External customers accounted for 25% of total revenue, an Revenue 235 217 increase on the 10% achieved in 2007.
EBITDA 38 47 In 2008, the Process Mineralogy group provided ore characterisation Depreciation and amortisation 6 4 and process design services to Xstrata Nickel in Canada and EBIT 32 43 Xstrata Copper in Australia.
The Process Mineralogy group has Capital expenditure 6 5 seen strong demand growth from Xstratas PGM operations and external customers who are seeking to improve the Employees 162 137 characterisation of their ore bodies.
The Extractive Metallurgy group experienced strong demand in 2008 for its process modelling expertise from both internal and external clients, including Xstrata Nickel, for which it is developing processes for new ore bodies.
During 2008, the Process Control group delivered improved control of the primary grinding circuit at Sudbury nickel operations and designed and commissioned the control systems for a major expansion of nickel recycling capacity.
It contributed to control improvements at Kidd copper operations and is a member of the standard concentrator design team for Xstrata Copper.
