Strategy At the time of Xstratas initial public offering in 2002, the Board and management set out our strategy to develop Xstrata as a distinct mining company focused on growth and the creation of shareholder value.
Since that time, Xstrata has grown to become a major diversied mining group with a strong competitive position in each of its key commodity markets, a portfolio of cashgenerative operations and a world-class pipeline of organic growth options.
Xstratas strategy has been delivered through: the execution and integration of three major acquisitions delivering transformational growth: the opportunistic identication and completion of a number of bolt-on acquisitions to deliver incremental growth and improvements to the portfolio: the development of a significant internal pipeline of growth options: and substantial improvements to the capital and operating efficiency of its businesses.
Core Strategy: Growth and Value Creation Description 2008 performance summary Transforming transactions Pursue value-enhancing, substantial Discussions with Vale terminated acquisitions which transform Xstratas by mutual consent in March 2008: scale, commodity offering and range of opportunities reviewed geographic diversity on an ongoing basis Entry into new commodities Further diversify Xstratas portfolio Development of Elandsfontein operations through buying or building entries facilitated entry into platinum: acquired into tier one commodities with strong 24.9% of Lonmin, worlds third largest fundamentals platinum producer Bolt-on acquisitions Complete value-adding incremental Acquisitions of Jubilee Nickel and acquisitions to complement Xstratas Resource Pacic thermal coal operations existing commodity businesses completed in early 2008 Organic growth browneld Develop and successfully commission Perseverance zinc mine, Elandsfontein and greeneld new mining and metals projects to platinum mine and concentrator and provide a valuable source of lower Glendell open cut coal mine successfully cost production growth commissioned on schedule and budget: significant progress made across extensive pipeline of organic growth projects Net present value enhancements Extend useful life of operations, Real cost savings of $184 million achieved and operational excellence achieve sustainable cost reductions, in 2008: significant increases to resource improve safety and environmental estimates at Collahuasi, Antamina, and performance, enhance our reputation southern Peru copper operations: 2008 as industry-leading stewards of our total recordable injury frequency rate shareholders assets improved by 18% Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 17 Strategy: Business Review Strategy continued Strategy in focus Competitive position Xstrata continues to pursue a core strategy of value creation and Xstrata is the fifth largest diversied mining company in the world, with growth.
However, since mid-September 2008 the global financial top five industry positions in copper, export thermal coal, export coking crisis has led to an unprecedented liquidity shortage in financial coal, ferrochrome, zinc and nickel.
In addition, the Group has recycling markets leading to markedly lower expectations for global economic facilities, additional exposures to platinum, gold, cobalt, lead, silver and vanadium and a suite of mining and metals related technologies, many growth and sudden and severe declines in the price of commodities produced by Xstrata.
Given the lack of visibility into economic of which are industry leaders.
As a FTSE 100 diversied mining company, prospects and the uncertain outlook for commodity prices in Xstratas key competitors are Anglo American plc, BHP Billiton plc and the short term, Xstratas near-term strategic imperatives are to: Rio Tinto plc, all of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange, and Vale, a Brazilian mining company.
Our financial KPIs on page 32 implement operating plans to reposition operations lower on the show our performance against our key FTSE 100 listed competitors cost curve: collectively FTSE Diversieds.
A broader, global industry peer group is used to benchmark total shareholder return performance, including optimise cash in the short term to ensure the Company remains nancially robust with an investment grade balance sheet even to determine performance under the Groups long-term incentive plan.
under a scenario in which the period of uncertainty is unexpectedly prolonged: and Competitors position Xstrata to emerge from the current downturn with Key FTSE 100 competitors: Global peer group : improved financial exibility, allowing the Group to pursue valueAnglo American Alcoa Inc accretive growth opportunities presented by the current dislocation BHP Billiton Arch Coal Inc of market values and underlying valuations.
Rio Tinto Companhia Vale do Rio Doce Vale Xstratas businesses have acted rapidly and decisively in response to Copper & Gold Inc the sudden lower demand for key commodities and need to conserve Eramet SA cash by: Freeport McMoRan Grupo Mexico SA fide CV suspending or closing higher cost or unprofitable production: Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd aligning production with demand: Korea Zinc Inc MMC Norilsk Nickel redoubling efforts to drive down operating costs and working capital: Nordeutsche Afnerie AG substantially reducing discretionary sustaining and expansionary Peabody Energy Corp capital expenditure: and Teck Cominco Ltd Vedanta Resources plc securing a robust capital structure through renancing and 2009 peer group restructuring existing debt and through a substantial, fully Includes FTSE Diversieds pre-emptive rights issue to repay existing debt.
Diversied portfolio with significant industry positions Top five ferrochrome producers kt Top five thermal coal producers mt Top five coking coal exporters mt 2000 80 80 1,500 60 60 1,000 40 40 500 20 20 0 0 0 Assmang Hernic Samancor ENRC Xstrata Bumi BHP Anglo Adaro Xstrata Rio Tinto Anglo Xstrata Teck BHP Resources Billiton American American Cominco Billiton Fording Mitsubishi Alliance Top five copper producers mined kt Top five nickel producers mined kt Top five zinc producers mined kt 2000 400 1200 1,500 300 900 1,000 200 600 500 100 300 0 0 0 Rio Tinto Xstrata BHP FreeportCodelco Xstrata PT Aneka BHP Vale MMC Vedanta Teck Glencore Oz Xstrata Billiton McMoRan Tambang Billiton Norilsk Cominco Minerals Based on 2008 09 Xstrata CRU Brook Hunt production estimates on a consolidated basis 18 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Xstrata Copper Key products and markets Xstrata Copper is a fully-integrated producer of copper metal and concentrate and is one of the worlds five largest producers of mined copper.
Xstratas excess copper concentrate production is sold to Xstrata produces and sells exchange-traded base and precious metals, custom copper smelters in South America, Asia and Europe, with over and bulk commodities where prices are negotiated on longer-term 90% sold under contracts and the remainder sold on the spot market.
Xstratas customer base consists principally of large Xstrata Coppers rened copper metal cathodes are sold to producers industrial concerns.
of industrial products and traders in major copper consuming regions.
North America accounted for approximately 53% of total sales in Xstrata Alloys 2008, with the remainder sold to customers in Europe and Asia.
Xstrata Alloys is currently the worlds largest and amongst the lowest Cathodes are predominantly used in the manufacture of copper cost integrated ferrochrome producers in the world through the Xstratawire rod for electrical conductor applications.
Further information Merafe Chrome Venture, one of the worlds largest producers of primary on copper markets is available on pages 55 to 62. vanadium and a growing producer of platinum group metals.
Over 80% of the worlds ferrochrome is utilised in the production of stainless steel Xstrata Nickel and is sold on long-term contracts.
The principal end-use of vanadium is Xstrata Nickel is one of the worlds five largest producers of nickel as an alloying agent in steel.
Xstrata produces vanadium pentoxide and and one of the largest recyclers and processors of nickel and cobaltferrovanadium, which are sold to a diversied international customer bearing materials.
Xstrata Nickels Nikkelverk renery in Norway base.
Platinum Group Metals PGMs comprise platinum, palladium, produces very high grade purity nickel and cobalt from material rhodium, iridium, ruthenium and osmium.
PGMs are used in auto sourced from Xstrata Nickels mining operations in Canada and catalysts and fuel cells, providing cleaner energy.
Ferronickel from Xstratas Falcondo operation currently include jewellery and industrial and consumer products.
Further suspended is sold into the stainless steel market.
The high grade information on ferrochrome, vanadium and PGM markets is available nickel produced at Nikkelverk is typically sold into first end-use on pages 45 to 48. applications such as high nickel alloys, superalloys, low alloy steel, foundry and electroforming.
Cobalt from Nikkelverk is typically sold Xstrata Coal into such end-use applications such as aerospace, land-based turbines Xstrata Coal is the worlds largest exporter of thermal coal, used to and electronics.
Further information on nickel markets is available on generate electricity in coal-red power stations.
Xstrata is also one pages 63 to 68. of the largest producers of export semi-soft coal and among the top five producers of export coking or metallurgical coal, used in Xstrata Zinc steelmaking.
Around 90% of Xstratas coal production is exported, Xstrata Zinc is a fully integrated producer of mined zinc and lead with the remainder sold to domestic Australian and South African concentrate, zinc and lead metal and silver.
Around half of all zinc markets.
Sales of coal are primarily through annually renewable metal produced globally is used to galvanise steel, an environmentally long-term contracts, with some sales concluded on the spot market.
friendly way of protecting steel against corrosion.
Zinc is also used in Xstratas Australian thermal coal operations supply major power the manufacture of die-cast alloys, brass and the production of zinc generation companies in the Asia-Pacic region, while our Australian oxides and chemicals.
The majority of Xstratas zinc metal production metallurgical coal mines supply major steelmakers worldwide.
Xstratas is sold under term contracts to the EU, Canada and the US.
Zinc South African coal operations largely supply the Atlantic thermal coal concentrates are sold mainly to Japan, South Korea, China, Australia market, where Europe is the major export destination.
Further information on zinc markets is available on Xstrata has recently acquired Prodeco and also owns a one-third stake pages 69 to 74. in the Cerrejn mine, both of which export high grade thermal coal to Europe and the Americas.
Further information on coal markets is available on pages 49 to 54.
Revenue by origin Revenue by destination Europe 10% Australasia 4% Africa 3% South America Africa 11% Australasia 5% 30.5% Asia 36% North America 23% South America North America Europe 22% 26.5% 29% EBIT by origin EBIT by commodity North America Zinc 2% Europe 3% 3.5% Alloys 14% Nickel 5% Africa 19% Australasia Copper 32% 47.5% South America Coal 49% 27% Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 19 Strategy: Business Review Strategy continued Relationships with stakeholders Strategic resources Xstrata is committed to the maximum transparency that is commercially possible and to engaging openly, honestly and in a culturally appropriate manner with its stakeholders.
These include: the investment community, employees and unions, governments and regulators, communities We consider the following resources to be essential to the effective associated with our operations, customers, suppliers, business partners, execution of our strategy.
Diversied portfolio Xstratas portfolio is diversied by commodity and by geography, balancing the risks associated with specic commodity price cycles and operating locations and providing investors with more reliable Future trends and stable cash ows.
Diversication also engenders healthy competition for capital between Xstratas commodity businesses.
Xstratas revenues and earnings depend in large part upon the Extensive organic growth pipeline prevailing prices for the commodities it produces.
Commodity prices Xstrata benets from a significant growth pipeline across a number are signicantly affected by global economic conditions and industrial of commodities, allowing the strategic sequencing of projects and production.
In recent years, commodity prices have exhibited a broadly deployment of capital from which significant volume growth and upward trend, reecting demand generated by global economic superior returns can be achieved.
Those elements of Xstratas growth, particularly in China and India as those countries urbanise extensive growth pipeline which have been deferred remain and industrialise.
Commodity prices have also been influenced by available to be accelerated at the appropriate time.
the growth of exchange-traded commodities futures markets.
Acquisition and integration capability Recently, however, the rapid deterioration in global economic conditions Xstrata has developed and demonstrated a significant capability in has led to reduced global demand, stock drawdowns, increased use the opportunistic identication of acquisition opportunities: the ability of scrap or recycled materials and the unwinding of speculative trading to execute transactions where the value proposition is compelling: and positions.
As a result, the prices of many of Xstratas commodities have the rapid integration of acquired operations.
This capability has been fallen signicantly from their previous highs.
replicated at the commodity business level, enabling smaller bolt-on acquisitions to be completed.
Although the short-term outlook for 2009 is uncertain, many major governments have announced and implemented monetary and scal Devolved management structure stimulus packages which will increase investment in commodityXstratas management model is highly devolved and comprises a intensive infrastructure during 2009 and 2010.
In the medium term, a very lean corporate centre and fully resourced, standalone global shortage of capital and poor short-term visibility is leading to the delay commodity businesses.
The role of the corporate centre is well or cancellation of organic growth projects by major producers and the dened, to minimise bureaucracy and rational risk-taking is inability of the junior mining sector which traditionally identies new sponsored to stimulate innovation.
We believe this model is supply to raise new finance.
As a result, new production capacity a significant competitive advantage and enables Xstrata to be to replace ageing mines with falling grades and increasingly difficult more opportunistic, and less bureaucratic than other companies mining conditions is likely to be delayed, contributing to significant of a similar scale and geographic reach.
Financial position Xstratas Board continues to believe that demand for commodities We are committed to maintaining a robust balance sheet and and consequently commodity prices will continue to be influenced by investment grade credit rating, ensuring access to a diverse range of a long-term positive trend, driven by the ongoing industrialisation of funding sources.
The ability to withstand periods of low commodity developing economies and the urbanisation of over 65 to 70 million prices and to fund growth in a cost effective and timely manner, when people globally each year.
When OECD economies return to growth, appropriate, is essential to enabling the Group to achieve its strategy.
the impact of synchronised demand growth from developed and emerging economies, coupled with constricted commodity supply, Resource and reserve base has the potential to lead to a rapid increase in commodity demand Xstrata benets from a significant resource and reserve base across and prices.
This is likely to result in substantial cash ows and margin each of its major commodities.
The Groups focus on value creation expansion for those metals and mining companies which have and near-mine exploration has enabled us to extend or replace the weathered the current challenging conditions.
resource base of a significant number of our assets over the past several years.
Xstratas resource base compares favourably with mining industry peers.
The Group reserve and resource statement is published annually and is available from the Xstrata website.
significant contractual arrangements Technological expertise Xstrata benets from a significant depth of technological and technical expertise which is critical for improving the efficiency of Xstratas Glencore International AG is Xstratas major shareholder and, at operations and for major project development.
Xstrata Technology the date of this document holds 34.45% of Xstratas issued share Services comprises Xstrata Technology and Xstrata Process Support.
The relationship between Xstrata and Glencore is regulated addition, Xstratas commodity businesses also develop and implement by a Relationship Agreement which ensures that all commercial proprietary technologies to improve efficiency.
arrangements are transacted on an arms-length basis.
Glencore is the sole distributor of Xstrata nickel, cobalt and ferronickel production, Exploration capability has sales agreements with Xstrata Copper for substantial amounts of Xstrata does not maintain a central or standalone exploration function.
its copper concentrate and copper cathode and is the marketing agent Xstratas commodity businesses are responsible for undertaking nearfor much of Xstrata Alloys ferrochrome and vanadium.
Glencore has mine exploration around existing operations or in nearby regions, a market advisory role with Xstrata Coal.
Full details of related party leveraging existing infrastructure and conducting targeted greeneld contractual arrangements are provided on pages 186 to 188. exploration at known deposits.
