CEOs strategic overview We are continuing to invest in our future growth, particularly online, and therefore believe we will emerge stronger from the current economically challenging period.
John Condron Chief Executive Officer printed and online directories, local and Our business national newspapers, business and Yell is a leading international directories consumer magazines, search engines, company that puts buyers in touch with and providers of business and residential sellers in the UK through Yell UK, in the information over the phone.
With the US through Yellowbook, and in Spain rise of new media technologies, and Latin America through Yell particularly broadband, online advertising Publicidad.
Sellers our advertisers are is an increasingly attractive medium for a relatively stable base of primarily small advertisers and presents Yell with and medium-sized enterprises SMEs for significant opportunities.
which our classified advertising products are a vitally important part of their Why classified advertising is an marketing armoury.
Buyers our users attractive industry are people at home, at work, or out and Classified advertising is a widely used about who are ready to buy or are and highly effective form of advertising seeking information about goods and that offers advertisers cost-efficient services.
Offering our products across a access to millions of buyers, most of range of channels the book, the web whom have already made a decision and the phone gives our advertisers a to buy.
Compared to many other forms wide range of opportunities to promote of advertising, classified advertising themselves, and our users the opportunity delivers a higher return on investment in to use a channel most suited to them.
terms of exposure and leads generated.
All our products are available 24 hours Operating in three distinct divisions a day and our printed products are enables us to understand and respond generally retained for future use.
effectively to local market dynamics, We believe our products have a using local management teams with significant competitive advantage extensive experience in our industry.
over other forms of advertising.
The divisions follow a common strategy and we encourage the sharing of best Our customers are a relatively stable base practice between them.
of SMEs investing a large percentage of their advertising budget in our products, We operate within the classified deriving significant value from them.
This advertising market where we compete helps make classified advertising relatively with a range of media, including other resilient in an economic downturn.
06 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
