Directors report The directors present the report and accounts of Yell Group Where the participants under Yells employee share plans may plc Yell for the year ended 31 March 2008. be the beneficial owners of shares, but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised at the Overview and principal activities discretion of the participants.
An overview and description of Yells principal activities are provided on pages 6 to 11, and the inside front cover of this Holders of Yell shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare report.
The countries where Yell carries on its business are dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the identified on the inside front cover of this report.
amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay interim dividends if it appears that such dividends Review of business and future developments are justified by the profits available for distribution.
The business review on pages 2 to 35 of this report forms part of this Directors Report.
A review of the performance for the Any shareholder may transfer all or any of his shares in reporting period and expected future developments is given certificated form by instrument of transfer in the usual within pages 14 to 23.
The principal risks and uncertainties that common form or in any other form which the directors may may affect Yells long term value or prospects, including approve.
The transfer instrument shall be signed by or on significant relationships with stakeholders, along with a behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of fully-paid review of Yells governance arrangements are given on pages shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
Where any class of 26 to 35, and within note 14 of the financial statements.
Key share is for the time being a participating security, title to performance indicators are given on page 22. shares of that class which are recorded as being held in uncertificated form, may be transferred by the relevant system Dividends concerned.
An interim dividend of 6.3 pence per ordinary share was paid on 14 December 2007.
The directors propose a final dividend The directors may in their absolute discretion refuse to register of 5.7 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on 1 August 2008 to any transfer of shares being shares which are not fully paid or shareholders on the register at 4 July 2008, subject to approval on which Yell has a lien, provided that if the share is listed on at the Annual General Meeting on 25 July 2008. the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an The Trustees of the Yell Employee Benefit Trust have waived open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to their entitlement to previous and proposed dividends totalling register a transfer of shares unless the transfer instrument: 1.2 million.
a is lodged at the registered office, or such other place as the directors may appoint, accompanied by the relevant share Share capital and shareholder rights certificate s : b is in respect of only one class of share: and Yells share capital consists of ordinary shares of 0.01 each c is in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
Yell shares which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Full details of the movements in The directors may refuse to register the transfer of a share in the authorised and issued share capital of Yell during the uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in reporting period are provided in note 22 to the financial certificated form in any case where Yell is entitled to refuse or statements.
is excepted from the requirements under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer: and they The holders of Yell shares are entitled to attend, speak and may refuse to register any such transfer in favour of more than vote at any general meeting of Yell and to appoint a proxy or four transferees.
Subject to the Uncertificated Securities proxies to exercise these rights.
At a general meeting, every Regulations, the registration of transfers of shares or of any shareholder present in person, by proxy or in the case of a class of shares may be suspended at such times and for such corporate member by corporate representative, has one vote periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the directors on a show of hands and on a poll has one vote for every share may determine.
No person holds Yell securities carrying special rights with To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the regard to control of Yell.
Yell is not aware of any agreements notice of the meeting can give a time, which must not be more between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on than 48 hours before the meeting, by which shareholders must the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
be entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
Yells Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of Yells shareholders.
If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring information Significant agreements about interests in shares, and has failed to supply such On 27 April 2006, Yell and certain of its subsidiaries entered information within 14 days after service of the notice, then the into a senior facilities agreement the Facilities Agreement shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a shareholder with Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Deutsche Bank AG, meeting.
Goldman Sachs International and HSBC Bank plc and certain 40 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Reports other financial institutions as lenders, pursuant to which the Directors may be elected, removed and replaced by an lenders agreed to make available to the Group certain term ordinary resolution of the shareholders or appointed by the loans and a revolving credit facility details of which are set out Board.
A director appointed by the Board shall retire and may in note 19 to the financial statements.
Under the terms of the be re-elected by the shareholders at the next annual general Facilities Agreement, a majority of lenders holding more than meeting after his appointment.
of total commitments can require all amounts outstanding under the Facilities Agreement to be At no time during the year did any director hold a material repaid if there is a change of control of Yell.
interest in any contract of significance with Yell, or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
No other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of Yell following a takeover bid are Our directors emoluments are disclosed on page 49. considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on Yells business.
Details of our directors service contracts are disclosed on page 47.
Details of the change of control provisions in Yells employee share plans may be found within note 29 to the financial The beneficial interests of our directors and their immediate statements.
There are no other agreements between Yell families in Yells issued share capital are given on page 52. and its directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs Charitable and political donations because of a takeover bid.
During the past financial year, Yell has made charitable donations totalling just over 1.11 million, comprising 951,000 Substantial shareholders Yell UK, 70,000 Yellowbook and 92,000 Yell Publicidad Yell maintains a record of substantial shareholdings in 2007 - 1.13 million, which support various community related accordance with the provisions of the Disclosure and charities and projects.
Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
As at 2 June 2008, Yell had received notifications from the following No political donations were made during the year.
parties that they have an interest in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital: People with disabilities Yell is an Equal Opportunities Employer.
of % of issued the employment of people with disabilities and guarantee an Shareholder voting rights share capital interview for those who meet minimum selection criteria.
Invesco Limited 133,930,136 17.14% We provide training and development for people with AXA S. A.
79,136,555 10.13% disabilities, tailored where appropriate, to ensure they have Capital Group the opportunity to achieve their potential.
If a Yell person International, Inc 76,983,328 9.86% becomes disabled while in our employment, we will do our Templeton Global best to retain them, including consulting them about their Advisors Limited 54,831,476 7.02% requirements, making appropriate adjustments, and BlackRock, Inc 38,109,256 4.89% providing alternative suitable provisions.
Directors, their powers and appointments, their interests Information provision to our people and indemnity arrangements We seek feedback from our people on a wide range of topics Yells directors are identified on pages 38 and 39.
All our through day-to-day contact, team meetings and, in the UK, directors will submit themselves for re-election at the Annual through our annual employee feedback survey Tell Yell, General Meeting on 25 July 2008. where our survey results are benchmark best.
The Board of directors is responsible for the management of We also conducted an employee feedback survey in the US and Yells business and may exercise all the powers of the Company are working on improvements to the workplace as a result.
subject to the provisions of the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The directors must limit Yells borrowings and Each year we make a significant investment in employee exercise all voting and other rights or powers of control communications to ensure that everybody knows and exercisable by Yell in relation to its subsidiary undertakings, so understands Yells objectives, to ensure everyone is kept as to ensure that the total amount of all moneys borrowed by up-to-date with progress against plans, and to ensure Yell and its subsidiary undertakings outstanding at any time comprehensive communication of local and Group news.
will not exceed five times the Adjusted Capital and Reserves as defined in Yells Articles of Association at that time.
41 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
