Strategy Classified advertising is a growing Yell UK Simplicity industry, especially online where it is The UK market forecast to grow strongly in all our areas The UK classified advertising market of operation.
The development of new is now calculated including internet online opportunities means we can Our products and services are classified and was worth 6.2 billion in readily available, easy to use attract new advertisers to our products 2007.
The addition of internet classified and widely understood by our as well as adding online products to the is a reflection of the growing importance advertisers and our users.
portfolios of our existing advertisers.
of online as a key component.
Our share Technological advances are opening of the market was 12% in 2007. up online markets still further, offering high-growth opportunities for new Internet classified advertising growth is products such as mobile internet expected to continue at approximately and hybrid voice and online models.
20% per annum over the next few years.
The overall online market is likely to Focus break the 4 billion level by 2009 and Our strategy and markets to overtake TV as the UKs single biggest Our strategy advertising medium.
Yell UK is well We understand our advertisers and Our vision remains to be the best positioned to take advantage of the users needs, and our products and business information bridge between growth of this form of advertising.
processes are fully devoted to buyers and sellers, regardless of channel, meeting those needs.
time or location, in the markets in which What we have achieved we operate.
Putting buyers in touch with We continued to develop our online sellers is a growth industry worldwide.
business, especially the take-up of We aim to take full advantage of that Yell.
com by our print advertisers and the growth with our channel-neutral growth of existing Yell.
com advertisers portfolio of products in all the countries through their buying of higher value Discipline in which we operate.
We increased the revenue per average searchable advertiser on Yell.
com Our approach continues to be one of by 32% to 686, reflecting the success of simplicity, focus and discipline: simplicity, We are committed to our strategy of this strategy.
Searchable advertisers grew bringing together buyers and sellers through the provision of products and 7% to 209,000 at period end.
in the most effective way.
We will not services that are easily understood by be distracted by anything that does our advertisers and users: focus, on We have greatly enhanced Yell.
com to not support our strategy.
understanding our advertisers and enrich the user experience and ensure users needs and ensuring our products users can find more of what they want, and processes are fully devoted to more quickly, whilst encouraging them to meeting those needs: and discipline, engage for longer with the site.
We have in our commitment to our strategy driven usage by ensuring that Yell.
com we are not distracted by anything that results are more prominent when people does not support the achievement of use ordinary search engines, through our objectives.
partnerships with other sites and service providers, and through exploitation of We are growing our new media the most up-to-date technologies.
businesses at a pace that enables us to Unique users were 8.5 million in March maintain or improve our leading 2008, 12% higher than in March 2007 position in each of our markets, whilst and 37% higher than in December 2007. capturing the substantial value that continues to be available in print.
Our We are investing heavily in programmes sales approach of Win, Keep and Grow to retain print advertisers and increase is appropriate to meeting this challenge.
the usage of our printed products.
Winning new customers for our new and The directory navigation, design and traditional products provides the classification system have been lifeblood of tomorrows business.
improved and we are developing a series Keeping existing advertisers provides us of promotional activities designed to with the core of our offering to users.
drive usage by emphasising the ease of Proving the effectiveness of our media use and value of the Yellow Pages enables us to grow revenue from our directory.
Despite a slowing economy customers by selling them higher value and increasing competition, we advertising and other products in retained 74% of our printed product our portfolio.
advertisers, down only a percentage point against 2007.
07 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Moving forwards introducing new products such as local CEOs strategic Our new media products are key to Your Town directories and sector guides.
com overview brand is of fundamental importance to The new undertakings that we gave to continued this growth, but increasing emphasis will the Competition Commission in 2007 be placed on affinity sites and third party came into effect in April 2008.
This brings placement that will extend the reach and a welcome reduction in our price cap effectiveness of our customers online from RPI-6% to RPI-0% and gives us the advertising.
Advert syndication opportunity to develop more flexible agreements, such as our netReach pricing structures that will allow us to product, that distribute our customers attract new customers and grow our adverts across third-party websites, and revenues.
other carefully considered partnerships with other online service providers, will Yellowbook enable us to capture a significant share The US market of SME online activity.
We have a 12% share of the US classified directories and local search industry, Our current pay-for-display online model which was worth $16.4 billion in calendar is very successful.
However, recognising year 2007, up 2% on the previous year.
the growing demand for pay-onThe Kelsey Group expect this sector to performance advertising, we aim to grow at 1 to 3% per annum for the next generate increased revenue and usage two years, driven by independent from this type of online business model directory publishers and providers to capture revenues from sectors such of local online search services and as insurance and hotels, and from large wireless directories.
media players for which this type of online business model is ideal.
The independent sector of the total industry of which Yellowbook is a part Revenue growth from our online was worth $3.3 billion in calendar year products will be fuelled by increased 2007 and we have steadily increased our usage.
We will continue to make it easier share of the sector from 23% in 2000 to for users to find the right business and to 61% last year.
contact that business directly, either online or by telephone.
We are investing What we have achieved considerably in brand awareness The US economy and competitive through national and local campaigns.
environment presented a considerable In March 2008 we launched netReach, challenge for Yellowbook last year.
our first advert syndication product.
However, our value-pricing programmes, In addition, we will continue our experienced sales force, strong brand developments in search engine and national coverage enabled us to optimisation and search engine generate revenue growth of 4%.
We were selective with our new launches Alongside our high-growth online and introduced 26 new directories in products is our continuing confidence 2008, increasing our coverage to 48 in the value and effectiveness of our print states and the District of Columbia.
Contrary to uninformed opinion, usage of print media in the UK has been We retained 70% of our printed product relatively stable over the past three advertisers, up from 69% last year, and years.
40 million adults continue to use increased the average amount our Yellow Pages each year, and for each advertisers spent with us by 3% to $2,762.
1 spent, advertisers get on average Our ability to increase the amount 25 back in increased revenue.
existing advertisers invest with us and attract new advertisers to higher There are still significant opportunities in premium products reflects the value the UK print market that we aim to generated by our printed products.
capture through proving the value of directory advertising to our customers, We continued to deliver leads for less improving our Yellow Pages directory and in our printed products by maintaining competitive prices and particularly 08 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Strategy through increasing usage.
Growing We are making improvements to our Win online usage also means we are print directories that will make them delivering leads for less through more attractive to users and advertisers yellowbook.
com, even though we including increasing the emphasis on have increased online product prices local content: making changes to the We win new customers with innovative and attractive to better reflect the value delivered.
format and size of selected books: and advertising opportunities, by Our memorable advertising, featuring refreshing the directory covers with new proving the value of advertising David Carradine, helped maintain strong branding.
Businesses will be better able with Yell, and by demonstrating a brand awareness and loyalty to access the benefits of Yellowbook clear understanding of the needs of prospective advertisers.
advertising through our loyalty, step up profile advertising and promotion and new entry pricing programmes.
of our brands ensures Yells Yellowbook.
com delivered an excellent We are also implementing a number products are always front-of-mind.
performance, resulting in revenue of improvements to our sales approach, growth of 68% to $115 million.
This was including new sales automation driven by a 71% increase in revenue per programmes and incentive packages searchable advertiser to $304, reflecting aligned closely to market conditions.
our success in monetising the excellent Keep growth in usage.
Yell Publicidad Spanish and Latin American markets The yellowbook.
com network attracted The Spanish classified directories and We keep our customers by proving a record 13.5 million unique visitors in local search market was worth that our products work for them March 2008, more than double the and by delivering excellent service.
In this 6.1 million visitors in March 2007.
The By offering great value for sector, Yell Publicidad is the largest money and delivering more leads, yellowbook.
com network gained the publisher with an 84% share.
we satisfy the needs of our biggest growth in unique visitors in the customers and encourage them US in March 2008 according to to return time after time.
We also operate in Argentina, Chile and Comscore, with our search engine Peru.
We hold strong positions in the optimisation and search engine classified directories and local search marketing initiatives contributing to markets in these countries.
The success of our online strategy means we are well-placed What we have achieved to further capitalise on this growth.
2008 was our first full year with Grow Yell Publicidad as part of the Group.
Moving forwards We continued our back to basics Yellowbook continues to drive the strategy, focusing on our core products The amount our customers spend share-shift away from incumbents Paginas Amarillas, Paginas Blancas, with us grows as we help to grow towards independent directory PaginasAmarillas.
es and the 11888 their businesses.
This simplifies the choice for products and features to provide independent sector is less intense, greater choice, we extend the reach advertisers and the task for the sales of their advertising by offering a and Yellowbook is well positioned force.
Sales remuneration is now fully range of channels to market, to maintain market leadership.
aligned with our business objectives, including partnership offerings, ensuring that we are able to attract and and we provide information and Recent increases in usage of the service that helps prove the value retain top quality sales people who can of their increased investment.
com network, will be win, keep and grow our advertiser base.
reinforced by further enhancements We have improved our sales support to website usability, search engine material and adopted the successful optimisation and search engine business model of selling on value, not marketing, content improvement and discounts.
At the same time we have syndication through partnerships simplified our range of advertisements notably through our WebReach product.
Our new national branding and advertising campaign, Say Yellow to the Internet revenue in Spain was 44 million.
Future, aims to raise awareness and Central to our online approach is the drive yellowbook.
This will unbundling of our online and print enable us to increase the average products which we started in October amount spent on yellowbook.
Unbundling means that all products advertising and further increase prices are now sold discretely, supporting our to better reflect the value delivered.
09 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
