Senior management team 01 Phil Barr 02 Steve Chambers 03 Eddie Cheng 04 Mitch Connolly 05 Ana Garcia Fau 06 Paul Fry 07 Jim Haddad Our senior management team combines extensive experience in our industry with fresh ideas from other backgrounds.
They share a clear vision, a commitment to best practice across the Group, and a track record of executing our strategy.
01 Phil Barr 04 Mitch Connolly 06 Paul Fry Head of Human Resources, Yell UK Chief Commercial Officer, Yell Publicidad Director of Strategy Phil joined Yell in 2005.
He provides Mitch leads our 1,000 plus Sales and Paul joined in 1974 and is Director strategic thinking on our approach to Market Planning people in Spain.
of Strategy, having previously held human resources, and leads our Human He joined the business in 1983 as a sales leadership roles in Operations, Resources team in the UK.
He also representative and held a number of Marketing and Business Development.
supports the Remuneration Committee senior sales management positions in on specific issues.
Yell UK before joining Yell Publicidad 07 Jim Haddad in 2006.
Chief Financial Officer, Yellowbook 02 Steve Chambers Jim joined Yellowbook in 2002 and has Chief Commercial Officer, Yell UK 05 Ana Garca Fau more than 20 years experience in the Steve leads our 2,500 UK Sales, Service Chief Executive Officer, Yell Publicidad publishing business.
His responsibilities and Market Planning people.
Steve Ana joined Yell Publicidad in 1997. as Chief Financial Officer include joined the business in 1982 as a sales As Managing Director of Corporate financial, treasury and human resources representative and has held senior sales Development she was responsible for leadership at Yellowbook.
the expansion of the Group to Latin America.
She was then appointed Chief 03 Eddie Cheng Financial Officer.
Ana has been leading Chief Development Officer our Yell Publicidad business in Spain and Eddie joined the business in 1984 and Latin America as Chief Executive Officer, has worked in various product since 2006. development roles in non-print activities.
Dr Cheng is now responsible for co-ordinating Group new media development activities including mergers and acquisitions.
18 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Performance 08 Pat Marshall 09 Jim McCusker 10 Bruno Porchietto 11 Jos Luis Renedo 12 Howard Rubenstein 13 John Satchwell 14 Helen Stevenson 15 Joe Walsh 08 Pat Marshall 11 Jos Luis Renedo 14 Helen Stevenson Chief New Media Officer, Yellowbook Chief Financial Officer, Yell Publicidad Chief Marketing Officer, Yell UK Pat Marshall joined Yellowbook in 2007.
Jos Luis joined Yell Publicidad in 1997 as Helen joined our business in 2006 as He leads our growing new media Manager of Strategic Planning.
In 2005 our UK Chief Marketing Officer.
Helen is endeavours, including yellowbook.
com he was appointed Head of Corporate responsible for building our Win, Keep and Yellowbooks search engine Development and later he became Chief and Grow strategy for customers across advertising product, WebReach.
Pat was Financial Officer, being responsible for all channels, including all usage and the first recipient of The Kelsey Groups all financial operations across Yell product development.
She also leads our New Technologies Leadership Award in Publicidad in Spain and Latin America.
2002, in recognition of his expertise in new technologies and e-commerce.
12 Howard Rubenstein 15 Joe Walsh Company Secretary and Chief Executive Officer, Yellowbook 09 Jim McCusker General Counsel Joe joined our Yellowbook business in Chief Sales Officer, Yellowbook Howard, who joined our business in 1987 and under his leadership it has Jim leads our 5,000 plus Yellowbook 2003, is our Group Company Secretary & become the leading independent sales employees.
Jim began his career in General Counsel, responsible for legal publisher in the US.
Joe was recently 1989 as a Sales Representative and has and regulatory affairs, and for our presented with the Wil Lewis Award by held positions of increasing responsibility Group-wide Governance & Responsibility the Association of Directory Publishers in Sales Training and Sales Management.
He also leads our UK for his exceptional lifetime contributions Corporate & Communications team.
to the independent directory publisher 10 Bruno Porchietto industry.
Chief Marketing Officer, Yell Publicidad 13 John Satchwell Bruno joined Yell Publicidad at the Operations Director beginning of 2008 from Coca-Cola, John joined our business in 1980.
He where he was Marketing & Business Unit leads Yell UKs technology, directory Director for Spain and Portugal.
Bruno production, distribution, purchasing and has held various senior marketing and order processing teams.
He also supports management positions across Europe in Yell Publicidad in the development the consumer goods industry.
of their operations and sharing of good practice.
19 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
