Our approach For Yell, corporate governance and a responsible approach are inextricably linked.
Our Governance and Responsibility programme brings the two together ensuring that we meet our commitments to all our stakeholders.
Vision Our framework Our vision for governance and responsibility at Yell is to Element Sub-element provide our shareholders and other stakeholders with confidence that Yell is a well-managed and responsible The Yell Way Culture company.
Roles, responsibilities and accountabilities The board takes steps to engage with shareholders and Business excellence to evaluate the relevant financial, social, ethical and environmental issues that may influence or affect Yell.
Baseline compliance Laws and regulations Market regulation Guiding principles Our Guiding Principles Excellence, Reliability, Responsibility Responsibility Environment and Integrity support our vision, underpin our values and Suppliers partners define our approach to all aspects of our business.
Yell people Customers Governance and Responsibility framework Investors We have established a framework which we believe identifies Communities all the elements of a sound approach to governance and responsibility.
A steering group, comprised of senior managers Brand integrity Reputation and brand management and led by our Company Secretary, uses this framework to set Intellectual property and monitor governance and responsibility objectives, identify Fair selling improvement opportunities and ensure that activities are aligned with business strategy.
Through this framework we Accountability and Reporting provide assurance to all our stakeholders that Yell is a openness Stakeholder dialogue well-managed, responsible company.
Investor relations Internal communication Risk management Internal control and audit Assurance 26 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Governance We report on Governance and Responsibility in our Annual The Yellow Woods Challenge is an environmental campaign Report and Corporate Responsibility report and we provide run by Yellow Pages, the Woodland Trust and local authorities online information at www.
We seek to provide across the UK.
Since its launch in 2002, 2 million schoolchildren commentary on the activities and programmes that support have been involved in recycling 2 million old Yellow Pages our Governance and Responsibility framework, including directories whilst they learn about the environment through reporting our performance against targets.
curriculum-linked activities and compete for cash prizes.
Yellow Pages has awarded 350,000 to schools and a further On the following pages we report specifically on Responsibility, 350,000 in match funding to the Woodland Trust, the UKs Accountability and openness and Risk management.
Further leading woodland conservation charity.
information on our Responsibility achievements is available at www.
com and in the separate Corporate We are committed to helping manage climate change.
Responsibility report published online at www.
We expanded our measurement of CO2 emissions from just Yell UK previously, to our US and Spanish operations.
Our scope Responsibility 1 and scope 2 CO2 equivalent emissions as defined by the This section summarises our approach to Corporate World Business Council for Sustainable Developments Responsibility CR and our achievements during 2008.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol for these areas were 25,901 tonnes.
Our online CR report includes case studies that illustrate our programme.
Yell is in the media sector and is classified as a low impact company with regards to climate change.
CR activity is devolved to functional managers throughout Yell, but is coordinated by a series of steering groups, headed by Workplace our Company Secretary.
Our Chief Executive Officer has overall People are the foundation of our continued success.
We value responsibility for CR.
During the year, we reviewed our CR diversity and our aim is to recruit, retain and develop the very strategy and decided to focus our CR activities next year in best people, and to provide them with a challenging and three key areas as follows: rewarding career.
minimising our impact on the environment We launched a Leadership Programme in 2007 in Yell UK, supporting enterprise, particularly SMEs which was rolled out during the year to key management.
enhancing our employee volunteering opportunities Our Developing Potential Scheme for other Yell UK managers continues.
These programmes help our managers gain insight We receive much recognition for our CR activities including into, and to develop their own, leadership style and also inclusion in the Global 100 list of the worlds most sustainable provide networking and active learning opportunities across companies, listings in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes all Yell UKs operations.
and FTSE4Good index and, in April 2007, our second Queens Award for Enterprise in recognition of our approach to Our Code of Ethics has been in place for a number of years and sustainable development.
is available in English and Spanish at www.
For the first time this year, all senior managers across the group We manage CR in four areas: were asked to certify their understanding of and compliance with the Code.
Corporate practice In the UK we have maintained our registration to ISO 14001, Everyone in Yell has access to the Yell Whistleblowing Line ISO 9001:2000, OHSAS 18001, ISO IEC 20000-1:2005 formerly managed by an independent third party.
This line allows our BS 15000 and TickIt.
We are recognised as an Investors in people to report, in a secure and confidential manner, any People Champion organisation and, as winners of the cases of unethical behaviour.
European Quality Award in both 1999 and 2004, we share our business approach and processes with a wide range of Community European companies.
We support the communities in which we operate and encourage our people to get involved in making a difference.
In 2007, 118 24 7 became a Top Five UK brand for customer This raises our brand profile and helps develop the wider skills satisfaction in an analysis of consumer perceptions of more of our people.
This year, Yell Group invested 1.11 million in its than 35 organisations, part of the annual CompariSat communities, 0.35% of our Group pre-tax profits.
cash donations, our peoples time and in-kind giving.
Environment We have been involved in Mini Pots of Care, a fundraising A responsible approach to the environment is essential for the initiative designed especially for 3-11 year olds, run by Marie sustainability of our business.
We work with our key business Curie Cancer Care and Yellow Pages since 2005.
The campaign partners to ensure our impact on the environment is has involved 727,000 children in planting their own daffodils minimised throughout our operations.
and has raised 1.2 million for the charity.
Yellow Pages support ensures that all the money raised by children goes 27 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 directly to the work of Marie Curie Nurses who provide highindividual directors, our Chairman and our Company quality nursing, totally free, to terminally ill people in the Secretary.
The exercise was conducted by means of a survey comfort of their own homes, supported by their family and completed by each director and a one-to-one discussion friends.
Further information can be found by reading our between each director and our Chairman.
Following the Corporate Responsibility Report online at www.
survey the non-executive directors also met, with and without our Chairman present, to discuss the performance of the Accountability and openness Board and of the Chairman.
Statement of application of principles of the Combined Code We have applied the principles set out in the 2006 Combined Biographies of all our directors appear on page 38.
Code during the period 1 April 2007 to 31 March 2008 and complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code during Operation of the Board the reporting period, save as where detailed below.
Our Board has overall responsibility for leading and controlling Yell and is accountable to shareholders for financial and The Board operational performance.
Our Board is also responsible for the Our Board comprises of two executive directors and seven open and transparent communication of information relevant non-executive directors.
Six out of the seven non-executive to this performance.
directors are considered independent by the Company.
Our Chairman, Bob Scott was independent upon his appointment.
Our Board recognises the division in responsibility between our Chairman who ensures the effective working of the Our executive directors are John Condron Chief Executive Board and our Chief Executive Officer who runs our Officer and John Davis Chief Financial Officer.
Our Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes the approval of Lord Powell of Bayswater was the Senior Independent Director financial statements, major acquisitions, Group strategy, and throughout the reporting period.
All non-executive directors governance policies.
The written schedule also sets out the are available to shareholders who wish to raise issues.
extent of the various delegated authorities granted by our Board to our committees and our senior management team.
Tim Bunting was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 18 May 2007.
Tim was a partner in Our directors have access to the services of our Company Goldman Sachs, with whom Yell has an ongoing business Secretary, Howard Rubenstein, the removal of whom is a relationship, until November 2006.
Notwithstanding this, matter reserved for the decision of the Board.
Howard the Board considers him to be independent in both character Rubenstein acts as secretary to all of the Board Committees.
and judgment and therefore, deemed him independent on appointment.
In reaching its decision, the Board took into Our Company Secretary works with our Chairman to ensure account the fact that Tim ceased acting as Yells relationship that all our directors receive sufficient information, on a timely manager at Goldman Sachs in July 2003 and that Tim stood basis, to enable the Board to run efficiently.
A secure website down from full time employment at Goldman Sachs in has been established as an exclusive channel for our directors November 2005. to share information, receive training material and Board papers, and generally enhance the administration of Board Our policy is that all directors stand for re-election or, in the business.
Analysts and brokers briefings and opinions are also case of newly appointed directors, election each year.
provided to all directors through the website.
John Condron executive director is a full time director During the financial year, training and presentations on the of companies within the Yell Group and has no other implementation of the Companies Act 2006 and directors commitments to external companies, and consequently duties were provided to the directors.
At various Board does not receive any other fees.
John Davis is a non-executive meetings throughout the year, our directors received director of Informa plc, and his fees from Informa are set out presentations by our UK, US, Spanish and Latin American in the Remuneration Report.
Details of our executive directors senior management teams, highlighting key developments service contracts and our non-executive directors letters of in their respective businesses and markets.
appointment can also be found in the Remuneration Report at page 44. Letters of appointment do not set out fixed time Our directors are entitled to take independent professional commitments Combined Code A.
4.4 since the schedule of advice, at Yells expense, about fulfilling their duties.
Yell has Board and Committee meetings is subject to change according also arranged appropriate Directors and Officers insurance to our requirements.
All our directors are expected to cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
demonstrate their commitment to the work of the Board on an ongoing basis.
Our Board is scheduled to meet at least six times in any calendar year: January February, March April, May, July, In Spring 2008, our Board conducted a formal evaluation of its September and November.
During the reporting period, our overall effectiveness.
The evaluation focused on the collective Board met seven times and the non-executive directors met performance of our Board as well as on the performance of once without the executive directors present.
28 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Governance The following table shows the individual attendance by our directors at the Board and Committee meetings, during the reporting period ended 31 March 2008.
Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Board meetings meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Bob Scott 7 6 John Condron 7 1 John Davis 7 Lord Powell of Bayswater 6 1 3 1 Tim Bunting 5 1 5 1 John Coghlan 7 4 1 Joachim Eberhardt 7 4 6 Lyndon Lea 5 2 5 1 1 Richard Hooper 7 4 Committees The following Committees have been established under the overall direction of our Board.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are published on our website at www.
The chairmanship, membership and terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed on an annual basis.
The following table shows the chairman and members of each Committee.
Committee membership and role Name Status Audit Remuneration Nomination Bob Scott Chairman, Non-Executive Director appointed 19 July 2007 John Condron CEO, Executive Director John Davis CFO, Executive Director John Coghlan Independent, Non-Executive Director Chairman Joachim Eberhardt Independent, Non-Executive Director Chairman Lyndon Lea Independent, Non-Executive Director Chairman Lord Powell of Bayswater Senior Independent, Non-Executive Director Richard Hooper Independent, Non-Executive Director appointed 18 May 07 Tim Bunting Independent, Non-Executive Director appointed 18 May 07 Audit Committee the internal audit plan and reviews it following the risk The Audit Committee is chaired by John Coghlan, who we assessment activity.
It reviews the annual and interim financial consider to have recent and relevant financial experience.
statements and the nature and scope of the external audit.
The other members during the year were Lord Powell of Bayswater and Joachim Eberhardt.
With effect from 18 May The Committee met four times during the reporting period.
2007, Richard Hooper was appointed to the Committee.
The Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive The Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity directors.
Our external and internal auditors attend all meetings.
Our auditors are also required to confirm their independence at least annually.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its duties regarding the reporting of financial and non-financial Our policy for the provision of non-audit services by our information to shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, the auditors is also kept under review by the Committee.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Groups policy defines the nature of non-audit work which may be internal controls and risk management by reviewing evidence undertaken and establishes a financial limit up to 5 million of risk assessment activity.
The Committee agrees the scope of per annum on this work.
Included in this 5 million, is a pre- 29 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 approved financial limit of 1.5 million for routine tax Nomination Committee compliance and advisory services that may be provided by the Our Nomination Committee is chaired by Lyndon Lea and its external auditors.
All non-audit projects above a financial limit other members are John Coghlan and John Condron.
The of 250,000 must be approved by the Committee prior to the Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure project commencing.
Regular updates are prepared for the and composition of the Board, the retirement and or Committee on the nature, cumulative costs and extent of appointment of directors and ensuring that the Board has non-audit services provided by our auditors.
the right blend of skills and experience.
The committee also reviews the extent of our directors commitments outside Yell, The Committee also has oversight of the investigation of any to ensure that those commitments are not detrimental to Yell serious issues raised through the Yell Whistleblowing Line.
or the efficiency of the board.
The Committee and our Board formally reviewed the While neither an external search agency nor open advertising effectiveness of the systems of internal control, including Combined Code reference A.
4.6 were used in the financial, operational and compliance controls and risk appointment of Tim Bunting, the Committee was satisfied that management systems during the last financial year.
his appointment would bring to the Board the appropriate combination of skills and qualifications.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Joachim Eberhardt.
The committee met once during the financial year.
The other members of the Committee are Tim Bunting, Bob Scott and Lyndon Lea.
As Charles Carey resigned from the Relations with shareholders Committee on 31 March 2007 and was replaced by Tim Bunting Yell is committed to ongoing communication with its with effect from 18 May 2007, between these dates, the shareholders and other stakeholders.
This was achieved committee composition was not in compliance with Combined through: Code provision B.
The Committee did not meet during this period.
In July 2007, our Chairman, Bob Scott was appointed Regular dialogue and presentations throughout the year as a member of the Committee following changes to the to our institutional investors, such as our Yell Investor Day Combined Code 2006.
Mr. Scott was considered independent which, this year, took place on 7 December 2007 in the UK.
on his initial appointment to the Board.
Therefore, all members These presentations were subsequently made available on of the Committee are non-executive directors, independent of our website www.
management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with their independent Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, senior judgement.
management, Company Secretarys office, investor relations and CR manager within Yell engaging with stakeholders on The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations wider issues relating to the Group.
to our Board on the policy for remuneration of executive directors and on the process for review of their performance.
The issuing of quarterly press releases and half yearly It also has responsibility for determining specific remuneration reports.
packages for each of our directors including pension rights, any compensation payments and the implementation of Announcements made through the London Stock Exchange, executive incentive schemes.
No director may participate where our shares are listed.
in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
Our Annual General Meeting, which gives all our shareholders the opportunity to hear at first hand from our The Committee met six times during the reporting period.
Board of Directors and to raise questions.
At our 2007 AGM, all our directors were present, and informally met with our During the year, the Committee received advice from our shareholders after the meeting.
All proposed resolutions are Chief Executive Officer, our Company Secretary, our Head of put to a poll vote.
Shareholders who might not be able to Human Resources, and our Head of Reward.
The Committee attend the meeting are encouraged to vote by proxy.
The also received advice from Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of AGM voting results were published through the London remuneration policy.
Tax and risk management services were Stock Exchange and on our website immediately after the also provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP during the year.
Our Remuneration Report appears from page 44.
Sections dedicated to our shareholders on the Companys corporate website, www.
30 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Risk management The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has In this section we set out how we manage potential risks and completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the uncertainties that could have a material effect on the Groups system of internal controls in accordance with the guidance long-term performance and could cause actual results to of the Turnbull Report updated October 2005, and is differ materially from historical results.
We have quantified satisfied that it complies with that guidance.
the risks arising from market fluctuations and our use of estimates under the heading Sensitivity analyses at the end It is not possible to identify every risk that could affect our of this section.
business, and the actions taken to mitigate identified risks cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not Our commentary regarding financial information in this adversely affect our business or financial performance.
business review should be read in conjunction with the The principal risks and uncertainties we have identified are audited financial statements.
Readers are cautioned that outlined on the following pages.
forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties.
The Strategic risk factors discussion of estimated amounts generated from the The Group operates in competitive markets.
In the US we face sensitivity analysis is forward-looking and also involves risks significant competition in our markets from incumbents and and uncertainties.
Caution should be exercised in relying on independent directory publishers, for both advertising market these analyses.
Actual results may differ materially from those share and usage.
In addition we believe that the incumbents in forward-looking statements.
are offering more advertising at similar prices in print and online.
We are addressing the competitive forces as rapidly as Risk management processes they arise through our products and our sales, especially to We undertake various activities within a risk management ensure we manage and grow our online usage and framework to ensure that risk and uncertainty are properly revenue share.
managed and that appropriate internal controls are in place: We compete by ensuring our products and sales processes are The directors have overall responsibility for establishing tailored to the needs of our customers and users.
In Spain we and maintaining the systems of internal control and risk continue to invest in usage, to rationalise our business management, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These activities, and to undertake a revitalisation of the sales force to systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the focus on new payment schemes and sales methods.
In all our risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The systems markets we focus on the value we offer to advertisers relative also provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance to the value offered by competitors.
against material mis-statement or loss.
At present the majority of our revenue comes from printed We carry out an annual detailed risk assessment to identify classified directories.
Competition is increasing from the nature and extent of operational and financial risks alternative channels of advertising such as the internet and facing the Group.
We consider the likelihood of these risks mobile services.
Our channel-neutral strategy provides materialising and we implement mitigation plans where we opportunities to widen our customer base as we continue to believe they are appropriate.
This ongoing process has been develop our products.
We monitor changes in technology and in place for the reporting period and up to the date of user preferences to identify new or enhanced channels of approval of this annual report.
We also invest in improving our existing internet, telephone and mobile products.
We have developed a risk-based internal audit plan to evaluate the overall provision of assurance provided by In the 2008 financial year, 25% of the Groups revenue Yellow the processes managing each key risk.
Pages revenue in the UK was subject to regulation, compared to 28% during the 2007 financial year.
This regulation The Audit Committee and senior management regularly considerably reduced our ability to respond to competitive review the risk assessment and internal audit plan.
pressures by restricting the introduction of innovative product initiatives and pricing flexibility.
In addition, the price cap We have voluntarily designed and implemented financial limited price increases at RPI-6%.
The Competition Commission reporting controls in-line with what we believe are best has ruled that from April 2008 the pricing formula will be practices.
We have fully documented the systems, processes replaced with RPI-0% and most of the marketing restrictions and key controls that produce financial reporting.
These changes will allow us to respond more update our documentation and test the identified key effectively to future competitive pressures.
A review of the new controls annually.
This testing is in addition to, and runs undertakings is planned for two years time.
We will continue parallel with, the internal audit plan and risk assessment to present our case that regulation is not justified in this programme.
31 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Our acquisition strategy is focused on businesses where Legal claims against our business for defamation, breach of we can add value to our Group through a combination of privacy, or employment practices.
synergies and transferral of best practice.
As part of our strategy for growth, we intend to continue to evaluate Failure of current or new information systems that could potential acquisitions and directory launches into new impair our collection, processing or storage of data and the markets.
We have considerable experience of integrating new day-to-day management of our business.
businesses into the Group, giving us confidence that we can mitigate execution risk.
Loss of the services of our senior managers who are key to the successful implementation of our business strategy in the Operational risk factors near to medium term.
A significant part of our revenue comes from selling advertising to small and medium-sized enterprises that tend to Financial risk factors have limited financial resources and experience higher failure The Groups treasury functions primary role is to fund rates than large businesses.
It is a normal and necessary investments and to manage liquidity and financial risk, business practice for us to offer credit terms to many of them.
including risk from volatility in currency and interest rates and We mitigate the risks of incurring bad debts and longer counterparty credit risk.
The treasury function is not a profit collection times through tailored credit vetting procedures.
centre and its objective is to manage risk at optimum cost.
In new markets we accept higher levels of customer churn and bad debts, because this is a necessary investment in The Board sets the treasury functions policy and its activities establishing an initial presence.
The diversity and size of our are subject to a set of controls relative to the size of the customer base mitigate material shifts in customer churn and investments and borrowings under its management.
increases in bad debt expense.
Counterparty credit risk is closely monitored and managed We rely on our sales force, which comprises 63% of our within controls set by the Board.
Derivative financial employees, to sell our products and drive revenue growth in instruments, including forward foreign exchange contracts, our competitive markets.
We aim to recruit and retain high are normally used only for hedging purposes.
quality people through our remuneration, training and development programmes.
The principal financing and treasury exposures faced by the Group arise from working capital management, the financing We rely on our suppliers who work in partnership with us to of acquisitions and property, plant and equipment, the deliver our products.
We have long-standing relationships management of interest rates on the Groups debt and the with most of our key suppliers, the most important of which investment of surplus cash.
The treasury function manages are UPM-Kymmene Corporation, Pindar Set Ltd, Quebecor those exposures with the objective of remaining within ratios World, RR Donnelley and Einsa Print International.
Paper is our covenanted with the lenders of its bank debt.
The Group has single largest raw material expense, but in the 2008 financial not purchased or issued any derivative contracts for trading or year paper costs were equivalent to only 6% of Group revenue.
hedging purposes, except as referred to below.
We limit our exposure to market fluctuations through contracts and pricing arrangements with these suppliers.
Yell Group has funded the business largely from cash flows generated from operations and bank debt.
Details of the Our trademarks and intellectual property rights, such as our Groups borrowings are disclosed in note 19.
At 31 March 2008, Yellow Pages and Yell.
com brand names in the UK, Paginas our net debt was 5.1 times pro forma adjusted EBITDA.
Amarillas in Spain and our Yellowbook brand name in the US, are important to our business.
We rely upon a combination of copyright and trademark laws, contractual arrangements and licensing agreements to establish and protect these rights.
If necessary we will use all legal remedies available to protect our rights.
Although we take steps to mitigate the following risks, we do not consider them to be material to the financial standing of the Yell Group either because of their size or our ability to mitigate the potentially negative effects: 32 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Governance This high debt to earnings ratio carries debt obligations and We do not currently intend to use derivative instruments to covenants.
These could restrict flexibility in our use of financial hedge any foreign exchange translation rate risk relating to resources to: foreign currency-denominated financial liabilities, although we will continue to review this practice.
We have operations in countries where the functional Finance working capital, capital expenditures or other currency is not pound sterling.
All significant cash inflows business opportunities.
and outflows associated with the Groups operations within a country are denominated in local currency to limit the risks React to changing market conditions, changes in our of foreign exchange movements on the local results.
business or changes in the industry in which we operate.
Financial reporting and related risk factors We have access to a 400 million revolving credit facility that We recognise the revenue and costs directly related to sales, we can use to mitigate the potential risks above.
A breach of production, printing and distribution from advertisement sales the covenants under the financing arrangements could cause for a printed directory edition when we have completed all debt under those arrangements to become due.
We carry delivery of that directory edition.
Because the number of out regular reviews of our debt obligations and debt covenants editions and type of directories are not evenly distributed against our business plans as a means of identifying this and during the year or published in the same quarter every year, other future material risks that we should mitigate.
our revenue and profits do not arise evenly over the year: There has been no change in the role that financial instruments During our 2008 financial year the four financial quarters have in creating or changing the Groups risk between 31 March accounted for, respectively, 20%, 24%, 26% and 30% of 2007 and the date of these financial statements.
Market-related risk factors Different directories may grow at different rates, such that Interest is payable under our senior credit facilities at a growth may not be evenly distributed between quarters.
We could be adversely affected if the interest rates we pay were to rise significantly: We sometimes need to rephase our timing of distributions into a later period for operational reasons, such as when The hedging arrangements that we put in place mitigate our we rescope directories or integrate acquisitions.
We mitigate future exposure to interest rate fluctuations by effectively the risk of misunderstanding the nature of our growth reducing the amount of variable-rate indebtedness that we by reporting an analysis of our revenue growth on a have outstanding.
At the end of each quarter we review our like-for-like basis.
future interest payment obligations in assessing the appropriate amount of hedging for at least the next Operating profit, EBITDA and other financial indicators 27 months.
generally relied on by investors to evaluate a companys financial performance may not, in our case, reflect actual cash We have fixed interest on at least 96% of the indebtedness received or expended during a given period: under the term bank facilities using interest rate swaps over the period to March 2010 and around 55% until March 2011.
The period in which we recognise revenue may be different to the period in which our advertisers receive and pay our At 31 March 2008, we had 89.6 million net losses on interest invoices.
rate swaps that were available for recognition as an increase of interest expense when settled in the future.
The period in which we recognise expenses may be different to the period in which we pay the supplier.
Our financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, and changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and We mitigate the risk of misunderstanding the nature of our pounds sterling and the Euro and pounds sterling will affect growth in profits and cash flow by reporting a reconciliation the translation of the results of our businesses with US dollar of our operating profit to EBITDA and our EBITDA to or euro functional currencies.
Our exposure to currency operating cash flow, see note 2 on page 67. fluctuations will depend on the mix of foreign currency and pounds sterling denominated indebtedness and the extent of any hedging arrangements: The composition of our debt partially hedges exchange rate fluctuations, because 39% of our debt and 40% of our net interest expense are denominated in US dollars, thereby reducing our US EBITDA exposure by approximately 36%.
Additionally, 25% of our debt and 19% of our net interest expense are denominated in euros, thereby reducing our euro EBITDA exposure by approximately 27%.
33 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 We make subjective and complex judgements, giving due We value the portfolio of assets held by the defined benefit consideration to materiality, when estimating inherently pension scheme in the UK at market value when calculating uncertain amounts included in the financial statements.
our net pension asset or deficit.
Values will increase and We mitigate the risk of results being materially different by decrease as markets rise and fall.
The trustees and regularly reviewing our estimates and updating them when management have an agreed strategy to mitigate the risk appropriate.
A description of what we consider to be the most of having insufficient funds, if markets fall.
The trustees significant estimates follows.
Actual results could be different, annually match the low-risk asset portfolio against the cash but we do not believe materially different unless otherwise outflows for the following twelve years.
Against longer term indicated: cash pay-outs they match a combination of investments in index-linked gilts to mitigate inflation risk, and higher risk Receivables are reduced by an allowance for amounts assets to get higher rates of growth.
The trustees also work that may not be collectible in the future.
We continuously with management to ensure sufficient assets will be monitor collections and payments from our customers and available to settle obligations extending beyond maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon twelve years.
our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified.
We have The determination of our obligation and expense for taxes demonstrated the ability to make reasonable and reliable requires an interpretation of tax law.
We seek appropriate, estimates of allowances for doubtful accounts based on competent and professional tax advice before making any significant historical experience.
Whilst we believe that our judgements are prudent and appropriate, significant Bad debts as a percentage of printed directories revenue in differences in our actual experience may materially affect the US at 6.2% reflects the growth strategy in the US, when our future tax charges.
compared to the 2.8% in Spain and 3.0% in the UK where the directories are more mature.
Our consolidated bad debt We recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from expense was 97.1 million during the 2008 financial year temporary differences where we have a taxable benefit or and at 4.4% of revenue was lower than the previous year.
obligation in the future as a result of past events.
We record We have not yet identified an increase in the level of bad deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe they are debts as a result of the credit crunch, but note that future more likely than not to be realised.
Should we determine in levels of bad debts could be affected.
the future that we would be able to realise deferred tax assets in excess of our recorded amount or that our liabilities Other non-current intangible assets and plant and are different to the amounts we recorded, then we would equipment are long-lived assets that are amortised over increase or decrease income as appropriate in the period their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on managements such determination was made.
estimates of the period over which the assets will generate revenue.
The values of property, plant, equipment and assets The determination of our obligation and expense for the with indefinite lives are reviewed annually for impairment.
exceptional lawsuits was based on managements best Other non-current intangible assets are reviewed for estimates after taking into consideration appropriate impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances advice from legal experts.
The amounts could be different indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable when settled.
and at the end of the first full year following acquisition.
Historically, we have not reduced the value of any assets as a result of the impairment analyses, nor have we realised large gains or losses on disposals of property, plant and equipment.
The determination of our obligation, expense and contribution rate for pensions is dependent on the selection of assumptions that are used by our actuaries in calculating such amounts.
Those assumptions include, amongst others, expected mortality rates of scheme members, the rate at which future pension payments are discounted to the balance sheet date, inflation expectations, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and average expected increase in compensation over and above inflation.
We believe that our assumptions are appropriate because we regularly seek advice from experts.
However, differences in our actual experience or changes in our assumptions can materially affect the amount of our future pension obligations, future valuation adjustments in the statement of recognised income and expense and our future employee expenses.
34 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Sensitivity analyses The following analyses illustrate the effect that specific changes could have had on our results in the 2008 financial year.
The analyses do not consider secondary effects or steps that could be taken to mitigate the primary effects and are only valid when all other factors are held constant.
The following discussion of estimated amounts generated from the sensitivity analyses involves risks and uncertainties.
Caution should be exercised in relying on these analyses: Year ended 31 March 2008 If on Had varied Reported Equity Could millions, unless otherwise stated average by being Gain Loss Gain loss have been Market risks: Adjusted EBITDA Paper prices 10% higher 738.9 725.2 Adjusted EBITDA Paper prices 10% lower 752.6 Net finance costs Without hedges Variable rate interest 1% higher 263.2 298.7 With hedges Variable rate interest 1% higher 264.9 Without hedges Variable rate interest 1% lower 227.7 With hedges Variable rate interest 1% lower 261.5 Net finance costs Exchange rate of USD to GBP 10% higher 253.6 Net finance costs Exchange rate of USD to GBP 10% lower 274.9 Net finance costs Exchange rate of Euro to GBP 10% higher 258.7 Net finance costs Exchange rate of Euro to GBP 10% lower 268.6 Basic earnings per share Exchange rate of US Dollar 10% higher 26.5p 25.8p Basic earnings per share Exchange rate of US Dollar 10% lower 27.3p Basic earnings per share Exchange rate of Euro 10% higher 26.9p Basic earnings per share Exchange rate of Euro 10% lower 25.9p Significant estimates: Adjusted EBITDA Bad debt allowance as a % of revenue 1% higher 738.9 716.7 Adjusted EBITDA Bad debt allowance as a % of revenue 1% lower 761.1 Operating profit Useful economic lives of intangible assets 1 year longer 575.5 587.7 Operating profit Useful economic lives of intangible assets 1 year shorter 563.9 Operating profit Useful economic lives of plant and equipment 1 year longer 579.7 Operating profit Useful economic lives of plant and equipment 1 year shorter 569.5 Operating profit Discount rate on goodwill impairment analysis 1% higher 575.5 Operating profit Terminal growths on goodwill impairment analysis 1% lower 575.5 Actuarial gainSORIE Real interest rates in calculating pension liabilities 0.1% higher 43.9 51.3 Actuarial gainSORIE Real interest rates in calculating pension liabilities 0.1% lower 36.5 Actuarial gainSORIE Life expectancy in calculating pension liabilities 1 year longer 37.9 Actuarial gainSORIE Future salary increases in calculating pension liabilities 0.1% higher 41.5 Actuarial gainSORIE Future salary increases in calculating pension liabilities 0.1% lower 46.3 Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits, and derivative financial instruments.
The following analysis, required by IFRSf 7, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being interest rates and the US dollar and euro to sterling exchange rate on our financial instruments.
The analyses are only valid when all other factors are held constant.
2008 2007 Income Shareholders Income Shareholders millions loss gain at 31 March statement equity statement equity Variable interest rates 1% higher, taking into account hedging arrangements 1.7 85.9 1.4 93.9 Variable interest rates 1% lower, taking into account hedging arrangements 1.7 88.3 1.4 97.1 Variable interest rates 1% higher, without taking into account hedging arrangements 35.5 37.8 Variable interest rates 1% lower, without taking into account hedging arrangements 35.5 37.8 US dollar to pounds sterling exchange rate 10% higher 9.6 8.9 US dollar to pounds sterling exchange rate 10% lower 11.7 10.9 Euro to pounds sterling exchange rate 10% higher 4.5 3.1 Euro to pounds sterling exchange rate 10% lower 5.4 3.8 35 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
