The Board 01 Bob Scott 02 John Condron 03 John Davis 04 John Coghlan 05 Joachim Eberhardt 06 Lyndon Lea 07 Richard Hooper 08 Lord Powell of Bayswater 09 Tim Bunting 01 Bob Scott, Chairman 02 John Condron, 03 John Davis, Bob is currently a non-executive director Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, John joined Yellow Pages, then a part of BT, John Davis has been Chief Financial Officer Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, Pension in 1980 and was appointed Managing of Yell Group plc since 2000.
Insurance Corporation Holdings LLP and Director in 1994.
In 2001 he led the move Crimestoppers Trust.
He is also a non-executive of Yellow Pages from BT to private equity He previously held positions within Pearson director of Swiss Reinsurance Company, ownership as Yell, and in 2003 he took the plc, where he was latterly Group Finance Zurich.
Bob retired as Group Chief Executive Yell Group to listing on the London Stock Director of the FT Group, and Emap plc, of CGNU plc now Aviva in 2001, having Exchange.
As the Group CEO he has been which he joined in 1989 and where he was previously held the same position with CGU the driving force behind expansion within Director of Corporate Finance and Treasury plc and General Accident plc, where he had the US through Yellowbook, and in Spain between 1995 and 1997.
John is a Chartered been a director since 1992.
He was also and Latin America through Yell Publicidad.
Accountant, having qualified at chairman of the Association of British John has served as Chairman of the , and has a Insurers in 2000 to 2001, having been a Directory Publishers Association, Masters in Management from the Stanford board member for four years and he was Chairman of the Jurors for the EFQMs Graduate School of Business.
He was a member of the Presidents Committee European Quality Awards and as a member appointed a non-executive director of of the CBI from 1998 to 2000. of the Governments Advisory Committee Informa plc in October 2005. on Advertising.
In 2008, John was honoured with the award of a CBE for his Bob was appointed to the Remuneration services to industry.
John is a member of the Nomination Committee.
38 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008 Reports 04 John Coghlan 06 Lyndon Lea 08 Lord Powell of Bayswater John is CEO of postal company, DX Group Lyndon Lea is a founding partner of Lion Lord Powell is Chairman of Louis Vuitton and Chairman of Inchcape Shipping Services, Capital and is responsible for its management.
Moet Hennessy LVMH in the UK, as well both private equity-owned businesses.
Prior to founding Lion Capital in 2004 he as of Capital Generation Partners & Magna He is also a non-executive director of was a partner of Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst Holdings.
He is a director of a number of Ashley House plc, an AIM-listed company whose European business he co-founded international companies including involved with the primary care sector of in 1998.
Previously, he served at Glenisla, Caterpillar, Textron, LVMH, Schindler Group, the NHS in the UK.
the European affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group, Hong Roberts & Co.
Prior to that, he was an Kong Land Holdings and Northern Trust investment banker with Schroders in Global Services.
He also serves on John is former Deputy Chief Executive and London and also in the mergers and numerous Advisory Boards.
Group Finance Director of Exel plc, where acquisitions department of Goldman he spent eleven years.
Prior to Exel Ocean Sachs in New York.
He received his BA Group plc, he spent seven years with Tomkins He is Chairman of the Oxford University from the University of Western Ontario, plc in various financial roles, having joined Business School, Chairman of Atlantic Canada in 1990. them after eight years with Arthur Andersen, Partnership and a Trustee of the British where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
He is a cross-bench member of John is a graduate of University College Cork.
Lyndon currently serves on the boards the House of Lords and Chairman of the of Harry Winston Diamond Corporation All Party Parliamentary Group on which is listed in Toronto, Weetabix Limited, Entrepreneurship.
John chairs the Audit Committee and is a Wagamama Group Limited, La Senza Ltd, member of the Nomination Committee.
Kettle Foods Group, American Safety Razor Lord Powell is our Senior Independent Company and Vaasan & Vaasan.
Director and is a member of the Audit 05 Joachim Eberhardt Committee.
Joachim is currently the owner and Lyndon Lea chairs the Nomination President of Oxnard MB LLC and Committee and is a member of the advisor consultant to a number of 09 Tim Bunting Remuneration Committee.
companies in Europe and the US.
Tim Bunting is a partner at Balderton Capital.
Prior to joining Balderton, Tim 07 Richard Hooper was a Partner at Goldman Sachs where He is the former SVP and global CMO of Richard Hooper is Chairman of AIM-listed he spent 18 years.
At Goldman, Tim held LexisNexis a division of Reed Elsivier Plc.
a Artilium plc and Senior Independent various roles including Global Head of business information based B2B technology Director of VocaLink Holdings Ltd, a Equity Capital Markets 2002 to 2005 company.
Prior to joining LexisNexis, he privately owned company.
He is currently and Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs was Executive Vice President of Global Chair of the Independent Review of the International 2005 to 2006.
Tim is a Sales, Marketing and Service for Postal Services Sector for Secretary of State Governor of Wellington College and a DaimlerChrysler Motors LLC in the US.
Trustee of the Rainbow Trust Childrens 1 June 2003 he was President and CEO of Charity.
Tim holds a Master of Arts degree DaimlerChrysler UK Limited, a position he from Cambridge University.
He is formerly Until May 2007, Richard was the Chairman a non-executive director of a number of of Informa plc and spent nine years on the DaimlerChrylser owned subsidiaries.
From 2002 to 2005 he was deputy Tim was appointed to the Remuneration Joachim holds a Master of Arts degree Chairman of Ofcom and Chairman of its Committee in May 2007. from the Academy for Administration Content Board.
From 2000 to 2004 he was and Economics in Stuttgart, Germany and Chairman of the Radio Authority.
Previous an MBA from New York University Stern directorships include MAI plc, United News School of Business.
& Media, Superscape plc and IMS Group plc.
Joachim Eberhardt is Chairman of the Richard Hooper was appointed to the Audit Remuneration Committee and is a member Committee in May 2007. of the Audit Committee 39 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
