Strategy The long-term relationships our highly than 25 years.
Our success is dependent We monitor process efficiency and skilled salespeople develop with our on maintaining excellent relationships quality through measures such as the advertisers are unique and valuable with our partners who share our number of published errors, processing to our business.
The ability of our objectives and quality expectations.
times, and the efficiency of our directory salespeople to sell across all media, Outsourcing these operations allows delivery.
Organisational measures such combined with their knowledge of our us to focus on what we do best.
as employee satisfaction, turnover of customers businesses, is crucial to our sales people and numbers of employees success.
Where we identify gaps in Protecting value volunteering for community activities specific areas of expertise we recruit The value we create is protected through indicate the effectiveness of our people appropriately experienced people or risk management processes and management policies.
provide appropriate training to develop controls, including risk evaluation and the necessary skills.
mitigation, internal audit and business External recognition is an important continuity plans.
Further details can be indicator of our success.
We have been Investment in our people is vital to found in the Governance and included in the Dow Jones Sustainability our success.
Yell UK is one of only 37 Responsibility section from page 26.
Indexes for the fourth time, the companies ever to be recognised FTSE4Good index for the second time as an Investors in People Champion How we measure success and the Global 100 list of the worlds Organisation and in May 2008 was We measure our success using financial most sustainable businesses for a third recognised as One of the Top 10 Best and non-financial indicators.
Yellowbook received two Publisher Workplaces in the UK by the FT & Best management systems in place to identify Awards at the 2007 conference of the Workplaces Institute.
In the US, and measure our key business drivers Association of Directory Marketing in Yellowbook was selected by Selling and performance indicators.
Progress recognition of our contribution to the Power Magazine as one of the 50 Best against key business measures and on national classified directory marketplace Companies to Sell for for the sixth major projects is reported to our in the US.
executive management team on a monthly basis and then to the Board.
Outlook We make significant investments in our We use internal and external auditors We believe that there will be operating systems, which enable us to to confirm the accuracy and opportunities from the relaxation of the gather, manage and exploit the appropriateness of financial and nonprice controls in the UK.
In the US we will information that is central to our financial performance indicators and continue to take advantage of the understanding and servicing of customer we report externally on some of share-shift from incumbents to needs, and to the development and our most important measures see independents.
At Yell Publicidad we will delivery of our products and services.
pages 20 to 23. capitalise on our back to basics approach.
We believe there are excellent Values and culture Our three primary financial indicators opportunities to develop our successful Our Guiding Principles of Excellence, are revenue, adjusted EBITDA and online strategy in all areas of operation.
Reliability, Responsibility and Integrity operating cash flow.
These are discussed apply across the Group and define how in the CFO review from page 14.
Our key All these opportunities should help we work.
Our culture is one of continuous non-financial performance indicators us withstand the pressures we are improvement, where the pursuit of are based on our advertisers and the experiencing, and will experience in the excellence and the celebration of success usage of our products.
We are continuing to invest in go hand-in-hand with accountability for indicators are chosen to measure the our future growth, particularly online, our actions and a clear focus on success of our Win, Keep and Grow and therefore believe we will emerge delivering our commitments.
We measure the number of stronger from the current economically of Ethics defines the ethical behaviour new advertisers acquired, the challenging period.
required of all Yell people, while our percentage of advertisers retained and values, role profiles and personal the average amount they invest with us, objectives define the performance as well as the total number of unique levels and behaviours expected.
We use independent, thirdparty research to measure usage of our Key relationships printed products and we directly measure visitors to our websites and We subcontract all our pre-press, print calls to our telephone services.
We also and distribution activities to experienced John Condron measure customer satisfaction through and trusted partners, with some of Chief Executive Officer third-party research.
whom we have been working for more 11 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
