We are deploying our group-wide online online products in line with user and CEOs strategic approach to drive internet usage in advertiser demands.
We have improved the user overview experience, re-designed the site and We balance our investment between continued introduced advert syndication maintaining and growing our core agreements and search engine revenue streams and developing new optimisation.
Unique users of media products and services.
es in March 2008 managing our costs aggressively to were 5.5 million, a 10% increase on enable us to make this investment.
We constantly review our operations and organisational structure to ensure Moving forwards resources are directed to their best effect.
We continue to build on our back to basics approach, with the aim of Customers delivering further improvements in our We focus on delivering effective leads products, customer service and newly to advertisers by increasing the value to introduced sales approach.
We are users of the information available at the investing in advertising and promotion time they are ready to buy.
We use to increase usage of all our products, telephone call monitoring, market while continuing to share best research and online analysis to prove to organisational practices.
advertisers that our products generate high quality sales leads, greatly increasing We will improve the search capabilities the likelihood of them staying with us.
es with better mapping and proximity tools.
We will Investment in our brands, through high capitalise on the success of our profile TV and radio advertising and telephone-based product by adding poster campaigns supports our web-based functionality to further advertisers by attracting users to our increase usage.
products rather than those of our competitors.
During the reporting We aim to make our Paginas Amarillas period, we invested 4% of our revenue in printed directories more appealing to promoting our products a similar level users and advertisers through a to the previous year.
programme of product enhancements including reformatting, rescoping and People and resources more effective targeting of household Our senior management team has and business users.
We are also extensive experience, knowledge and distributing our directories more quickly understanding of classified advertising to improve advertisers return on and of the business drivers that are key investment and users perceptions of to our success.
Members of our senior relevance and timeliness.
team are involved in group-wide activities designed to ensure best Our operations in Argentina, Chile and practice is shared, corporate overheads Peru are successful, stand-alone are minimised and economies of scale businesses and we will continue to are achieved.
We operate virtual teams manage them through Yell Publicidad.
to manage areas such as external reporting, corporate responsibility and risk management.
How we run our business We closely monitor market, advertiser We seek to attract, retain and develop and user trends to ensure we deliver new the very best people.
We have a robust products to the marketplace at the right salary and benefits framework that takes time to take advantage of growth account of industry and comparable opportunities, and to ensure we strike company practices and that encourages the right balance between meeting exceptional reward for exceptional demand for our existing portfolio and performance.
Our people have access to satisfying the appetite for new products the training and development they need and services.
We manage migration to to perform at their best and to develop their potential.
10 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2008
