DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Operating group reviews continued The International operating group, with International 1 19,200 employees, comprises the Groups businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia, together with a 37.5% interest in the panEuropean MBDA joint venture, a 20.5% shareholding in Saab of Sweden and a 49% shareholding in Air Astana.
During 2008, the International operating group achieved underlying Financial highlights 2 1 EBITA of 435m 2007 435m on sales of 3,333m 2007 3 3,359m and generated an operating cash inflow of 163m 1 Aggregate return on sales maintained at 13% 2007 678m as advances received in 2007 on the Salam Typhoon programme were utilised.
In June 2008, BAE Systems for the sector completed the acquisition of Tenix Defence, which contributed 3 Cash inflow reflects utilisation of advances received in 1 2 sales of 130m and a 12m post-acquisition loss after 2007 on the Salam Typhoon programme including integration costs.
1 Post-acquisition sales of 130m from Tenix Defence CS&S International BAE Systems has a major presence in the Kingdom of Saudi Performance Arabia where it acts as prime contractor for the UK  defence agreement.
Progress continues to be made to 2008 2007 2006 modernise the Saudi armed forces in line with the Understanding 1 Sales 3,333m 3,359m 3,428m Document signed in December 2005 between the UK and Saudi 2 Arabian governments.
Underlying EBITA restated 435m 435m 412m Return on sales 13.1% 13.0% 12.0% Under the 2007 contract for the supply of 72 Typhoon aircraft, 3 the first aircraft remains on schedule for delivery in June 2009.
Cash inflow 163m 678m 171m Discussions continue with the Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF 1 Order intake 4,065m 3,876m 3,854m to agree the support and training solutions for the aircraft 1 Order book 11.0bn 7.9bn 7.1bn to enable their entry into service during 2009.
Key points The support provided under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme continues to provide operational capability to both the RSAF and Royal Saudi Naval Forces Saudi Typhoon programme Salam progressing operations.
In particular, work is ongoing in partnership with to schedule the RSAF to maintain and enhance the capability of the Tornado aircraft while extending its operational life.
Tenix Defence acquisition completed: price adjustments in negotiation In addition to some 1,500 employees in the UK, around 4,400 people are employed by the Group in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Impairment taken of 120m on Saab carrying value of whom approximately half are Saudi nationals.
The business continues to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia and remains Looking forward committed to developing a greater indigenous capability in the Kingdom.
The Group seeks to sustain its long-term presence in the The security of employees is the highest priority and new Kingdom of Saudi Arabia through delivering on current residential and office facilities were completed in 2008, programme and industrialisation commitments, and incorporating increased security measures and a greater developing new business.
In Australia, the acquisition range of pastoral and recreational facilities for the workforce.
of Tenix Defence and reinforcement of the business as Further facilities will be completed in 2010. through-life capability partner to the Australian Defence Work is ongoing at a senior level to refine the strategy for Force across all domains, are expected to provide growth securing a greater proportion of business in the land sector.
The Royal Saudi Land Forces are anticipated to require upgrades and capability enhancements in future years.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding profit loss on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories.
Restated to exclude profit loss on disposal of businesses.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments.
com Australia Saudi Arabia Following the acquisition of Tenix Defence during 2008, including 100% of the former joint venture company Tenix Toll Defence Logistics, BAE Systems is now the largest defence contractor The latest development in a long-standing relationship with Saudi Arabia in Australia.
This acquisition has ensured that BAE Systems will see the provision of 72 Typhoons and associated training to around 300 Australia can offer capability across the aerospace, land, Royal Saudi Air Force technicians in the UK.
The training programme has maritime and joint domains.
been designed by BAE Systems to produce multi-skilled aircraft technicians.
BAE Systems Australia is a subcontractor to Boeing to deliver the ground and air subsystems of the Wedgetail Airborne Early Warning and Control programme.
Wedgetail has experienced significant schedule delays and cost overruns.
An agreement was reached with Boeing that defines and concludes the Groups role in delivering the ground subsystem by June 2009.
The Australian government has re-evaluated its requirements under the Land 121 contract for the supply of medium and heavy tactical trucks and is issuing a revised Request for Tender.
BAE Systems Australia remains in the competition with responsibility for tendering and carrying out the project transferred from BAE Systems, Inc. to BAE Systems Australia.
Major programmes now in BAE Systems Australias portfolio following the Tenix Defence acquisition include the prime contract for the supply of two Landing Helicopter Dock LHD ships to the Royal Australian Navy, and the supply of one multi-role, two offshore and four inshore patrol vessels to the New Zealand Ministry of Defence.
The LHD programme is in the early stages of a fixed price development programme that will need continued focus to deliver the contracted outcomes.
The multi-role vessel under the New Saab 20.5% shareholding Zealand contract has been accepted by the customer, but a number Saabs sales were SEK23.8bn 2.0bn, with export sales of warranty claims have subsequently been made.
Operating income was SEK166m 14m, vessels will be progressively presented for acceptance in 2009. producing an operating margin of 0.7%.
The completion accounting process for the Tenix Defence acquisition The Group has taken an impairment of 120m against is ongoing.
the carrying value of its shareholding in Saab, reflecting a significant reduction in Saabs share price during the year.
MBDA 37.5% interest MBDAs performance in 2008 delivered an increasing return Australia on sales on broadly unchanged sales volume.
Key domestic production deliveries included Mica air-to-air The acquisition of Tenix Defence in Australia is a clear reflection of BAE Systems missiles, Aster surface-to-air missiles, Seawolf naval air defence home market strategy, developing the Groups position as the premier global missiles and Taurus cruise missiles.
2008 saw the completion defence, security and aerospace company.
The Group will expand and develop of deliveries on the UK MoDs Brimstone air-to-ground missile in Australia with through-life support solutions and services activities, continuing to support the Australian customer base with an even broader capability.
programme and export deliveries of an air weapons package to Greece.
MBDA delivered over 2,500 missiles in 2008.
Development programmes continue to progress well.
2008 saw a number of successful development firings on key programmes, including the Meteor and Aster weapon systems.
As the UK MoDs designated lead contractor in managing its complex weapons sector under the Defence Industrial Strategy, MBDA secured a series of important Assessment Phase contracts for new programmes, including the Fire Shadow loitering munition which was successfully fired early in 2008, completing a rapid development demonstrator programme lasting just 15 months.
An important contract amendment has also been received on the Meteor air-to-air missiles development contract to re-align the programme to a revised customer timetable.
A 15-year availability contract to support the Seawolf missile system was secured.
A key export contract win was for the 398m Spada air-to-surface weapon system to Pakistan.
