DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors 3,4 4 3 1.
Phil Carroll Dick Olver was appointed Chief Executive Electronics & Integrated Phil Carroll is a former as Chairman in 2004.
A civil Ian King was appointed as Solutions business.
He chairman and chief executive engineer, Dick Olver joined BP of Fluor Corporation and a Chief Executive on 1 September was President of the Sanders in 1973 where he held a variety 2008, having originally been defence electronics business former president and chief of senior positions culminating executive of Shell Oil Company appointed to the Board as Chief prior to it being acquired by the in his appointment to the board Inc.
He was appointed by the Operating Officer, UK and Rest Company from Lockheed Martin of BP p. l. c. as CEO of Exploration US Department of Defense of the World, at the beginning in 2000.
A graduate of the US and Production in 1998.
He in 2003 to serve as the first of 2007.
He was previously Naval Academy, he served 12 was subsequently appointed Senior Adviser to the Iraqi Group Managing Director of the years in the US Marine Corps.
deputy group chief executive Ministry of Oil.
He is a former Companys Customer Solutions Appointed: 2007 Age: 59 of BP in 2003, stepping down non-executive director of & Support business and, prior 4.
George Rose from that position when he Scottish Power plc.
to that, Group Strategy and Group Finance Director assumed the chairmanship Appointed: 2005 Age: 71 Planning Director.
Immediately George Rose was appointed of BAE Systems.
Dick Olver prior to the BAe MES merger 1 6.
Michael Hartnall Group Finance Director in 1998. chairs the Boards Nominations he was Chief Executive of Michael Hartnall is a former Prior to joining the Company in Committee and the NonAlenia Marconi Systems, having finance director of Rexam plc, 1992, he held senior positions Executive Directors Fees previously served as Finance prior to which he held senior in the Rover Group and Leyland Committee.
He is a Business Director of Marconi Electronic positions with a number of DAF.
He is a non-executive Ambassador for UK Trade & Systems.
He is a non-executive manufacturing companies.
director of Saab AB and Investment, a Fellow of the director of Rotork plc.
He is a non-executive director National Grid plc, and a Royal Academy of Engineering, Appointed: 2007 Age: 52 of Lonmin plc and a former nonmember of the Industrial and a member of the Royal 4 executive director of Elementis Development Advisory 3.
Walt Havenstein Academy Council and the plc.
He is a Fellow of Chief Operating Officer, Trilateral Commission.
He is a the Boards Audit Committee.
the Chartered Institute of President and CEO, former non-executive director He is a Fellow of the Institute Management Accountants.
BAE Systems, Inc. of Thomson Reuters plc.
of Chartered Accountants Appointed: 1998 Age: 56 Walt Havenstein was appointed Appointed: 2004 Age: 62 in England and Wales.
to the Board in 2007 as Chief Appointed: 2003 Age: 66 Operating Officer, US, and is also President and CEO of BAE Systems, Inc.
He was previously President of the 12 3 4 5 6 64 www.
Andy Inglis with which he serves as Latin America and Asia, including Each of the eight non-executive Andy Inglis is a director of BP chairman of Rexel SA and Italtel.
serving as chairman and chief directors listed above is p. l. c. He is a member of the BP He was previously chairman and executive of IBM UK Limited.
He considered to be independent for executive management team, chief executive of BBA Group is a non-executive director of BT the purposes of the Combined and is also chief executive of plc, an executive director of BTR Group plc and Rexam PLC, and a Code on Corporate Governance.
BPs Exploration & Production plc and a non-executive director former non-executive director of business.
He is a Fellow of the of PowerGen plc and Equant NV.
Rolls-Royce Group plc and former Royal Academy of Engineering Appointed: 2005 Age: 59 chairman of HMV Group plc.
Company Secretary and a Fellow of the Institute Appointed: 2008 Age: 62 2,5 10.
Sir Nigel Rudd David Parkes of Mechanical Engineers.
2 Sir Nigel Rudd is currently 12.
Ravi Uppal Andy Inglis chairs the Boards chairman of BAA Limited and Appointed to the Board on Corporate Responsibility Pendragon plc, and deputy 2 April 2008, Ravi Uppal is Committee.
chairman of Barclays PLC and managing director and chief Appointed: 2007 Age: 49 Invensys plc.
He was formerly executive officer of L&T Power 1,3 8.
Sir Peter Mason KBE chairman of Alliance Boots Limited, a member of the Larsen Sir Peter Mason is the nonGroup PLC and Pilkington plc.
& Toubro group which operates executive chairman of Thames He also holds a number of other in the technical, engineering, Water and a non-executive public appointments, including construction and manufacturing director of Acergy S. A.
He was chairman of the CBIs sector and is one of the largest formerly chief executive of AMEC Boardroom Issues Group.
companies in Indias private plc, executive director of BICC Sir Nigel chairs the Boards sector.
He was previously plc, chairman and chief executive Remuneration Committee.
President, Global Markets of Balfour Beatty Limited and He is a Fellow of the Institute for the power and automation chief executive of Norwest Holst of Chartered Accountants technology group ABB Limited Group PLC.
Sir Peter has been in England and Wales.
where he was responsible for appointed the Boards Senior Appointed: 2006 Age: 62 ABBs marketing and business Independent Director.
Carl Symon Appointed: 2003 Age: 62 1 Member of the Audit Committee.
Prior to that he was Appointed to the Board on 2 Member of the Corporate Responsibility 1,5 managing director of Volvo India, 9.
Roberto Quarta 11 June 2008, Carl Symon Committee.
3 Member of the Nominations Committee.
establishing that corporations Roberto Quarta is a partner in retired from IBM in 2001 4 Member of the Non-Executive Directors the private equity firm Clayton, having held a number of senior business in India.
Appointed: 2008 Age: 56 5 Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Dubilier & Rice, in connection positions in the US, Europe, 78 9 10 11 12 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 65
