DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Resources The Groups key resources and Our key resources arrangements include the people it employs, its relationships with are fundamental customers, subcontractors and other suppliers, research and development, to the success and intellectual property.
These resources, together with the application of the of the Group mandated policies and processes in the Operational Framework, help the Group to achieve its strategy.
People These include regular employee surveys, global, regional and departmental newsletters, and a global intranet site.
We also The contribution made by the Groups employees is fundamental to its success.
Through global implementation of its People Policy engage with our people through employee representative bodies the Group obliges each employee to contribute to the creation of and trade unions.
The effectiveness of the communication an inclusive work environment where individuals are respected, process is assessed regularly.
the value of having a diverse workforce is recognised and the Employees are actively encouraged to become shareholders recruitment, employment and development of people is based in the Company by way of all-employee share schemes.
on qualifications, skills and competencies to do the job.
This helps the Group attract and retain highly talented people who can deliver This year, the Groups biennial employee opinion survey was the systems and services that its customers need.
completed by more than 58,000 employees.
See page 53 for more details.
The Groups workforce encompasses the broad spectrum of skills and experience needed to deliver a full range of systems and services for air, land and naval forces as well as advanced electronics, information technology solutions and customer support services.
The Group works in partnership with education providers in its home markets to ensure that there continues to Partnering with customers be a supply of talented and qualified people to fill its early career programmes for university graduates and apprentices.
We invest in education schemes with a particular emphasis on promoting An example of the UK Defence Industrial Strategy in action is a new partnering the teaching and study of science, technology, engineering and arrangement known as Munitions Acquisition the Supply Solution MASS.
BAESystems and the UK Ministry of Defence entered into a 15-year agreement for supplies of ammunition to UK troops which includes opportunities to share The Group drives high performance through its Performance savings achieved through improved performance, innovation, overseas sales and Centred Leadership PCL process.
PCL is a mandated core the expansion of scope.
Under the agreement, we will invest over 120m in new, process under the Operational Framework and addresses the highly automated facilities.
setting of objectives and performance assessment together with the determination of reward, development needs and potential.
It drives business success by linking individuals goals with the wider goals of the organisation, enabling employees to understand how their own success contributes to the success of the Group.
The Groups 2008 target to increase the roll-out of PCL by a further 500, to a total of 6,700 executives worldwide, was achieved.
The Group is committed to equal opportunities regardless of sex, race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, age, sexual orientation or disability, subject to considerations of national security and the territories in which it operates.
The Group operates a policy that discrimination against any person on the grounds of disability shall not be tolerated.
The Group has put into place a number of ways of consulting with employees, and providing them with information on the performance of the Group and other matters that affect them.
com In 2007, the Group declared its aspiration and commitment Research and Development R&D to achieving a level of safety comparable with the best in class.
The Group is engaged in significant R&D programmes in support The Board actively monitors days lost to work-related injuries, of the platforms, systems, services and capabilities that it provides to its customers.
These cover a wide range of work and a key performance indicator relating to corporate responsibility.
See page 27 for more details.
include performance innovations, improvements to manufacturing techniques and technology to improve the through-life support of Relationships with customers products.
Long-term research is undertaken through partnerships The Group regards the relationship with its customers as a key with the academic sector and in the Groups Advanced Technology discriminator in a competitive industry.
Its core businesses are Centre and Systems Engineering Innovation Centre.
mostly defence related, selling products and services primarily Application of this research is managed through business-focused in our home markets and to other national governments, both R&D programmes.
Customers fund directly much of the near-term directly and indirectly through other defence and aerospace product development work undertaken by the Group.
In many cases these relationships extend over expenditure for the Group amounted to 1,044m 2007 1,460m, decades and span the full product and service lifecycle from of which 211m 2007 176m was funded by the Group.
initial concept definition, through the system development phase, into production and then on to support for the system in service.
Intellectual property Intellectual property is created every day, taking many forms, This lifecycle approach is used as the basis for Lifecycle both in tangible products and know how developed over the Management LCM, which is a mandated core process under the years.
The Operational Framework mandates a policy to protect Operational Framework.
LCM provides a structured approach to the Groups intellectual property through appropriate use and managing the Groups commitments and investments throughout observance of intellectual property law, so that returns made product and project lifecycles, promoting the application of best from the investment in R&D and technological innovation are practice management and facilitating continuous improvement.
protected, and valuable commercial and business innovations, Under LCM, programme margin variation and schedule adherence all of which contribute to the Groups competitive advantage, are regularly reviewed to monitor the Groups performance in relation are adequately safeguarded.
to contract profitability and milestone achievement.
These are key performance indicators relating to programme execution.
See page The Group filed patent applications covering over 200 new 26 for more information.
inventions in 2008 in support of its global businesses, and has a total portfolio of patents and patent applications covering Throughout this lifecycle, the Group engages extensively with its more than 1,700 inventions worldwide.
customers and undertakes customer satisfaction surveys as part of its drive for continuous performance improvement.
The Group targets year-on-year improvement in customer satisfaction.
This is a key performance indicator relating to programme execution.
See page 26 for more information.
Increasingly contracts are being awarded for the delivery of a capability, rather than just a product.
Reflecting this new approach, traditional customer relationships are evolving into long-term Innovation and technology partnerships with governments and their armed forces.
Subcontractors and other suppliers Developing new technology is vital to the future of BAE Systems.
The Groups Managing major subcontracts is a key strategic capability.
HybriDrive propulsion system powers New Yorks hybrid electric bus fleet, the Expenditure on subcontractors often represents a significant worlds largest, and growing hybrid fleets in Toronto, San Francisco, Houston, portion of project cost and effective management of this Ottawa and London.
expenditure is a key value driver for our Group.
The benefits of capability-based contracting, combined with ongoing budget pressures, are leading many customers to demand a more integrated partnering approach to meeting their requirements.
Transforming relationships with suppliers is an essential part of developing systems integration and through-life management capabilities.
The Group is committed to improving supply chain relationships and working together with other companies, large and small, in each of the Groups home markets to deliver better value and innovation for its customers.
The Groups Centre for Performance Excellence has identified best practices in managing major subcontracts from across BAE Systems and industry.
Best practice in managing major subcontracts is embedded in the Groups processes, guidance and training to help deliver on commitments to customers.
This directly aligns with the Groups strategic objectives of enhancing programme execution capabilities, sharing of best practice between the Groups global businesses and embedding a high-performance culture.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 21 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Performance Delivering global performance Performance contents 3 Key Performance Indicators KPIs 24 Financial review 28 Operating group reviews 35 Electronics, Intelligence & Support 36 Land & Armaments 38 Programmes & Support 40 International 42 HQ & Other Businesses 44 Operating group performance summary 45 22 www.
com BAE Systems drives a culture of service excellence, working in partnership with the Royal Air Force to provide throughlife support for Typhoon.
We will meet our customers needs by delivering a comprehensive and flexible capability throughout the life of the aircraft.
