DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Operating group reviews continued The Electronics, Intelligence & Support Electronics, 1 operating group, with 33,900 employees and headquartered in the US, designs, Intelligence develops, produces and services systems and subsystems for a wide range of military &Support and commercial applications.
The operating group comprises four lines of business: Electronic Solutions, Information Solutions, Platform Solutions and Support Solutions.
In 2008, Electronics, Intelligence & Support EI&S achieved Financial highlights 2 1 underlying EBITA of 506m 2007 437m on sales of 4,459m 2007 3,916m and generated operating cash 1 3 Like-for-like organic sales growth of 6% over 2007 inflow of 380m 2007 302m.
1 2 On a like-for-like basis, sales growth was 6% over 2007.
Underlying EBITA includes a credit of 23m from share scheme mark-to-market accounting In June, BAE Systems completed the acquisition of MTC 1 Technologies which contributed post-acquisition sales 1 Order book increased 2 of $181m 98m and underlying EBITA of $2m 1m.
Performance Electronic Solutions The low-rate initial production contract for the US Navys decoy 2008 2007 2006 system on the F A-18 E F Super Hornet was received.
The 1 Sales 4,459m 3,916m 4,007m system provides aircraft defence against radar-guided missiles.
2 Underlying EBITA restated 506m 437m 429m The F-35 Lightning II low-rate initial production LRIP of two Return on sales 11.3% 11.2% 10.7% electronic warfare suites continues, with existing funding 3 providing deliveries through to 2012.
Cash inflow 380m 302m 273m 1 Order intake 4,904m 4,178m 4,311m BAE Systems was selected as a partner in developing and 1  Order book 5.2bn 3.5bn 3.4bn Systems JTRS,  Key points , enhance decision-making, .
Withthisaward, BAE Systems is now a partner on all five programmes that Maintained leadership in electronic warfare systems comprise JTRS, the family of  tactical Won key IT, situational awareness and aviation radios that will permit combat personnel to communicate at sustainment contracts every level of command.
Deliveries commenced under a five-year contract to provide thermal Addressing market for vehicle power management imaging modules for the US Armys Common Remotely Operated systems Weapon System that allows soldiers to detect and identify targets Sustained leadership in US non-nuclear ship repair while remaining protected in their vehicles.
To date, orders received under this contract total $110m 76m.
A $169m 116m Increased research and development investment extension from the US Army for continued production of thermal weapon sights was received.
This programme has a production Looking forward rate of 1,500 units per month, with more than 37,000 delivered by the end of 2008.
BAE Systems projects further growth as it delivers on In support of homeland security and safety, JETEYE, the infrared its record order book and builds on existing enterprise aircraft missile defence system, began its nine-month evaluation capabilities, and continued research and development aboard civilian passenger aircraft in July and First InterComm, expenditure, to meet expected customer demand in an interoperable communications and data solution system for cyber-space activity, and through-life product support first responders, has been deployed in seven US states.
of defence and aerospace electronics programmes.
Growth in services, mission support and sustainment markets is expected to continue.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding profit loss on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories.
Restated to exclude profit loss on disposal of businesses.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments.
com US defence research and development programmes launched in Innovation 2008 included bio-inspired, miniature,  robots, tactical ultra-low visibility communications, advanced night vision technology, and all-weather advanced persistent surveillance BAE Systems is leading a team of scientists to develop miniature robots to systems.
These programmes represent the strengthening of improve military situational awareness.
The business signed a $38m 26m core business areas as well as advances into new market areas.
contract with the US Army Research Laboratory to develop autonomous, multi-functional  robots that can operate in places too inaccessible or dangerous for humans.
Information Solutions Our Information Technology business continues to be ranked in the top 25 by Computer World Magazine as a Best Place to Work in IT.
Five multiple and one single-award indefinite delivery indefinite quantity contracts were received in the year, including a position on the Defense Information Systems Agencys Encore II contract.
Platform Solutions Following the launch of its improved HybriDrivepropulsion system, BAE Systems partner, Alexander Dennis, delivered its first double-deck hybrid electric bus to Transport for London with the buses scheduled to enter revenue-service testing in 2009.
BAE Systems also expanded the global reach of the HybriDrive programme by entering into agreements with Japans ISUZU and North Americas New Flyer Industries.
Collaborating with Land & Armaments, the business will provide power management components on board the Warrior demonstration vehicle supporting the UK Ministry of Defence programme to create an architecture that allows vehicles to power systems such as communications and electronic warfare suites.
The same architecture will allow future upgrades to add more accessories and convert hydraulic systems to electrically Support Solutions powered systems.
The US Air Force named BAE Systems one of 12 prime contractors on the Future Flexible Acquisition and Sustainment Tool contract.
This indefinite delivery indefinite quantity contract, under which prime contractors compete for task orders, has a total potential Capability value of $6.9bn 4.8bn.
The contract will address future US Air Force requirements for modifications, development, and maintenance of weapon systems managed by the US Air Force EI&Ss UK site became an Authorised Economic Operator and the first multinational organisation to attain this industry standard for supply chain and Air Force Special Operations Command.
The European Union certification gives priority customs clearance BAE Systems received a US Air Force contract to support and increased security for shipments entering or leaving the European Union, helping drive integration of the EI&S global supply base.
the Tactical Air Control Party TACP Modernisation Vehicular Communications System programme.
With an initial value of $120m 83m and a maximum potential value of $233m 161m, BAE Systems will design, produce and install state-of-the-art communications for up to 400 TACP ground vehicles.
In the ship repair business, work continues at the San Diego shipyard to maintain, repair, and modernise the guided missile cruiser USS Bunker Hill, and efforts are progressing on a five-year multi-ship, multi-option contract to maintain and repair all Arleigh Burke-class destroyers.
The US Navy awarded BAE Systems a post-shakedown availability contract for destroyers and a multi-ship multi-option award for repairs to mine countermeasures ships.
In June, the acquisition of MTC Technologies provided the business with increased technical and professional service capabilities, and equipment integration and modernisation capabilities for the US military and intelligence customers.
In 2008, the Technology Solutions and Services business won all of its major recompetes.
