DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Market review home markets Our global business is based around six Our home home markets in Australia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sweden, the UK and US.
markets These are markets identified as having a significant and sustained commitment to defence and security and an openness to foreign investment.
They are also markets where we have a good existing position in their defence industrial base along with strong customer relationships.
We intend to invest and grow in these markets.
The United States is the worlds largest single defence market, estimated to account for approximately 44% of total global expenditure in 2007.
Within this market, BAE Systems is a large and Sweden high-performing part of the defence industrial base employees: and ranked number six among the leading US defence 1,600 contractors in 2007.
The Electronics, Intelligence & Support EI&S and Land & Armaments L&A operating groups employ almost 47,000 people across 38 states.
UK employees: Market environment 32,800 The near-term outlook for US defence spending remains relatively strong with estimated 2008 total spending levels of US$672bn, the highest in real terms since World War II.
Supplemental spending continues but is expected to decline as it is anticipated that the US will scale back its operations in Iraq.
Uncertainty increases beyond 2010 pending decisions to be made by the new US administration although support for defence spending is expected US to remain robust.
employees: The US is one of BAE Systems key markets and is 46,900 expected to continue offering programme scale and high levels of investment in research and development.
The Group has continued to grow in the US, leveraging its market leadership positions in areas such as land vehicles and electronic warfare, and is also introducing new capabilities to meet customer needs.
Opportunities Demand continued through 2008 for our wide range of high technology systems and sensors, and for the reset and upgrade of tracked vehicles.
We also saw a peak in demand for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP vehicles.
Our Business Portfolio Actions include growing our EI&S business both organically and via acquisitions, as well as implementing our global land systems 1 strategy.
Future growth opportunities exist in areas such as cyber-space activity, through-life product support, services, mission support and sustainment.
We will continue to pursue opportunities globally leveraging leadership positions in Tracked Combat Systems, Medium Tactical Vehicles, Mine Resistant United States Vehicles, Armour and Survivability Technologies and United Kingdom Artillery Systems.
Additionally, the acquisition of MTC Other home markets Technologies in June further strengthened our position Note: Employee numbers exclude the Groups in the US readiness and sustainment market.
share of equity accounted investments.
1 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR p10 STRATEGY SEE PAGE 10 16 www.
com United Kingdom Overall defence spending in the UK Other home markets is at a low level of real growth despite commitments to operations in Afghanistan and Iraq which have Australia resulted in high levels of activity due to Urgent Australia maintains its commitment to defence and the new Operational Requirements.
government has restated a commitment to 3% real growth in defence spending out to 2017.
This commitment has been demonstrated by a number of high profile procurements over The Groups UK-based businesses have a key role in supporting the last few years including Abrams main battle tanks, new the UK armed forces as well as developing security and resilience helicopters and C-17 transport aircraft.
Some 32,800 people are employed in The acquisition of Tenix Defence in June, with its capabilities the UK.
in the naval and land sectors, means that BAE Systems is now Market environment the industry leader in the Australian defence market.
The defence market in the UK is expected to become more Saudi Arabia challenging in the coming years and a strategic defence review is Saudi Arabia is expected to remain one of the heaviest defence expected following the next general election.
Defence expenditure spenders in the world, having dedicated around 10% of GDP over was 2.4% of GDP for 2007 08. the last few years, with a significant part of this spent on external The Groups UK businesses have a secure backlog of procurement.
All branches of the military are currently considering contracted business across large air systems and naval the upgrade or replacement of existing equipment.
The businesses are seeing the benefits The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is an important market for of the transition from development to production activity, and, BAE Systems and we continue to implement our home market as these platforms enter service, are expected to benefit from 1 strategy.
The Group continues to work to substantially increase through-life support contracts.
the number of Saudi nationals employed in the business.
Significant investments have been made both in new facilities Opportunities and in companies through which aerospace work is performed.
Our strategy is to establish in the UK sustainably profitable 1 through-life businesses in air, land and sea.
We continue to South Africa make progress in supporting the UK armed forces through One of the best trained militaries in sub-Saharan Africa, the partnering agreements in response to the UK Defence Industrial South African Defence Force, is currently undergoing a major Strategy DIS.
In 2008, we announced the formation of the re-equipment programme as a result of procurements approved naval shipbuilding joint venture BVT Surface Fleet, signed a by the government in 1999.
15-year partnering agreement with the UK MoD on munitions BAE Systems domestic presence is through Land Systems South supply and continued to make progress in supporting Africa, which has benefited from the US MRAP programme and in-service equipment.
the growing international requirement for mine protected vehicles.
The acquisition of Detica in September was a major step in In 2008, we further improved our position in the South African the implementation of our strategy to develop a security and market by acquiring IST Dynamics.
resilience business across our home markets.
Sweden The Swedish Armed Forces are in the midst of a transformation programme started in 1998 to refocus the military into a smaller, more mobile and flexible force able to both defend the homeland and contribute to international operations.
The Groups Swedish business has undergone restructuring to better meet the demands of the global defence market.
The business has a strong focus on exports with products such as the CV90 infantry fighting vehicle and a family of all-terrain vehicles.
Potential home markets We continue to look at opportunities to establish a home market presence in other countries such as India which has a strong Saudi Arabia employees: and sustained commitment to defence and is developing its 4,400 own domestic industrial capabilities.
We are actively exploring possible co-operation with potential partners.
Advisory boards An advisory board has been established to advise on the development of business in Saudi Arabia, and the Group is proposing to establish similar advisory boards in relation to India and other territories where the Group intends to establish operations.
The advisory board for each territory will typically consist of experts in the particular region who are external to the Group.
Australia employees: 6,100 South Africa employees: 800 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 17
