A key objective for the Board in 2008 was to appoint and achieve We have put in place a comprehensive three-year implementation programme with a dedicated resource drawn from across our a seamless transition to a new Chief Executive.
On 1 September 2008, the Board was pleased to announce the appointment of business.
In order for us to deliver this programme successfully, the outputs must quickly become part of how the Company Ian King as Chief Executive on the retirement of Mike Turner after conducts its day-to-day business as a key part of its total 42 years service with the Company.
Mike had been Chief Executive performance culture, one that fully embraces ethics, safety, since 2002 and led the turnaround of the business to todays high programme and financial performance.
I am sure our shareholders and other stakeholders join those of us from the Group in thanking Mike for Recognising the importance of our employees to the success his outstanding contribution to the success of BAE Systems.
of the Group, I am pleased to report that two were honoured by Her Majesty the Queen in the 2008 Birthday Honours and 2009 Key to that success has been the development and execution New Years Honours lists: Guy Griffiths, Group Managing Director, of a clear strategy.
The Group continues to benefit from delivery 1 International, was appointed a CBE and John Harris, a shipwright against our strategic framework.
Prior to his appointment as with Submarine Solutions, was appointed an MBE.
Chief Executive, Ian King was a key part of the executive team that developed that strategy and contributed to its successful The Chairmans Award scheme recognises employees and implementation over a number of years.
Ian now leads the industry partners for outstanding, new and innovative ways team and we look forward to supporting him in the continued in which they shape BAE Systems and contribute to its global development of the business.
We celebrated another very successful awards programme in December, reminding all of us of the strong I was also pleased to welcome two new non-executive directors to innovation and technological capability of our 106,400 people.
Ravi Uppal joined in April and Carl Symon in June.
Peter Weinberg retired from the Board in May and I would With our belief in the good outlook for the Group the Board has like to extend our thanks to Peter for his contribution to the Group.
recommended an increased final dividend of 8.7p making a total of 14.5p for the year, an increase of 13.3% over 2007.
At this Following Peters retirement from the Board, Andy Inglis has assumed level, the annual dividend is covered 2.6 times by underlying responsibility for the Boards Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Subject to shareholder approval at the The Group is determined that it should be recognised as a leader 2009 Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 1 June in responsible business worldwide and we continue to strive 2009 to holders of ordinary shares registered on 24 April 2009. for ways to improve our business and its reputation.
That is why we asked the Woolf Committee, led by Lord Woolf, to carry out a comprehensive independent review to identify not only the high ethical business standards to which a global company such as BAE Systems should adhere, but also the extent to which the Group currently meets these standards and to recommend the actions to be taken to achieve such standards, and publicly report on its findings.
Appointing the Woolf Committee to undertake this review was a bold move, but we also went one step further and gave a commitment to act on all the Committees recommendations before even seeing the report.
The report was published in May last year, and we are moving fast to implement all recommendations and are already rolling out Dick Olver Chairman a new Global Code of Conduct.
1 FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR p10 STRATEGY SEE PAGE 10 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 3 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Strategy Pursuing our strategy to leverage global capability Strategy contents 2 Chief Executives review 6 Strategic overview 10 Strategy in action 12 Market review global 15 Market review home markets 16 Operational Framework 18 Executive leadership 19 Resources 20 4 www.
com BAE Systems range of global capabilities in sensors and systems, such as the Long-Range Radar from our Integrated System Technologies Insyte business, provides our customers with the power to see, the information to decide, and the knowledge to command.
