DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Strategy in action : Leveraging global capability in readiness and Establish in the UK Grow our EI&S Implement a home Implement our Continue to develop sustainably profitable business both market strategy to global land our global markets through life businesses organically and grow in the Kingdom systems strategy in Air, Land and Sea via acquisitions of Saudi Arabia sustainment Readiness and sustainment describes the provision of through-life Through JAVELIN, and in partnership with the UK MoD, the Group is operational capability for the armed forces, embracing a wide responsible for fleet maintenance management and maintenance range of activities to support and sustain equipment and systems.
policy with performance incentivised against aircraft availability.
Set within the context of both a demanding operational tempo On Typhoon, the UK MoD has already awarded the Group a and a challenging financial environment, effective readiness contract to provide a guaranteed repair service for key Typhoon and sustainment programmes can deliver increased operational aircraft components.
This represents a significant step towards availability of systems and equipment at reduced cost.
In establishing a partnered through-life support availability service response to customer demands, the Group has developed a and supports the underlying principles behind the UK governments partnered support approach which is providing cost savings and efficiencies while also providing a substantial business stream for the Group.
Recognising the growth potential in the through-life support market, the Group has established the Australian Hawk Lead-In Fighter readiness and sustainment global initiative to accelerate the deployment of our capabilities in this area across our businesses.
The Hawk Lead-In Fighter project is viewed as the role model for future In the UK, the Groups involvement in the support of Royal Air through-life support contracting in Australia.
Under a performance-based Force RAF aircraft has been expanded into contracts to manage contract, BAESystems ensures the aircraft are delivered in line with customer the maintenance and support of whole aircraft fleets.
These requirements by continuously improving ways of working with our customer.
This partnership approach helps to reduce cost while maintaining the availability include Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft Contract of the aircraft to meet the needs of the Royal Australian Air Force.
ATTAC, Harrier Joint Upgrade and Maintenance Programme JUMP, Nimrod MR2 and the VC-10 Joint Approach to VC-10 Engineering and Logistics Integration JAVELIN.
The ATTAC partnership provides the RAF with whole-platform availability support.
In a partnered arrangement with the RAF and the UK MoD, the Group currently has some 430 staff including contractors at RAF Marham and manages a large element of deep support which has resulted in a significant reduction in Tornado flying hour costs.
At RAF Cottesmore, JUMP encompasses a number of Harrierrelated partnered support programmes.
Essential maintenance is combined with the upgrade of aircraft from Harrier GR7 to the Harrier GR9 standard.
JUMP has extended the operational life of the Harrier fleet, reduced customer costs and significantly improved aircraft availability to the front line.
For Nimrod MR2, the Group is responsible for on-aircraft depth maintenance, spares management and fleet maintenance management.
This includes maintenance of aircraft under the Nimrod Integrated Support Contract which has delivered a 40% increase in aircraft availability and reduced costs.
Although the VC-10 aircraft is approaching the end of its service life, it continues to provide an essential operational capability for the UK.
com Tornado ATTAC The Groups UK Tornado support programme is a key Under the ATTAC agreement, BAE Systems has taken ATTAC is an availability contract where BAE Systems example of how BAE Systems is meeting customer responsibility for deep support at RAF Marham, and is responsible for ensuring the required aircraft, at demands for through-life capability and support.
The combines this with a capability development and an agreed capability, are provided to the front line, Tornado Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft sustainment service as a structured and cost-effective while saving the UK MoD some 500m over an Contract ATTAC programme includes on-aircraft approach to inserting new capability into the aircraft, initial ten-year period.
maintenance of the Tornado GR4 aircraft fleet, so as to maintain its war-fighting effectiveness spares support, technical support and training.
The Typhoon Availability Service In the US, through-life support is often referred to as readiness TAS is expected to be progressively contracted for from 2009. and sustainment, and the Group has capabilities throughout its businesses.
These range from the Groups ship repair facilities Within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Group has developed which provide complete marine repair, modernisation and extensive support capabilities over several decades.
The conversion services, to the upgrade, reset and support of Group continues to provide significant support to both Royal armoured fighting vehicles.
The Groups FastTrack contract Saudi Air Force RSAF and Royal Saudi Naval Forces operations.
provides the US Navy with an affordable, performance-based In particular, steps are being taken with the RSAF to maintain solution to the challenging issue of providing continuing spare the capability of its Tornado aircraft while extending their parts availability for ageing US military aircraft.
The acquisition of MTC Technologies, a provider of technical In Australia, in addition to supporting the Hawk Lead-In Fighter and professional services and equipment integration, was an aircraft, the acquisition of Tenix Defence, a diversified provider of important step in addressing growth in the US readiness and engineering and technical maintenance services to the Australian sustainment markets and has added to our existing capabilities.
Defence Force, has provided us with the opportunity to enhance our through-life support services and capabilities to the land and naval forces.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 13 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Strategy in action continued : Leveraging a global capability in security Establish in the UK Grow our EI&S Implement a home Implement our Continue to develop sustainably profitable business both market strategy to global land our global markets through life businesses organically and grow in the Kingdom systems strategy in Air, Land and Sea via acquisitions of Saudi Arabia BAE Systems has identified the security market as an evolving The Group expects the historically fragmented security sector to and growing business opportunity that continues to benefit from consolidate and grow as customers requirements evolve around increasing government attention.
While the security market more integrated information intelligence solutions.
The combination covers a broad range of sectors, the Groups focus is on of Deticas well-established customer relationships and technical information and intelligence.
The Group established a strategic capabilities and BAE Systems system integration capabilities will objective for 2008 of establishing security businesses in its home result in a depth of financial and technical capability to address markets.
In parallel with organic investment, the acquisition of growth opportunities and better serve customers in this area.
Detica in 2008 accelerated implementation of its strategy to Governments, the military, financial institutions and private address these opportunities.
businesses amass a great deal of information about their The digital revolution the widespread diffusion of customers, products, research and financial status, and protection telecommunications and computer technology has driven of this confidential information is key to their sustainability.
The exceptional economic and social development.
A decade ago Group provides innovative thinking and solutions in the area of very little was digital, now the vast majority of information is information exploitation to create actionable intelligence.
digitised and volumes are growing at an exponential rate.
The Detica works with the UK government in areas such as countergrowth of the internet, which has stimulated this explosion, now terrorism, serious and organised crime, identity management, and makes it impossible to conceive of a modern economy operating immigration and border control.
Clients include agencies within without it.
However, the digital revolution is both exploited by, and intelligence and defence sectors as well as the Department for vulnerable to, terrorists and criminals who have increased their Transport, the Metropolitan Police and HM Revenue and Customs.
threat potential through this new environment.
Much of our work in this market is at the heart of our clients mission, and focuses on large scale data integration and the application of advanced analytical techniques.
With larger and Detica longer-term delivery contracts becoming increasingly important, the Group expects to benefit from the UK governments increasing Demonstrating BAE Systems strategic objective of growth into adjacent markets focus on intelligence, security and resilience.
is the acquisition of the information intelligence capability provider, Detica.
The Groups broad geographic footprint provides substantial In the UK, Detica has established itself as a leading consultancy servicing the counter-threat agenda and its acquisition will help BAE Systems establish opportunities to grow its security business across its other home security businesses in its home markets, accelerating planned organic growth markets.
In particular, existing activities and structures in the US in the national security sector.
provide a platform to apply Deticas capabilities into the US homeland security market.
With terrorism remaining a mainstream political issue which continues to affect governments and the public, it is anticipated that there will be a requirement for protection strategies in counterterrorism, border controls and critical national infrastructure which will need collaboration across agencies and government departments.
The growth of identity theft has accelerated the development of new approaches to identifying and combating increasingly complex forms of internal and external fraud.
With relationships at the heart of the security community in both the UK and the US, BAE Systems is now in a position to utilise its capabilities in the security sector across the Atlantic and in our other home markets.
Detica has previously benefited from contracts such as the UK US collaborative Joint Narcotics Analysis Centre and from the award of a contract for the Detica NetRevealsoftware from the US Internal Revenue Service.
