DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a range of financial and Monitoring our non-financial performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to monitor performance the Groups performance over time.
Directors remuneration is linked to certain of these measures.
Financial Link to strategy Financial KPIs are used to measure financial performance which underpins the Groups Strategic Objectives, Business Portfolio Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
Progress development of security business 6.
Grow our US business, including Committee top ten objectives through investments 7.
Progress the business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 8.
Continue to implement the UK Defence Industrial Strategy 9.
Progress export opportunities 1 Measure Order intake bn Sales bn Underlying EBITA restated m 1 Description Order intake represents the Sales represents the amounts Underlying EBITA is used by the value of funded orders received derived from the provision of Group for internal performance from customers in the year.
It is goods and services, and includes analysis as a measure of operating a measure of in-year performance the Groups share of sales of its profitability that is comparable and supports future years equity accounted investments.
Performance 2008: 21.3bn 0.5% 2008: 18.5bn 18% 2008: 1,897m 31% 2007: 21.2bn 2007: 15.7bn 2007: 1,449m 1,897 18.5 21.3 21.2 15.7 1,449 13.8 12.6 1,194 12.1 957 05 06 07 08 05 06 07 08 05 06 07 08 1 Comment The years intake has benefited from The significant increase in sales Underlying EBITA increased high demand for armoured wheeled this year has primarily been driven in line with the improved 2008 vehicles in the US, awards for the by the Land & Armaments operating sales performance and a 1.0 new 15-year UK munitions capability group due to high armoured wheeled percentage point improvement contract and Saudi Tornado vehicle volumes in the US and fullin return on sales.
Sustainment Programme, and the year impact of the Armor acquisition.
Groups share of the Future Carrier award.
Prior year intake included the Saudi Typhoon contract.
Links to further information Further explanation of these Group financial KPIs for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007 are included within the Financial review on pages 28 to 32.
Individual operating group financial KPIs are included within the Operating group reviews on pages 36 to 44, and a reconciliation to the Group KPIs is presented on page 45.
Further information is given within the Remuneration report on pages 75 to 93.
1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding profit loss on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories.
Restated to exclude profit loss on disposal of businesses.
2 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, profit loss on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories.
com 15.9 2 Measure Underlying earnings per Operating business share EPS restated p cash flow m 2 Description Underlying earnings represent Operating business cash flow profit for the year attributable to represents net cash flow from equity shareholders from continuing operating activities after capital operations excluding amortisation expenditure net and financial and impairment of intangible assets, investments, and dividends from non-cash finance movements on equity accounted investments.
pensions and financial derivatives, profit loss on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories see note 10 to the Group accounts.
Underlying EPS provides a measure of shareholder return that is comparable over time.
utilisation of Saudi Typhoon advances received in 2007 and an agreed repayment to the UK Ministry of Defence in respect of the Astute programme.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 25 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Key Performance Indicators KPIs continued Programme execution Link to strategy Excellence in programme execution is at the core of the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
Partnering relationships with our customers are increasingly important to the long-term future and sustainability of the Group.
Further enhance programme execution through schedule and Committee top ten objectives cost performance Measure Programme margin variation Schedule adherence Customer satisfaction Description Programme margin variation Schedule adherence measures Customer satisfaction surveys are measures outturn projections the timing of achievement of key used to collect customer opinions on of and movements in margin milestones.
It shows how well we key customer-funded projects.
This of key customer-funded projects.
are performing against our stated provides an opportunity for customers It provides an indicator of our key contract commitments.
to share information on perceived ability to effectively manage performance levels, and identify major programmes.
areas of strength and weakness.
Performance The Group targets an aggregated The Group targets an aggregated The Group targets an aggregated year-on-year improvement in improvement in schedule adherence year-on-year improvement in programme margin across its metrics relating to milestones customer satisfaction across major contracts.
The targeted across its major contracts.
This targeted improvement was achieved.
Comment Contract management metrics are Contract management metrics are Plans to improve the performance consistently used by the Board consistently used by the Board on those contracts reporting a to provide oversight of contract to provide oversight of contract deterioration in customer satisfaction performance.
These metrics can only performance.
These metrics can only are being implemented on a be fully interpreted and understood be fully interpreted and understood contract-by-contract basis.
on a contract-by-contract basis on a contract-by-contract basis and, therefore, aggregated data and, therefore, aggregated data is not presented.
Links to further information Programme margin variation, schedule adherence and customer satisfaction are regularly reviewed under Lifecycle Management LCM, which is a mandated core business process under the Operational Framework.
It provides a structured approach to managing commitments and investments throughout project and product lifecycles.
Further information on LCM is given on pages 21 and 67.
com Mandated policies Corporate and processes responsibility High standards of corporate Link to strategy Having a high-performance culture underpins the Groups ability responsibility are essential to to achieve its strategy.
the Groups strategy of delivering sustainable growth.
Ensure continued application of business policies and processes 10.
Continue to drive performance Committee top ten objectives in safety, ethics and diversity Measure Operational Assurance Performance Centred Safety Statement OAS Leadership PCL Description The OAS requires that each part PCL addresses the setting of Days lost to work-related injuries of the business completes a formal objectives and performance is monitored to minimise the risk review of its compliance against the assessment, together with to our employees and our Operational Framework, including the determination of reward, operations, and drive continual operational and financial controls, development needs and potential, performance improvement.
and risk management processes, of the Groups employees.
The level of application of mandated policies is assessed against defined scoring criteria.
Where scores are below the minimum standard, action plans to achieve the minimum standard are implemented.
Performance 1 10,204 10,084 47% 562 9,336 8,774 Improvement Additional employees The Group targeted an improvement The Group target was to increase in scores below the minimum by 20% the roll-out of PCL from 6,200 to during 2008.
The actual improvement 6,700 executives across the Group.
Newly PCL was deployed to 6,762 acquired businesses are targeted to 05 06 07 08 employees across the Group.
reach minimum standard in 75% of 08 Days lost to work-related injuries mandated policies within 12 months per 100,000 employees of acquisition.
The ex-Armor Holdings business achieved 88% compliance.
Comment The Tenix, Detica and ex-VT Group The 2008 target was exceeded.
The Group targeted a 10% businesses acquired during Roll-out of PCL to the newly reduction in the gap between the year have been excluded acquired businesses will continue Group performance and the from the analysis.
The 2008 in 2009. external benchmark of 2,000 OAS submissions for these days lost per 100,000 employees.
businesses will be used to The target was not met as the measure achievement of this actual reduction was just over objective in 2009.
Links to further information OAS is a mandated policy under the PCL is a mandated core process Further information on the Groups Operational Framework.
Further under the Operational Framework.
performance is given within the information on the Operational Further information on PCL is given Corporate responsibility review on pages 48 to 55.
Framework is given on page 18. on page 20 and in the Corporate Directors remuneration is linked governance section on page 67. to certain of these measures.
