DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE Operating group reviews continued The Programmes & Support operating group, Programmes 1 with 30,200 employees, comprises the Groups UK-based air and naval activities, &Support the activities of the acquired Detica security business and the Integrated System Technologies business.
2 During 2008, Programmes & Support achieved underlying EBITA Financial highlights 1 of 491m 2007 456m on sales of 4,638m 2007 5,327m 3 and generated an operating cash inflow of 651m 2007 807m.
1 1 Sales reduced over 2007 on Brunei OPV completion The lower sales in 2008 reflect the transition from Typhoon Tranche 1 deliveries to Tranche 2 and completion in 2007 of the and transition to Typhoon Tranche 2 deliveries Brunei Offshore Patrol Vessel OPV contract.
The acquisition of 1 Return on sales improved to 10.6% 1 2 Detica in September contributed sales and underlying EBITA of 55m and 9m, respectively.
Typhoon Tranche 2 pricing agreed Military Air Solutions Performance Military Air Solutions is responsible for delivering a range of military programmes including Typhoon, Hawk, Nimrod MRA4, F-35 Lightning 2008 2007 2006 II and autonomous air vehicles.
In addition, it is responsible for 1 Sales 4,638m 5,327m 4,615m through-life support to Harrier, Hawk, Tornado, Nimrod MR2, E-3D 2 Sentry and VC-10 aircraft.
Underlying EBITA restated 491m 456m 331m Return on sales 10.6% 8.6% 7.2% The business made good progress during 2008 in delivering on 3 its programme commitments.
Work continues with the UK MoD Cash inflow 651m 807m 449m to explore whether a long-term partnering agreement LTPA in 1 Order intake 4,195m 9,091m 5,178m the air sector may provide mutual value to both parties.
1 Order book 19.8bn 20.9bn 17.0bn Delivery of Typhoon aircraft to the four partner nations continues Key points with a cumulative total of 57 aircraft delivered to the UK and 97 to the other European partner nations.
All Tranche 1 aircraft have now been delivered and Tranche 2 deliveries commenced.
In October, Successful transition to start of Typhoon Tranche 2 the first flight of a Typhoon aircraft for the Saudi customer took deliveries place marking the start of the flight test programme.
BVT naval joint venture formed In the UK, Royal Air Force RAF Typhoons are operational in Air Defence and Quick Reaction Alert roles, and have a full multi-role Manufacturing contract for Future Carriers secured capability.
Discussions to establish a long-term, availability-based Detica acquisition completed support contract are progressing.
Work has also commenced on further air-to-ground capability enhancements.
Discussions First Type 45 successfully delivered off contract regarding the Tranche 3 requirements of each of the four partner nations are ongoing.
Looking forward On the Hawk contract for India, 23 of the UK-built aircraft have been accepted by the customer and have been inducted to the Programmes & Support is driven by its existing order Indian Air Force.
Customer acceptance of the last of the 24 Hawk book and the level of future UK MoD funding to meet aircraft for South Africa took place in November.
current UK armed forces operational requirements The first five South African Gripen aircraft have been accepted by and delivery of the Defence Industrial Strategy.
The BVT joint venture is underpinned by the six ship Aircraft acceptances of the Hawk Mk128 Advanced Jet Trainer for Type 45 programme, the manufacturing phase of the RAF are expected to commence in early 2009, with RAF pilots the Future Aircraft Carrier CVF programme and then starting their Mk128 conversion flying programme.
under the Hawk Integrated Operational Support programme, and provision of synthetic training to RAF fast jet pilots, continues at Deticas position in the UK market means that it is RAF Valley.
well-positioned to benefit from increasing government focus on intelligence, security and resilience.
The current Nimrod MRA4 aircraft development programme is progressing with completion of the flight test programme and qualification of the aircraft systems expected during 2009.
All nine production standard aircraft are in manufacture.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding profit loss on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories.
Restated to exclude profit loss on disposal of businesses.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments.
com The contracts for VC-10, Sentry and Nimrod MR2 aircraft support for the engineering and build of blocks 2 and 4.
The cutting of steel continue, and a contract expansion for much of the on-base for the first ship is planned for spring 2009. engineering, logistics and technical support for the VC-10 has The programme to build six Type 45 Destroyers has progressed well been secured.
during the year with all key milestones being achieved, including the The Tornado availability programme, ATTAC, is in full service successful completion of sea trials and acceptance off contract by the customer of the first of class ship, HMS Daring.
and continues to perform in line with contractual milestones.
Both contracts to build three Ocean Patrol Vessels for the Royal The Harrier GR9 upgrade programme is on schedule.
The Harrier Navy of Oman and three Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Trinidad aircraft is currently providing close air support to UK military and Tobago Coastguard are projected to incur significant losses.
Discussions are progressing on contracting Consistent with estimates provided by BVT management, loss for a Harrier availability service.
provisions of 96m 53m at our 55% share have been recorded All three F-35 Lightning II aircraft variants, Carrier, Conventional Takethrough fair value accounting.
As a result of a review of these export Off and Landing, and Short Take-Off and Vertical Landing STOVL, contracts, which were contributed by VT into BVT, BAE Systems is are now in various stages of manufacture and assembly.
The STOVL in negotiation with VT regarding a possible injection of capital by variant had its maiden flight in June.
Low-rate initial production VT into the BVT business.
continues under contract from Lockheed Martin.
In September 2008, a contract was received to support the BAE Systems continues to leverage its expertise in Unmanned construction of two further Fast Attack Craft for the Hellenic Navy, Aircraft Systems UAS and position itself in this growth market.
In building on the successful contract for the previous five vessels.
addition to the existing Taranis programme, which is a key enabler The last of the three ex-Royal Navy Type 23 frigates for the to the UK MoDs evaluation of future requirements, BAE Systems Chilean Navy completed its reactivation and was handed over has entered into a jointly funded UK MoD Mantis advanced to the customer.
The aim of this programme is to demonstrate the potential of a large unmanned system to In January 2009, VT announced that it has decided to exercise support future operational needs.
The UAS portfolio also includes its put option to sell its interest in BVT to BAE Systems and that it the HERTI surveillance system.
The pre-production HERTI unmanned expects to be in a position to exercise that option by 1 July 2009. air system has been operating at fully active overseas customer airbases integrated with manned platform operations.
Submarine Solutions In a challenging year for the Astute programme, HMS Astute, the first The redundancy programme announced in April affecting over 600 of class, is now scheduled for delivery to the customer at the end of jobs at the Brough and Woodford sites is progressing towards its 2009.
Orders have been received to continue the build of boat 4 and 2010 completion.
for long lead items on boat 5.
BVT Surface Fleet Limited BVT 55% interest Detica The joint venture between BAE Systems and VT Group VT BAE Systems acquired Detica, a leading UK consultancy servicing was formed on 1 July 2008, creating the UKs leading provider the counter-threat agenda, in September 2008.
Detica employs of surface warship building and through-life support operations.
Detica helps its clients tackle terrorism and serious Following formation, BVT signed the manufacturing contract for the crime by helping them collect, manage and exploit information to Future Aircraft Carrier CVF and has assumed overall responsibility reveal actionable intelligence.
Services range from business and for delivery of the programme, including project management, technology consulting, system integration and support to the sale engineering, shipbuild and integration.
BVT is also responsible of proprietary hardware and software.
Detica assists clients with initiatives in areas such as counterterrorism, serious and organised crime, and immigration and border Autonomous systems control, as well as fraud detection and identity management through its sales of Detica NetRevealsoftware.
Its financial services The need to avoid exposing individuals to dangerous or difficult environments business remains challenged by current market conditions.
has driven the development of unmanned and autonomous systems.
The preDeticas sales for the full year increased by 20% on 2007 reflecting production HERTI unmanned air system has been operating at fully active overseas customer airbases integrated with manned platform operations.
higher sales to the UK government and, in particular, growth in sales of Detica NetRevealsoftware.
Integrated System Technologies Insyte Following the successful sea trials of the first of class Type 45 destroyer, HMS Daring, during 2008, the Sampson Radar, Combat Management System and Long Range Radar are all now fitted to the next three ships.
The Seawolf Mid-Life Update system has now passed successful system harbour trials and is undertaking sea trials on the Type 23 HMS Sutherland.
The establishment of the Maritime Composite Training Systems, state-of-the-art training facilities at HMS Collingwood and Royal Naval Base Devonport, will be achieved in 2009.
The Sting Ray lightweight torpedo programme remains ahead of schedule with the fourth batch of production weapons accepted by the customer in November 2008.
Progress on securing an export order for this torpedo is well advanced.
