DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Strategic overview Our Group strategy is To deliver sustainable Performing growth in shareholder value by being the premier global defence, security and against our aerospace company.
strategy Our Group strategy We deliver our strategy through our Group Strategic Objectives, Business Portfolio Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
The Group Strategic Objectives are championed by the Executive Committee and apply across all our businesses.
The Business Portfolio Actions are championed by the relevant Executive Committee member and are delivered by the businesses either separately or jointly.
Both are underpinned by our Integrated Business Plans.
Group Strategy To deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the premier global defence, security and aerospace company Group Strategic Objectives Continue to embed a high performance culture including delivery of our Corporate Responsibility agenda Further enhance our programme execution capabilities Increase sharing of expertise, technology and best practice between our global businesses Develop a partnering approach to meet our customer requirements Develop our capabilities in existing and new home markets Business Portfolio Actions Establish in the UK Grow our EI&S Implement a home Implement our Implement our Continue to develop sustainably profitable business both market strategy to global land global initiatives in our global markets through life businesses organically and grow in the Kingdom systems strategy Security, Readiness in Air, Land and Sea via acquisitions of Saudi Arabia & Sustainment R&S and Unmanned Aircraft Systems UAS Integrated Business Plans 10 www.
com Strategy Our Operational Framework Our consistent strategy The Operational Framework defines the mandated The Groups strategy has been successful in laying policies and core business processes that provide the foundation for our long-term sustainable growth a common framework for how we do business.
These and has provided the framework for the continued mandated policies and core business processes, development of the business.
The strategy has together with our key resources, help us to achieve evolved as the Group has progressed and, for 2009, the Groups strategic objectives.
there are again further developments within that FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR consistent framework.
p18 OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK SEE PAGE 18 Evolution of our strategy This year, we continued the evolution of our Group Our Key Performance Indicators KPIs Strategic Framework through our strategy review process.
With the acquisition of Detica, the Group Strategy statement has been updated to read The Group delivers its strategy through the Group premier global defence, security and aerospace Strategic Objectives, Business Portfolio Actions company, reflecting the importance of this growing and Integrated Business Plans.
The strategy is market opportunity.
As part of our commitment to also supported by ten short-term objectives agreed be recognised as a leader in responsible business annually by the Executive Committee and the Board worldwide, we expanded the first Group Strategic see page 9 which address the key challenges Objective to include delivery of our Corporate in delivering the strategy in the year ahead.
objectives are directly underpinned by a set of financial and non-financial performance indicators Building on past progress, new and revised actions to that are regularly reported to the Board.
Certain of support the strategy in 2009 have been developed.
A these are linked to executive remuneration.
These new Business Portfolio Action Implement our global KPIs are detailed on pages 24 to 27, and provide initiatives in Security, Readiness & Sustainment R&S a succinct and meaningful measurement system and Unmanned Aircraft Systems UAS has been to assess enterprise performance and continuous added to highlight the importance of these global improvement in line with our strategy.
We also added the Business Portfolio Action Continue to develop our global markets as FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR we continue to develop our existing home markets, p24 KPIs SEE PAGES 24 TO 27 broaden our home market base and seek to export to selected markets.
Ourrisks Effective management of risk and opportunity is essential to the delivery of the Groups objectives and achievement of sustainable shareholder value.
The Groups approach to risk management is aimed at the early identification of key risks and then removing or reducing the likelihood and effect of risks before they occur, and dealing effectively with them if they do.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR p12 p56 STRATEGY IN ACTION SEE PAGES 12 TO 14 RISKS SEE PAGES56 TO 61 BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 11
