11 Directors report Business and financial review At 31 December 2008, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions approved at the AGM and separate Class meeting held in May 2008, to purchase through the market 43,314,839 ordinary shares The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating and 16,775,968 preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
review and the Corporate responsibility statement, included in the Annual This authority expires at the conclusion of the separate Class meeting review 2008 and the Financial review from pages 3 to 5, which report on which will follow the 2009 AGM.
the principal activities of the Group, its operations during 2008 and future Throughout the year, all the Companys issued share capital was developments in its businesses are incorporated by reference into the publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so as at Directors report and accounts 2008. the date of this report.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Results and dividends Articles of Association and the prevailing law.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may The results for the year are shown in the audited financial statements result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
presented on pages 27 to 93 and are explained more fully in the Chief Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 31 on pages 79 Executives review, the Operating review and the Financial review.
Shares held by the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust An interim dividend payment of 5.1p net per ordinary share was approved are not voted.
by the Board on 12 August 2008 and a final dividend of 7.7p net per There is no person who has special rights of control over the ordinary share will be recommended at the Annual General Meeting Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
A number making a total of 12.8p net per ordinary share.
This compares with a total of the Companys significant banking, joint venture and contract bond dividend per ordinary share of 11.5p net in 2007.
Preference dividends agreements include provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty totalling 10.75p gross per preference share have been paid for 2008 upon a change of control of the Company.
These include the right of a 2007: 10.75p gross per preference share.
counterparty to request additional security and to terminate an agreement.
The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
As at 4 March 2009, the Company had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Research and development Authority of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: The Group continues to be committed to investment in research and Number Percentage of ordinary of ordinary shares development in all its areas of activity.
This covers new products and shares held held processes and innovation in areas such as information technology and Standard Life Investments Limited 42,849,463 8.96% asset management systems.
A range of development initiatives is Lloyds Banking Group plc 33,370,340 6.98% undertaken throughout the businesses which is supported by links with selected universities.
Legal & General Group plc 32,807,704 6.86% A Group innovation forum has been formed which is one of several Prudential plc 25,285,102 5.28% fora through which the Company is enhancing the sharing of knowledge Schroder Investment Management Limited 22,057,637 4.61% and the encouragement of joint working between the various businesses.
The forum has representatives from each of the Groups operating Directors companies.
Improving the ability to tap into the depth and breadth of expertise and capability which exists within the Group, and sharing it, The names of the Directors at the year-end are shown on pages 52 and 53 of is seen as a key enabler and catalyst for innovation, as well as serving the Annual review 2008 together with brief biographical details.
Full details to identify where the Group can respond better to the needs of its of Directors service agreements, emoluments and share interests, can be various stakeholders.
found in the Remuneration report on pages 18 to 25.
Details of the Groups 2008 research and development expenditure are Sir David John and Hans Christoph von Rohr retired from the Board on given in Note 4.1 on page 40.
15 May 2008 and 9 September 2008 respectively and Hubertus Krossa was appointed as a non-executive Director on 9 September 2008.
Share capital and shareholders Duncan Magrath and Andrew McNaughton were appointed as executive Directors on 31 March 2008 and 1 January 2009 respectively, and Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2008, Graham Roberts was appointed as a non-executive Director with effect from including the rights attaching to each class of share, are set out in Note 28 1 January 2009. on pages 73 and 74.
During the year to 31 December 2008 no ordinary Steve Marshall, Ian Tyler and Peter Zinkin are due to retire by rotation shares were repurchased for cancellation and 300,017 preference shares as Directors at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves representing 0.27% of the preference share capital were repurchased for for re-election.
Hubertus Krossa, Andrew McNaughton and Graham Roberts, cancellation for a total consideration of 407,337 at an average price of who have been appointed by the Board since the date of the last AGM, will 135.8p.
1,286,053 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of offer themselves for election in accordance with the Companys Articles options held under the Companys savings-related share option scheme of Association.
and 334,927 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of options Non-executive Directors are appointed for specific three-year terms held under the Companys executive share option schemes.
and it is part of the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee to On 15 May 2008, a total of 43,320,411 new ordinary shares in the review all appointments of non-executive Directors at three year intervals, Company were placed with institutions at a price of 430p per ordinary share or as near to that as is practicable and make recommendations to the raising 182m after issue costs.
This placing represented an increase of Board accordingly.
approximately but less than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors continue These placing shares were issued fully paid and ranked pari passu in all to be independent.
respects with the existing ordinary shares.
12 Directors report Details of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the Board Directors indemnities meetings and meetings of the Audit, Business Practices, Nomination and The Company grants an indemnity to all of its Directors to the extent Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the table following.
These indemnity amounts are uncapped in relation to certain losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties, in Business Name of Director Board Audit Practices Nomination Remuneration the course of acting as a Director of the Company, or in any office where such duties are performed at the request of the Board, or as a result of their M J Donovan 10 10 3 4 3 3 3 4 appointment as Directors.
S L Howard 9 10 2 3 2 2 4 4 3 3 2 Directors training Sir David John 5 5 1 1 3 Directors receive a significant induction programme and a range of G E H Krossa 4 4 0 1 1 1 information about the Company when they join the Board.
This includes 4 D J Magrath 7 7 considerable background information on Balfour Beatty, its codes of S Marshall 10 10 4 4 2 2 4 4 2 3 business conduct and ethics, processes for dealing in Balfour Beatty shares A L P Rabin 9 10 and Board procedures.
In addition, they also take part in a series of one-to- 5 one meetings with other members of the Board and senior executives which H C von Rohr 5 7 3 3 2 2 3 3 include briefings on the Companys business strategy, financial procedures G H Sage 10 10 2 4 3 4 3 3 and business development.
The training programme is supplemented I P Tyler 10 10 4 4 throughout the year by a series of internal and external updates, including R J W Walvis 10 10 1 1 2 2 3 4 3 3 visits to operating companies to meet local management and visits to P J L Zinkin 9 10 Balfour Beatty projects both in the UK and overseas.
Normally, day-long meetings take place for each non-executive Director four times each year.
Notes: Presentations on ad-hoc topics are then arranged as appropriate, for 1 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the example, on new material laws or regulations as they affect the Group or Directors could attend either following their appointment during the year, the Directors.
In addition, each Director has been enrolled in an external or as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
facility which provides a wide-ranging programme of technical briefing, 2 Retired on 15 May 2008. education and training.
Deloitte LLP previously Deloitte & Touche LLP, the firm having changed its Owing to the changes in the composition of the Board, the membership name on 1 December 2008 have indicated their willingness to continue of each of the Companys Board Committees has been reassessed.
as auditors to the Company and a resolution for their appointment will be As at 4 March 2009, the membership of the Committees is as follows: proposed at the AGM.
Audit Business Practices Nomination Remuneration Steve Marshall Stephen Howard Steve Marshall Robert Walvis Corporate governance and the Combined Code 1 Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Mike Donovan Mike Donovan Mike Donovan Stephen Howard Overview Hubertus Krossa Hubertus Krossa Stephen Howard Hubertus Krossa The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
2 The UK Listing Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation Graham Roberts Steve Marshall Gordon Sage Steve Marshall to Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Gordon Sage Graham Roberts Ian Tyler Gordon Sage Council which is appended to the UK Listing Rules, how they have applied Robert Walvis Robert Walvis its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions through the accounting period.
The Company has complied with the requirements Notes: of the UK Listing Authority relating to the provisions of the Combined Code 1 Steve Marshall continues as chairman of the Audit Committee until throughout the accounting period other than in two respects: 5 March 2009.
2 On 5 March 2009, Graham Roberts will assume the role as chairman of i Code provision C. 3.1 The chairman of the Audit Committee: following the Audit Committee and has been designated the member with recent Steve Marshalls appointment as Chairman of the Company, the Board and relevant financial experience.
decided that he should continue as chairman of the Audit Committee temporarily pending the appointment of a successor.
Graham Roberts Directors interests was appointed non-executive Director on 1 January 2009 and he will No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance with assume the chairmanship of the Audit Committee on 5 March 2009. the Group during the period under review.
The Directors have put in place ii Code provision C. 3.4 Whistleblowing arrangements: the effectiveness procedures to ensure the Board collectively and the Directors individually of the Groups whistleblowing procedures is kept under review by the comply with the disclosure requirements on conflicts of interest introduced Business Practices Committee BPC and not by the Audit Committee.
on 1 October 2008 under the Companies Act 2006.
The interests of Directors The principal reason for this is that the BPC, in particular, focuses on the in the share capital of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and their Companys business conduct, its ethics and values and whistleblowing interests under the long-term incentive schemes the Performance Share is an integral element within this overall remit.
In addition, from the Plans 2001 and 2006, the deferred bonus plan and in respect of share Companys experience, whistleblowing-type complaints often relate options, are set out in the tables in the Remuneration report commencing to non-financial matters and, in particular, employment issues.
Honorary President Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been appointed to this position in May 2003, following his retirement as Chairman.
13 Chairman Evaluation Steve Marshall became Chairman in May 2008, having joined the Board in Formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and of the principal Board November 2005.
Steve Marshall spends an average of two days per week Committees, as well as individual assessments of the Directors themselves, on the business of the Company.
He has other commitments as nonare normally carried out by an external consultant tri-annually, with internal executive chairman of Delta plc and as a non-executive director of assessments carried out in the intervening two years.
The last external Southern Water.
The Board considers that these other commitments are evaluation was completed in October 2007. not of such a nature as to hinder his activities as Chairman of the In the intervening years, an evaluation process is carried out by the Company or Committees.
Company Secretary, at the request of the Chairman.
This comprises an assessment questionnaire covering the effectiveness of the Board and The Board its Committees including composition, arrangements for and content The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, of whom seven, including the of meetings, access to information, and administrative procedures.
Details of the changes during the year can be The findings are then reported back to the Board by the Chairman and found under the heading Directors on page 11.
The Directors believe that an action plan addressing any areas of concern is established.
the Board continues to include an appropriate balance of skills and retains Following Steve Marshalls appointment as Chairman on 15 May 2008, the ability to provide effective leadership to the Group.
an internal evaluation process commenced in January 2009.
As a result Sir David John retired as Chairman following the AGM on 15 May of the feedback, the Board has concluded that both it and the Directors 2008 whereupon Steve Marshall became Chairman.
Ian Tyler has been Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director has been Robert Walvis.
Board Committees The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company The Board has established several Committees, each with defined terms and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
Its role is of reference, procedures, responsibilities and powers.
In accordance with to determine the strategic direction of the Company within a framework the requirements of the Combined Code, the Board reviewed the terms of of prudent and effective controls which enables risks to be assessed and reference of each Committee during the year and these were adopted by managed: to approve annual budgets, financial reporting, major acquisitions the Board in October 2008.
The principal Committees terms of reference and disposals and significant capital expenditure, to ensure that the are displayed on the website www.
The minutes of the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to Committee meetings are sent to all Directors and oral updates are given achieve its objectives and to review management performance.
In addition, at Board meetings.
Committee membership is shown on page 12. the Board sets the Companys values and ethical standards, including matters relating to corporate social responsibility and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
The Board reviews its list of reserved matters from time to time, most recently in October 2008.
The terms of reference of the Board and the Board Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are also displayed on Balfour Beattys website www.
Descriptions of the specific responsibilities which have been delegated to the principal Board committees are also provided on pages 13 to 15.
Most meetings of the Board during 2008 were held in London, with two meetings held elsewhere.
On the evening preceding a Board meeting, the Directors will meet and focus their discussion on a pre-determined developmental theme, led by one of the executive Directors, other senior management or a specialist external speaker.
Audit Committee In addition, the Board dedicates particular meetings to certain key The terms of reference for the Committee are based on the Guidance on business themes, for example health and safety, strategy, or succession Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council formerly Smith planning.
In September, a meeting was held on the site of the new A3 Guidance which was updated in October 2008.
The terms of reference Hindhead tunnel, which is in the course of construction by the Group.
were approved by the Board in October 2003 and updated most recently in In November, the Board held its meeting outside London and focused on October 2008.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee remain as the Groups Zero Harm safety programme.
In summary they are: Procedures for Board meetings remain unchanged from previous years.
1 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any Papers are generally sent out at least three business days in advance of formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: the meeting.
The papers include a written report from each of the Chief 2 to review the Groups internal financial controls established to Executive, the Finance Director, the director of Safety, Health and the identify, assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from Environment, and the Group managing directors.
At the meetings, oral management on the effectiveness of the systems they have established reports are made on issues arising from the written reports and both those and the conclusions of any testing carried out by the internal and and other matters of immediate interest or concern are discussed by the external auditors: Board, for example mergers and acquisitions activity.
Apart from the 3 to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function meetings that approve the interim and final results respectively, and the including its work programme: meeting prior to the AGM, a separate presentation on a topic of interest or 4 to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment concern, such as the operations of a particular business, is normally made of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of to the Board.
Each meeting lasts three to four hours, but can be longer.
engagement of the external auditor: The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on 5 to assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external appropriate governance matters, ensuring good information flow and auditor and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
He is also available external auditor to supply non-audit services: and to individual Directors for advice on these procedures.
6 to review arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting.
14 Directors report The Committee has been chaired by Steve Marshall pending the The administrative procedures of the Committee were unchanged through appointment of Graham Roberts as Audit Committee chairman following the year.
The Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance continues to publication of the 2008 preliminary results on 5 March 2009.
Members have direct access to the chairman of the Committee.
Separate meetings attendance at Committee meetings is shown on page 12.
The Committee is between the Committee, and the Finance Director, the Head of Group Risk supported by the Company Secretariat.
All members of the Committee have Management and Assurance and the external auditor respectively, took extensive experience of management in large international organisations.
place after the February and August meetings.
The incoming chairman, Graham Roberts, is a chartered accountant and is Nomination Committee finance director of The British Land Company PLC.
Graham Roberts has been The Committee is chaired by Steve Marshall and members attendance identified by the Board as having recent and relevant financial experience.
at the meetings of the Committee is given on page 12.
The Committee is Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board for a period supported by the Company Secretariat.
The Committee, which meets as and of up to three years, extendable by no more than two additional three year when required 2008: four meetings, keeps under review the composition periods, so long as members continue to be independent.
At the Board and balance of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board on all meeting following each meeting of the Committee, the Committee chairman new appointments and re-appointments of non-executive Directors.
During provides an oral report on the work of the Committee and any significant the 2008 financial year, external search consultancies were engaged to seek issues that may have arisen.
The minutes of Committee meetings are candidates to join the Board as non-executive Directors, one with financial circulated to all members of the Board.
experience and one with business experience gained predominantly in Four meetings of the Committee were held in 2008.
At the invitation Europe and internationally.
The Committee reviewed candidates as of the Committee, partners from the external auditor, the Head of Group presented by the consultancies and Committee members were involved in Risk Management and Assurance, the Deputy Chief Executive and the the interview process before making their recommendations to the Board.
Finance Director regularly attend each meeting.
In addition, any independent All members of the Board were given the opportunity to meet Graham non-executive Director who is not a Committee member has an open Roberts and Hubertus Krossa prior to their appointments.
In 2008, as in previous years, the main purpose of the February and Remuneration Committee August meetings of the Committee was to consider the final and interim The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Robert Walvis results respectively, a process which is well established.
At each of these and members attendance at the meetings of the Committee is given on meetings, the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial page 12.
The Committee met three times during 2008.
The Committee is reporting issues and judgements and reports from internal financial supported by the Company Secretariat.
Information about the workings of management and internal and external auditors.
this Committee during the financial year is set out in the Remuneration The May and November meetings of the Committee are not driven by report commencing on page 18. financial results and at these meetings the Committee was able to review Business Practices Committee a wider range of matters in addition to its usual business.
For example, The Committee is chaired by Stephen Howard and members attendance in May, the Committee carried out an assessment of the audit process at the meetings of the Committee is given on page 12.
The Committee is followed in the preceding financial year whilst also considering the supported by the Company Secretariat.
proposals for the 2008 audit plan and in November, the Committee reviewed The Committee met three times in 2008.
The main topics considered the draft internal audit plan for 2009 and considered proposals on internal by the Committee during the year related to health, safety and sustainability, control and assurance.
and ethics, values and business conduct.
In light of the settlement with the Throughout 2008, the Committee has continued to review the Groups Serious Fraud Office in October 2008, this Committee will focus significant risk management processes.
This review has included reports from the Head attention on values, the Groups Codes of Conduct which are being revised of Group Risk Management and Assurance on the Groups internal controls and on the training which will ensure that the Groups business principles and on the work of the internal auditors, a consideration of the effectiveness are properly embedded throughout the business.
The Committee discussed both of the internal audit function and of the external audit process, the delivery of health and safety in the long term.
Recognising the ambitious a review of the resources of the external and internal auditor, and a aims of the Groups Zero Harm campaign, it reviewed the leadership, consideration of the external auditors management letter in respect of resources and actions required for delivery.
A particular challenge was to accounting procedures and internal financial controls.
As a result, the ensure that the Zero Harm initiative could be adopted and implemented in Committee felt able to recommend to the Board that it might properly multiple jurisdictions and cultures around the world.
The Committee noted conclude that the Company continued to maintain a sound system of internal early indications that Zero Harm was eagerly embraced by businesses both financial control and that a proper review of the effectiveness of the inside and outside the UK.
Regular reports were received by the Committee Companys systems of internal financial controls had been completed.
on the Groups charitable activities, on its whistleblowing procedure and The Committee has also considered the independence of the external practice and on specific whistleblowing incidents.
auditor and received confirmation that, in its view, it remained independent of the Company.
Consideration of the independence of the external auditor Group Tender and Investment Committee included the non-audit work carried out by the external auditor during the This Committee comprises the executive Directors and the Group managing year, which continues to be covered by the policy approved by the Board in directors and is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence, one of the June 2003 an analysis of non-audit fees incurred is set out in Note 4.2 on other executive Directors.
Its main purpose is to review all major proposed page 40.
All requests to engage the external auditor for non-audit work contracts with projected contract values above a specified level delegated are subject to the approval of the Finance Director and reviewed at each to it.
The Committee also has authority to approve capital expenditure Committee meeting.
The external auditor also complies with the Accounting applications and any proposed investments or divestments up to certain Practices Board APB Ethical Standards applying to non-audit services.
specified limits determined by the Board.
The Committee met on numerous There is no inconsistency between these APB standards and the Companys occasions throughout the year and minutes of its meetings are circulated to policy.
The Committee has carried out a review of the proposal made by the all the Directors.
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretariat.
external auditor in respect of the audit fees and terms of engagement for the 2008 audit and has recommended that the Board proposes to shareholders that Deloitte LLP continue as the Companys external auditor.
15 Finance and General Purposes Committee The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the Groups The Committee comprises the executive Directors and the deputy finance exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the Board recognises director and is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence, one of the that any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than executive Directors and is supported by the Company Secretariat.
Its main eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can purpose is to approve various routine banking and treasury matters, share only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material option grants under the Companys incentive schemes and other matters misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all the material joint ventures in relating to share capital eg allotments.
The Committee met several times which the Group is involved are treated, for these purposes, as part of throughout the year and a summary of the business conducted at the the Group.
Where they are not, systems of internal control are applied meetings is provided to all the Directors.
as agreed between the parties to the venture.
Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes and Relations with shareholders framework for risk management.
These accord with the Turnbull Guidance The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships on internal controls and were in place throughout the year and up to the with all shareholders and ensures that shareholders are kept informed date of signing this report.
The Company has therefore continued its long-established programme The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number of of communication with institutional investors and brokers throughout 2008. different processes, some of which are interlinked.
These include: Presentations of the half-year and full-year results were made in accordance the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating company with the practice of previous years.
Approximately 100 meetings have been and of the Group as a whole in order to identify, inter alia, the risks held at regular intervals through the year with institutional shareholders, to the Groups achievement of its overall objectives and, where brokers and analysts.
This programme will continue and be expanded where appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions: appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and practice.
monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results Whilst the Chairman attends as many meetings with institutional shareholders as possible, senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and and forecasts by executive Directors and line management, including particular areas of business or project risk.
This is used to update Finance Director, hold meetings with the Companys principal institutional shareholders to discuss the Companys strategy, financial performance and both managements understanding of the environment in which the Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and control the specific major investments.
The Chairman has also met with a number of these institutional shareholders and the other non-executive Directors are risks identified: invited to do so whenever they wish.
Care is exercised to ensure that any individual tender and project review procedures commencing at price sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the same time operating company level and progressing to Board Committee level in accordance with UK Listing Authority requirements.
if value, or perceived exposure, breaches certain thresholds: Reports to the Board on meetings or other contact with shareholders regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and or their representatives are made by executive Directors on a regular basis.
environmental matters: The non-executive Directors continue to believe that, through their direct and ready access to, and contact with, the Chairman, and Robert Walvis the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and the Senior Independent Director and through the regular reports to the capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: Board, they are kept fully aware of the views of the larger shareholders in the review of specific material areas of Group-wide risk and the the Company and the investment community generally.
formulation and monitoring of risk mitigating actions: The Board regards the Companys general meetings as an opportunity to communicate directly with private investors and actively encourages the formulation and review of properly documented policies and participative dialogue with all the Companys shareholders.
The chairmen procedures, updated through the free and regular flow of information of the Board Committees attend the AGM each year as well as the other to address the changing risks of the business: Directors and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the The website www.
com is a primary source of financial management of the Group, including arrangements with the information on the Group, including financial press releases, shareholder Groups bankers and bond providers, controls on foreign exchange documentation, annual and interim results presentations and the terms of dealings and management of currency and interest rate exposures, reference of the principal Board Committees.
insurance, capital expenditure procedures, application of accounting Risk management policies and financial controls: The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of risk a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all management and internal control and reviews their effectiveness.
functions in the Group, whether operational, financial or support.
The Groups principal risks and how they are mitigated are summarised on Under it, the key risks facing each part of the Group are regularly pages 9 and 10.
As for previous years, the Board has continued to assess reviewed and assessed, together with the steps taken to avoid or the effectiveness of the risk management processes and internal controls mitigate those risks.
The results of those reviews are placed on risk during 2008 and to the date of this report.
Such assessment is based on registers and, where necessary, specific action plans are developed: reports made to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Business Practices Committee, including: reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business financial processes and controls and spot checks in areas of perceived the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls: high business risk: and a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had been the Groups whistleblowing policy.
maintained, or, where any significant non-compliance or breakdown had occurred with or without loss, the status of corrective action: and a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and mitigation of significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
16 Directors report These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as appropriate, Individual businesses use a variety of methods to communicate key business to all companies joining the Group.
goals and issues to employees and also consult and involve their employees Following an internal reorganisation at the end of 2008, the separate through local publications, briefing groups, consultative meetings, training roles of Group Risk Management and Internal Audit were amalgamated programmes and working groups to assist the process of continuous under a Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance, who is responsible improvement in the way they operate and do business.
Regular publications for developing a comprehensive framework of assurance including internal inform employees of major business and technical achievements.
Most of audit and co-ordinating the risk management activities across the Group.
the UK-based businesses have either attained or have committed to attain No significant failings or weaknesses have been identified by the the UK Investors in People standard.
Board in carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the risk management Regular communication is maintained with the in-service and and internal control systems.
pensioner members of the Groups pension funds.
Charitable activities Political donations During 2008, the Group has continued to help raise funds for charity and has also continued to provide donations in cash and kind to charitable At the AGM held on 15 May 2008, shareholders gave authority for the organisations.
The total amount of funds both raised by employees and Company and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political donated by the Company and its UK subsidiaries during the year was organisations up to a maximum aggregate amount of 25,000.
This approval 415,000. is a precautionary measure in view of the broad definition of these terms in As in previous years, the Groups main efforts have been directed the Companies Act.
No such expenditure or donations were made during to a small number of charities.
The Companys charities committee decided the year and shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2009 AGM.
that support should be provided to a child-based charity and Action for Children was duly selected as the main focus for the Groups UK charitable Corporate responsibility fundraising efforts for 2008 and 2009.
During the year, through a wide variety of fundraising events and efforts, employees raised a total of A full description of our approach to corporate responsibility appears in the over 150,000 for Action for Children, a sum which was increased by a Annual review 2008.
This includes more information about the Groups further 28,000 donated directly by the Company under a matched charitable activities, which are described briefly below.
The Companys other main charity, The Princes Trust Building Better Written report Lives, received a donation of 10,000 during the year.
At the beginning For the eighth year, the Company is publishing a separate corporate of 2009, the Company established The Balfour Beatty Charitable Trust.
responsibility report including safety, social and environmental issues.
Through this, the Company will be working in partnership with Action for A copy will be available to shareholders attending the AGM and to Children and The Princes Trust to deliver a series of programmes aimed at preference shareholders attending the separate Class meeting.
The report helping disadvantaged young people.
will also be displayed on the Companys website www.
com Support for other charities including Engineers Against Poverty, RedR Group policies which provides emergency engineering help particularly in remote locations, The Groups published policies on health and safety, the environment, and Marie Curie Cancer Care has continued.
The Company is also a patron business conduct and ethics and human rights remain in place and are of CRASH, the construction charity and has continued its membership of the subject to regular reviews.
Most recently, the business conduct and charities Business in the Community and the Institute of Business Ethics.
ethics policy is in the process of being reviewed and updated.
Progress in In addition, the Groups UK subsidiaries have paid a further these areas is described in the separate corporate responsibility report.
aggregate sum of 190,000 to a very wide variety of other UK charitable causes in 2008.
Employment As in previous years, the Group continues to enable UK employees to As the Group operates across a number of business sectors in different donate to charities of their choice through the Give As You Earn scheme.
environments, it has evolved a decentralised management structure, with The Company has decided to continue its sponsorship of the annual employment policies designed to suit the needs of individual businesses.
London Youth Games, Europes largest youth sports programme.
In 2008, However, each employing company is expected to comply with certain the Company donated 250,000 for the 2008 Games.
As title sponsor, key principles in its design and practice of employment policy.
the Company has committed a further 1.45m to the Games in the period These are: to 2013.
Further information on the Groups activities is given in the Corporate to provide an open, challenging and participative environment: responsibility section of the Annual review 2008 on pages 50 and 51. to enable all employees to utilise their talents and skills to the full, through appropriate encouragement, training and development: Post balance sheet events to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and performance of the Group and the opportunities and challenges facing it: Details of post balance sheet events are set out in Note 35 on page 82. to provide pay and other benefits which reflect good local practices Contractual arrangements and reward individual and collective performance: to ensure that all applicants receive equal treatment regardless of age, The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, religion or in support of its business activities.
The disclosure in this report of belief: and information about any of those third parties is not considered necessary for the understanding of the development, performance or position of to ensure that all employees similarly receive equal treatment and the Groups businesses.
specifically in relation to training, development, and career progression.
17 The Directors consider that they have met these requirements in preparing Change of control provisions these financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Groups bank facility agreements contain provisions that, upon financial position of the Company and the Group and are reasonably directed 30 days notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise its at safeguarding the assets and detecting and preventing fraud and other discretion to require prepayment of the loans on a change of control and irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation of cancel all commitments under the agreement concerned.
There are no a Directors report and a Remuneration report which comply with the agreements providing for compensation for the Directors or employees requirements of the Companies Act 1985. on a change of control.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Payment of creditors preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In the UK, the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms for each transaction or series of The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: transactions: to seek to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of i the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted payment: and to abide by these terms of payment as and when satisfied by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included agreed terms.
At 31 December 2008, the year-end creditors days of the in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Company were 24 2007: 19. ii the Business and financial review, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and Financial instruments performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
exposure to the following risks foreign exchange, interest rate, price and credit are described in the Financial review on pages 4 and 5 Statements of Directors as to disclosure of information to auditors and detailed in Note 21 on pages 54 to 60.
Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Statement of Directors responsibilities so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Independent Auditors report on page 26, is made with a view to the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, Directors report the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting By order of the Board Standard IAS regulation.
IAS 1 requires that financial statements present the Companys and C D Vaughan General Counsel and Company Secretary the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows fairly 4 March 2009 i. e. give a true and fair view for each financial year.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and Registered Office: conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria 130 Wilton Road for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards London SW1V 1LQ Framework for the preparation and presentation of Financial Statements.
In nearly all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: 1 properly select and apply accounting policies: 2 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which provides relevant, reliable, comparable and comprehensible information: and 3 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Companys and the Groups financial position and financial performance.
