CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS Westgate Centre, Oxford Market value 65 million, 2 per cent of group total Whilst we are positive about the long term prospects for Oxford as a retail destination, current market conditions do not meet our criteria for an immediate redevelopment of the Westgate Centre.
We therefore took the decision in 2008 to put the major redevelopment of this centre on hold, with the results for the year reflecting the impact of writing-off abortive development costs.
In terms of the arrangements with our joint venture partner, we have acquired their residual interest, with completion of the purchase having taken place on 13 February 2009.
With the site now under one ownership, in CSCs control, we have greater flexibility in analysing future development options.
In the meantime, we have full control of management with considerable asset management opportunities to increase centre attractiveness and income.
Prospects 2009 will undoubtedly be a further difficult year for the UK economy and the property industry.
However, a combination of important factors which should be positive for a recovery are in place but have yet to take effect.
In particular, the fall in sterling, lower prices for fuel and commodities, and Government-induced measures such as lower interest rates, the recapitalisation of the banking sector and the reduction in VAT from 17.5 per cent to 15 per cent should in aggregate be beneficial.
Furthermore, while the retail failures in 2008 and early 2009 will have a negative impact on the groups net rental income for 2009, the process of eliminating less successful retailers which accelerates when market conditions are more difficult is ultimately a healthy one.
The remaining retailers should benefit from reduced competition and in due course along with new entrants to the sector will look to expand to fill the available space, particularly in quality locations such as we possess.
The group anticipates that retail is likely to be at the forefront of economic recovery in the UK and, given the key advantage of our close working relationship with the UKs major retailers, the group should be an early beneficiary.
Key Performance Indicators The performance of the business is monitored through a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs including both financial and non-financial measures.
These are included in the appropriate sections of these financial statements with commentary discussing performance.
Certain KPIs can be found in this business review containing details of our portfolio and operational performance and additionally in the notes to these financial statements, in particular, note 19.
