CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The Glades, Bromley Market value 195 million, 5 per cent of the group total The Glades experienced positive footfall and estimated retail sales in line with the previous year.
Occupancy at year end was 99.1 per cent, 93.6 per cent adjusted for tenancies in administration.
The remodelling of various High Street investment properties to provide 50,600 sq.
ft. of new retail space opened for trade in May including new stores for H&M, Mango and Body Shop.
Development Projects St Davids Centre, Cardiff Market value of St Davids 1 71 million, development value of St Davids 2 90 million, 4 per cent of the group total.
Our retail led development in Cardiff with our joint venture partner Land Securities is on programme to complete in Autumn this year.
The project will extend the existing St. Davids centre by 967,500 sq.
Overall around 125 new shops and restaurants are being developed which, when added to the existing centre, will enlarge St. Davids into one of the UKs largest city centre retail schemes.
We are confident of the future prospects for the enlarged St. Davids centre with the existing centre already attracting 22 million customer visits each year.
th Cardiff is expected to rise to 8 place in the UK retail rankings on completion of the St. Davids development which has already attracted several new retailers to Wales.
The new library was handed over to Cardiff Council on schedule in December and John Lewis is currently fitting out its store.
Cardiff will be its largest store outside London.
In 2008 a significant number of new shopping centres opened during the year adding over 10 million square feet of retail space, generally well let.
In 2009, only a small number of large retail schemes are due to open including St Davids Cardiff.
Following this, supply will be curtailed sharply, as the current economic environment has halted many projects in the pipeline.
However, we anticipate the letting market to continue to be challenging in 2009 as retailers approach expansion with caution.
