CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS Financial Covenants The group has financial covenants that apply to 2.6 billion of secured non-recourse debt.
The two main covenants are Loan to Value LTV and Interest Cover IC.
The actual requirements vary and are specific to each loan.
At 31 December 2008 886 million of nonrecourse loans had no loan to value requirement.
At 31 December 2008 the group is fully compliant in all financial covenant tests certified to lenders.
Compliance with financial covenants is constantly monitored.
In the case of CMBS related debt and non-recourse bank loans, a potential breach would be discussed with lenders.
This could result in a re-negotiation or possible waiving of the covenant.
Actual covenant breaches can be rectified by a number of remedies such as additional security, temporary cash deposit or partial repayment before an event of default occurs.
Fair value of debt and financial instruments During the first half of 2008 interest rates gradually increased with 10 year sterling swap rates rising from around 5 per cent to peak at 5.75 per cent in June.
In the third quarter of 2008, long term interest rates receded towards levels at the start of the year.
As markets responded to the crisis in the banking sector and the resultant government support for banks, a rapid downward shift in market interest rates emerged.
The 10 year sterling swap rate at the end of September 2008 stood at approximately 5 per cent and fell to end the year at 3.45 per cent, a decline of 1.55 per cent.
At 31 December 2008 the groups net debt was fixed by interest rate swap contracts in accordance with the groups policy and lender requirements to eliminate substantially all short term risk and a proportion of medium to longer term.
Whilst interest rate swaps offer protection from higher interest rates and provide a high degree of predictability on future cashflows, they provide no opportunity to gain when interest rates fall.
Furthermore, the movement on the revaluation of derivative financial instruments affects the groups income statement.
For the year ended 31 December 2008 the group recorded a deficit in the income statement of 222 million on the change in the value of financial instruments.
Almost all of this movement was recorded in the last quarter of 2008 in line with the decline in interest rates.
A shift up or down in the yield curve has a great impact on the mark-to-market valuation of long dated interest rate swaps.
At 31 December 2008 a movement of 0.1 per cent in the yield curve would affect the fair value of the groups derivative financial instruments by approximately plus or minus 1.2 million.
As at 31 December 2008 the value of derivative financial instruments recorded on the balance sheet is a liability of 248 million.
This total includes all derivatives entered into by the group to hedge its interest rate risk exposures.
