Report of the Directors Additional information for shareholders The following description summarises certain provisions of the Restrictions on voting current Articles of Association as adopted by special resolution No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class on 27 November 2007 the Articles of Barratt Developments PLC meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum the Company and applicable English law concerning companies then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions to vote if they have been served with a restriction notice as defined of the Companies Acts or the Articles should be consulted if further in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information information is required.
Certain amendments to the Articles will be concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under proposed at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 18 November the Companies Acts.
2008, primarily to deal with further changes required under the Companies Act 2006.
Details of these proposed changes are set out Deadlines for voting rights in the notice of the AGM and copies of the Companys current Articles, Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect together with copies marked up to show the proposed amendments, of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by Corporate Representative.
Under the Companies Acts, the deadline Share capital for delivering proxy forms cannot be earlier than 48 hours excluding The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into non-working days before the meeting for which the proxy is being ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
The Articles however, provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as the Board Rights and obligations attaching to shares may determine before the meeting not excluding non-working days.
Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may Dividends and distributions by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by as it does not make specific provision as the Board as defined in the ordinary resolution from time-to-time declare dividends not exceeding Articles may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial Board.
At each AGM the Company puts in place annual shareholder position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies their authority authorising the Companys Directors to allot unissued shares, payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of in certain circumstances, for cash, in accordance with the guidelines shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the of the Investor Protection Committees.
payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
Voting The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a every member present in person or by proxy at a general meeting or person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such person class meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote or upon a poll, has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
In the case of joint failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint holders and seniority shall be determined by the order in Variation of rights which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy to to any existing class of shares may be varied either with the written exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at shall be two persons entitled to vote and holding or representing by a general meeting or class meetings as a Corporate Representative.
proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of Barratt Developments 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Report of the Directors Additional information for shareholders the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, Repurchase of shares but so that at any adjourned meeting one holder entitled to vote and Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may present in person or by proxy whatever the number of shares held by purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
The Company currently has authority to buy back up to an aggregate of 34,657,547 ordinary shares during the period up to Transfer of shares the next AGM.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, is 10 pence and the maximum price payable is an amount equal to subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred the higher of: i 105% of the average of the closing middle market by means of a relevant system.
Provisions of the Articles do not apply quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock to any uncertificated shares to the extent that such provisions are Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately inconsistent with the holding of shares in uncertificated form or with preceding the day on which that ordinary share is contracted to be the transfer of shares by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations as defined in at the time the purchase is carried out.
the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to Amendment of Articles of Association be transferred exceeds four.
Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of their special resolution.
certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer Appointment and replacement of Directors must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen in number.
The transferor of a share is deemed to Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution remain the holder until the transferees name is entered into the register.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following AGM and is then eligible for election by the The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any shareholders but is not taken into account in determining the Directors reason, decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a The Board may from time-to-time appoint one or more Directors to certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be Companies Acts and on such terms as they may determine and may exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Directors are no longer certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board subject to a maximum age limit.
may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
At every AGM of the Company, a minimum of one-third of the Directors shall retire by rotation.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall be those The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the not retire at either of them.
If the number so retiring is less than the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice minimum number of Directors required to retire, additional Directors up as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with to that number shall also retire.
The additional Directors to retire shall be information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided those who have been longest in office or, in the case of those who were under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board appointed or reappointed on the same date, shall be determined by lot.
to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
Any Director who has held office for a continuous period of nine years or more shall also retire.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 | Report of the Directors Additional information for shareholders the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested must, upon a change of control, cancel the total commitments of Introduction by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less the lenders under such Credit Facilities and declare all outstanding This years Remuneration report is prepared in accordance with Part 3 of schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 the Act and will be subject than three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill credits, together with accrued interest and any other amounts to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
health: iv he is absent without permission of the Board from meetings payable in respect of such Credit Facilities, to be immediately due of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that and payable.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs The key issues to be aware of this year are: his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control 1.
As a result of the tough trading conditions, no annual bonuses have been earned and the Directors have not been awarded a salary increase.
creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii of the Company: Similarly, as performance targets have not been met, the Long-Term Performance Plan LTPP award granted in 2005 will not vest.
he ceases to be Director by virtue of the Companies Acts: or viii he is under the privately-placed notes amounting in aggregate to 2.
The Remuneration Committee is proposing to suspend the operation of the LTPP and subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
20,000,000 the 20m Notes issued pursuant to a note purchase grant market value share options to the Companys most senior executives under a new Executive Share Option Scheme.
agreement dated 29 August 2007 to various institutions within a 3.
A Return On Capital Employed ROCE performance condition shall apply to options granted this year.
The Remuneration Committee feels that Powers of the Directors single corporate group, the holders of the 20m Notes have an ROCE is the most rounded measure of financial performance for a housebuilder in the current trading environment.
It is a fundamental measure Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, option to require the Company to prepay the entire unpaid principal of Barratts underlying performance and is directly linked to the generation of returns to shareholders.
the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, amount of the 20m Notes held by each holder at par, together with 4.
The Committee also wishes to introduce a savings-related share option scheme to encourage wider employee share ownership.
the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who interest accrued thereon and a make-whole amount in respect of may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the any repayment occurring during an interest period: and Remuneration Committee management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the under the privately-placed notes amounting in aggregate to The Committee operates within terms of reference and governance policies approved by the Board and is responsible on behalf of the Board for: Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money 105,000,000 and $300,000,000 the Remaining Notes issued executive remuneration policy: and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets pursuant to note purchase agreements dated 23 August 2007 and determining the service conditions and remuneration of all Executive Directors: and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and 23 April 2008 by the Company to various institutions, the holders the evaluation of Executive Director performance with regard to the award of share incentives, annual bonus and other performance based to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to of the Remaining Notes have an option to require the Company to remuneration: and any third party.
prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of the Remaining Notes obtaining independent professional advice in relation to Executive Director remuneration.
held by each holder at par, together with interest accrued thereon Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust but without any make-whole amount in respect of any repayment The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available on the Barratt Investor Relations website at www.
The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds ordinary occurring during an interest period.
The shares are held in the EBT for the purpose Membership and proceedings of the Remuneration Committee of satisfying options that have been granted under The Barratt Developments Under the terms of the note purchase agreements in respect of the The members of the Remuneration Committee during the financial year were Mr R J Davies Chairman, Mr C G Toner, Mr M Pescod, Mr W Shannon PLC Executive and Employee Share Option Plans.
These ordinary 20m Notes and the Remaining Notes, a change of control occurs and Mr R MacEachrane.
Mr M Pescod retired from the Remuneration Committee on 31 December 2007, Mr C G Toner resigned from the Remuneration shares do not rank for dividend and do not count in the calculation of the if any person or group of persons acting in concert acquires beneficial Committee on 30 June 2008 and Mr R A Lawson joined the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2008.
Attendance at Remuneration Committee weighted average number of shares used to calculate earnings per share ownership of more than 50% of the issued share capital of the meetings is described on page 31 of the Report of the Directors.
All Committee members are considered to be wholly independent with no financial until such time as they are vested to the relevant employee.
interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions.
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee as required but he is not present when matters affecting his own remuneration are considered.
The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held The note purchase agreements also impose upon the holders in the EBT in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into account customary restrictions on resale or transfer of the notes other than The Remuneration Committee has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Committee recognises its accountability both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT in compliance with applicable securities laws.
on executive remuneration to shareholders through this report and through regular dialogue with institutional investors.
In determining future or their dependants.
remuneration policy it will consider both the shareholders vote on the report and views expressed by shareholders on the detail of the report.
The Report of the Directors from pages 2 to 45 is signed on behalf Significant agreements of the Board by: Advice The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the Advice is provided to the Remuneration Committee by the Company Secretary, Mr L Dent, a solicitor and Mrs J Mee, the Group Human Resources counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of L Dent Director.
Mr Dent also acts as secretary to the Committee.
In addition, independent advisors Hewitt New Bridge Street and Hay Group advised a change of control of the Company: Company Secretary the Committee in relation to changes to the Companys remuneration policy and on the design, establishment and operation of remuneration under the 2,150,000,000 credit facilities agreement dated 9 September 2008 arrangements.
Hewitt New Bridge Street and Hay Group did not provide any additional services to the Company.
5 February 2007 as amended and the 400,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated 2 February 2005 as amended Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited has advised the Company in relation to various pension issues and, with effect from 10 July 2004, between, amongst others, the Company, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc as were appointed to provide actuarial services to the Barratt Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders together, the Credit Facilities, the facility agent Remuneration policy Each year the Remuneration Committee reviews the policy on executive remuneration in the context of the business environment, best practice and market trends for the current and subsequent financial years.
The underlying principles remain the same, namely the Committee believes that executive remuneration: is fully aligned with the performance of the Company and the returns received by shareholders: rewards the sustained growth and profitability of the business: and conforms with market-leading best practice.
Barratt Developments 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
