Financial statements Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements there are An amendment to IAS39 Eligible hedged items.
The amendment a number of standards, amendments and interpretations that have makes two significant changes.
It prohibits designating inflation as a been published.
All of these have been endorsed by the EU with the hedgeable component of a fixed rate debt.
It also prohibits including exception of the revisions to IAS1, IAS27, IAS39 and IFRS3, IFRIC15 time value in the one-sided hedged risk when designating options and IFRIC16, and part 1 of the Improvements to IFRS, and are therefore as hedges.
The amendment will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009, mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after and its impact is currently being assessed.
The Group has not early-adopted any Part 1 of the Improvements to IFRS project has a number of smaller standard, amendment or interpretation.
amendments to existing IAS and IFRS, which have implementation dates at various points during 2009.
The impact of these amendments The standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected is currently being assessed.
to impact upon the Group are: IFRIC15 Agreements for the construction of real estate.
IFRS8 amends the current segmental provides guidance on whether the construction of real estate should reporting requirements of IAS14 and requires a management be accounted for under IAS11 or IAS18.
The Group already accounts approach to be adopted so that segment information is presented for the construction of real estate in accordance with IFRIC15, and on the same basis as that used for internal reporting purposes.
accordingly this interpretation, which is effective from 1 January 2009, This standard will apply to the Group from the accounting period will have no impact upon the Group.
commencing 1 July 2009 and is expected to impact upon the Group by requiring additional disclosures in the annual financial statements.
The adoption of the following standards, amendments and interpretations Amendment to IAS23 Borrowing Costs.
This amendment requires are not expected to have any material impact on the financial statements an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the of the Group: acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of IFRIC12 Service Concession Arrangements.
IFRIC12 provides the cost of the asset.
A qualifying asset is one that takes a substantial guidance upon the accounting for public-to-private infrastructure period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The option of immediately service concession arrangements.
This interpretation applies to the expensing these borrowing costs is removed.
This amendment Group from 1 July 2008. will apply to the Group from the accounting period commencing IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
IFRIC13 requires the 1 July 2009 and its impact is currently being assessed.
credits given as part of customer loyalty schemes to be recognised IFRIC14 IAS19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum at their fair value as a separate component of revenue.
The revenue Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
IFRIC14 states when related to these schemes should only be recognised when the refunds or reductions in future contributions can be treated as available entitys obligations are fulfilled.
This interpretation applies to the under IAS19 and how a minimum funding requirement affects future Group from 1 July 2008. contributions or may give rise to a liability.
This interpretation applies IFRIC16 Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation.
IFRIC16 to the Group from the accounting period commenced on 1 July 2008, guides an investing company on the designation of, and accounting however the Group anticipates that no additional liabilities will be for, hedges in foreign operations.
This interpretation will apply to the recognised upon the adoption of IFRIC14.
Non-vesting conditions Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS1 are to be taken into account in the estimate of the fair value of the Presentation of financial statements for certain puttable financial equity instruments: vesting conditions that are not market conditions instruments and obligations arising on liquidation require some are not taken into account.
This amendment will apply to the Group financial instruments that meet the definition of a financial liability to from 1 July 2009: its impact is currently being assessed.
be classified as equity, where certain strict criteria are met.
These Revision of IAS1 Presentation of financial statements.
This revision amendments will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009. to IAS1 is applicable from 1 July 2009, and is expected to affect the IAS27 Revised Consolidated and separate financial statements.
presentation and classification of certain items within the Groups The amendments relate, primarily, to accounting for non-controlling financial statements.
interests and the loss of control of a subsidiary, and will apply to the Revision of IFRS3 Business Combinations.
Following this revision, Group from 1 July 2009. transaction costs must be expensed, rather than included as costs of acquisition, and contingent consideration will require to be fair valued.
In addition, there will be a choice of two goodwill measurement methods where less than 100% of the entity is acquired.
This revision will apply to the Group from 1 July 2009, and although it will have no impact on implementation, it will have a significant impact on any future acquisitions.
Barratt Developments 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
