Financial statements Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the Group has detailed Impairment of goodwill below the critical accounting judgements made and the key sources The determination of the impairment of goodwill requires an estimation of of estimation uncertainty within these financial statements.
the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated as defined in note 12.
The value-in-use calculation requires an Critical accounting judgements estimate of the future cash flows expected from these cash-generating In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are units, including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs, and described in the accounting policies note, the Directors have made no requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the individual judgements that have a significant impact upon the financial present value of the cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill at the statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt balance sheet date was 792.2m with 24.5m impairment recognised with below.
during the year ended 30 June 2008.
Impairment of brands Key sources of estimation uncertainty The determination of the impairment calculation for the Groups The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of indefinite life brand, David Wilson Homes, requires an estimation of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date are discussed below.
the value-in-use of the brand as defined in note 13.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash flows expected from Carrying value of land and work in progress this brand, including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs, The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and property and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate development.
Due to the nature of this activity, much of the development the present value of the cash flows.
The carrying amount of indefinite entered into by the Group is speculative in nature.
Accordingly, the Group life brands at the balance sheet date was 100.0m with no impairment has in its balance sheet at 30 June 2008 current assets that are not recognised during the year ended 30 June 2008. covered by a forward sale.
The Groups internal controls are designed to identify any developments where the carrying value of land and work In addition, the Group has a finite life brand, Wilson Bowden in progress is more than the lower of cost or net realisable value.
This brand had amortisation of 0.8m recognised during the year and following an impairment review this was fully At 30 June 2008, the Group conducted a review of the net realisable impaired at 30 June 2008. value of its land and work in progress carrying values of its sites in the light of the current deterioration in the UK housing market.
Where the Defined benefit pension estimated future net realisable value of the site was less than its current The Directors engage a qualified independent actuary to calculate carrying value within the balance sheet, the Group has impaired the the Groups liability in respect of its defined benefit pension scheme.
land and work in progress value.
This has resulted in an exceptional In calculating this liability it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to impairment of 208.4m as shown in note 19.
This review was conducted be made, which include discount rates, salary and pension increases, on a site-by-site basis using valuations incorporating forecast sales rates price inflation, the long-term rate of return upon scheme assets and and average selling prices that reflect both current and anticipated trading mortality.
As actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from conditions.
These are key judgements in the impairment calculation.
those assumed, the pension liability may differ from that included Should there be a further significant decline in UK house prices then in these financial statements.
further impairments of land and work in progress may be necessary.
Hedge accounting Estimation of costs to complete The majority of the Groups facilities are floating rate, which exposes In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise on its the Group to increased interest rate risk.
The Group has therefore developments in a specific period, the Group has to allocate site-wide taken out 765.0m note 26 of floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
The development costs between units built in the current year and in future Group has adopted hedge accounting for these swaps on the basis years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
that it is highly probable that there is sufficient forecast debt to match In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
If the highly probable criteria was not met in The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review future then any changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised carrying values and appropriateness of estimates made.
in the income statement, rather than in equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2008, there was a loss of 19.1m 2007: 12.3m gain included Recognition of profit where developments are in equity related to these swaps.
accounted for under IAS11 Construction Contracts The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when recognising In addition, the Group has entered into $300m of cross currency swaps revenue and profit on partially completed contracts.
The application to manage the cash flow risks related to foreign exchange, arising from of this policy requires judgements to be made in respect of the total the Groups sources of finance denominated in US Dollars.
These swaps expected costs to complete each relevant contract.
The Group has in are designated as a cash flow hedge against future foreign exchange place established internal control processes to ensure that the evaluation rate movements.
If the hedges ceased to be highly effective then any of costs and revenues are based upon appropriate estimates.
changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised in the income statement, rather than equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2008, there was a gain of 7.4m 2007: nil included in equity related to these swaps.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55
