Report of the Directors Statutory information Activities of the Group Barratt Developments PLC is the holding company of the Barratt Group of companies the Group.
The Groups principal activities comprise housebuilding and commercial development.
Results and dividends The profit from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June 2008 was 86.4m 2007: 298.3m restated as shown in note 1 to the financial statements.
An interim dividend of 12.23p per share 2007: 11.38p was paid on 23 May 2008.
No final dividend will be paid for the year ended 30 June 2008 2007: 24.30p.
Enhanced Business Review The Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review, Business review and Group Finance Directors review on pages 2 to 19 comprise the Groups Enhanced Business Review.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at the Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London EC2Y 5BL on 18 November 2008 at 2.30pm.
The notice convening the Meeting is set out in a separate letter to shareholders.
Directors and their shareholdings The Directors of the Group who held office at 30 June 2008 are listed on pages 20 and 21.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are shown below: 30 June 2008 30 June 2007 Executive Executive Fully share Fully share Ordinary shares of 10p each paid options paid options Mr M S Clare 172,726 89,965 Mr S J Boyes 97,086 100,917 87,794 216,018 Mr C Fenton 34,461 25,214 115,101 Mr M A Pain 40,000 25,000 Mr C G Toner 10,000 10,000 Mr R A Lawson Mr R J Davies 10,000 1,000 Mr R MacEachrane 2,000 Mr M Pescod 10,000 10,000 Mr M E Rolfe Mr W Shannon 5,034 5,034 or date of appointment, if later.
No notification has been received of any change in the above interests during the period 30 June 2008 to 9 September 2008 inclusive.
Details of movements in the Directors interests in executive share options are shown in the Remuneration report on page 44.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, Mr R MacEachrane and Mr C Fenton will retire by rotation at the AGM to be held on 18 November 2008 and being eligible will offer themselves for re-election at that meeting.
In addition, Mr R A Lawson and Mr M E Rolfe will retire at the next AGM and offer themselves for election having been appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the business of the Group.
Fixed assets The Directors are of the opinion that the value of land and buildings included within the Groups fixed assets is in excess of book value but that the difference is not material in relation to the affairs of the Group.
Barratt Developments 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Report of the Directors Statutory information Disclosure of information to auditors So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are not aware.
Each of the Directors has taken all the relevant steps that he ought to have taken in accordance with his duty as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
Charitable and political contributions During the year the Group made charitable donations of 53,300 2007: 22,900.
Of the donations in the current year 7,000 was to the Smith Institute, 3,000 to Shelter, 5,000 to the National Autistic Society and the remainder was to local and good causes.
No political contributions were made during the year.
Offices The Group had 32 offices located throughout the United Kingdom at the end of the financial year.
In July 2008, two of the Groups offices were closed and eight Group offices were merged into four.
A full list of the Groups offices and their locations can be obtained from the Group Company Secretary situated at the registered office of the Company or from the Companys website www.
Capital structure Details on the structure of the Companys capital including rights and obligations attaching to shares, voting, and transfer of shares, are shown on pages 34 and 35.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 29 to the financial statements.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 30 to the financial statements.
Details of the rights attaching to shares held by the Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust are shown on page 36.
Details of the appointment, replacement and powers of Directors, and details of the amendment of the Articles of Association are shown on page 35.
Details of significant agreements containing provisions entitling counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company are shown on page 36.
Details of persons with a significant direct or indirect holding of shares in the Company, are shown in the section on major shareholders on page 27.
Risk management objectives The Groups operational risks and their mitigation are outlined in the Business review on page 15.
The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments are detailed in notes 24, 25 and 26 to the financial statements.
The Groups operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The most significant of these to the Group is liquidity risk and as such there is a regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash flows from the operations to Group management so as to ensure that risks are promptly identified and appropriate actions taken by the central Treasury Department.
In addition, the Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other risks on its financial performance in particular by using financial instruments, including debt and derivatives, to fix interest rates and currency rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 | Report of the Directors Statutory information The Board of Directors is responsible for setting specific, clearly defined guidelines regarding treasury that are applied by the Group.
The Group has a Treasury Operating Committee which operates within specific parameters set by the Board and consists of any two of the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
In addition, the Board approves and reviews all facilities and derivative transactions that they have not delegated to the Treasury Operating Committee.
The Group operates a central Treasury Department to implement the guidelines established by the Board, to whom it reports regularly.
a Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and medium-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure that the Group has sufficient available funds for operations.
The Groups borrowings are typically cyclical throughout the financial year and as such the Group maintains sufficient headroom to cover these requirements.
On a normal operating basis the Group has a policy of maintaining headroom of 250m of available committed facilities and identifies and takes appropriate actions based upon its regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash flows from its operations.
This represents 65.9% 2007: 56.4% of available committed facilities.
The Groups objective is to minimise refinancing risk.
The Group therefore has a policy that the maturity of its committed facilities and private placement notes is at least three years on average.
At 30 June 2008, the average maturity of the Groups facilities was 3.3 years 2007: 3.5 years.
As explained in note 25 to the financial statements, on 9 July 2008, the Company entered into a new 400m three-year facility and agreed to extend subject to contract 350m of the existing 400m revolving credit facility to further minimise refinancing risk.
All conditions precedent were satisfied on 6 August 2008. b Market risk price risk i UK housing market risk This section specifically discusses UK housing market risk in the context of the financial instruments in the Group balance sheet.
The Groups earnings are dependent upon the level of UK house prices.
UK house prices are determined by the UK economy and economic conditions including employment levels, interest rates and consumer confidence.
The Group is subject to the prevailing conditions of the UK economy.
However, the Group does seek to maintain an appropriate geographical spread of operating divisions and appropriate product mix to mitigate any risks caused by local economic conditions.
The Groups management of operational risks is detailed in the Business review on page 15.
The UK housing market affects the valuation of the Groups non-financial assets and liabilities, notably land and work in progress, and the critical judgements applied by management in these financial statements, which include the valuation of land and work in progress, are detailed on page 55.
The Groups financial assets and liabilities that are directly linked to the UK housing market are detailed in note 27 to the financial statements.
The value of the Groups available for sale financial assets is directly linked to the UK housing market.
At 30 June 2008 these were carried at a fair value of 66.9m 2007: 37.3m.
The Company has no financial assets and liabilities that are directly linked to the UK housing market.
Sensitivity analysis At 30 June 2008, if UK house prices had been 5% lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups house price linked financial assets and liabilities would decrease in value, excluding the effects of tax, by 14.9m 2007: 1.9m with a corresponding reduction in both net profit and equity.
ii Interest rate risk The Group has both interest bearing assets and interest bearing liabilities.
Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and fixed rate borrowings expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group has a policy of maintaining both long-term fixed rate funding and medium-term floating rate funding so as to ensure that there is appropriate flexibility for the Groups operational requirements.
In order to achieve this the Group has entered into swap arrangements to hedge cash flow risks relating to interest rate movements on a proportion of its debt and has entered into fixed rate debt in the form of sterling and US Dollar private placements.
Barratt Developments 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Report of the Directors Statutory information The Group has a policy that 6080% of the forecast debt for the year-end is at a fixed rate, with an average minimum duration of five years and an average maximum duration of fifteen years.
The exposure of the Groups and Companys financial liabilities to interest rate risk is detailed in note 27 to the financial statements.
Floating interest rates on sterling borrowings are linked to UK bank rate, LIBOR and money market rates.
The floating rates are fixed in advance for periods generally ranging from one to six months.
Short-term flexibility is achieved through the use of overdraft, committed and uncommitted bank facilities.
The weighted average interest rate for floating rate borrowings in 2008 was 6.6% 2007: 5.7%.
Sterling private placement notes of 125.5m 2007: 81.8m were arranged at fixed interest rates and exposed the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The weighted average interest rate for fixed rate sterling private placement notes for 2008 was 7.8% 2007: 7.5% with, at 30 June 2008, a weighted average period of 9.5 years 2007: 2.5 years for which the rate is fixed.
US Dollar private placement notes of 150.5m 2007: nil were arranged at fixed interest rates and exposed the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The weighted average interest rate for fixed rate US Dollar private placement notes, after the effect of foreign exchange rate swaps, for 2008 was 6.9% 2007: nil with, at 30 June 2008, a weighted average period of 8.8 years 2007: nil for which the rate is fixed.
Sensitivity analysis In the year ended 30 June 2008, if UK interest rates had been 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups pre-tax profit would decrease increase by 4.8m 2007: 2.8m, the Groups post-tax profit would decrease increase by 3.4m 2007: 2.0m and the Groups equity would decrease increase by 3.4m 2007: 2.0m.
iii Foreign exchange rate risk The Group has fixed rate US Dollar private placement notes of $300m 2007: $nil.
In order to mitigate risks associated with the movement in the foreign exchange rate, the Group has a policy of fully hedging its US Dollar denominated debt.
The Group therefore entered into foreign exchange swap arrangements on the issue of its US Dollar denominated debt, all of which are designated as cash flow hedges.
Details of the Groups foreign exchange swaps are provided in note 26 to the financial statements.
Sensitivity analysis As the Groups foreign exchange hedges are fully effective, the Groups profits will be unaffected by any variation in foreign exchange rates and any impact on net equity of a reasonably possible change in exchange rates is unlikely to be significant.
c Credit risk The UK housing market is structured so that in the majority of cases the Group receives cash upon legal completion for private sales and receives advance stage payments from Registered Social Landlords.
As such, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The maximum exposure to any counterparty at 30 June 2008 was 8.6m 2007: 32.0m.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowance for losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
In addition, the Company is exposed to 2,230.1m of credit risk in relation to inter-company loans, financial guarantees and the bank borrowings of subsidiary undertakings.
Further details are provided in notes 35 and 36 to the financial statements.
The Group manages credit risk in the following ways: the Group has a credit policy that is limited to financial institutions with high credit ratings as set by international credit-rating agencies and has a policy determining the maximum permissible exposure to any counterparty: and the Group only contracts derivative financial instruments with counterparties with which the Group has an ISDA Master Agreement in place.
These agreements permit net settlement thereby reducing the Groups credit exposure to individual counterparties.
d Capital risk management cash flow risk The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and meet its liabilities as they fall due whilst maintaining an appropriate capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 | Report of the Directors Statutory information The Group ensures that there are appropriate controls over the purchase of land and levels of work in progress in the business in order to appropriately manage its capital.
These controls are discussed in the business risk table on page 15.
In addition, the other methods by which the Group can manage its short-term and long-term capital structure include adjusting the level of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders, issuing new share capital and arranging debt to meet liability payments, and it may also sell non-core assets to reduce debt.
Likely future developments An indication of likely future developments in the Group including in the field of research and development is given in the Business review on pages 8 to 15.
Creditor payments Each Group company is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services have been supplied in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a supplier payment period by the Company of 26 days 2007: 32 days for its trade creditors at 30 June 2008.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions As at the date of this report, qualifying third party indemnity provisions under Companies legislation are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, former Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company, Directors and former Directors of any member of the Group or of an associated company or affiliate company and members of the Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association against all liability arising in respect of any act or omission in their duties.
Investor relations The Board believes that the effective management of investor relations is critical to its relationship with its shareholders and to the market in which the Companys shares are held, analysed and traded.
The Groups corporate governance framework sets the context for its continuing investor relations programme particularly in respect of key areas such as board membership, remuneration and public accountability statements.
During the year we continued to develop the investor communication programme in conjunction with our financial public relations PR advisors, Weber Shandwick Square Mile, until June 2008 at which point this role was taken over by Maitland, and the Groups joint brokers, Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited and UBS Investment Bank.
The Investor Relations website www.
co. uk provides a full Company profile, regular corporate news updates, access to the Companys share price and regulatory announcements.
Further shareholder services have been established whereby shareholders may deal in the Companys shares via its website and also access the Companys share register to view their shareholding, with the opportunity to make changes to their account details, including the downloading of appropriate forms and also access the history of their shareholding.
Our annual and interim reports, together with interim management statements and half-yearly trading updates, will continue to be the primary means by which information about the Group, its Board and its business is communicated to institutional and private shareholders, investors and analysts.
In addition, other major Company publications are available to shareholders on our Investor Relations website.
The AGM is used to enable all shareholders to discuss the Groups operations and progress directly with the Board.
The Directors are available to answer shareholder questions, informally, before and after the AGM.
The Chairman also invites questions from shareholders during the AGM.
Information of a price sensitive nature is communicated as required by the Company Secretary to the Company Announcements Office of the London Stock Exchange and the Group strives to ensure that all key information is effectively and clearly communicated.
In addition to the above formal communications, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding of the Groups operations, the market and its management objectives, and in the year under review in excess of 100 such meetings have been held.
The aim is to meet with major institutional shareholders at least once a year.
Press releases on the Groups activities are made to journalists and the media through the Group Press Office and its external PR advisors.
The Groups joint brokers, Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited and UBS Investment Bank, also work actively on our behalf in an effort to ensure that investors and potential investors in the business are given reliable information on the Groups operations, its values and ethos in order to make informed investment decisions.
Barratt won the IR magazine award for most progress in investor relations by a non-FTSE 100 company, in June 2008.
Barratt Developments 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 | Report of the Directors Statutory information The Group Finance Director presents regular reports to the Group Board on the Companys investor relations activities to ensure that they have a clear understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Major shareholders All notifications received by the Company in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs are published on the Companys website and on a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 9 September 2008, the Company had been notified, in accordance with DTR 5, of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital: Total Number of % of issued Date of Notification Name of Shareholder Voting Rights share capital 11 08 2008 Polaris Capital Management LLC 21,457,322 6.19 18 07 2008 Phoenix Asset Management Partner Limited 38,395,810 11.08 26 10 2007 Legal & General Group plc 14,316,281 4.13 02 05 2007 FMR Corp 26,116,198 7.53 01 05 2007 Mr D Wilson 19,431,213 5.61 07 02 2007 J P Morgan Chase & Co. 18,784,735 7.71 Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares Details of the shareholder authority for purchase by the Company of its own shares put in place at the AGM held on 27 November 2007, which remained valid at the end of the period under review, are set out in Additional information for shareholders under the heading Repurchase of shares on page 35.
No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date of this report.
A resolution renewing the authority will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 18 November 2008.
Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends The Trustees of the Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust EBT have agreed to waive any right to all or any future dividend payments on shares held within the EBT except in certain limited circumstances none of which are currently applicable.
Details of the shares so held are set out in note 29 to the financial statements.
Post balance sheet event On 9 July 2008, the Company entered into a 400m three-year committed revolving credit facility.
In addition, 350m of the existing 400m five-year revolving credit facility effective from 2 February 2005 was extended on 6 August 2008 to match the maturity period of the new three-year 400m revolving credit facility.
The remaining 50m of this facility expires on 1 February 2010.
On 9 July 2008, the Company agreed with its bankers and private placement investors to amend the financial covenants to support the Group through the current difficult economic climate.
The amendments were signed on 5 August 2008 and all conditions precedent were satisfied on 6 August 2008.
From 6 August 2008 the weighted average interest rate paid by the Group increased to circa 9.75%.
On behalf of the Board L Dent Company Secretary 9 September 2008 Barratt Developments Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
