Company Summary Capital Structure The Company The Companys equity capital structure consists of F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited the Ordinary Shares.
Company is an authorised Guernsey incorporated Ordinary shareholders are entitled to all dividends investment company.
Its shares are listed on the declared by the Company and to all of the Companys Official List of the UK Listing Authority and on the assets after repayment of its borrowings and ordinary Channel Islands Stock Exchange, and traded on both creditors.
Borrowings consist of 230 million Secured the London Stock Exchange and the Channel Islands Bonds due 2017.
The bonds carry interest at a fixed Stock Exchange.
rate of 5.23 per cent per annum and have an The Company also consolidates F&C Commercial expected maturity date of 30 June 2015.
If the bonds Property Holdings Limited and F&C Commercial are not redeemed at this date they will carry interest at Property Finance Limited, collectively known as the 0.6 per cent over LIBOR until the final maturity date of Group, details of which are contained in note 1 b to 30 June 2017. the Accounts.
Guernsey Regulatory Status At 31 December 2008 Group total assets less current The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended liabilities were 814 million and Group shareholders Investment Scheme domiciled in Guernsey.
existing closed-ended fund the Company is deemed to be granted an authorisation declaration in accordance with section 8 of the Protection of Objective Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law 1987, as The investment objective of the Company is to provide amended and rule 6.02 of the Authorised Closedordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income Ended Investment Schemes Rules 2008 on the same together with the potential for capital and income date as the Company obtained consent under the growth from investing in a diversified UK commercial Control of Borrowing Bailiwick of Guernsey Ordinance property portfolio.
How to Invest Investment Policy The Managers operate a number of investment plans The Companys investment policy is contained within which facilitate investment in the shares of the the Report of the Directors on pages 15 and 16.
Details are contained on page 46.
You may also invest through your usual stockbroker.
Management The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business ISA Status Limited FCIB or the Managers as its investment The Companys shares are eligible for ISAs.
Further details of the management arrangements are provided on page 8 and in the Website The Companys internet address is: www.
co. uk Notes to the Accounts.
