Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of corporate governance and risk management.
As set the Group for the year ended 31 December 2008. out in the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 23 the Board is also responsible for the Results and Dividends preparation of the Annual Report and financial The results for the year are set out in the attached statements for each financial period.
details of the Directors, all of whom are non executive, can be found on page 14.
The Company has paid interim dividends during the year ended 31 December 2008 as follows: Objective Payment Rate per The Companys investment objective is to provide date share ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of Third interim for prior year 25 January 2008 1.5p income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified UK Fourth interim for prior year 25 April 2008 1.5p commercial property portfolio.
First interim 25 July 2008 1.5p Second interim 24 October 2008 1.5p Investment Policy Third interim 31 December 2008 1.0p The Company holds a diversified portfolio of freehold and predominantly long leasehold over 60 years It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay remaining at the time of acquisition UK commercial dividends as interim dividends.
The Directors do not properties.
It invests principally in three commercial therefore recommend a final dividend.
Three further property sectors: office, retail and industrial.
interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid The Company invests in properties which the Board, on 30 January, 27 February, and 27 March 2009. on the advice of F&C Investment Business Limited The seventh, and last, interim dividend in respect of FCIB or the Managers, believes will generate a the year, of 0.5p per share, will be paid on 24 April combination of long-term growth in capital and 2009 to shareholders on the register on 3 April income for shareholders.
It is the intention of the Directors that the based on analysis of, amongst other things, Company will continue to pay dividends monthly.
prospects for future capital and income growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant Principal Activity and Status strength, lease length, and initial and equivalent The Company is a Guernsey-registered company yields.
and, during the year, carried on business as a Investment risks are spread through investing in a property investment company.
The Companys range of geographical areas and sectors, and through shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange letting properties to low risk tenants.
The Company and the Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
has not set any maximum geographic exposures, but The Company is a member of the Association of the maximum weightings in the principal property Investment Companies AIC.
sectors stated as a percentage of total assets are: office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per cent: and industrial: Changes to Guernsey Company Law 40 per cent.
No single property may exceed 15 per On 1 July 2008, The Companies Guernsey Law, cent of total assets and the five largest properties 1994 was superceded by The Companies excluding indirect property funds may not exceed Guernsey Law, 2008.
The Directors have adopted 40 per cent of total assets.
Short leasehold properties the provisions of The Companies Guernsey Law, with less than 60 years remaining may not exceed 2008 in preparing the financial statements.
Business Review The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall cent of its total assets in indirect property funds at stewardship of the Company, including investment the time of acquisition, but these investments may and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, not exceed 20 per cent of total assets at any Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 Report of the Directors continued subsequent date.
The Company may not invest in being held.
Its principal risks are therefore related to other listed investment companies.
The Company is the commercial property market in general, but also permitted to invest cash, held by it for working the particular circumstances of the properties in capital purposes and awaiting investment, in cash which it is invested and their tenants.
More detailed deposits, gilts and money market funds.
explanations of these risks and the way in which they are managed are contained in note 17 to the The Company uses gearing to enhance returns over accounts.
The Managers also seek to mitigate these the long term.
Gearing, represented by borrowings risks through active asset management initiatives and as a percentage of total assets, may not exceed carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants 50 per cent.
However, the Boards present intention before entering into any new lease agreements.
All of continues to be that borrowings will be limited to a the properties in the portfolio are insured.
maximum of 35 per cent of total assets at the time of borrowing.
Other risks faced by the Company include the following: Investment of Assets Economic inflation or deflation, economic At each Board meeting, the Board receives a recessions and movements in interest rates could detailed presentation from the Managers which affect property valuations.
includes a review of investment performance, recent portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It also Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, considers compliance with the investment policy and including sector and geographic allocations and other investment restrictions during the reporting use of gearing, could lead to poor returns for period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested shareholders.
as at 31 December 2008 is contained within the Managers Review on pages 9 to 12 and a full Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead portfolio listing is provided on page 13. to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit The Groups borrowings are represented by report.
230 million Secured Bonds due 2017, which are described in more detail in note 13 to the accounts.
Management and control changes that cause The gearing level as at 31 December 2008 was the management and control of the Company to 28.2 per cent of total assets, including cash 2007: be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to 19.5 per cent.
the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
Strategy Operational failure of the Managers accounting As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually systems or disruption to the Managers business, delegated the management of the property portfolio, or that of third party service providers, could lead and other services, to the Managers.
to an inability to provide accurate reporting and The Companys performance in meeting its monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders objectives is measured against key performance confidence.
indicators as set out below.
A review of the Companys returns during the financial year, the Financial inadequate controls by the Managers position of the Company at the year-end, and or third party service providers could lead the outlook for the coming year are contained in the to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
accounting policies or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to a qualified Principal Risks and Uncertainties audit report, misreporting or breaches of The Companys assets comprise direct and indirect regulations.
Breaching bond covenants could investments in UK commercial property, although lead to a downgrading of the Secured Bonds, a recent market uncertainty has resulted in more cash loss of shareholders confidence and financial 16 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited loss for shareholders see note 13 for details of Directors the principal bond covenants.
The Directors who held office during the year and their interests in the shares of the Company as at The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks 31 December 2008 all of which were beneficially through continual review, policy setting and held by the Directors and or their spouses were: enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also 2008 2007 regularly monitors the investment environment and Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares the management of the Companys property portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the P Niven 42,491 20,514 internal control guidance issued by the Financial D L Adamson 52,905 50,000 J H Stephen 42,051 20,514 Reporting Council.
Details of the Companys internal B W Sweetland 87,620 44,398 controls are described in more detail on pages 20 N J M Tostevin 21,502 20,000 and 21.
Since 31 December 2008 Messrs Niven, Adamson, Stephen, Sweetland and Tostevin have acquired Shareholder Value additional shares through the Companys dividend The Board and Managers recognise the importance reinvestment plan.
Their holdings have increased by of both marketing and share buy-backs in 651, 810, 338, 1,341 and 330 shares respectively.
In terms of marketing, There have been no other changes in the above the Managers offer a range of private investor interests between 31 December 2008 and 31 March savings schemes, details of which can be found on 2009. page 46.
In addition, meetings are held regularly The Directors are also directors of F&C Commercial with current and prospective shareholders and stockbroking analysts covering the investment Property Holdings Limited, the Companys wholly company sector.
Share buy-backs help reduce the &CCommercial volatility of the discount and enhance the net asset Property Finance Limited, a special purpose vehicle value per share for continuing shareholders.
Communication of quarterly portfolio information is Mr J H Stephen and Mr N J M Tostevin retire from the made through the Companys website.
Board by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr B W Sweetland, who is not Key Performance Indicators considered to be an independent Director, retires The Board uses a number of performance measures annually from the Board and, being eligible, offers to assess the Companys success in meeting its .
The key performance indicators are as The Board confirms that, following formal follows: performance evaluations, the performance of each of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be Net asset value total return and total return of the effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
property portfolio compared to relevant The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests Investment Property Databank indices: of shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
Premium discount of share price to net asset During the year the Directors received the following value: emoluments in the form of fees: Dividend per share and dividend yield: and Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December Total expenses as a ratio of total assets less 2008 2007 current liabilities.
P Niven 37,500 30,000 A historic record of these indicators is contained D L Adamson 25,000 21,500 in the Highlights and the Performance Summary on J H Stephen 25,000 21,500 B W Sweetland 25,000 21,500 pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans Statement on N J M Tostevin 30,000 24,000 pages 4 to 7, and in the Historic Record on Total 142,500 118,500 page 45.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 Report of the Directors continued There are no service contracts in existence between Combined Code.
However, it is the Companys the Company and any Directors but each of the policy to comply with best practice on good Directors was appointed by a letter of appointment corporate governance that is applicable to which sets out the main terms of his appointment.
The Board has therefore considered the principles Management and recommendations of the AICs Code of The Managers provide investment management Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference services to the Company.
A summary of the to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for agreement between the Company and the Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Managers in respect of management services Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all provided is given in note 2 to the accounts.
the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined The Board keeps under review the appropriateness Code, as well as setting out additional principles and of the Managers appointment.
In doing so the recommendations on issues specific to investment Board considers the past investment performance of companies.
the Company and the capability and resources of the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment The Board considers that it is appropriate to report performance.
It also considers the length of the against the principles and recommendations of the notice period of the investment management AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, incorporates the Combined Code.
together with the standard of the other services Except as disclosed below, the Company complied provided.
throughout the year with the recommendations of The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the to deliver satisfactory investment performance, and Combined Code.
Since all the Directors are nonthe quality of other services provided.
It is therefore executive, in accordance with the AIC Code and the their opinion that the continuing appointment of the preamble to the Combined Code, the provisions of Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of the Combined Code on the role of the chief shareholders as a whole.
executive and, except in so far as they apply to nonexecutive Directors, on Directors remuneration, are Substantial Interests in Share Capital not relevant to the Company, and are not reported As at 31 March 2009 the following holdings on further.
representing 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital had been reported.
In view of its non-executive nature and the requirement of the Articles of Association that all Number of Ordinary Shares Percentage Directors retire by rotation at least every three years, Held Held the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term as Friends Provident plc 347,796,294 51.1 recommended by provision A.
7.2 of the Combined Lloyds Banking Group plc 36,512,892 5.3 Code and principle 3 of the AIC Code, nor for a Includes 342,300,000 shares held by life insurance subsidiaries of Senior Independent Director to be appointed as FriendsProvidentplc  withthebalance &CAssetManagementplc.
3.3 of the Combined Code and principle 1 of the AIC Code, nor for there to be a Nomination Committee as recommended by Corporate Governance Guernsey does not have its own corporate provision A.
4.1 of the Combined Code and principle 9 of the AIC Code.
Furthermore, in light of governance code and, as a Guernsey incorporated company, the Company is not required to comply his considerable financial experience, the Board considers it appropriate that the Chairman of the with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Board, Mr P Niven, remains a member of the Audit 18 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Committee, contrary to the recommendation of committee operates within clearly defined terms of provision C. 3.1 of the Combined Code, applicable to reference.
Its duties in discharging its accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and 2008, which recommends that a company chairman Interim Accounts: the system of internal controls: should not be a member of the audit committee.
and the terms of appointment of the auditor together with its remuneration.
It is also the forum through The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors which the auditor reports to the Board of Directors of which Mr P Niven is Chairman.
Mr B W and it meets at least twice yearly.
The objectivity of Sweetland was, until May 2005, an executive the auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee director of Friends Provident plc, which is the which also reviews the terms under which the ultimate parent company of the Managers and the external auditor is appointed to perform non-audit companys majority shareholder.
He currently sits on services.
The Committee reviews the scope and committees which provide non-investment related results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the advice to F&C Asset Management plcs range of independence and objectivity of the auditor, with socially responsible investment products.
Until those particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees advisory roles cease, he may not be regarded as an amounted to 14,000 for the year ended independent Director and will be subject to annual 31 December 2008 year ended 31 December 2007 re-election by shareholders.
All other Directors are 7,000 and related principally to a review of the considered by the Board to be independent of the interim financial information, work relating to the new Managers.
The Boards policy on tenure is that investment management fee agreement and continuity and experience are considered to add certification of bond compliance certificates.
significantly to the strength of the Board and, as Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee such, no limit on the overall length of service of any considers KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, independent of the Company and that the provision has been imposed.
New Directors will receive an of such non-audit services is not a threat to the induction from the Managers and Secretary on objectivity and independence of the conduct of the joining the Board, and all Directors receive other audit.
The members of the Management Engagement The Company has no executive directors or Committee are shown on page 14.
A management agreement between the the chairman.
The committee reviews the Company and the Managers sets out the matters appropriateness of the Managers continuing over which the Managers have authority and the appointment together with the terms and conditions limits beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, corporate During the year the performance of the Board, governance and risk management, are reserved for committees and individual Directors was evaluated the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board through an assessment process, led by the meets at least quarterly and receives full information Chairman.
This process involved the completion of on the Companys investment performance, assets, questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Company, and follow up discussions between the Board meetings.
Chairman and each of the Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the Throughout the year the Audit Committee and the other Directors.
Management Engagement Committee have been in operation.
The terms of reference of these The table on the following page sets out the number committees are available for inspection on request.
of scheduled Board and Committee meetings held The members of the Audit Committee are shown on during the year and the number of meetings page 14.
Mr N J M Tostevin is the chairman.
The attended by each Director.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 Report of the Directors continued Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended D L Adamson 5 4 2 2 1 1 P Niven 5 4 2 1 J H Stephen 5 5 2 1 1 1 B W Sweetland 5 5 N J M Tostevin 5 5 2 2 1 1 In addition to the scheduled meetings detailed The test matrix is regularly updated and the Board is above, there were a further 12 Board meetings and provided with regular reports highlighting all material Board committee meetings held in Guernsey during changes to the risk ratings and confirming the action the year.
which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Audit Committee and includes consideration of Company, seek independent professional advice on internal control reports issued by the Managers and any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of other service providers.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Such review procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval Going Concern of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with After making enquiries, and bearing in mind the their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed nature of the Companys business and assets, the to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their Directors consider that the Company has adequate nature, can only provide reasonable, but not resources to continue in operational existence for absolute, assurance against material misstatement the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the investment performance of the Company in accounts.
comparison to its stated objective and against comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the Internal Controls Companys activities since the last Board meeting to The Board is responsible for the Companys system ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
investment policy and approved investment The Board has therefore established an ongoing guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to process designed to meet the particular needs of the guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the Company in managing the risks to which it the Board receives reports from the Secretary in is exposed, consistent with the internal control respect of compliance matters and duties performed guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The process is based principally on the Managers The Board has reviewed the need for an internal existing risk-based approach to internal control audit function.
The Board has decided that the whereby a test matrix is created that identifies the systems and procedures employed by the Managers key functions carried out by the Managers and other and the Secretary, including their internal audit service providers, the individual activities undertaken functions and the work carried out by the within those functions, the risks associated with Companys external auditor, provide sufficient each activity and the controls employed to minimise assurance that a sound system of internal control, those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
20 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited which safeguards the Companys assets, is out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the seeks renewal of such authority until the earlier of Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
the Annual General Meeting in 2010 and 31 October 2010.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within any Environmental Policy guidelines established from time to time by the The Managers acquire, develop and manage Board and the making and timing of any buy backs properties on behalf of the Company.
It is will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
recognised that these activities have both direct and Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has through the market for cash at prices below the endorsed the Managers own environmental policy prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as which is to work in partnership with contractors, last calculated where the Directors believe such tenants and consultants to minimise those impacts, purchases will enhance shareholder value.
The price seeking continuous improvements in environmental paid will not be less than the nominal value of 1p performance and conducting regular reviews.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority Relations with Shareholders which provide that the price to be paid must not be The Company proactively seeks the views of its more than 5 per cent above the average of the shareholders and places great importance on middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for communication with them.
The Board receives the five business days before the shares are regular reports on the views of shareholders and the purchased.
Any shares purchased under Chairman and other Directors are available to meet this authority will be cancelled or held in treasury shareholders if required.
The Notice of Annual within the following limits: General Meeting to be held on 1 May 2009 is set out on page 44.
It is hoped that will provide a forum, No more than 10 per cent of the Companys both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers and of the Company.
Shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a Reduction of Share Capital premium to the net asset value.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting on 22 February 2008, shareholders approved proposals to reduce Discount Policy the nominal value of the Ordinary Shares from 90p The Companys prospectus, published in 2005, to 1p and to cancel the share premium account.
Full contained a statement that the Directors intended to details are set out in note 14 to the accounts.
use the share buy back authority to purchase Ordinary Shares subject to the income and cash flow requirements of the Company if the share price Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares During the year the Company purchased of an Ordinary Share was more than five per cent below the published net asset value for a continuous 51,997,000 Ordinary Shares for a total consideration of 39.9 million representing 7.1 per cent of the period of 20 dealing days or more.
To ensure a fair comparison, the Directors believe that such discount Ordinary Shares in issue at the previous year end.
Of the Ordinary Shares purchased, 41,497,000 were should be calculated by adjusting the published net purchased to be held in treasury and 10,500,000 asset value for any dividends for which the share price has gone ex-dividend.
It is the Boards intention that it will continue to The current authority of the Company to make consider share buy backs while the discount is in market purchases of up to 14.99 per cent of the excess of five per cent adjusted for any dividends issued Ordinary Share Capital expires at the end of for which the share price has gone ex-dividend.
In the Annual General Meeting and Resolution 7, as set Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 Report of the Directors continued addition to taking into account the income and cash Disclosure of Information to the Auditor flow requirements of the Company, the Directors will The Directors who held office at the date of approval seek to ensure that any share buy backs are of this Report of the Directors confirm that, so far as undertaken at prices which are in the best interests they are each aware: of all shareholders.
there is no relevant audit information of which the The prospectus also contained a statement that, in Companys auditor is unaware: and the event that such discount was more than five per each Director has taken all the steps that he cent for 90 consecutive dealing days or more, the ought to have taken as a Director to make Directors would convene an extraordinary general himself aware of any relevant audit information meeting to consider an ordinary resolution for the and to establish that the Companys auditor is continuation of the Company.
Such an extraordinary aware of that information.
general meeting the First Continuation EGM was held on 28 September 2007 at which a resolution was passed to continue the Company.
Auditor The circular published by the Company to convene KPMG Channel Islands Limited has expressed its the First Continuation EGM stated that, in the event willingness to continue in office as auditor and a that the resolution was passed, the Directors would resolution proposing its re-appointment will be convene another extraordinary general meeting to submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
consider the continuation of the Company if the Ordinary Shares traded at a discount of over five per cent, calculated as described above, for On behalf of the Board 90 consecutive dealing days or more following the first anniversary of the First Continuation EGM.
This condition was met at close of business on 4 February 2009 and the Directors therefore announced their intention to convene another extraordinary general meeting the Second Continuation EGM to consider a resolution to approve the continuation of the Company.
A circular convening the Second Continuation EGM, to be P Niven N J M Tostevin held on 1 May 2009, has been posted to Director Director shareholders along with this Annual Report, and is referred to in more detail in the Chairmans Statement.
31 March 2009 22 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
