Board of Directors Peter Niven Brian Sweetland Chairman age 63 is a UK resident.
He age 54 is a resident of was, until May 2005, an Guernsey.
He has worked in executive director of Friends the financial services industry Provident plc and a member in the UK and offshore for of its investment committee.
33 years, most recently as As a solicitor, he was the Chief Executive of Lloyds company secretary of TSB Groups offshore banking operations, until his Friends Provident plc for over 20 years to the end of retirement from the bank in June 2004.
A Fellow of 2004 and was formerly a non-executive director of the Institute of Bankers and a Chartered Director, he Benchmark Group plc and F&C Asset Management has served as a director of many Lloyds TSB group plc F&C.
He sits on committees which provide non-investment related advice to F&Cs range of companies.
He is currently a director of a number of Guernsey-based investment companies including socially responsible investment products.
Resolution Limited and Dexion Trading Limited.
He is also Chief Executive of Guernsey Finance LBG.
Nicholas Tostevin Chairman of the Audit Donald Adamson Committee age 49 is a resident of age 56 is a resident of Jersey.
He is an of experience of fund Advocate of the Royal Court management, stock broking of Guernsey and is the and private equity.
From senior partner of Babbe.
He 19901999 he was a has given legal advice on commercial property director and subsequently transactions in Guernsey for over 25 years.
He was co-owner of Graham Investment Managers Limited, a member of the Guernsey legislature, the States of a Jersey-based fund management company.
He Deliberation, from 1991 to 1997 and was a member currently serves as a director or chairman of a of the Guernsey Income Tax Authority for six years.
number of listed or private investment companies He is a non-executive director of a number of including Cambium Global Timberland Limited, captive insurance companies and Guernsey-based JP Morgan Progressive Multi-Strategy Fund Limited, investment companies, including Gottex Market Lindsell Train Investment Trust plc and Invesco Neutral Trust Limited, a London-listed fund of hedge Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited.
of the AIC Offshore Committee.
John Stephen age 59 is a UK resident.
He is Chairman for England Member of the Audit Committee of Jones Lang LaSalle, real Member of the Management Engagement Committee estate advisers.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and has over 35 years of property experience with Jones Lang LaSalle.
He is also a strategic adviser to Evans Property Group and a trustee of the Portman Estate.
