Directors Report Business Review: Aftermarket Services and Systems 30 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Aftermarket Services and Systems We have three businesses in Aftermarket Services and Systems.
They maintain, manufacture and support engines and aerospace components, sub-systems and systems.
Engine Repair and Overhaul is licensed to work on more than 80% of the engines powering the business and general aviation fleet.
Legacy Support is the leading provider to the major aerospace OEMs of high-quality, cost-effective solutions in the continuing support of maturing and legacy aircraft platforms.
APPH is a niche landing gear and hydraulic sub-systems manufacturer, designing, engineering, manufacturing and supplying systems and sub-systems for original equipment and aftermarket applications.
31 Aftermarket Services and Systems Financial Summary The division generated operating cash fl ow of 56.5 million 2007: Inc Inc 37.3 million representing a cash conversion rate of 102%, with a signifi cant 1 2008 2007 Dec 2007 Dec improvement during the second half of the year as anticipated at the time m m % m % of the interim results.
Sales 450.2 399.9 13 422.8 6 The return on invested capital over the year including goodwill previously written off to reserves and excluding the impact of the disposed Organic growth 10% 10% Oxford businesses improved to 10.6% 2007: 9.5% continuing the trend Underlying operating profi t 55.5 43.2 28 46.1 20 started in 2006.
Operating profi t margin 12.3% 10.8% 10.9% Operating cash fl ow 56.5 37.3 51 Cash conversion ratio 102% 86% ROIC 10.6% 8.9% 1 At constant exchange rates Sales in our Aftermarket Services and Systems businesses grew by 6% on a 10 % constant currency basis.
Organic growth was 10% after taking into account the sale of the businesses at Oxford airport in the middle of 2007 and the Organic revenue growth achieved during the year closure of the CSE Engineering business in early 2008.
Underlying profi ts increased strongly to 55.5 million 2007: 43.2 million and were 28% higher than the prior year 20% at constant exchange rates.
The Engine Repair and the Legacy Support businesses performed particularly well and both signifi cantly increased underlying operating earnings during the year.
Margins improved to 12.3% 2007: 10.8% due to a continuing 12.
3% improvement in Engine Repair and the impact of the closure of the low margin businesses at Oxford 2007 restated to exclude Oxford: 11.2%.
Underlying operating margins increased by 1.5% in 2008 32 32 BB BBA A A Av via iat ti ion on A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 20 200 08 8 Directors Report Business Review: Aftermarket Services and Systems Engine Repair and Overhaul ERO focuses mainly on engines fi tted to B&GA aircraft and has a good range of authorisations amongst the OEMs.
With its strong presence in both domestic and international markets through its sales force, fi eld service units, regional turbine centres and major overhaul facilities, EROs close attention to servicing customer needs means it has continued to make good progress in increasingly diffi cult markets.
ERO 2008 Revenues ERO 2008 Sales by Segment by OEM Focus of ERO business model is ERO Revenue is well distributed the Business & General Aviation across OEM suppliers market Pratt & Whitney Business & General Canada Aviation 41% 69% Honeywell Airline 30% 18% Rolls-Royce Gov Military & Industrial 23% 7% GE Rotor Wing civil 4% 6% Misc.
2% 33 33 Engine Repair and Overhaul ERO Sales military rotor wing RR250, PT6T and business aviation engines PW300, Inc Inc PW500, TFE731 contributing to the overall growth for 2008.
2 1,2 2008 2007 Dec 2007 Dec ERO continues to make improvements in its operations and supply m m % m % chain structure to facilitate profi table organic growth.
It has reduced turn USA 292.0 240.6 21 260.2 12 times on a number of engine overhauls and has implemented a comprehensive programme of continuous improvement.
An initiative to Europe & ROW 50.9 48.9 4 48.9 4 reduce inventory levels is yielding results with a 13 million reduction achieved Total 342.9 289.5 18 309.1 11 in the year of which 8 million came through in the second half.
This will be a 1 At constant exchange rates continuing area of focus for 2009.
2 Restated for the transfer of the Parts businesses from Legacy Support During the year, ERO added 16 new engine models to its existing Events in the global economy during 2008, especially the latter half, had a authorisations on Pratt & Whitney Canada engines and extended the term signifi cant downward impact on the level of fl ight activity.
Through careful of its service agreement for a further 12 years.
It also secured a ten-year service and continuous monitoring of the market and quick reaction to events, ERO agreement with Austrian Airlines for the maintenance, repair and overhaul of was able to deliver growth in a highly competitive and uncertain environment.
the airlines Rolls-Royce Tay engines.
2008 sales increased by 11% on a constant currency basis to 342.9 million 2007: 309.1 million with all of the growth being organic.
Outlook ERO increased its share in a declining US market whilst penetrating expanding With its focus on business and general aviation, ERO is expected to be global sectors with the international markets holding up well.
Strategic impacted by the reduction in fl ying activity, but will experience this somewhat decisions taken to improve the portfolio balance resulted in a 24% increase later than Signature and the eff ects should be shallower due to EROs in our airline revenue Tay, PW100, CT7 coupled with solid gains in both international exposure.
34 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Directors Report Business Review: Aftermarket Services and Systems So much in the aviation industry is time critical good customer service is a response to this.
Dallas Airmotives mobile response teams operate out of key locations in North America, keeping their customers planes flying and greatly reducing the time unscheduled repairs cost and the inconvenience they cause.
As a result, their aircraft on ground AOG Response Team trucks are a welcome sight at business airports up and down the east coast of the USA.
Next level customer service The New York metro area is home to the greatest concentration of business jets in the world.
Dallas Airmotives mobile response units help their operators minimise downtime, getting planes back in the air faster.
More than 100 fi eld service representatives respond quickly and effi ciently to customers needs.
35 Prepared for anything Dallas Airmotives fi eld engineers are licensed Airframe & Powerplant professional technicians with training and the depth of experience needed to respond to the widest variety of situations.
The 24-hour AOG response unit is customised for each trip allowing the fi eld services representatives to act quickly and eff ectively.
37 Level 1 Level 2 Major airports in the Northeastern United States Complete convenience A branded presence on the tarmac gives Dallas Airmotives customers a high level of reassurance.
Whether theyre troubleshooting issues with a line replaceable unit, delivering a repaired APU, fi eld service technicians provide BED an industry leading service with convenience at its heart.
Mobile Response ELM BOS Units are fl exibly positioned to support our clients needs.
Connecticut New York HFD DXR BDR AVP HPN White Plains TEB Teterboro LGA La Guardia Airport MMU Morristown Teterboro Mobile Response Team vehicle range: FRG Farmingdale EWR Newark International Airport ISP Islip Airports representing one of the highest concentrations of flight departments in the world JFK John F. Kennedy International Business aviation at major area airline hubs that we cover Other airports in the Teterboro Mobile Response Team vehicle range TTN Trenton, New Jersey Pennsylvania New Jersey TTN ACY Atlantic City, New Jersey PHL Philadelphia International, Pennsylvania PNE Northeast Philadelphia, Pennsylvania PNE PHL ILG Wilmington, Delaware IAD Dulles International, Virginia ILG ACY DCA Ronald Reagan National, Virginia Washington, DC MIV BED Bedford, Massachusetts BOS Boston Logan International, Massachusetts ELM Elmira, New York AVP Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania IAD HFD Hartford, Connecticut DCA DXR Danbury, Connecticut BDR Bridgeport, Connecticut MIV Millville Municipal Airport, New Jersey 39 Directors Report Business Review: Aftermarket Services and Systems Legacy Support Legacy Support has continued the acquisition of OEM legacy product licences, expanding its operations internationally and, with the technical expertise and support of its sister business ERO, signed its largest licence to date for the Honeywell 700 Series Auxiliary Power Unit.
Legacy Support formerly Component Repair and Overhaul Sales IGS excels relative to its competition through best-in-class customer service Inc Inc and product turnaround time that its customer base has grown to depend on 2 1,2 2008 2007 Dec 2007 Dec to meet their service needs.
Many of the major OEMs and independent MRO m m % m % customers served by IGS have reduced their in-house capabilities in favour USA 34.0 26.6 27 28.8 18 of IGS support.
In the second half of 2008 Ontic added a number of licences for major 1 At constant exchange rates 2 Restated for the transfer of the Parts businesses to Engine Repair and Overhaul new product lines including the Honeywell 700 Series Auxiliary Power Unit APU and Kidde Graviners Gaseous Emergency Oxygen Equipment GEOE Legacy Support delivered a very strong performance during the year which will produce sales of more than 12 million annually over the next 10 organically increasing sales by 13% at constant exchange rates and securing years.
Order backlog for existing licensed products approached $40 million a number of important new licences.
which was the largest in Ontics history and has more than doubled since its BBA Aviation Legacy Support formerly Component Repair and Overhaul acquisition by BBA Aviation in February 2006.
The pipeline of new licence is the market leader in providing major aerospace OEMs with high quality, cost opportunities continues to be very strong looking forward into 2009. eff ective solutions in the continuing support of maturing and legacy aircraft With the addition of the Kidde GEOE licence and a large number of platforms in the Business & General Aviation B&GA, Military and Commercial attractive new business opportunities with OEMs outside of the USA, a Airline markets.
UK based subsidiary has been established to support GEOE and facilitate Group operating companies currently include Ontic Engineering and expansion of Ontics core licensing model and capabilities in the UK and Manufacturing Ontic, headquartered in Chatsworth, CA and International Europe, and will be headquartered close to Heathrow Airport and will provide Governor Service IGS in Broomfi eld, CO. additional growth opportunities for Legacy Support.
Overall market conditions for Legacy Support continue to be very solid with a strong sales and order backlog at Ontic, arising from both existing Outlook licences and new licences acquired in 2008.
After a prolonged period of robust orders and strong backlogs in the B&GA We continue to see no major competition for Ontics core licensing model and commercial airline markets, most market forecasts currently project a to support the OEMs beyond the potential reluctance for OEMs to rationalise decline in both backlog and new aircraft orders in 2009.
The softening an existing portfolio if the new product market experiences a broader and market for new product sales should create additional opportunities for Ontic sustained decline.
Ontics broad product portfolio and decades of experience within the OEM legacy aircraft and product portfolio.
In the Military aircraft supporting these types of products is unsurpassed in the aviation marketplace segment, the continued use of a large number of mature aircraft is expected and the product licensing and adoptions model continues to deliver to result in steady demand for a wide range of components and assemblies immediate and demonstrable value to OEM customers.
that are supported by Ontic.
40 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Directors Report Business Review: Aftermarket Services and Systems Sharing skills, people and experience has enabled our Legacy Support and ERO businesses to win the valuable Honeywell 700 series Auxiliary Power Unit licence.
Ontics experience and expertise on the Line Replacement Units combined with Dallas Airmotives expertise with the complex turbomachinery and test requirements has established Ontic as an attractive legacy support option for Turbine Engine and APU original equipment manufacturers.
Careful collaboration The Ontic and Dallas Airmotive team at work on the component MRO function for Auxiliary Power Units APUs.
Here, the Ontic team takes advantage of Dallas Airmotives knowledge and expertise on APU products as they adopt and duplicate the critical controls developed by the manufacturer.
These are crucial to the successful and seamless transition of the product line.
41 Delivering excellence together Meeting customer and licensor expectations is vital to the success of any licence.
The Ontic Dallas Airmotive team implement the Repair and Inspection procedures they were trained on at the OEM, putting these adopted procedures into practice as they repair product at the Dallas Airmotive facility.
This assures customers they are receiving the same service they received from the original equipment manufacturer.
43 Directors Report Business Review: Aftermarket Services and Systems APPH Group APPH won new contracts and delivered first landing gear sets on a number of recently awarded programmes, including unmanned air vehicles and helicopters.
Further progress was made with our continuous improvement programme with the establishment of training academies at all UK sites, and 20% of the total APPH workforce undertaking training in continuous improvement philosophies and methodology.
APPH Group Landing Gear and Hydraulics Sales BAE Systems to support the MODs UCAV demonstrator programme for Inc the Teranis landing gear system and APPHs MRO facility commenced 2008 2007 Dec a worldwide contract to overhaul the landing gear system on the Boeing m m % 717 fl fleet.
APPH also delivered the fi first set of American manufactured landing USA 16.8 14.6 15 gears for the Agusta Westland Presidential US101 helicopter fl fleet.
Europe & ROW 51.9 48.2 8 During the year the APPH Group made further progress with its Total 68.7 62.8 9 Continuous Improvement CI Lean Manufacturing programme, as training academies were set up on all UK sites and 20% of the total workforce were provided with a one-week training course on CI philosophies and methodology.
Sales at 68.7 million were 9% higher than the prior year with all of the APPH received, as a result of its commitment to Lean Initiatives, a Judges growth being organic.
The strong growth refl ected increased OEM sales for Special Award from Cranfi eld University School of Management, under the BAE Systems Hawk and SAAB JAAS39 Gripen landing gear systems, increased auspices of the annual Best Factory Award programme.
volumes of hydraulic sub-systems to Hindustan Aeronautics for the Advanced APPH Bolton has received the Environmental Accreditation ISO 14001 Light Helicopter and the increasing build rate of Cessna Mustang aircraft, during 2008 and APPH now has three of its manufacturing sites certifi ed to where APPH supply the throttle quadrants.
In the second half of the year this standard.
APPH experienced a decline in replacement parts and repair and overhaul services for the regional turboprop aviation market in the USA.
A number Outlook of important new orders were secured during the period.
In India a joint The short-term outlook remains challenging with continued weakening in development contract was obtained to develop the pitch control actuation the business and commercial sectors which could be off set to some extent system for the Light Combat Helicopter, which has the potential to generate by increased demand in the military sector.
revenue of $30 million over 10 years.
In the UK APPH signed a contract with Oxford Sales Inc 2008 2007 Dec m m % UK 4.7 21.0 78 Oxford Aviation Training and Oxford Airport were sold during 2007 and a small engineering business CSE Aviation which was based at the airport was closed in early 2008.
44 44 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Directors Report Business Review: Aftermarket Services and Systems Manufacturing processes at APPH are under constant review by both management and operators.
The aim is continuous improvement and thanks to the ongoing training programme at every APPH site, this philosophy has become a reality.
Customers experience a faster, more efficient service and the capacity of the firms sites is enhanced.
Time and motion Compression testing nose gear for a BAE Systems jet is made more effi cient by shadow boards placed within easy reach of the engineer.
All the tools needed for this production conformance test are held on the board, minimising journey time around the factory.
45 Lean manufacturing Manufacturing processes are subject to constant scrutiny and improvement.
As landing gear for a NH-90 helicopter is being fi nished, every necessary component is assembled into a colour-coded kit and kept just an arms length away.
Operators make a close study of a value stream map, identifying where processes can be made more effi cient and time saved: Kanban visual management systems speed up sub-assembly and cut out wasteful processes.
The result: leaner manufacturing with shorter lead times.
