Directors Report Business Review: Flight Support 12 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Flight Support Our two Flight Support businesses provide re-fuelling, ground handling and other services to the business, general and commercial aviation markets.
Signature Flight Support is the worlds largest and market leading fixed base operation FBO network for business aviation.
It promotes fuelling, hangar and office rentals, ground handling, passenger and other technical services in more than 80 locations at the most sought after global destinations.
At more than 60 major airports, commercial airlines rely on ASIG to carry out a wide range of ground services.
Re-fuelling, baggage handling, equipment maintenance, cabin cleaning and more are carried out safely and with considerable technical expertise by our highly-trained staff.
13 Flight Support Financial Summary Inc Inc 1 2008 2007 Dec 2007 Dec m m % m % Sales 705.9 579.5 22 621.5 14 Organic growth decline 6% 6% Underlying operating profi t 64.8 72.2 10 77.5 16 Operating profi t margin 9.2% 12.5% Operating cash fl ow 61.6 65.2 6 Cash conversion ratio 95% 90% ROIC 9.3% 13.9% 1 At constant exchange rates Against the backdrop of the global economic slowdown Flight Support sales grew by 22% to 705.9 million 2007: 579.5 million, excluding the signifi cant impact of higher fuel prices of 66 million and additional sales from acquisitions of 51 million, there was an organic revenue decline of 6%.
Underlying operating profi ts declined by 10% to 64.8 million as reported 2007: 72.2 million and by 16% on a constant currency basis principally due to the underlying decline in sales.
Operating margins of 9.2% 2007: 12.5% were impacted by the higher fuel costs which are passed directly on to customers.
At constant fuel costs current year margins would have been 10.1% with the balance of the reduction from the prior year caused principally by lower fuel volumes.
Despite the lower operating profi ts there was strong operating cash fl ow of 61.6 million and 95% of operating profi t was converted into cash.
The return on invested capital reduced to 9.3% 2007: 13.9%, but was 9.9% 95 % excluding the impact of the Hawker Beechcraft acquisition on the year-end balance sheet.
of operating profits were converted into cash 14 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Directors Report Business Review: Flight Support Signature Flight Support With the acquisition and integration of the Hawker Beechcraft FBO locations, the Munich and Gatwick FBOs, and the successful retention of its operation at San Francisco, Signature continues to develop its network.
In a diffi cult market, Signature delivered superior performance through the success of its pricing programme for non-network customers as well as reaching agreement on a new fi five-year contract with its largest customer, NetJets.
Signature Sales experienced in North America and did not signifi cantly impact volume until Inc Inc the fourth quarter.
The European network was extended by adding locations 1 2008 2007 Dec 2007 Dec through acquisition at Munich International Airport and London Gatwick m m % m % Airport for a total consideration of 7.7 million with a further potential USA 409.5 316.3 29 342.0 20 payment of 1.0 million payable in respect of Gatwick, subject to performance over a two-year period.
Despite the slowdown in activity across the network, Europe & ROW 98.7 78.4 26 82.0 20 Signatures international business continued to show progress in 2008, Total 508.2 394.7 29 424.0 20 growing organic revenues by 3% exclusive of jet fuel cost impacts and 1 At constant exchange rates acquisitions.
On a constant currency basis, Signature revenues worldwide were up 20% Signature Flight Supports global network now consists of 95 locations, to 508.2 million.
After adjusting for fl uctuations in the cost of jet fuel and including 58 in the USA.
Coverage extends to 45 of the US top 50 metropolitan acquisitions, which increased revenues by 15% and 12% respectively, revenues areas and 16 of the top 30 US hub airports.
Signature has locations at 22 airports were down 7% organically.
in Europe, as well as one in Cape Town, South Africa and interests in FBOs in Due to the underlying economic uncertainty, there has been a decline Hong Kong 1 and South America 13.
Including these interests, Signature in business and general aviation B&GA activity during 2008.
This reduction now has an FBO presence in 10 countries.
accelerated in the fourth quarter as a result of the heightened global economic crisis.
Against this backdrop, Signature Flight Support in the USA Outlook performed well, outperforming the broader US market in the second half In the short term, the B&GA market is likely to remain challenging as a result of the year and maintaining positive revenue growth in Europe for the year of continued economic weakness but we expect continued outperformance as a whole.
At the same time, Signature undertook headcount reductions through our network strength and the continued success of our new and reduced operating expenses in a number of areas whilst ensuring that programmes.
customer service levels were maintained.
In the USA, total aircraft movements at Signatures served markets were down approximately 12% for the whole of 2008.
Signature non-fractional volumes were off only 6% on the strength of the continued success and expansion of initiatives announced in 2007.
Inclusive of the fractional business, total volumes were down 9% organically which was slightly ahead of the market.
Signature successfully integrated the Hawker Beechcraft Line Service Division acquisition announced in February 2008 and completed in July October 2008, giving the company FBOs in six additional important US business jet markets.
The company also signed a new fi five-year contract 7% with its largest customer NetJets covering fuel supply in North America.
Organic decline in revenue due to the global economic slowdown This contract was due to expire in April 2009.
Following the successful retention of Signatures operation at San Francisco International Airport in 2007, the company started the building of an environmentally friendly executive terminal and hangar development.
Signature also received the Corporate Cup of Excellence Award from the American Association of Airport Executives in recognition of the long-term support shown its members and the airport industry by Signature.
95 locations worldwide Outside of the USA, the B&GA market also experienced a slowdown in traffi c volume.
This, however, was later than the market downturn Network increased by eight locations during the year 15 Directors Report Business Review: Flight Support Signature Flight Support FBO locations United States Europe ABZ GLA EDI STP MSP DSA first MKE EMA DET PWK BED DUB ORD DSM BOS MDW SNN BHX BDL CWL DEN IND HPN LGW MCI APA BWI MMU STL BOH LHR MKC IAD LGG SFO TEB DCA ICT SUS SOU LTN IXD EWR BNA LAS SBA MUC MEM VNY HSV LBG LGB PSP FTY DAL SNA TRM HXD PDK AUS SAV JAX SAT HOU MSY TLN MCO PIE CRP ISM TPA PBI SKG FLL MIA ATH ANC HER Brazil Africa Asia SBBE HKG SBEG CPT SBRF SBSV SBBR SBBH SBRJ SBSP SBGL SBGR SBJR SBMT SBPA US Cities and Services Brazil Europe Africa Asia ANC Anchorage ICT Wichita PWK Chicago SBBE Belem ABZ Aberdeen CPT Cape Town APA Denver IND Indianapolis first Rochester SBBH Belo Horizonte ATH Athens HKG Hong Kong AUS Austin ISM Kissimmee SAT San Antonio SBBR Brasilia BHX Birmingham BDL Hartford IXD Kansas City SAV Savannah SBEG Manaus BOH Bournemouth BED Bedford JAX Jacksonville SBA Santa Barbara SBGL Rio fide Janeiro CWL Vale of Glamorgan BNA Nashville LAS Las Vegas SFO San Francisco SBGR Sao Paulo DSA Doncaster BOS Boston LGB Long Beach SNA Santa Ana SBJR Rio fide Janeiro DUB Dublin BWI Baltimore MCI Kansas City STL St. Louis SBMT Sao Paulo EDI Edinburgh CRP Corpus Christi MCO Orlando STP St. Paul SBPA Porto Alegre EMA Derby DAL Dallas MDW Chicago SUS St. Louis SBRF Recife GLA Glasgow DCA Washington MEM Memphis TEB Teterboro SBRJ Rio fide Janeiro HER Heraklion DEN Denver MIA Miami TPA Tampa SBSP Sao Paulo INV Inverness DET Detroit MKC Kansas City TRM La Quinta SBSV Salvador LBG Paris Le Bourget DSM Des Moines MKE Milwaukee VNY Van Nuys LGG Liege EWR Newark MMU Morristown LGW Gatwick FLL Ft. Lauderdale MSP Minneapolis LHR Heathrow FTY Atlanta MSY New Orleans LTN Luton HOU Houston ORD Chicago MUC Munich HPN White Plains PBI West Palm Beach SKG Thessaloniki HSV Huntsville PDK Atlanta SNN Shannon HXD Hilton Head PIE Clearwater SOU Southampton minority interest IAD Dulles PSP Palm Springs TLN Toulon Hyres locations 16 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 Directors Report Business Review: Flight Support Acquiring Hawker Beechcrafts FBOs has strengthened Signature Flight Supports presence in key North American metro areas, positioning the firm to take full advantage of continued growth in business aviation.
Re-branding and re-training follows acquisition, ensuring customers have a consistent experience of Signature bases around the world.
The leading brand on the ground Following the Hawker Beechcraft Line Service Division acquisition in July 2008 by Signature Flight Support, the FBO at Fulton County Airport Brown Field, Atlanta was subject to a total re-branding.
Internal and external signage, uniforms and furnishings were replaced to the same high standard as Signature locations throughout the world.
Equally important is the training former Hawker Beechcraft employees received.
This went beyond baseline health and safety assessments and an extensive review of health and safety procedures to include training about the companys proprietary customer service programme.
In addition to creating a safe environment for employees, Signature Flight Support has ensured all aspects of the customers experience are met.
Beginning with marshalling an arriving aircraft and greeting passengers, through arranging trip details right up to departure, the Signature brand remains synonymous with the highest standards in private aviation.
Training for excellence Signatures Line Service technicians receive more than 30 hours of classroom training and between three and six months of on the job training.
The standard of technical service they provide matches the high level of customer 20 service that passengers and crew receive.
Directors Report Business Review: Flight Support ASIG ASIG continues to build on its core of high quality contracts, successfully beginning operations on one of the industrys largest ground handling contracts at JFK International Airports Terminal One, as well as retaining two key facilities contracts at Baltimore and Los Angeles.
This focus on high quality contracts, primarily at major hubs and international destinations has helped protect ASIG from commercial aviations schedule reductions.
ASIG Sales the 16 carriers serving the terminal.
Managing and training a large and diverse Inc Inc workforce requiring various skills and degrees of expertise has led ASIG to 1 2008 2007 Dec 2007 Dec develop and employ innovative technologies that streamline and enhance m m % m % the training process.
At JFK, ASIG is investing in aircraft pushback and fide-icing USA 166.5 156.4 6 169.1 2 simulators, which allow operators to perform many simulated repetitions before working with multi-million dollar aircraft.
The simulators provide Europe & ROW 31.1 28.4 10 28.4 10 realistic steering and customised airport layouts leading to improved airside Total 197.6 184.8 7 197.5 safety and trainee confi dence.
After a successful startup, ASIG is achieving 1 At constant exchange rates its contractual and fi financial commitments on this signifi cant operation and the contract is expected to generate $150 million in revenue over the next Total revenue at ASIG was 7% higher than 2007 on an as reported basis but seven years.
was unchanged at constant exchange rates.
Excluding variations in fuel prices The company also retained two key airport facility services contracts and the impact of a small acquisition made in the UK, ASIGs sales declined at BWI Baltimore Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport organically by 3%.
and LAX Los Angeles International Airport.
ASIG provides highly skilled The commercial fl ight support market was aff ected by the global economic mechanics, technicians and electricians to service complex and sensitive airport slowdown and the rapid escalation of jet fuel prices in the fi first half of the year.
Technical and facility services are a market that ASIG hopes to Overall we estimate that our served markets declined by 4% during 2008 and, develop further.
During the year, the company was also successful in renewing accordingly, ASIG took action by adjusting staffi ng levels, pay and benefi ts, several key aircraft refuelling contracts for American Airlines, United Airlines and improving the fuel effi ciency of its fl fleet and renegotiating supplier contracts US Airways Express.
At two key hubs, Los Angeles and London Heathrow, ASIG to operate from a more favourable cost base.
ASIGs business outside the USA, extended several large ground services contracts and the companys signifi cant which represents more than 15% of revenues, held up well.
presence at key hubs also helped to reduce its vulnerability to some of the ASIG has been able to retain and consolidate its market leading position, industrys schedule reductions that occurred during 2008. in spite of the volatile fuel market and economic conditions aff ecting the ASIG has added more aircraft cleaning capacity in the UK by acquiring industrys performance.
Reaffi rming its position as an industry leader, ASIG Flygiene Limited, based at Manchester airport for an initial cash consideration was named Best Airport Fuel Operator for the fourth straight year in an of 2.1 million with a further 1.9 million payable subject to performance.
independent survey conducted by the Armbrust Aviation Group, a leading trade organisation.
Outlook During 2008 ASIG successfully commenced one of the industrys largest A further reduction in aircraft movements is likely in the short term and ground handling contracts at JFK International Airports Terminal One.
In less airline consolidation in North America is a possibility.
ASIG is monitoring the than 90 days, the company secured and licensed $16 million in new ground situation closely and will respond to changes in demand by fl exing its cost handling equipment and trained over 300 employees to provide services to base whenever possible.
22 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 ASIG locations Northern Hawaiian Alaska Europe Thailand Mariana Islands Islands HNL FAI MME GUM DSA MAN ANC BHX LGW BBK LHR LTN STN MUC VIE United States and Caribbean SEA PDX MSP MKE DTW ORD CLE MDW JFK SLC PIT BDL DEN PHL IND SMF LGA BWI OAK CVG DCA EWR SJC SFO BNA LAS MEM CLT ABQ HSV LAX ONT ATL BUR SNA AFW TUS SAN AUS SFB MSY MLB MCO TPA SRQ FPO PBI NAS FLL MIA SJU US Cities and Services Caribbean Cities European Cities Asian Cities and Services and Services and Services DEN Denver MCO Orlando PHL Philadelphia ABQ Albuquerque FPO Freeport BHX Birmingham, UK BKK Bangkok, DTW Detroit MDW Chicago PIT Pittsburgh AFW Ft. Worth NAS Nassau DSA Robin Hood, UK Thailand EWR Newark MEM Memphis SAN San Diego ANC Anchorage SJU San Juan, P. R. LGW Gatwick, UK FAI Fairbanks MIA Miami SEA Seattle ATL Atlanta LHR Heathrow, UK FLL Ft. Lauderdale MKE Milwaukee SFB Sanford AUS Austin LTN Luton, UK GUM Guam MLB Melbourne SFO San Francisco BDL Hartford MAN Manchester, UK HNL Honolulu MSP Minn. St. Paul SJC San Jose BNA Nashville MME Durham Tees HSV Huntsville MSY New Orleans SLC Salt Lake City BUR Burbank Valley, UK IND Indianapolis OAK Oakland SMF Sacramento BWI Baltimore MUC Munich, JFK New York ONT Ontario SNA Santa Ana CLE Cleveland Germany LAS Las Vegas ORD Chicago SRQ Sarasota CLT Charlotte STN Stansted, UK LAX Los Angeles PBI Palm Beach TPA Tampa CVG Cincinnati VIE Vienna, Austria LGA La Guardia PDX Portland TUS Tucson DCA Washington 23 Directors Report Business Review: Flight Support As ASIG begins its operations at JFKs new Terminal One, taking on one of the industrys most significant ground handling projects, exceptional training standards are essential.
From computer-based classroom training and state of the art simulators, to rigorous on the job training, preparing its people for this vital work is high on ASIGs agenda.
Simulated training, real innovation As a world-class supplier to major airport operators, ASIG is an industry innovator.
At New Yorks JFK airside pushback drivers are trained on a state of the art simulator whose software holds the airports topography and our required operational and safety procedures.
The simulator enables operators to execute numerous repetitions of the pushback manoeuvre and is an enhancement to our classroom and on the job training.
Extensive work on the simulator means that when ASIGs operators begin real-time airside training, theyre able to focus as much on human activity around the plane as they are on manoeuvring the aircraft.
As well as contributing to airside safety, training like this makes ASIGs airside operations more effi cient: a vital quality in any commercial aviation environment.
Level 1 Level 2 Consistency at every stage Training the right people in the right way enhances service standards and helps create a safer working environment.
Computer based fueller training enables greater operating consistency across diff erent locations: multiplechoice modules help ASIG to identify an individuals suitability for this critical and highly specialised role.
Skills learned in the classroom become invaluable on the tarmac.
Assessing fuel quality and delivering exact quantities on time in a fast moving, complex environment is challenging.
This is why the technical skill and personal aptitude of ASIGs refuellers is so important and why they are at the forefront of ASIGs commitment to exceptional customer service.
26 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 The right service, every time Hand held devices are programmed with the exact details of a contract, giving ASIGs operators precise information about the services they should be delivering to a given aircraft.
As well as giving on-the-spot guidance, the hand helds also record service and timings data useful information for planning the improvements that drive ASIGs performance ahead of its competitors.
