Substantial shareholdings Directors Report The Company has been notified, as at 25 February 2009, under the provisions of the Additional Disclosures Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following material interests in the voting rights of the Company: % Additional Disclosures Aviva 8.47 Standard Life Investments Ltd Group results and dividends Vidacos Nominees 7.727 The results for the year ended 31 December 2008 are shown in the Consolidated Newton Investment Management Limited 5.08 Income Statement on page 72.
The directors recommend the payment of a final Prudential plc group of companies below 5 ordinary share dividend for 2008 of 5.30p net per share on 22 May 2009 to Jupiter Asset Management Limited 4.393 shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 March 2009, which Harris Associates L. P. 4.21 together with the interim dividend paid on 7 November 2008 makes a total of 7.6p Legal & General Group Plc 3.96 net per ordinary share for the year 2007: 7.6p.
The Company proposes, subject to Schroders plc 4.962 shareholder approval at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, to introduce a scrip Barclays Global Investors 3.22 dividend scheme for the final dividend in 2008 and all future dividends until the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Accompanying this report is a separate circular explaining Research and development the scrip dividend scheme together with a mandate form.
The Group continues to devote considerable effort and resources to research and development of new processes and products.
Costs are charged against income Acquisitions and disposals as incurred.
1 On 22 February 2008 the Group announced the acquisition of the assets of Hawker Beechcraft Services Incs Line Service Operations for a cash consideration Market value of land and buildings of $128.5 million on a debt and cash free basis.
The purchase of six of the seven The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the Groups properties bases comprised within those operations was completed on 24 July 2008.
The are not substantially different from the values included in the Groups financial purchase of the seventh base at Van Nuys was completed on 3 October 2008. statements.
2 On 6 June 2008 the Group acquired 90% of the share capital of MES Handling Financial risk management and treasury policies GmbH & Co. KG, an FBO based at Munich Airport, for a cash consideration of The financial risk management and treasury policies of the Group are set out 3.3 million on a debt and cash free basis.
The other 10% of the company is held on page 53 and in notes 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
by the individual sellers who have been appointed as joint general managers of the company.
Board of directors The current directors of the Company at the date of this report appear on pages 50 3 On 12 September 2008 the Group announced the acquisition of Southern Aero and 51.
Other than Peter Ratcliffe who joined the Board in January 2009 and Services Ltd, which wholly owns Interflight Executive Aircraft Services, the sole Bruce Van Allen who stepped down from the Board at that time they held office source provider of FBO services at London Gatwick Airport in the UK.
The throughout the financial year under review.
consideration, on a debt and cash free basis, is set at a maximum of 5.4 million subject to a working capital and net cash debt adjustment mechanism based Directors interests in shares on an initial payment of 4.4 million on signing and an earn out mechanism Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in the Directors operating over a two-year period post completion.
4 On 8 April 2008 the Group completed the acquisition of Flygiene Limited, Directors indemnities an aircraft cleaning company based at Manchester Airport in the UK.
The The Company entered into deeds of indemnity in 2006 and 2007 in favour consideration, payable in cash, is set at a maximum of 4.0 million based on a of each of its then directors under which the Company agreed to indemnify provisional consideration of 1.9 million payable on signing which is subject to each director against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or a net asset and net cash adjustment mechanism and an earn out mechanism omissions arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office.
operating at the end of years one and two respectively.
On 19 February 2009 the Company entered into a deed of indemnity in identical terms in favour of Peter Ratcliffe.
In addition the Company has entered into an 5 There were no disposals during the year.
indemnity deed poll in substantially similar terms dated 19 March 2007 and supplemented by a supplemental deed poll dated 26 September 2008 in favour Events after the balance sheet date of members of the Executive Management Committee and other members of There were no post balance sheet events.
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors they are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 309B of the Changes in share capital Companies Act 1985 or section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, as applicable.
At Changes in share capital are shown in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial the date of this report, these indemnities are therefore in force for the benefit of all Statements.
That note also contains a summary of the rights attaching to each class the current directors of the Company and other members of senior management.
of shares and details of the number of ordinary shares held in employee benefit On 1 November 2007 a subsidiary of the Company, BBA Aviation Finance, trusts.
The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99% of its existing entered into qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 ordinary share capital at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The authority will expire of the Companies Act 2006 in favour of its directors under which each director is at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in April 2009 unless renewed.
indemnified against liabilities incurred by that director in respect of acts or omissions Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the arising in the course of their office or otherwise by virtue of their office and such forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
provisions remain in force as at the date of this report.
The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares will expire at the conclusion of the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, an ordinary resolution Agreements to renew this authority will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Under s992 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company discloses that in the event of In addition, it will be proposed to give the directors further authority to allot ordinary a change of control in the Company: i the Companys $900 million revolving credit shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
This is in facility dated 7 September 2007: its $175 million revolving credit facility dated line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers.
27 August 2008: its $100 million revolving credit facility dated 26 August 2008: and Details of these resolutions are included with the Notice of Annual General certain industrial revenue bonds in the amount of $44.0 million currently guaranteed Meeting enclosed with this Report.
54 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2008 by the Company could become repayable: and ii certain authorisations issued to the ERO business to carry out certain works on the authorising OEMs engines could become terminable by the relevant OEM OEMs include Rolls-Royce, Pratt & Whitney Canada and Honeywell.
Under s992 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company also discloses in addition to the clause in Simon Pryces contract referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 63 and the potential release of shares awarded to Simon Pryce referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 63 an employment agreement between a subsidiary company and Keith Ryan entered into in July 2002 which has provisions such that in certain circumstances relating to a change of control of the Company he could receive compensation upon termination of employment of up to a years remuneration, based on basic salary, bonus, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period.
Under s417 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company discloses that certain IT systems that support the ERO, Legacy Support and APPH businesses and the banking facilities referred to in the paragraph above are essential to the business of the Company.
Suppliers payment policy The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of the payment.
Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 April 2009.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the meeting.
As well as more routine matters such as the renewal of authority to allot shares, to disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares, resolutions will be proposed dealing with the introduction of a scrip dividend scheme, further authority to allot shares in connection with rights issues and to approve calling of general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 days notice.
The resolutions are explained in a letter from the Chairman which accompanies the Notice.
Charitable and political donations Group donations to charities worldwide were 157,000 2007: 95,000 with UK charities receiving 26,000 2007: 17,500.
No donations were made to any political party in either year.
Auditors As required by s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the directors, at the date of the approval of this report, confirms that: a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted in accordance with s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP prior to 1 December 2008 known as Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors Report approved by the Board on 25 February 2009 and signed on its behalf by: Zillah Stone Group Secretary 55
