Quintain Estates Annual Report Operating and and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 32 financial review Strategy Special Projects At Wembley City we have demonstrated the success of our risk-mitigation strategy by pre-selling ahead of Wembley City valuations 96% of the residential units that will be constructed over the next two years.
Nearly 1m sq ft of Phase 1 of the consented scheme will form a unique leisure, entertainment and retail core Transforming 90 acres around around the Stadium, offering Londons only designer shopping outlet, bars, restaurants, a 2,000-seat cinema the National Stadium at Wembley and Wembley Arena.
into a dynamic fusion of homes, Performance We completed our strategic land assembly of the site during shops, offices, restaurants and the year with the acquisitions of Wembley Retail Park, Stadium Retail Park and a site at Second Way.
scale provided by these deals enhances the value creation opportunity and the masterplanning of the second stage of the scheme, incorporating much of this area and Wembley factfile potentially taking the overall scheme to 10m sq ft, has now begun.
1m sq ft of retail and leisure, including During the year, detailed consent was secured for Londons only designer outlet centre a 656 bed student accommodation scheme and 441 bed 4,300 homes in the first phase, with the first Hilton Hotel, which will increase animation at the heart residents moving in this August of the scheme.
After the year end, we were granted our sixth successive unanimous consent at Wembley City 7,000 new permanent jobs, offered first to the local with W07, which comprises the core of the retail and community through the Wembley Works leisure offering.
employment portal located within the first Construction of our first residential building, Forum residential building House W01, remains on schedule for completion this Wembley Arena, a Hilton Hotel and student August.
Work began during the year on the second accommodation scheme bring early animation residential building, W04 and the ENVAC underground to the development waste removal system.
The sheer scale of the overall scheme will enable us to secure significant economies of scale in our baseline building cost and achieve consistently high standards of quality and sustainability, not least by securing satisfactory and visible terms for many years work from contractors.
Exclusive negotiations regarding a retail joint venture are being progressed.
We have also augmented our in-house expertise in this core experiential aspect of Wembley City with the appointment as Managing Director of Retail of Phil Cottingham, formerly Portfolio Director for Designer Outlets at Land Securities plc.
After the year end we announced the exchange of contracts with the London Borough of Brent for the sale of 1.75 acres to enable the creation of their new Civic Centre on the north side of Engineers Way, together with 0.5 acres of public realm.
This 10m transaction is conditional on planning consent for a 250,000 sq ft building, which will A substantial element of Quintains profit in future years will be the result form part of the second stage masterplanning, with a of the commercial mechanisms were 125 year leaseback of the retail element to Quintain.
It is embedding within our major schemes a resounding endorsement of our vision for Wembley City.
We call this running Towns as Businesses.
Priorities James Saunders, Managing Director, Our focus now is to build our bank of consents, pending Towns as Businesses a return of liquidity to the residential market.
Applications for W06, W08 and W10 are in preparation and on consent these will increase our bank to in excess of 2,360 residential units.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 33 Wembley City Shop Stay Live W07 W05 Forum House W01 Detailed consent was achieved after the year Detailed consent was achieved during the Residents will move into the first residential end for the building at the core of Wembley year for a hotel, operated by Hilton building at Wembley City this autumn.
All Citys 1m sq ft retail and leisure offering.
International, and a student accommodation apartments have been sold.
block, which will be owned and operated Retail: 80,000 sq ft Private: 145 by iQ.
Leisure: 10 screen cinema Affordable: 141 Hotel: 441 beds Residential: 145 private homes Community: Employment Student scheme: 656 beds portal and crche Visit: www.
co. uk Retail: 77,000 sq ft Visit: www.
