Quintain Estates Annual Report Operating and and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 36 financial review Special Projects Regions In 2006 07 we exited our Manchester and Sheffield schemes, where prices achieved reflected their upside potential.
We have now replaced these prospects with 1m sq ft of mixed use space in Birmingham and Emersons Green, Bristol City Park Gate, Birmingham 485,000 sq ft in Yorkshire.
These are In alliance with Heron and Gallagher In September we acquired the supplemented by our existing outstanding 50% of the equity in our Estates, we have applied for up to holdings at Emersons Green, Bristol 2,550 residential units and 1m sq ft of joint venture with Countryside and Silvertown, London.
employment space on this 275 acre Properties, giving Quintain sole site, of which we own 65 acres.
Since then we Another 56 acres of this wider have moved quickly to reconfigure scheme are being developed by our the scheme, which is located at the science park fund, Quantum, into an gateway to Birminghams Eastside quarter and a stones throw from 829,000 sq ft facility, demonstrating the synergistic nature of our business Selfridges and the Bullring shopping centre.
Our intention is to deliver it as model and taking Quintains total delivery area on this scheme to 575,000 sq ft of offices, 250 apartments and an hotel, with a detailed application approximately 1.5m sq ft. for the first 253,000 sq ft of offices being submitted next month.
Silvertown, London Our 12.6 acre site sits directly across Beverley, Yorkshire the River Thames from Greenwich With our partners, Wykeland Group, Peninsula.
It lies at the mouth of the River Lea, which will provide the with whom we built the 300,000 sq ft proposed access point to the water Parishes Scheme, Scunthorpe in 2001, link to the 2012 Olympic site in we obtained resolution to grant Stratford and is a strategic play on consent for this scheme in March.
residential, logistics, waste and power The development covers 485,000 sq ft, solutions.
The site was purchased including 128,000 sq ft of retail, 184 homes, an hotel, cinema and facilities uniquely in joint venture with the Since gaining full control of City London Development Agency.
This town Park Gate in September, we have centre scheme has flexibility and the responded rapidly to changing market conditions and moved the schemes scale for running our Towns as focus from residential to commercial.
Businesses model in one of Yorkshires The environmental performance has most prosperous towns and the new also improved significantly, with leisure facilities that we have BREEAM Excellent assumed as proposed will enhance the high a base position.
Ben Giddens, Development Director, City Park Gate
