Quintain Estates Annual Report Operating and and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 42 financial review Strategy Fund Management Quantum, a 50:50 joint venture with Morley, is a specialist science park fund.
It seeks to exploit the opportunity created Quantum by the Governments sharpening focus on research and development as a key contributor to economic growth against the background of under-investment in facilities appropriate to this community.
Significant progress was achieved There is no typical science park tenant.
The community ranges from lone entrepreneurs with the kernel of a during the year at our major concept through to some of the worlds most established brands, but they have similar needs: flexible space on development, SPark, The Bristol flexible terms, excellent technology, good transport links and access to a deep pool of highly skilled staff.
and Bath Science Park, in terms of Quantum seeks to lead the market by developing and applying best practice in the science park industry design and planning.
to under-managed parks and new developments.
Performance Factfile Significant progress was achieved during the year at our major development, SPark, The Bristol and Bath Science 829,000 sq ft science park at Emersons Green Park, in terms of design and planning.
Investments at Heriot Watt and Cambridge In December, South Gloucestershire Council voted Fund currently ungeared unanimously to accept amendments to the 300m masterplan for the development, and the scheme was formally launched at Bristols inaugural Science City event after the year end.
The enhanced scheme is focused on acting as a catalyst for the regional science and technology industries and achieving excellence in environmental sustainability.
Reserved matters consent was received in June 2008 and, subject to satisfying outstanding conditions, we expect to be on site late in the summer.
Away from SPark we also made investment purchases during the year, creating the beginnings of an income-producing portfolio.
In October we acquired a small estate on Heriot Watt Science Park near Edinburgh for 5.5m.
Since taking over we have improved the external features by upgrading the landscaping and access and have agreed terms on a new five year lease that moves the ERV from 13.00 per sq ft to 14.50 per sq ft.
Since the year end we completed a 1.9m acquisition of a building on Cambridge Science Park.
These investments demonstrate our credentials with the relevant universities and provide a platform for expansion.
Priorities Demand for R&D facilities is driven by different factors to the mainstream commercial property market.
The Governments R&D agenda, encapsulated in the March 2008 white paper Innovation Nation spells out the SPark will be one of the most Legislatures commitment to driving R&D at every level  science parks in the UK.
Its a place that across Britain.
Among its stated objectives is the commitment will inspire pride.
to make Britain the best place in the world to run an Nidae Abbas, Fund Manager innovative business and for R&D companies to invest.
The support programme is extensive and addresses every level, from entrepreneurs seeking to turn their ideas into commercial propositions through to global brands looking for a supportive environment to create a new base.
The shortfall between the facilities on offer and the level of growth the Government wishes to stimulate through investment in R&D is significant and augurs well for Quantum.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 43 The Bristol and Bath Science Park Innovation Centre The Innovation Centre and SPark One will act as a business hub for SPark and provide easy access to the deep knowledge base within the three collaborating universities and the support provided by SWRDA.
Sustainability The ambition is to make SPark a zero carbon site.
Renewable energy will be generated on site, the original topography is being preserved and wherever possible buildings are being positioned around the existing hedgerows.
Excellent facilities 829,000 sq ft of floorspace will be created within a range of highly flexible, sustainable buildings.
These are designed to support easy re-configuration as the needs of a business evolve.
