Quintain Estates Annual Report Operating and and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 30 financial review Our urban regeneration business delivers a vision that Special Projects has the power to transform a location.
Scale and the right balance of retail, leisure and employment are the keys to achieving superior returns when allied to residential in the medium term, and, in maturity, revenue streams from service delivery.
At Wembley City and Greenwich Peninsula we The scale of our schemes delivers are creating near-towns, whilst owning, operating or influencing key motivational aspects, such as The O2 the capacity to drive significant and Wembley Arena, that drive a transformation in sense of place.
non-property revenues from an Strategy integrated estate management Quintain schemes are mixed use and typically delivered over five to fifteen years, enabling us to switch financial business, including utilities, resources into sectors where the greatest returns can be delivered in the prevailing market.
Exceptional value is telecoms and media.
We call this delivered in two ways: Running Towns as Businesses.
A leap in residential price performance, commonly referred to as the Regeneration Effect see below, is created from the delivery of critical mass in leisure, retail and employment serviced by excellent public transport facilities.
The scale of our schemes, which range from 500,000 to 13.2m sq ft, delivers the capacity to drive significant non-property revenues from an integrated estate management business, including utilities, telecoms and media.
We call this Running Towns as Businesses.
Our propensity is to sell land or develop residential plots in joint venture or as principals, having first achieved a level of pre-sales.
This minimises exposure to falls in residential prices.
The same principle of achieving a level of pre-lets protects Quintain from over-exposure in the commercial Nick Shattock property sector.
Deputy Chief Executive Quantifying the Regeneration Effect A report commissioned by the Company estimates that the Regeneration Effect mentioned above can be in excess of 10% once the retail element of such a scheme is launched, and add an additional 2% to local residential prices in each successive year during the scheme buildout.
These numbers are borne out by Canary Wharf and Gunwharf Quays in Portsmouth, where prices rose quickly once critical mass was achieved.
Our Towns as Businesses model pushes the Regeneration Effect to a new level by embedding within each scheme the mechanics of future revenue generation such as optic fibre, triple-play services and prime advertising sites, and positions Quintain to deliver, and therefore create revenue from, the services offered to millions of visitors, residents and businesses.
Releasing the full potential of our schemes through the Regeneration Effect and our Towns as Businesses model remains our paramount objective.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 31 Valuations of Special Projects Valuations as at 31 March 2008 m Wembley City 620.0 Performance Greenwich Peninsula see joint ventures below for total value 187.6 The current malaise in the residential markets caused Emersons Green 31.0 by a prevailing absence of liquidity has tested our model.
Silvertown 17.5 However, the robust nature it has displayed as we Other special projects 8.7 switched emphasis to promote the delivery of the Total direct property 864.8 commercial elements of our projects underpins our confidence.
An example is City Park Gate in Birmingham where, Joint ventures on acquiring control of the scheme in September, we responded quickly to changing conditions by increasing Valuations as at the commercial element of the scheme, incorporating 31 March 2008 an hotel and more offices, and increasing the total m developable area by 40% to 1m sq ft.
This also delivered Greenwich Peninsula joint ventures 66.4 the scale appropriate for our Towns as Businesses model.
Deferred tax 4.5 This re-focus on commercial property has been 61.9 actioned across the portfolio.
At Greenwich Peninsula, the pre-let of 136,000 sq ft to Transport for London TfL in Other joint ventures 17.4 November confirmed the locations attractiveness as a new commercial hub for London and construction is now Total 79.3 underway.
At Wembley City, detailed consent was secured in August for a major student accommodation scheme, which will be owned by Quintains iQ Fund Portfolio breakdown and service a sector largely isolated from the economic 3 downturn, and a Hilton Hotel into which the business from 1 Special Projects 973m 66% the existing Plaza Hotel will be transferred.
2 Investment Portfolio 179m 12% 3 Fund Management 327m 22% Priorities While delivery success has been achieved during the year 2 and the structure of the development pipeline affords flexibility for the duration of the current downturn, the adverse tide in the property market impacted the book 1 value of Wembley, which fell 11.0%, and Greenwich where the uplift was limited to 2.5%, respective to their 31 March 2007 valuations.
Detailed explanations of these valuation movements are provided in the Financial Review.
The launch of critical mass retail, leisure and employment, leading up to the 2012 Olympics for which both Greenwich and Wembley are official venues has the capacity to drive higher demand for residential units from wider areas and outperformance of London Residential.
Sustainability is at the heart of our regeneration business and our schemes support a greener lifestyle.
Whilst we do not yet expect to see a premium for a lower carbon footprint, we have no doubt that in todays market sustainability will be a key driver of the decision to buy or lease by both businesses and consumers.
Although the next two to three years will undoubtedly be challenging, assets with the quality and environmental performance found within our major schemes are in short supply.
As the market recovers we expect companies and consumers with foresight to identify the value opportunity on offer.
