Quintain Estates Annual Report Operating and and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 38 financial review Strategy Investment Portfolio Predominantly comprising secondary commercial assets across the UK, the Investment Portfolio fulfils three roles: To generate rental income and revenue from sales to support activity with higher long term potential elsewhere in Quintain: Increasingly, the property To identify, acquire and incubate assets with high regeneration potential, securing a viable revenue stream management skills held within this pending transformation: business are also being used by the To augment the skill sets within Fund Management and Special Projects to maximise returns for the Group.
Group to create additional value for Offices constitute two thirds of the portfolio, with the remainder mainly comprising industrial and retail the Companys other businesses.
Assets where we identify latent value that can be unlocked through major refurbishment, leasing or marriage value are acquired by this business.
Performance In anticipation of challenging market conditions, this business remained a net seller over the last year, releasing resources to fund opportunities with higher potential value in the Group and reducing Quintains overall exposure to the commercial property sector.
Whilst sales over the last three years have reduced the impact, the Investment Portfolio inevitably was not immune from falling commercial property prices and declined in value by 44.4m 20.8% over the year to 178.8m.
Financial pressures are reflected in the sector, where occupiers are finding conditions difficult and require support.
However, we have successfully limited rent arrears to their historic norm of 1% and kept bad debts to 0.2m, representing less than 1% of the rent roll.
Peter Doyle The aggressive stance towards voids has resulted Head of Investment Portfolio in over 1.8m of voids being removed from the void schedule either through lettings or sales over the last 12 months.
Most notable was the sale of First National House in Harrow to Avanta.
Other material transactions include The Forum, Exeter where a programme of major refurbishment and marketing was undertaken, resulting in the letting of all the remaining refurbished void space to Parsons Brinkerhoff, Savills and Kitson Hutchings.
The Investment Team is currently in active discussions regarding the leasing of an additional 1.2m of voids within the Portfolio.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 39 Current holdings 31 March 2008 Gross Assets 178.9m Contracted Annualised Rent 11.6m ERV 16.2m Yield 6.2% We continued to exit locations where further asset upside Reversionary Yield 8.6% could not be identified, securing increased value wherever possible prior to sale.
At Smallbrook Queensway, a 22,000 sq ft pre-let to Virgin Rail was sourced at a record rent Portfolio breakdown for the building and a 1.2m refurbishment programme 3 1 Special Projects 973m 66% successfully completed prior to agreeing the sale price and 2 Investment Portfolio 179m 12% disposal of the entire asset to reduce the Companys 3 Fund Management 327m 22% exposure and deliver 8.0m of profit over cost.
Increasingly, the property management skills held 2 within this business are also being used by the Group to create additional value for the Companys other businesses, particularly on the major Wembley City and Greenwich Peninsula schemes.
At Wembley, the two retail parks 1 and eight industrial units acquired during the year by Special Projects are being actively managed by this team until the regeneration scheme reaches the required stage of development.
Rent uplifts ranging from 21% to 68% have been achieved within these assets since they were acquired.
At Greenwich Peninsula, the Investment Portfolio team played a fundamental role in sourcing and executing the pre-let of 136,000 sq ft of commercial space to Transport for London.
Minor assets within the science park fund, Quantum, are also being managed until the fund reaches a critical mass.
Priorities We expect the current malaise in the financial sector to continue to be felt during the year to March 2009.
With few near term opportunities to create significant value expected to emerge, Quintains focus will remain on more attractive opportunities elsewhere in the Group.
An aggressive approach to voids will continue throughout the current downturn.
Driving cross-business collaboration to secure maximum value from the Groups wider assets will be an increasing focus for the Investment Portfolio team during the year and we remain well positioned to respond to opportunities when value emerges in the commercial property sector.
