Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 60 3 Nick Shattock 5 Tonianne Dwyer Board of Directors Deputy Chief Executive Executive Director Aged 48, a lawyer, Nick heads Quintains Aged 45, Tonianne, who has headed Special Projects division which manages Quintain's fund management business the Groups larger assets, complex since she joined Quintain in June 2003, restructuring and urban regeneration qualified as a solicitor and barrister in programmes.
Projects include the major Western Australia.
Prior to joining the 1 John Plender regeneration opportunities on the Company, she was employed from 1987 Chairman Greenwich Peninsula and at Wembley.
to 2003 by SG Hambros in their corporate He joined Quintain in 1995 from the City finance division latterly as a director.
Aged 63, John was appointed Chairman law firm SJ Berwin where he was a partner on 1 April 2007, having joined the Company for five years.
Nick was appointed Deputy 6 Lady Judge as a non-executive Director in July 2002.
John trained as a chartered accountant Chief Executive in May 2006.
Senior Independent Director and is a former chairman of PIRC.
He is Aged 61, Lady Judge was appointed 4 Rebecca Worthington a columnist at the Financial Times, and to the Board of Quintain in March 2000. brings to the Group a wide experience in Finance Director She is a lawyer, an international banker both investment and corporate governance Aged 36, Rebecca joined Quintain in March and entrepreneur.
John acts as Chairman of the 1998 as Group accountant.
In July 2001, was a Commissioner of the US Securities Nominations Committee and is a member she was appointed Finance Director with & Exchange Commission, Deputy Chairman of the Groups Risk and Donations additional responsibility for Quintains of the Financial Reporting Council and an Committees.
Investor Relations and is also responsible executive Director of Samuel Montagu for the administration of the Group.
and News International, among others.
2 Adrian Wyatt OBE She had previously held the position of She is currently Chairman of the UK Atomic Chief Executive Company Secretary from March 2000 to Energy Authority and Life IC.
Rebecca also acts as Chairman Deputy Chairman of Friends Provident plc, Aged 60, Adrian is founder and Chief Executive Officer of Quintain Estates and of the Risk Committee.
Rebecca a non-executive Director of Private Equity qualified as a chartered accountant with Investor plc, Portmeirion Group PLC, Development PLC.
Adrian is also founder  in 1997 and Nationwide Accident Repair Services Plc and Chair of the Sustainable Environment Foundation, a charity which raises worked as financial controller for Britton and Planet Group Inc. Lady Judge is a Group plc prior to joining Quintain.
member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, awareness of the impact of the built environment on climate change.
He is Nominations and Donations Committees and is the Senior Independent Director.
a chartered surveyor and a chartered financial analyst.
Prior to the formation of Quintain, Adrian was a partner at Jones Lang LaSalle.
3 4 2 5 Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 61 7 Martin Meech 9 Joan MacNaughton CB 10 Simon Laffin Non-Executive Director independent Non-Executive Director independent Non-Executive Director independent Aged 50, Martin was appointed to the Aged 57, Joan MacNaughton was Aged 49, Simon was appointed to the Board in July 2000 and since October appointed as a non-executive Director of the Board on 1 February 2008.
He is an 2005 has been Group Property Director Group in January 2004.
Joan is Senior Vice Industrial Adviser to CVC Capital Partners of Travis Perkins plc and Chief Executive President, Power and Environmental Policies, and was previously Group Finance of Travis Perkins Property Limited.
Prior to Alstom Power Systems.
Prior to that, and Property Director of Safeway plc.
that he was Managing Director of Dixons Joan worked for the Civil Service, latterly He was appointed as a non-executive Group Retail Properties Limited, part of as Director General, International Energy director of Northern Rock plc in November DSG International plc.
Martin is a Fellow of Security in the DTI, having joined that 2007 and is a qualified accountant.
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Department in January 2002 as Director Simon is a member of the Groups Audit, and Chairman of the Groups Remuneration General, Energy.
In 2004 and 2005, she was Remuneration, Nominations, Donations Committee and a member of its Audit, elected chair of the Governing Board of and Risk Committees.
Donations, Risk and Nominations Committees.
She is an Honorary Fellow of the Energy Institute, 8 David Pangbourne visiting Senior Research Fellow at Oxford Non-Executive Director independent Institute of Energy Studies and Member of the Board of Governors, Argonne Aged 68, David was appointed to the National Laboratory University of Chicago.
He is a chartered Joan is Chairman of the Groups Donations accountant and spent most of his working Committee and a member of the Audit, life with Deloitte & Touche where he was a Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
partner for 24 years until retiring in 1997.
David is Chairman of the Groups Audit Committee and a member of its Remuneration, Nominations, Risk and Donations Committees.
