Quintain Estates Annual Report Operating and and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 44 financial review Strategy Fund Management A year after bringing The Wellcome Trust into our student accommodation business we are delighted to report healthy iQ growth, excellent occupancy rates and an active pipeline against the backdrop of continued and increasing demand.
There are now 1.4m full-time higher education students in the UK.
This figure continues to rise, The strength of iQs product underpinned by a positive Government agenda.
The strength of iQs product, which provides a variety marks it out from competitors of room types within each scheme with an emphasis on giving the accommodation a residential feel, marks it out in an undersupplied market.
from competitors in an under-supplied market.
Performance Factfile iQ this year reported a total return, as measured by IPD, of 1.1%, significantly outperforming the wider commercial 1,534 beds currently operational property sector.
1,089 additional beds operational by September Following the successful launch of schemes in Initial fund target of 600m Sheffield and Nottingham, two further schemes were opened during the year in Birmingham and Salford, taking the total number of beds to 1,534.
The Fund achieved lettings in excess of 97% across the four schemes.
At 31 March 2008 the operational schemes were valued at 80.1m.
iQ typically contracts with developers to buy accommodation blocks on practical completion, subject to delivery on time and to agreed quality.
The end value of schemes currently contracted is 147.3m.
Of these, three schemes will be completed for the start of the 2008 academic year and three further schemes will be opened in 2009.
In addition to the contracted pipeline, further deals worth up to 127.8m are under consideration or being negotiated.
Yields in the direct-let sector have remained robust, supported by continued investor interest and strong rental growth.
Our operational schemes were valued at 31 March 2008 on an average net initial yield of 5.5%.
On iQs existing schemes, we expect to see year on year rental growth of approximately 5% based on rent levels being marketed.
The three schemes opening in September 2008 are being marketed at rents above appraised levels and two will benefit from university leases.
Take-up to date is in line with expectations.
In March, Quintain entered into a conditional agreement to purchase an attractive London student accommodation scheme in Corsham Street, EC1.
The transaction is subject to planning and financing and the developer expects to submit an application for planning consent shortly.
We elected to warehouse it on Quintains balance sheet pending the discharge of conditions, following which we have a number of options for its longer En-suite bathrooms, high speed term funding, including transferring it into iQ.
There is nothing standard about our student accommodation schemes.
Priorities Rebecca Hopewell, Fund Manager The priority this year is to get the new schemes operational with high occupancy levels, and it is therefore pleasing to note that our Kingston development has been 100% pre-let for the whole academic year to Kingston University.
Construction is well underway on two of the 2009 schemes and the third will commence shortly.
We expect that by the end of the decade there will be over 5,000 beds available to students through iQ.
