Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 82 We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys Report from the Principal of the properties, nor to test any of the services, but have reflected in our valuations, where necessary, External Valuers any defects, items of disrepair or the benefit of any improvements which we noticed during the course Jones Lang LaSalle Limited of our inspections, or of which you have subsequently advised us.
Our valuations assume that the buildings contain no deleterious materials, and that the sites are Quintain Estates and Development PLC unaffected by adverse soil conditions or environmental Property Portfolio Valuation 31 March 2008 contamination, except where we have been notified In accordance with your instructions we have valued to the contrary.
Should it, however, be established the freehold and leasehold investment properties, as subsequently that contamination exists at any property set out in the attached schedule as at 31 March 2008 or on any neighbouring land or that the premises have for the purposes of your annual accounts.
been or are being put to a contaminative use, this might Our valuations have been made in accordance reduce the values now reported.
with the Practice Statements in the RICS Valuation Unless expressly advised to the contrary we Standards 6th Edition, on the basis of market value, assume that appropriate insurance cover is and will the full definition of which is attached.
Our valuation be available on commercially acceptable terms relating is subject to our General Terms and Conditions to composite panels, terrorism and flooding.
Accordingly, of Business and our General Principles adopted our opinions of value make no allowance for the risk in the preparation of valuations and reports, which that insurance cover for any property may not be are also attached.
available, or may only be available on onerous terms, We have inspected the Top 30 properties by or for any adverse market reaction to the presence value, a third of the remainder and any properties of composite panels.
acquired over the last twelve months but not specifically All our valuations are net of Stamp Duty Land for this March valuation.
For each property we have Tax and normal purchasers costs.
made relevant local enquiries and obtained such other Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the information as we considered necessary to provide opinion that the aggregate of the market values of the you with our opinions of value.
freehold and leasehold properties, as at 31 March 2008, No allowance has been made in our valuations subject to and with the benefit of the tenancies then for expenses of realisation or for any taxation which subsisting where applicable, was: might arise in the event of a disposal and our valuations are expressed as exclusive of any Value Added Tax that 213,100,900 may become chargeable.
Two hundred and thirteen million one hundred Our valuations assume that there is good and thousand nine hundred pounds marketable title to the properties and that they are free of any undisclosed burdens, outgoings, restrictions Categorised as follows: or charges.
We have not read all documents of title nor Freehold 151,050,900 leases and, for the purpose of our valuations, have Long leasehold 47,500,000 accepted the details of tenure, tenancies and all other Short leasehold 7,250,000 relevant information with which we have been supplied Part Freehold and Part Leasehold 7,300,000 by your Company or other professional advisers.
We have not seen or read the planning consents and have assumed that the buildings have been erected and are being occupied and used in accordance with all requisite consents and that there are no outstanding statutory notices.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 83 In accordance with our normal practice, we confirm that this Report is confidential to the Company Directors for the specific purpose to which it refers.
No responsibility is accepted to any third party, and neither the whole of the Report, nor any part, nor reference thereto, may be published in any document, statement or circular, nor in any communication with third parties without our prior written approval of the form and context in which it will appear.
In accordance with the RICS requirements on disclosure we confirm that: The annual fee income from the valuation is less than 5% of our turnover.
Jones Lang LaSalle have been appointed as one of the external valuers since the formation of the Company, during which time the signatory has been rotated.
This letter is a short-form confirmation of our valuation for inclusion in the Company's Report and Accounts.
No reliance should be placed on it without simultaneous reference to our Formal Valuation Certificate, copies of which have been provided to you.
Finally, we confirm that the above valuation has been carried out by us as External Valuers, qualified for the purposes of the valuation in accordance with the requirements of the Practice Statements in the RICS Valuation Standards.
Yours faithfully, J R Handley MRICS Director For and on behalf of Jones Lang LaSalle Limited Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 84 The above total includes a 100% share of the interest at Report from the Principal Silvertown of 25,000,000.
The figure reflecting the terms of a Joint Venture Agreement with the London External Valuers Development Agency at that property is 17,500,000 with the aggregate reducing to 891,650,000 Eight Savills Commercial Limited Hundred and Ninety One Million Six Hundred and Fifty Thousand Pounds.
Our Valuation Certificate comments on the high Land holdings at Greenwich Peninsula, degree of subjectivity in this instance for all of the Silvertown and Wembley properties and various other property specific matters.
We confirm that we have inspected the above properties In particular, our valuation of Wembley includes the and made all relevant enquiries in order to provide you additional value derived from synergies arising from the with our opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2008 legal right to acquire the freehold and long leasehold of the various property interests which Quintain Estates interests in land pursuant to the terms of a Development and Development PLC hold.
Agreement with the London Development Agency We confirm that our valuations have been notwithstanding that this Agreement is non-assignable.
carried out in accordance with the Royal Institution As discussed with the Company and its auditors, our of Chartered Surveyors Valuation Standards and that valuation specifically disregards this restriction.
we have carried out the valuation as External Valuers, This letter is a shortform confirmation of our qualified for the purpose of the valuation in accordance valuation for inclusion in the Companys Report and with those Standards.
Inspections of each property were Accounts.
No reliance should be placed upon it without made specifically for the purpose of our valuation on simultaneous reference to our formal Valuation Certificate, 8 and 9 April 2008. copies of which have been provided to you.
Our valuations have been made on the basis of the Yours faithfully definition, terms of reference, information sources, assumptions and conditions as noted in our formal Nick Hume MRICS Valuation Certificate dated 19 May 2008.
In particular, no Director allowance has been made in our valuations for any For and on behalf of Savills Commercial Limited expenses of realisation or any taxation liability arising from a sale of any property and all figures are expressed exclusive of Value Added Tax.
Our valuations are on the basis that each property has a good and marketable title and is free from any undisclosed burdens, outgoings, restrictions or charges.
We have, for the purpose of our valuations, been provided with plans and particulars as to tenure and the terms of leases as have been contained within various documents supplied to us by the Company or its professional advisers.
Having carefully considered this matter, we have reported our opinion of Market Value as at 31 March 2008 of the freehold and other interests held, subject to and with the benefit of the existing leases and otherwise with vacant possession, at an aggregate of 899,150,000 Eight Hundred and Ninety Nine Million One Hundred and Fifty Thousand Pounds.
All of the properties are held for redevelopment.
Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 85 We have not been provided with title deeds or reports Report from the Principal on title in respect of the Properties and have therefore assumed that all Properties are free from any unusual External Valuers or onerous restrictions, encumbrances, easements or outgoings, that good title can be shown and that all Christie Co covenants including leasehold covenants, restrictions and stipulations affecting the Properties have been complied with.
Quercus Healthcare Property Partnership We are of the opinion that if the Portfolio was to be Quercus, Progress Housing Assets and sold in the open market at the date of valuation, it would Hemingway Group Asset be necessary to break it down into smaller parcels of We confirm that we have inspected a sample of the above individual investments where debt funding would be portfolio of 265 properties and made all relevant enquiries more readily available in the current financial climate.
in order to provide you with our opinion of Market Value Full details of this approach are set out in our report and as at 31 March 2008. valuation.
In our opinion the value of the Portfolio as at We confirm that our valuations have been carried 31 March 2008 is in the order of 890,000,000 out in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Eight Hundred and Ninety Million Pounds.
Surveyors Valuation Standards and that we have carried This letter is a short form confirmation of our out the valuation as External Valuers, qualified for the valuation for inclusion in the Company Reports and purpose of the valuation in accordance with those Accounts.
No reliance should be placed upon it without standards.
simultaneous reference to our formal valuation report, The Valuations are based on inspections of copies of which have been provided to you.
24 Properties within Quercus carried out during March Yours faithfully 2008 together with desk top reviews of the all other Properties.
For these desk top reviews we have relied Martin Robb BSc MRICS upon information provided to us together with our general Director knowledge of the industry and Properties.
The Inspected For and on behalf of Christie Co Properties were selected by Christie Co in conjunction with Quercus and considered to be representative in terms of geography, size, type of care provided and tenant company.
Based on our overall knowledge of the Portfolio and the previous inspections of 231 properties we carried out between December 2004 and December 2007, we consider the sample to be fully representative, equating to around 90% of the Portfolio.
The Progress assets were inspected in March 2004.
For the avoidance of doubt, three assets Clark Hospital, Hull and East Riding Hospital and Fylde Coast Hospital have been valued by Messrs DTZ Tie Leung and we have relied upon their valuation in arriving at our own opinion of value of the Portfolio.
Our valuations have been made on the basis of the definition, terms of reference information sources, assumptions and conditions as noted in our formal valuation report dated 31 March 2008, we draw attention to the fact that the valuations exclude any liability that arises or could arise in respect of VAT, taxation and the costs of acquisition or realisation.
