Quintain Estates Annual Report and Development PLC and Accounts 2008 60 3 Nick Shattock 5 Tonianne Dwyer Board of Directors Deputy Chief Executive Executive Director Aged 48, a lawyer, Nick heads Quintains Aged 45, Tonianne, who has headed Special Projects division which manages Quintain's fund management business the Groups larger assets, complex since she joined Quintain in June 2003, restructuring and urban regeneration qualified as a solicitor and barrister in programmes.
Projects include the major Western Australia.
Prior to joining the 1 John Plender regeneration opportunities on the Company, she was employed from 1987 Chairman Greenwich Peninsula and at Wembley.
to 2003 by SG Hambros in their corporate He joined Quintain in 1995 from the City finance division latterly as a director.
Aged 63, John was appointed Chairman law firm SJ Berwin where he was a partner on 1 April 2007, having joined the Company for five years.
Nick was appointed Deputy 6 Lady Judge as a non-executive Director in July 2002.
John trained as a chartered accountant Chief Executive in May 2006.
Senior Independent Director and is a former chairman of PIRC.
He is Aged 61, Lady Judge was appointed 4 Rebecca Worthington a columnist at the Financial Times, and to the Board of Quintain in March 2000. brings to the Group a wide experience in Finance Director She is a lawyer, an international banker both investment and corporate governance Aged 36, Rebecca joined Quintain in March and entrepreneur.
John acts as Chairman of the 1998 as Group accountant.
In July 2001, was a Commissioner of the US Securities Nominations Committee and is a member she was appointed Finance Director with & Exchange Commission, Deputy Chairman of the Groups Risk and Donations additional responsibility for Quintains of the Financial Reporting Council and an Committees.
Investor Relations and is also responsible executive Director of Samuel Montagu for the administration of the Group.
and News International, among others.
2 Adrian Wyatt OBE She had previously held the position of She is currently Chairman of the UK Atomic Chief Executive Company Secretary from March 2000 to Energy Authority and Life IC.
Rebecca also acts as Chairman Deputy Chairman of Friends Provident plc, Aged 60, Adrian is founder and Chief Executive Officer of Quintain Estates and of the Risk Committee.
Rebecca a non-executive Director of Private Equity qualified as a chartered accountant with Investor plc, Portmeirion Group PLC, Development PLC.
Adrian is also founder  in 1997 and Nationwide Accident Repair Services Plc and Chair of the Sustainable Environment Foundation, a charity which raises worked as financial controller for Britton and Planet Group Inc. Lady Judge is a Group plc prior to joining Quintain.
member of the Groups Audit, Remuneration, awareness of the impact of the built environment on climate change.
He is Nominations and Donations Committees and is the Senior Independent Director.
a chartered surveyor and a chartered financial analyst.
Prior to the formation of Quintain, Adrian was a partner at Jones Lang LaSalle.
