09 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Group Strategy Group Strategy We have always focused on adapting our business to the changing marketplace and ensuring that our services and advice meet the changing needs of our clients globally, never more so than now.
Introduction Savills vision Savills strategy focused expansion Savills is a long established, international real Our aim is to become the real estate advisor and making more of our existing assets estate advisor.
From over 180 offices around of choice in our chosen markets.
We recognise Our strategy for 2008 2010 remains the world we offer a broad range of specialist that to achieve this goal we must continually unchanged: advisory and transactional services to our clients think forward, anticipate trends and above all Building scale and brand recognition globally.
Our success has been built on an understand what those trends mean for our in our chosen global markets.
entrepreneurial culture which our clients clients and our business.
Continued expansion integration of recognise and appreciate, and a team which In the past, Savills has successfully seized global cross-border investment teams.
has a passion and a pride in its work and the opportunities and taken market share in weaker business.
This has enabled us to attract and Exploring selectively new opportunities markets.
Savills has always been cautious in its retain many of the most talented people in in the strongest emerging economies.
expansion plans and as a result has a strong the real estate sector.
balance sheet which will help us to fund any Expand the residential brand globally.
We have always focused on adapting our growth opportunities that may arise.
Providing a best in class client service.
business to the changing marketplace and ensuring that our services and advice meet Increasing our non-transactional the changing needs of our clients globally, revenue profit.
We believe that this challenging market will deliver opportunities for growth and that we must be ready to take advantage of these opportunities if and when they arise.
The 1.7bn shopping centre covers 17 hectares The single largest and is one of the largest urban regeneration schemes in Europe.
Savills international investment overseas investment team introduced the project to Commerz Real AG in 2002 and have advised on all aspects through into UK real estate to completion in 2008.
It represents the largest single overseas investment into UK real estate.
Savills acted as advisors to Commerz Real AG on the funding, development monitoring, lease monitoring and capital allowances for the recently opened 1.6 million sq ft Westfield, London.
Geography UK Relationship length 7 years Location London Size 150,000 sq m 1.6 million sq ft Value 1.7bn Services offered: Transactional Advice, Consultancy, Property Management, Financial Services and Fund Management 10 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Group Strategy Group Strategy Continued Build scale and brand recognition In 2008, we made bolt-on acquisitions in the Explore new opportunities Out of uncertainty comes opportunity and with Netherlands, Germany and China and established We opened a new office in Mexico to exploit our track record of prudent financial management, new businesses in Belgium and Mexico.
investor interest in this market.
We are continuing our strong balance sheet and our ability to adapt, We also opened new offices in Germany and to review entry strategies and timing into other we will continue to invest selectively in areas China and recruited new teams into a number emerging markets including India, Russia and where we see future growth.
Historically, we of businesses including a Corporate Finance the Middle East.
have achieved our most profitable growth in team in London.
weaker markets and we think that the markets Continued expansion of in 2009 could present further opportunities.
cross-border investment We will focus on expanding our market share The aim is to establish a leadership position in in those cities and countries that are the source this market through improved client relationship of international capital and investment as well management and teamwork.
Some of our as having substantial domestic markets of their leading investment agents have been taken out own.
We will strengthen and grow market share of their previous roles to concentrate on developing in existing markets by continuing to look for cross-border business and clients.
We have attractive investment opportunities and through continued with secondments and also recruited the selective hiring of exceptional individuals a number of individuals and teams to strengthen and teams.
Our preference is to grow organically our cross-border investment capability.
but when, and if, there is a compelling case, we would not rule out acquisitions.
The acquisition is arranged by way of sale and leaseback One of New Yorks of 47 Citibank properties comprising a combination of bank branches and offices located in the New York largest portfolio area totalling 157,312 sq ft 14,614 sq m. They are let to Citigroup Global Markets Inc on a 15 year lease.
transactions of 2008 The transaction was secured by extremely competitive debt backed by the strength of the quality of the lease Savills advised Markland, a private and retail locations.
Irish investor, on the acquisition of Borja Sierra, Executive Managing Director of Savills US, a portfolio of Citibank properties in says: This is one of the biggest portfolio acquisitions in New Yorks property market for the first quarter and we New York for approximately $100m.
are pleased to have secured it on behalf of our client.
Relationship length Geography US 2 years Location New York Size 14,614 sq m 157,312 sq ft Value $100m Services offered: Transactional Advice and Financial Services 11 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Group Strategy Expand the residential brand globally Providing a best in class Increasing our non-transactional income We continue to believe that Savills nationwide client service We will continue to invest in and expand our prime Residential business in the UK and our We work hard to maximise our client relationships Consultancy and Property Facilities Management New Homes and Development businesses in to ensure that our clients receive the very best teams across all markets.
In the UK, our Valuation a number of major cities globally give us a real service from Savills at every level.
We will continue and Planning teams continue to win market competitive advantage in advising our clients on to strengthen, invest in, and build on the services share and our property management portfolio mixed and residential development opportunities we offer which range from transactions and in China alone grew from 431.0 million sq ft worldwide.
Savills is probably unique in the corporate finance, through to valuation, 2007 to 643.7 million sq ft 2008. combined strength of its Residential and consultancy, property management and, Commercial businesses and we we intend in some markets, facilities management.
to be ready to take advantage of this strength We are determined to attain the highest when markets improve.
It also supports the standards of professional integrity, building Savills brand positioning as premium and long-term advisory relationships with our international.
We will continue to search for clients based on trust.
attractive opportunities to drive this expansion.
Hong Kong based Glorious Sun Holdings Ltd has sold Hong Kongs largest the 521,160 sq ft 48,415 sq m property, which sits on a 46,532 sq ft 4,322 sq m site to a local private transaction of 2008 investor.
Trade Square is located between Cheung Sha Wan Road, Hing Wah Street and Hang Cheung Street.
Savills Hong Kong has advised on the It has 12 floors and additional basement comprising sale of Trade Square in Cheung Sha Wan, retail units on first and ground floors, office space over eight floors, and several floors of car parking space.
Hong Kong for HK$1.518bn US$128m, representing a 5.6% yield.
It is the The property is almost 100% occupied with tenants including Canon, DHL, and Liz Claiborne.
The monthly largest transaction in Hong Kong in rental income is HK$7m US$0.89m.
the first quarter, demonstrating the strength of the Savills brand in Asia.
Relationship length Geography Asia N A Location Hong Kong Size 48,415 sq m 521,160 sq ft Value HK$1.518bn US$128m representing a 5.6% yield Services offered: Transactional Advice and Consultancy
