30 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Risks and Uncertainties Risks and Uncertainties Facing the Business Identifying, evaluating and mitigating the risks we face is fundamental to the achievement of our objectives and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Identifying, evaluating and mitigating the risks Whilst the Groups diversity of product and We talk more about these developments in detail we face is fundamental to the achievement geographic spread has helped to reduce the in the Group Strategy section on pages 9 to11.
of our objectives and the creation of long-term impact on the business of the market conditions Promoting and protecting shareholder value.
Details on our approach witnessed in 2008, it cannot mitigate the overall the Savills brand to risk management and internal control can risk to earnings.
We are therefore, committed Savills is a global brand with an excellent be found on pages 40 and 41. to an ongoing programme of cost reduction reputation in the markets in which it operates.
initiatives whilst continuing to invest selectively The steps we take to mitigate the key risks and We recognise that our brand strength is vital in our businesses where new opportunities uncertainties relating to the Groups operations, to maintaining market share and expanding present themselves.
along with their potential impact and the mitigating into new markets.
To this end, we have a factors in place, are set out below.
It is not It is inherently difficult to predict when property brand management programme in place to possible to mitigate fully all of our risks, and transaction volumes will recover due to their ensure the brands positioning, identity and other risks and uncertainties, besides those dependence on wider macroeconomic personality is clearly and consistently promoted.
listed below, which may also adversely affect conditions, but we recognise the need to Recruitment and retention the Group: continue to respond rapidly to changes of high calibre staff in our operating environment.
Our continual Responding to changes in We recognise that our ability to attract, develop, monitoring of market conditions and review the markets in which we operate motivate and retain people with the right skills of market changes against our Group strategy, The property markets in which the Group to deliver our strategy is fundamental to the is supported by the quarterly reforecasting operates are cyclical and may change for a future success of our business.
Whilst we undertaken by all of our businesses.
number of reasons: for example, economic pride ourselves in our reputation for excellence cycles, interest rates, and supply and demand Achieving the right market positioning as an employer and having an incentivisation of property in the market at any one time.
in response to the needs of our clients structure that rewards outperformance, The limited availablility of financing witnessed The markets in which the Group operate remain we recognise that this is an area in which globally during 2008 served significantly to highly competitive and we need to ensure we must continually improve.
reduce the volume of property market that we continue to reflect the changing and Key developments during 2008 included transactions and consequently the performance increasingly global needs of our clients.
This the launch of a global set of Savills Values, of our transaction focused operations.
need drives our strategy to continue to grow that support our vision for the Group and geographically and to add greater diversity to In addition, the limited availability of financing, what it means to work here, and the the services offered by the Group.
This strategy combined with a worsening general economic implementation of talent management and has served us well in our currently unsettled outlook, is negatively impacting real estate development programmes across a number markets.
For example, we have established values.
This has the potential of reducing of our businesses.
We talk more about these a new Corporate Finance team, Savills Capital the value of the co-investment we make with developments in detail in the People section Advisors, in London, and are now better our fund management clients and the fees we in Our Responsibilities on pages 26 and 27. positioned to support our clients with their real generate based upon the performance of the estate financing and debt structuring needs.
investments made by the funds we manage.
This ongoing development of our geographic capabilities is aligned with our focus on further developing the service capabilities in the major global markets in which we operate.
In the current market we have been selective about office openings, adding new offices in Mexico, Germany and China in 2008.
31 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Risks and Uncertainties Continuing to meet expected All areas relating to professional, regulatory and Managing our financial risks standards of professional, regulatory statutory compliance have benefited by the update For all areas of financial risk we have an and statutory compliance of our Group Policy Framework in 2008 which established financial control environment The success of any business providing defines the compliance standards we expect with clear responsibilities for operational professional advice is dependent on the from our businesses.
In support of this Framework and finance teams at all levels of the Group.
quality and integrity of its people.
Professional each of our businesses have their own regulatory In addition, during 2008 we successfully opinions provided in good faith may be open and statutory compliance resources in place secured new committed banking facilities to challenge resulting in claims against the and maintain the internal processes and controls until 2011.
Overall, the Group is run with low Group.
The risk of claims against the Group required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
financial gearing which the Board believes is inevitably increases during times of challenging Our compliance environment, at all levels, appropriate given the transactional nature of market conditions.
is subject to regular review by internal audit many of its revenue streams and its tangible and other assurance providers.
We are also required to meet a broad range of the development of a common set of values for regulatory compliance requirements in each of The key financial risks and uncertainties our business operations worldwide, reinforces the the markets in which we operate.
For example: in are covered in the Financial Review on pages behaviour we expect from our people with regards the UK, the Financial Services Authority FSA 24 and 25. integrity and our adherence to the highest regulates the conduct of our Savills Private standards of professional ethics.
These values Finance, Savills Capital Advisors and Cordea are outlined on pages 26 and 27 of Our Savills businesses: and The Royal Institution Responsibilities.
of Chartered Surveyors RICS regulates a number of the services we provide through Responding to political risks in the our Commercial and Residential businesses.
countries in which we operate globally Our continued geographic expansion Finally, we have a number of key statutory means that our success depends in part obligations including the protection of the on understanding and responding to the health, safety and welfare of our employees changing political and legislative conditions and others affected by our activities.
in the many countries around the world in which we do business.
Extensive market research and due diligence is conducted whenever we enter new markets and the requirements of the Group Risk Management Policy, specifically the need to regularly evaluate the key risks to our business objectives, extend to all of our businesses globally.
