32 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Board of Directors 1 2 Board of Directors 3 4 5 1.
Peter Smith, Chairman of Savills plc, and 4.
Martin Angle, Independent Chairman of the Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director Aged 62, was appointed to the Board as a Aged 58, was appointed to the Board on Non-Executive Director on 24 May 2004 and was 2 January 2007.
He is a Non-Executive Director elected Chairman with effect from 1 November of JSC Severstal, Dubai International Capital 2004.
His other non-executive appointments are: LLC and The National Exhibition Centre N M Rothschild & Sons Limited, The Equitable Chairman.
He also became a Non-Executive Life Assurance Society, Associated British Foods Director of Pennon Group plc on 1 December plcand Chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets 2008.
Formerly, he served as Chairman of Investment Trust plc.
He became a Non-Executive Celerant Consulting, as Group Finance Director Director of Rothschild Bank AG on 23 June of TI Group plc and held various executive roles 2008.
Formerly, Peter was Senior Partner with Terra Firma Capital Partners and its portfolio of  LLP PwC and companies, including The Waste Recycling served for two years as Chairman of Coopers Group Executive Chairman and Le Meridien & Lybrand International and as a member of the Hotel Group Deputy Chairman.
He is global leadership team of PwC.
He served as also a member of the Board of Warwick Chairman of RAC Plc and was a Non-Executive Business School.
Jeremy Helsby, Group Chief Executive Aged 44, joined Savills in September 1986 Aged 53, joined Savills in 1980 and was and was appointed to the Board on 1 May appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is the Executive Director responsible and Chief Executive Officer of Savills Commercial for our Capital Markets team and Head of Savills and Savills Europe for seven years until he was Commercial Investment.
From 1 January 2009, appointed as Group Chief Executive on 7 May he assumed responsibility for our American 2008.
He remains a Director of Savills Asia business.
He is also Chairman of the Management Pacific Limited.
Board of our European businesses and a member of the Charities Fund Property Board.
Simon Shaw, Group Chief Financial Officer Aged 44, Simon Shaw will join the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer on 16 March 2009.
He is NonExecutive Chairman of Synairgen plc.
He was Chief Financial Officer of Gyrus Group PLC from 2003 until its sale to Olympus Corporation in 2008, having previously been Chief Operating Officer of Profile Therapeutics plc between 1998 and 2003.
Between 1991 and 1997 he was a corporate financier, latterly at Hambros Bank Limited.
Simon is a member of the techMARK Advisory Group of the London Stock Exchange, which advises the Exchange on matters of Technology and Mediscience.
33 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2008 Board of Directors 6 7 8 9 10 6.
Rupert Sebag-Montefiore, Director Non-Executive Director Aged 55, joined Savills in 1980 and was Aged 61, was appointed to the Board on appointed to the Board on 31 May 1995.
He is Chief Executive of On 26 October 2004, he became Chairman Caledonia Investments plc and a Non-Executive of Savills L&P Limited, having served as its Director of The Sage Group plc, ANZ Bank Managing Director since May 2000.
He is Europe Limited and Alok Industries Limited.
the Executive Director responsible for the He was formerly Chief Executive of First National UK residential and general practice surveying Finance Corporation, a main Board Director business.
Between 2001 and 2008 he served of Abbey National plc and a Non-Executive on the Board of Fastcrop plc the holding Director of Hogg Robinson plc.
com and served as Chairman between November 2004 and 7.
Robert McKellar, September 2008 during which time the Chief Executive Asia Pacific company was sold to Daily Mail and General Aged 49, was appointed to the Board as Group Trust plc.
DMGT have subsequently appointed Finance Director on 1 June 2000 having served him as Non-Executive Chairman of The Digital as Finance Director of Savills Commercial Limited Property Group Advisory Board.
He was appointed Chief Executive Asia Pacific on 31 March 2005.
Fields Wicker-Miurin OBE, Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of 8.
Charles McVeigh, Independent the Audit Committee Non-Executive Director and Chairman Aged 50, was appointed to the Board on of the Remuneration Committee 27 June 2002.
She is co-founder and partner Aged 66, was appointed to the Board as a of Leaders Quest and chairs its Advisory Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2000.
She is a Non-Executive Director of the is currently Chairman of Citigroups Corporate CDC Group and was on the Board of the UKs and Investment Banking Global Wealth Department for Business Enterprise and Management Partnership, having until recently Regulatory Reform for six years until 2008. been Co-Chairman of Citigroups European She is also a governor of Kings College Investment Bank formerly known as Schroder London where she chairs the audit committee.
He also serves on Previously she was Chief Financial Officer the Board of EFG-Hermes and is a member and Director of Strategy at the London of both the Development Board and Advisory Stock Exchange.
Council of the Princes Trust.
Formerly he has Audit Committee served on the Boards of Witan Investment Remuneration Committee Company plc, Clearstream, the London Stock Nomination Committee Exchange, LIFFE and British American Group Executive Board Business Inc: he was also appointed by the Bank of England to serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk Review Committee.
He was also a member of the Fulbright Commission.
