02 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Group Overview Group Overview Our ambition is to become the real estate advisor of choice in our chosen markets.
We recognise that to achieve this goal we must continually think forward, anticipate trends and above all understand what those trends mean for our clients and our business.
Operating on and providing a full to some of the worlds a global scale... range of services... biggest names... Operations globally Transactional Advice We offer world-class services Established in 1855, Savills plc is one of Professional property services relating to to clients from our wide range the leading real estate advisors in the world.
the sale, purchase or letting of commercial of regional platforms and residential property.
We are passionate about property and provide a full range of real estate services See page 14 to clients worldwide, with a strong Contribution to Group revenue Consultancy emphasis on local market knowledge.
UK 314.1m Provision of a wide range of professional Asia Pacific 184.9m property consultancy services.
Rest of Europe 67.6m US 1.9m See page 18 Property Management Management of commercial, residential and agricultural property for owners.
Provision of a comprehensive range of services to occupiers of property, ranging from strategic 19,834 employees in over 180 offices advice through project management to all UK 3,374 services relating to a building.
Asia Pacific 15,590 Rest of Europe 837 See page 20 US 33 Financial Services Mortgage broking, financial planning and corporate finance advice.
See page 22 Fund Management Investment management of commercial and residential property portfolios for institutional or professional investors, on a pooled or segregated account basis.
See page 23 03 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Group Overview delivered by a implementing and measuring dedicated workforce... our strategy... our performance 19,834 employees globally Focused expansion and making Key performance indicators Our success has been built on providing an more of our existing assets The Group uses a number of key performance environment which attracts and retains the Our vision remains to become the real estate indicators to measure its performance and best people in our industry.
We value and advisor of choice in our chosen markets.
highlight the impact of management actions.
reward innovation and entrepreneurialism and Build scale and brand recognition 08 07 are proud of our culture which encourages We continue to invest selectively in 1.
Revenue 568.5m 650.5m advisors to continually seek out new markets, areas where we see future growth.
Underlying profit 33.2m 85.5m opportunities and solutions for clients.
Operating margins 5.4% 12.8% Global experience and knowledge We have continued with secondments 4.
Cash generation 5.5 m 102.8m Through our international network of over and also recruited a number of individuals 5.
Earnings per share 18.1p 46.1p 180 offices, we offer a range of expertise which and teams to strengthen our cross-border covers all the key segments of residential, 6.
office, industrial, retail, leisure, healthcare, % non-UK 44.7% 37.6% Explore new opportunities rural and hotel property, and mixed use 7.
Breadth of service We continue to review the strategy development schemes.
We also offer specialist offerings % nonand timing of our entry into other fund and investment management, real estate transactional income 63.3% 53.3% emerging markets.
finance and private financial services.
Assets under management 3.0bn 3.5bn Expand residential globally Our values: We continue to believe that Savills prime 9.
Property under We have established a common set of global management sq ft 944.3m 708.4m Residential business gives us a real Savills values that capture our commitment competitive advantage.
to ethical, professional and responsible See page 12 conduct, and reinforce the behaviours Provide a best in class client service we expect from our people.
We will continue to strengthen, invest in, and build on the services we offer.
These values are: Increasing our non-transactional income Pride in everything we do We continue to invest in and expand Always act with integrity our consultancy and property facilities Take an entrepreneurial approach management teams.
to business Help our people fulfil their true potential See page 09
