06 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Marketplace Marketplace UK In the investment market we expect that 2009 Price falls in the new homes sector were more UK Commercial will see prime yields stabilising.
The low cost pronounced than in the second hand markets 2008 opened very much a continuation of 2007s of debt finance, weakness of sterling and higher as new build premiums were eradicated.
trends in the UK commercial property investment than average yields are beginning to stimulate This combined impact of reduced rates markets.
The ongoing shortage of debt led to investor interest in the UK commercial property of sale and an absence of development rising yields and falling capital values across all market, particularly from non-domestic investors.
finance translated into much larger falls sectors.
The total investment volume transacted While we do not expect a significant uplift in in the underlying development land market in the UKs commercial property market was investment turnover this year, we anticipate of 50% in the year.
around 60% down on 2007. that longer term secure income streams will In the early part of the year the very top end attract increasingly strong investor interest The second half of 2008 saw the beginnings of the Prime London market appeared to continue as the year progresses.
of the economic downturn start to impact on at pre-crisis levels, but this changed as the year the leasing markets across the UK.
Leasing progressed and in the last quarter falls in the UK prime yields % activity in most segments of the market was ultra prime markets caught up with the rest Current Long-term average lower than the previous year, with the City of of the market.
8.0 London office market being one of the hardest 7.5 6.94 Looking forward, we expect another year of 7.0 7.0 6.75 6.62 6.5 hit areas of the country.
However, even in this 6.13 6.0 5.74 5.57 low transaction numbers in 2009, given ongoing 52.4 market tenants were still active, in many cases 4.75 mortgage constraints and weak buyer sentiment.
capitalising on falling rents and more attractive However, demand from cash rich investors and incentive packages.
up-sizers is likely to emerge as price falls work At a national level, retail and industrial rents their way through the market.
This will make City West end M25 Regional Standard Shopping Industrial were broadly stable over the course of 2008, offices offices offices offices shops centres residential investment property start to look and office rents showed a marginal fall on the especially attractive to foreign buyers benefiting UK Residential previous year.
Take-up levels were in line with from the weakness of sterling.
Whilst owner Significantly reduced access to mortgage long-term average levels.
occupier affordability has already been restored finance precipitated a dramatic downturn in by the combined effect of price falls to date and The UK recession will undoubtedly impact on the mainstream residential property market the reduction in the cost of finance, a more tenant demand, vacancies and rents in 2009. in 2008 causing the value of the average UK widespread recovery will be dependent on However, the shortage of debt available since home to fall by 16%.
In the Prime Central much wider availability of mortgage finance the middle of 2007 is limiting the prospect of London market the annual fall was slightly and a more positive outlook for the economy.
an oversupply of speculative development.
higher at 18%, as City bonus demand which Vacancy rates will rise in many locations this drove exceptional price growth in 2006 and year, but we do not expect them to reach the 2007 largely dried up.
The impact on turnover levels seen in the last recession.
was also acute as the credit squeeze became a credit crisis, with the number of UK sales recorded by HMRC falling from 1.6 million in 2007 to just 900,000 in 2008.
07 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Marketplace Europes economy has also weakened and Although investment volumes in real estate Annual house price growth % this has dampened occupational demand.
have dropped we do not anticipate property Prime Central London UK The shortage of debt has restricted construction will lose its attractiveness as an asset class 16 15 activity, therefore slowing down the as it remains an attractive option for the 10 development cycle.
long-term investors, offering the benefits of 6 6 diversification and a stable income stream.
In the final quarter of 2008 we saw the first signs of falling rents in the office and warehousing In 2009 we expect to see a rise in forced -14 markets of the countries that have been hardest sales in many markets, which should create -18 hit by the current downturn.
Rental growth opportunities for equity driven investors to still remains positive for prime retail properties.
re-enter the market in a less competitive Europe However the retail markets are exposed to environment.
We expect the main targets of 2008 was the year that signalled the end of the declining consumer confidence and retail sales, investors in 2009 will be the more liquid and strong yield compression that we saw over the caused by the fear of rising unemployment transparent markets, with their investment last four years in Europes commercial property and falling housing markets.
Therefore we strategy focusing on secure income streams.
The economic and financial turmoil expect retail rents to come under pressure that followed the credit crisis in the US limited Mainland Europe prime in 2009, especially in markets with large debt market liquidity restricting leveraged commercial yields % development pipelines.
investors, who were the driving force in the Prime office investment market.
The drop in investment Following the deterioration of economic Prime warehousing Prime shopping centre demand for commercial property coupled fundamentals in recent months and the forecasts with falling economic sentiment has led of recession in the major European economies 8 to falling capital values.
we expect occupier demand to weaken further.
7 Rental growth should remain negative and more 6 Yields softened across most of Europes incentives are expected to be offered by landlords.
These factors should cause some further 4 Prime capital values dropped by around decompression of yields.
04 05 06 07 08 20% on average across all commercial Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 property sectors in 2008, with the Paris and Dublin office markets demonstrating the strongest yield correction.
08 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Marketplace Marketplace Continued Asia Pacific Property markets generally follow stockmarkets As a result, there was an 87% decrease in While the main theme of late 2007 in the Asian and in this respect the current volatility in global total US investment sales volume between property markets was one of their immunity to indices does not bode well for the sector.
Fresh Q1 2007 and Q4 2008, with only $17.9bn the credit crunch, 2008 has clearly disproved concerns over the state of the banking sector of sales in Q4 2008.
During the same time any theories on decoupling.
2008 saw coupled with growing signs that dramatically period, Manhattan sales volume decreased investment volumes down across Asia as slower export growth around the region is 93%, to $1.2bn.
shortages of debt inhibited many investors affecting employment and incomes together In 2009, the erosion of underlying market and developers, and non-domestic players mean that property values can be expected to fundamentals is expected to continue, and refocused on their home markets.
continue to slide through the first half of 2009. pricing is anticipated to fall further before Elevated supply levels will exaggerate these In tune with the rest of the global economy, bottoming out.
Buyers will continue to be extremely falls in some markets.
Although we have seen the second half of 2008 saw the beginnings cautious until they believe market conditions some evidence of end user activity, we do of a significant slowdown in the very strong have begun to stabilise.
The US governments not expect funds to return to the market economic growth that had been seen in the Troubled Asset Relief Program TARP and the until late 2009 at the earliest.
Leasing and sales additional stimuli put in place by the government volumes were down on the previous year in US may encourage banks to make more loans to most markets, especially those most directly The US investment sales market slowed qualified buyers.
The stimulus programmes exposed to demand from the international dramatically in 2008, particularly during the implemented by the US government will hopefully banking and finance communities.
Despite second half of the year.
2008 marked the begin to take effect, encouraging both foreign falling take-up and residential transaction end of a long bull market that was fuelled and domestic buyers to pursue assets more levels, some areas continued to see relatively by an abundance of low cost debt financing, aggressively as fundamentals stabilise and low vacancy rates and this delivered rental lax underwriting standards and strong economic they view pricing as attractive.
and pricing stability in those markets.
During the second half of 2008, the credit markets became largely frozen and rapidly eroding fundamentals led many qualified buyers to sit on the sidelines, even if they had equity.
