26 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Our Responsibilities Our Responsibilities Savills recognises corporate responsibility as an integral part of being a successful business and maintaining a positive reputation and brand.
Key highlights in 2008: We continue to be a member of FTSE4Good, are established to focus on the four key themes People Established a common set of which measures the performance of companies of our corporate responsibility activities: People, global Savills Values formalising our pride that meet globally recognised corporate Clients, Environment and Community.
in our commitment to ethical, professional, responsibility standards.
Our inclusion further We demand the highest professional standards responsible conduct and reinforcing the highlights our commitment to long-term from all of our people all of the time and have behaviour we expect from our staff.
However, given Clients Established an Energy and Our stewardship of corporate the breadth of activities and the number of Environment business group to provide a responsibility people we employ we do not always meet focal point for our sustainability related services The Board as a whole takes the lead on corporate the high standards we aspire to, we treat and a one stop shop for our clients.
The newly established GEB is this with the utmost seriousness through responsible for implementing the Boards corporate our disciplinary procedures.
Environment Directly reduced the impact responsibility strategy and for ensuring compliance of our operations on the environment People with our corporate values and standards.
During through practical, on the ground, initiatives.
Savills Values 2008, we substantially updated our Group Our vision to be the real estate advisor of Community Implemented a focused Policy Framework, which defines core financial, choice in our chosen markets and deliver community engagement programme operational and compliance standards by which superior financial performance can only be coordinating our support for local and we operate, to ensure that they are clearly achieved through the dedication, commitment national charitable groups for the first time.
articulated and understood by Savills people and excellence of our people.
Building on the Selected two charities of choice in the worldwide.
feedback received from our 2007 Employee UK Honeypot and Land Aid.
Key corporate responsibility related standards that Engagement Survey we have now established The challenging markets we experienced during were developed or updated during 2008 include a common set of Savills Values to articulate 2008 have reinforced how our continued success a comprehensive update to our Group Health what it means to work at Savills and reinforce is dependent upon our reputation, brand and & Safety Policy, the development of a Group the behaviours we expect from our people: strength of relationship with a variety of internal  oursupport Pride in everything we do and external stakeholders.
In 2007 we identified for International Labour Organisations ILO Core We: the benefit of improved corporate responsibility Principles, and the update of a number of take great pride in delivering services as including: standards relating to compliance obligations of the highest quality: and professional conduct.
We continuetoinclude being better able to retain and recruit the always go the extra mile to meet  responsibility related best people by meeting the expectations our clients objectives: and issues in Key Risk Registers ensuring that we and values of current and future staff: are quick to identify emerging issues and seek to employ only the best people.
being able to retain and attract clients opportunities see pages 30 and 31 for by listening to their changing needs and Always act with integrity details of our Risks and Uncertainties.
developing new and innovative services: and We: Our Corporate Responsibility Working Group was behave responsibly: by supporting and enhancing the Savills established in 2007, is chaired by the Group Chief brand globally through promoting ethical act with honesty and respect for Executive and comprises senior representatives and responsible attitudes.
other people: and from a range of business lines and central functions.
The Working Group defines the We feel that the importance of these benefits adhere to the highest standards framework for our corporate responsibility to the Group has increased during 2008 and of professional ethics.
related initiatives, coordinates activity and the progress we are now making in embedding monitors Group-wide progress and performance.
corporate responsibility in to our day-to-day Operationalforums, reporting to the Working Group operations reflects this.
27 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Our Responsibilities Take an entrepreneurial approach UK Commercial Property Savills Ireland Graduate to business We: Management team awarded Excellence Programme seek out new markets and opportunities Investors in People singled out by BITC for clients, and take a creative and Formed in 1993, Investor in People IIP Business in the Community BITC is the lead entrepreneurial approach to delivering value: provides a framework for organisations organisation on corporate responsibility in Ireland.
are forward thinking, and always aim to improve the way they work and nurture To celebrate five years of the Inspiring Excellence to build long-term client relationships: staff in order to reach their potential.
Awards, BITC invited an independent panel aim to be a leader in every market we enter, The UK Commercial Property Management of judges to choose the ten most innovative and commit ourselves with passion, energy team was awarded an IIP accreditation programmes from over 200 entries over the and expertise: and following an assessment of its managed sites past five years.
Savills Ireland Graduate Excellence throughout the UK and its Head Office team.
Programme was selected as a best case study approach problems with a proactive, of inspiring excellence in their category.
practical attitude, delivering robust solutions.
Nick Herward, National Head of Management, The award was received in recognition of the commented: We are delighted to receive this Help our people fulfil their true potential superior standard of the Graduate Excellence accolade from such a well established body, We: Programme particularly the emphasis placed particularly as we initially began the assessment encourage an open and supportive on developing and integrating corporate process as an exercise to see what we would company culture in which every individual social responsibility into the firm and the need to do to achieve the mark.
However, is respected: wider community.
when the IIP reviewed our management help our people to excel through appropriate procedures we received an instant accreditation.
Ann Hinds, Director, Savills Ireland, training and development: commented: Our graduates have used their knowledge and expertise to create meaningful share success, and reward achievement: and Health and safety change and make a very positive contribution recognise that our peoples diverse strengths The promotion of a healthy and safe workplace to society.
The graduates have provided combined with good teamwork produces is a fundamental responsibility of all employers.
property expertise to a number of charities the best results.
During 2008 we undertook a full assessment and community groups including: Gheel of our approach to health and safety globally Autism, Focus Ireland, Simon Community, Our focus for 2009 is on embedding these and updated our Group Health and Safety An Cosn, Youthreach and in 2008 09 the values in our business operations worldwide.
Board level fide Paul Trust.
Developing talent health and safety champions have been Responding to the identified need to provide appointed in every country that we operate, clearer career development at all levels, we are to own the health and safety agenda and to piloting the Savills Leadership Programme in the drive continual improvement.
Central to our talent management and have established an improved Group-wide development strategy, the programme supports reporting system for all health and safety  that incidents.
All employees have access to they are equipped to become the next generation the resources they need to enable them to of leaders in the Group.
In 2008 we were delighted achieve their personal and company health to be named Best Property Employer atTheTimes and safety objectives, and systems of work Graduate Recruitment Awards for the second that contribute to a safe and healthy environment year running.
The award reflects our continued for our employees.
We strive for health and investment in our graduate programme.
safety excellence and are not driven by compliance alone.
28 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Our Responsibilities Our Responsibilities Continued We remain committed to continuous improvement in this area and further embedding of corporate responsibility in to our day-to-day operations across the Group.
Clients ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management in order to UK Planning Consultancy At Savills we recognise that to achieve our continually improve our management standards aspiration to be advisor of choice in all our global and increase the confidence of clients in the of the Year markets, we must always provide the highest efficiency of our services.
We recognise that Savills was named UK Planning Consultancy standards of client care and service.
Our culture accreditation also helps make us more of the Year by the Royal Town Planning Institute and values encourage entrepreneurism and competitive when submitting bids and proposals and was commended by the judges for its ability innovation.
We aim to anticipate and seek for work, especially for our teams focused to deliver major innovative projects by combining out new markets, opportunities and solutions, on public sector clients.
At the end of 2008, a visionary approach with a technical ability and aspire to commit ourselves to them with 40 UK locations were ISO 9001 accredited and a thorough understanding of commercial passion and energy as evidenced in our Key 2007: 10. drivers and new policy areas.
Performance Indicators section on pages 12 Environment and 13 in terms of Breadth of Offering and Roger Hepher, Head of Planning and As stated previously the direct impact of our Geographical Spread.
Regeneration at Savills, said: We are delighted operations on the environment is low compared that our hard work over the past year has been As witnessed during 2008 the global economic, to many other industries, and so the most recognised in this way.
Within Savills, our team environmental and legislative landscape is significant contribution we can make is through is seen as pivotal in drawing together different constantly evolving.
Many of our clients are quality of sustainability related advice to clients.
streams of professional expertise, but it is consequently changing their business models, However, we recognise the value in reducing obviously particularly gratifying for our their buildings and products to reflect the markets the impact of our activities on the environment achievements to be recognised by a wider in which they operate.
As recognised within to as low a level as is reasonably practicable.
I am especially proud that the judges our Risks and Uncertainties section on pages Through better understanding and minimising commended the skills of the team.
We have 30 and 31, it is therefore essential that we our own environmental impacts we are also the UKs largest team of senior planning also evolve to ensure that we continue to able to make operational efficiencies and savings professionals, and our absolute commitment meet the needs of our clients and through and also strengthen our position of employer to client service is illustrated by the fact that doing so promote social and environmental of choice in our markets.
19 of our 25 biggest clients in 2008 have been good practice.
Our Group Environmental Policy outlines these major clients for at least the last five years.
By helping clients to understand the environmental aims, which operationally translate to our ongoing and societal implications of their property decisions, programme of office based environmental we can make a far greater positive impact than initiatives which include reduced print and paper on our own actions alone.
We therefore see wastage, sourcing of recycled or sustainable Savills named best our specialist services, research and training as paper products, power-down idle desktop real estate valuer in China a critical part of our corporate responsibility.
equipment, and recycling redundant IT equipment and sundries wherever possible.
We arealsousing During 2008 we established a multi-disciplinary Savills Valuation & Professional Services was new technology to deliver research information, Energy and Environment business group to provide named The Best Real Estate Valuer in China marketing materials, web-based collaborative a one stop shop solution for our clients when at the annual China Real Estate Awards held forums and marketing brochures to reduce sourcing sustainability related services.
Charles Chan Managing Director, paper, transport costs and waste.
business group builds on our proven expertise Savills Valuation & Professional Services said: within a broad range of sustainability skill sets In addition, during the year, our cross-company This is very encouraging as it evidences that from the energy performance of buildings to Green Group commenced a programme to the Companys professional and independent the environmental assessment of major projects.
consolidate our electricity purchase in the UK status is well recognised.
I would like to thank with a single supplier.
A key criterion we adopted the Savills team for their hard work as we Savills strives to deliver only the best results for selecting an energy provider was the use strive to achieve the best for our clients for its clients.
As part of this goal our offices of renewable energy resources to reduce our as the leader of the industry.
continue to work towards accreditation under environmental impact further.
Since July 2008, 29 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2008 Our Responsibilities nearly half 46 of our UK locations are now charity assisting children with speech, language Savills Hong Kong awarded under contract to one energy supplier.
and communication needs, by our London graduates.
28 graduates undertook a series Caring Company Logo We aim to have over 60 offices under of refurbishment projects at the charitys Meath the single contract by the end of 2009.
Both our Hong Kong Agency and Hong Kong School in Surrey, England in October 2008.
Property Management businesses were As part of the drive to control the impact of our Other projects planned to help the charity include awarded the Caring Company logo for 2008 09 activities on the environment, we have continued carrying out surveys of existing buildings, examining by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service to encourage our offices to adopt BS EN ISO investment or rental opportunities at each school, in recognition of their community involvement 14001:2004 Environmental Management.
This and contributing to the construction of an outdoor and commitment as corporate citizens.
All of is designed to achieve sound environmental classroom at the site.
our Hong Kong businesses have now been performance by using a proactive range of In the UK, 61% of our offices actively support local awarded the Caring Company logo building practical office management measures.
community initiatives and this commitment is also on the recognition of Savills Guardian, our It also helps demonstrate our commitment reflected in our overseas businesses.
In addition, Facility Management business, who have to environmental improvement when pitching for there are a number of ways in which we support been awarded the logo for six consecutive new work.
At the end of 2008, 43 of our UK charitable giving by our employees in the UK years 20032009.
Last year Savills Hong offices held ISO 14001 accreditation 2007: including our Give As You Earn, Bonus Waiver Kong responded swiftly in raising funds to 8 UK offices.
help the victims of the Sichuan Earthquake.
Community A total of HK$1.5m was raised and donated Future plans Part of the Savills culture includes playing a to World Vision Hong Kong for the relief work.
Whilst we have sought to better monitor, measure positive role in the communities in which we A fundraiser was also organised for a and benchmark the corporate responsibility operate, and our reputation relies on being a Sowerts Action school project.
performance of our businesses during 2008 key member of the community.
An intrinsic we recognise that we can do more.
In particular, part of this role is supporting charities and the need remains to promote many of the other community related activities on both practices now embedded in our UK and Hong a local and national level.
Kong businesses, alongside the promotion of Whilst we remain committed to encouraging the Savills Values globally.
We remain committed our employees to be actively involved in their to continuous improvement in this area and local communities, in 2008 we developed more further embedding of corporate responsibility in focused community engagement programmes to our day-to-day operations across the Group.
at a national level, for example, in the UK, we Highlights of UK Corporate Responsibility selected two major charities to support as our Survey 2008 Charities of Choice Land Aid and Honeypot.
2008 The charities focus on two areas identified as 2007 85 relevant to our business and important to our 80 employees.
These are homelessness, and 61 60 58 supporting the development of vulnerable 36 35 children and young carers aged between 5 and 25 12 through respite care and long term support.
15 12 Where possible we seek to integrate community Recycling Recycling Power Selecting Supporitng  paper, glass, down of suppliers local brochures, plastic and printers and providing community we find that this maximises employee commitment magazines cans photocopiers environmentally initiatives and sustainable and provides real life development opportunities cardboard goods or in addition to the societal benefits delivered.
services A current example is the support of I CAN, a Savills graduates supporting I CAN
