41 Directors report The Directors report of the company for the year ended 31st December 2008 is set out on pages 4145 inclusive and includes the sections of the Annual Report referred to in these pages.
The Directors report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2008.
This Annual Report contains forward looking statements.
These forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather they are based on current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ from any future results or developments expressed or implied from the forward looking statements.
Each forward looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement.
Principal activity The principal activity of the group is the laundering and maintenance of textiles.
Further information on the services provided are outlined on pages 45 of this report.
Business review The UK Companies Act 2006 requires The Davis Service Group to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the group during the financial year ended 31st December 2008 including a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group and an analysis of the position of the groups business at the end of the financial year, known as an Enhanced Business Review.
The information that fulfils the current Business Review requirements can be found on the following pages of this Annual Report which are incorporated into this report by reference: the development and performance of the groups business during the year, see pages 2, 3 and 1422: the position of the groups business at the end of the year, see pages 2, 3 and 51: main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the group, see pages 35 and 1419: key performance indicators, see pages 1 and 67: a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, see pages 2325: environmental matters and policy, including the impact of the groups business on the environment, see pages 12 and 28: employee matters and policy, see pages 11, 26 and 27: social and community issues and policy, see pages 26 and 28: and information about persons with whom the company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the company, see pages 5 and 43.
Results and dividends The financial statements set out the results of the group for the year ended 31st December 2008 which are shown on page 49.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.5 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 6.5 pence per ordinary share paid in October 2008, makes a total dividend for the year of 20 pence 2007: 19.4 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to the approval by shareholders of the recommended final dividend, the dividend award to shareholders for 2008 will total 34.0 million.
If approved, the company will pay the final dividend on 7th May 2009 to shareholders on the register at 17th April 2009.
Changes in composition of the group The group acquired a number of textile maintenance businesses during the year.
The total consideration including net financial liabilities assumed and deferred consideration payable for the acquisitions is 61.6 million.
Details of the fair value of net assets acquired and consideration paid are set out in note 30 to the financial statements.
Directors The current directors of the company including their biographical details are set out on page 31.
Each served throughout the year ended 31st December 2008.
John Burns and Kevin Quinn retire at the 2009 Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The unexpired term of John Burns service contract is 2 years, 2 months at 28th April 2009.
Further details of notice periods are on page 38.
Details of the number of board and committee meetings held during the year and attendance by individual directors are included in the corporate governance statement on page 33.
Details on the directors remuneration and service contracts and their interests in the shares of the company are included in the report on directors remuneration which is set out on pages 3640.
Directors indemnity Article 133 of the companys Articles of Association the Articles provides, among other things, that insofar as permitted by law, every director of the company or any associated company may be indemnified by the company against any liability.
42 Directors report continued On 30th June 2006 and 30th April 2007, the company executed deed polls for each of the then and all future executive and nonexecutive directors of the company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries respectively.
The indemnities granted under these deed polls constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force.
The board believes that it is in the best interests of the group to provide these indemnities to its directors in order to ensure that it attracts and retains high calibre directors through competitive terms of employment in line with the market.
In addition, the company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
Share capital and control Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to disclose certain additional information.
Such disclosures, to the extent not covered elsewhere in the Directors report, include the information set out in the paragraphs below.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes in this section the Companies Acts, any resolution passed by the company under the Companies Acts and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the board may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the board.
Voting Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at a general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote and every member present in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Dividends and other distributions The company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the board.
Subject to the Companies Acts, the board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the company, in the opinion of the board, justifies its payment.
If the directors act in good faith, they will not be liable for any loss that any shareholders may suffer because a lawful dividend has been paid on other shares which rank equally with or behind their shares.
The board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the companys shares from a person with at least a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Restrictions on transfer of securities in the company There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the company, except: that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal in the companys ordinary shares.
The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Amendment of Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the companys shareholders.
43 Appointment and replacement of directors The directors shall be not less than two and there shall be no maximum number of directors.
The company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum and or maximum number of directors.
Under the Articles, a director shall not be required to hold any shares in the company.
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board holds office only until the next following Annual General Meeting of the company and is then eligible for reappointment.
The board or any committee authorised by the board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
At every Annual General Meeting of the company any director who has been appointed by the board since the last Annual General Meeting, or who held office at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held office with the company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for reappointment by the members.
The company may by special resolution remove any director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the board resolve to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other directors and all of the other directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health and the board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is absent without the permission of the board from meetings of the board whether or not an alternate director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by a law from being a director: vii he ceases to be a director by virtue of the Companies Acts: or viii he is removed from office pursuant to the companys Articles.
Powers of the directors Subject to the companys memorandum of association, the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the company by special resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of the company, whether relating to the management of the business of the company or not.
In particular, the board may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets present and future and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or of any third party.
Securities carrying special rights No person holds securities in the company carrying special rights with regard to control of the company.
Rights under the employee share scheme As at 31st December 2008, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of the Davis Service Group Employee Benefit Trust, held 441,873 shares on trust for the benefit of the executive directors and employees of the group.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of Applebys shareholding and Appleby currently abstains from voting the shares but it may, upon the recommendation of the company, accept or reject any offer relating to the shares in any way it sees fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for its decision.
In exercising its trustee powers Appleby may take all or any of the following matters into account: the long-term interests of beneficiaries: the interests of beneficiaries other than financial interests: the interests of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees or former employees or their dependants: the interests of persons whether or not identified who may become beneficiaries in the future: and considerations of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
Significant agreements There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements, directors service agreements and employees share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole except for The Davis Service Groups 420 million Revolving Facility Agreement dated 26th June 2005, the 200 million Revolving Facility Agreement dated 25th August 2008 and the $250 million US Private Placement Note Purchase Agreement dated 25th May 2006.
These agreements contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, could limit future utilisations, require the repayment of existing utilisations or lead to a renegotiation of terms.
In addition, there exist agreements between the company and its directors and certain senior employees which provide for compensation for loss of office or employment due to a takeover bid.
Copies of executive directors service contracts are available to shareholders for inspection at the companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Further details on directors service contracts are included in the report on directors remuneration which is set out on pages 3640.
44 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 26th February 2009 the company had been notified, pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital: Direct indirect No.
of shares m % Silchester International Investors Limited Direct 32.5 19.1 Prudential plc Direct 24.5 14.4 Sanderson Asset Management Limited Direct 8.4 5.0 Newton Investment Management Limited Indirect 8.4 5.0 Taube Hodson Stonex Partners Limited Indirect 7.4 4.4 Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited Direct 6.7 4.0 Barclays PLC Not advised 5.1 3.0 Share capital As at 26th February 2009, the companys authorised share capital consisted of 219,645,253 divided into 732,150,842 ordinary shares of 30 pence each and one deferred share of 15 pence of which there were 170,385,208 ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury.
During the 12 months to 31st December 2008, 51,352 ordinary shares of 30 pence each in the company were issued in satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options under the terms of The Davis 1998 Share Option Plan, The Davis Service Group Savings Related Share Option Scheme and The Davis Service Group Sharesave Plan 2006 for a total consideration of 150,670.
As at 31st December 2008, the authority granted to the company for the purchase of up to 17,137,000 ordinary shares in the company remained in force and unused.
Details of the movements in the year are set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00 am on Tuesday 28th April 2009 is being sent separately to shareholders with this report.
The venue for the meeting is the Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ.
Authority to allot shares Resolutions will be proposed to authorise the directors to allot shares up to approximately two-thirds of the companys issued ordinary share capital in accordance with guidelines issued by the ABI on 31st December 2008 of which approximately 5% may be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
This additional one-third authority, above the usual one-third authority, may only be used for rights issues.
In any three year period, no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
The two resolutions numbers 9 and 10 are set out in full in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
No issue will be made which would effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Purchase of own shares In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the company to purchase its own shares.
A special resolution number 11 will be proposed at the April 2009 Annual General Meeting to seek authority from shareholders to do so, such authority to expire on the date of the next following annual general meeting or a date 18 months from the date of the resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired being 10% of the companys issued share capital and the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be purchased.
The shareholders authority granted at the 2008 Annual General Meeting remains valid until the next annual general meeting.
If the company were to purchase any of its own shares, it may consider holding them as treasury shares as an alternative to cancelling them, subject to the authority allowed by resolution number 11, provided that the total number of treasury shares does not at any one time exceed 10% of the companys issued share capital.
Companies are permitted to hold shares purchased on the market in treasury with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to cancelling them.
This would allow the company to re-issue the shares held in treasury quickly and cost-effectively and would provide the company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The share price on 31st December 2008 was 271.75 pence: the company currently holds 1,025,000 ordinary shares in treasury.
The board are committed to managing the companys capital effectively and the directors keep under review the option of buying back the companys shares.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
The directors will only purchase the companys shares on the market if they believe it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
45 Political and charitable donations Financial contributions to a range of charities and good causes during the year amounted to 56,372 2007: 44,272, principally to local charities serving the communities in which the group operates.
There were no political donations during the year 2007: nil.
Creditor payment policy Whilst the group does not follow any published code or standard on payment practice, it continues to be the groups policy to agree the terms of payment with each of its suppliers at the commencement of the trading relationship and to abide by those terms provided that the supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Trade creditor days of the company for the year ended 31st December 2008 were 10 days 2007: 10 days and for the groups major trading companies were 44 days 2007: 50 days.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they may be reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 128.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 48104.
In addition note 18 to the financial statements includes the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After reviewing the above and making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Directors conflicts of interest There are procedures in place to deal with directors conflicts of interest arising under Section 175 Companies Act 2006 and such procedures have operated effectively from 1st October 2008.
Directors responsibilities The directors responsibilities for the financial statements contained within this annual report and the directors confirmations required under DTR 4.1.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 26th February 2009
