16 Operations review continued Continent Key performance indicators 2008 2007 Revenue h 18% 17% 32 4,000 Adjusted operating profit x 0% 19% Number of plants Number of people Germany Adjusted operating margin x12.9% 15.2% we operate we employ Organic revenue growth h 0% 1% Austria Major injury rate x 0.40 1.00 Holland Growth before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts and intellectual property rights.
Poland Operating brand Major injury rate Number of major injuries total hours worked x 1,000,000. in the Continent region Czech Republic Peter Havus, Regional Managing Director Expanding our Workwear and Facilities businesses Business objectives Achievements in 2008 Priorities in 2009 k Growth of 7% in Holland, Poland k Deliver on salesforce investments made Delivering organic and Germany in Workwear in 2008 revenue growth k Salesforce investments k Develop clean room operations in Poland k Commenced operations in the k Drive salesforce efficiency in Holland Czech Republic k Expand our coverage in Workwear in Germany k German Workwear margin increased k Deliver the benets of restructuring Delivering on acquisitions in Germany k German management restructured to allocate further resource to Workwear k Deliver further plant efficiencies k Evaluate acquisition opportunities that are presented by current economic climate k Surveys in Poland and Netherlands k Continued action to reduce Reducing our impact to identify where further energy saving environmental impact on the environment initiatives can be implemented k Logistics improvements to distribution k Polish business achieved ISO 14001 efficiency certication Workwear Facilities Healthcare Sales and production 17 Our Continent region covers the country operations of Germany, we are also allocating more resource to support the growth potential Austria, Holland and Poland with 32 plants and 4,000 staff.
In January in Workwear and reducing the overhead support cost in Healthcare.
2008, we commenced trading through a new company in the Czech The restructuring, announced in December, will result in a reduction Republic.
We have strong market positions in Holland, Poland and in headcount of 410, two plant closures and restructuring costs of German Healthcare.
This is largely a cash cost, which will be paid in the first half of 2009.
In contrast, our Healthcare business in Austria, which is Revenue in our Continent region grew 18% to 226.2 million more stable and has higher margins, grew its revenues.
191.8 million while adjusted operating profit was at at 29.2 million.
At constant currency, revenue grew 1% but adjusted Our business in Holland had a good result with revenue growth of operating profit declined by 14%.
The organic revenue growth 7%, primarily organic, and improved its adjusted operating margin.
delivered by our Dutch, Polish and German Workwear businesses was Holland is a competitive market for us but we captured new sales offset by the expected decline in German Healthcare.
Excluding opportunities whilst retaining our existing customers by investing in German Healthcare, where revenue was 7% lower in local currency, our salesforce and service and by improving their efficiency.
we also invested in clean room capacity to ensure we captured the maximum opportunity in this niche, higher margin part of the Germany remains a key market with revenues of approximately business.
We have a very solid business with a low customer churn 135 million.
The Workwear business, which now represents over rate of below 4%.
25% of total German revenue, continued to develop with top line growth of 5% and with new sales achieving the target level for the 2008 was an outstanding year for our Polish business with revenue of year, including a stronger second half.
Adjusted operating profit almost 17 million, up 30%.
Our new plants in Warsaw and Poznan margins continued to progress.
Further resources were redirected to are operating well and we have opened clean room facilities in the the Workwear business from Healthcare and these added costs are Poznan site, which is the first such facility in Poland to capture this expected to be offset by improvements in the operational efficiency growing opportunity.
We commenced construction of a new plant in of the Workwear business.
This business has a large proportion of Wroclaw, which should be open in April 2009, and we made two catering and food customers, as well as public services, and these bolt-on acquisitions during the year.
Our growth is driven by both the customers are expected to be more stable in the current environment.
high margin Workwear and mat businesses, with mats now Overall, we are pleased with the progress in this part of the business, accounting for over 20% of the total revenue.
which is targeted for longer term growth in a fragmented market.
We established a company in the Czech Republic and completed the As expected the Healthcare business in Germany showed a reduction acquisition of land for a greeneld site for Workwear and Facilities in both revenue and profits.
The adjusted operating margin nished services.
We are building a salesforce, which is already delivering sales the year at 2%, down from 7% in 2007.
The market continued to and a growing order intake, which is being serviced from our plant in operate with excess capacity and during the second half of the year the south of Poland.
We have also established a Slovakian company we reduced further the cost base in operations to align it with the and are in the process of recruiting a salesforce.
lower volume and difficult pricing environment.
As indicated above, Acquisitions in the Continent region totalled 6.7 million.
Maintaining service as a priority Clean room operations in Poland Investing in the working environment in Holland We have opened a clean room at our new in Germany We scrutinise contract losses continually plant in Poznan.
This is the first dedicated Restructuring of the finisher line at our to improve our service standards.
Our Dutch clean room service in Poland and will serve German plant in Frstenwalde, has business carries forward over 96% of its the electronics and pharmaceutical industries significantly shortened textile processing time, contracts from 2008 into 2009: an improvement that have invested in Poland.
increased productivity and considerably on last year and ahead of industry average.
enhanced working conditions for our staff.
