4 Our business Workwear Healthcare Hotels and restaurants Facilities Sales and production Services Services Services Services Services k Managed supply k Managed linen supply k Managed linen supply k Dust control mat supply: k Product design of dedicated garments to hospital ward basic and logo mats and tting k Product innovation to the individual worker k Sterile textiles supply k Washroom cabinet k Production k Workwear supply k Supply, tting, selection to operating theatres and roller towel supply and chefwear k Product sourcing advice k Supply of single use k Washroom supply k Restaurant textile k Retail outlets k Automated dispensing textiles, dressing packs services k Wiper supply solutions and sterile consumables k Decontamination of surgical instruments 33% 29% 19 % 10% 9% Description of our business The development of outsourcing in these countries in markets such as textile maintenance has substantial potential in our view.
In 2008 Our business is predominantly focused on textile maintenance.
we entered these markets by acquisition of mat companies in the We provide service solutions to source, clean and maintain the case of the Baltics and by preparing for a greeneld operation in the textiles that our customers need to keep their operations running, Czech Republic.
but which may be non-core to their activities.
We allow them to free up capital and resources while we leverage our buying power, logistics We intend retaining our market leading position in the UK and Ireland systems and our considerable know-how to provide a more cost by ensuring that we maintain our high standards of operational effective service than their in-house solution.
We acquire and own excellence.
With our mature core service offerings, we seek to develop the textiles and provide these to our customers on service contracts related activities in which our existing customers will appreciate our of varying lengths.
service such as the expansion of our Healthcare franchise into sterile medical consumables clinical solutions and decontamination services.
Our strategy The different service areas of our business offer different opportunities for growth and returns on our investment.
As we look to invest in We believe that by focusing on our core business we are able to and grow our business we generally give priority to the Workwear deliver higher levels of growth at better margins than our competitors.
and Facilities parts of our business, where these opportunities are of We do this by managing our service operations efficiently and by more value to our customers and therefore more profitable to us.
making the resources available to drive our growth strategies using our core areas of expertise.
We believe that it is important to build Geographically we will continue to concentrate on Europe.
market leading positions as this provides scale for our operations and creates the opportunity to win new business at attractive margins Our business objectives and to deliver the benets of bolt-on acquisitions.
Our experienced management teams understand their markets and We are growing the proportion of profits in mainland Europe relative their service operations.
They are commercially focused in order to to the UK as we believe mainland Europe offers greater opportunity in capture the longer term opportunities for organic growth.
Today the majority of our business is in mainland the majority of markets in which we operate are largely mature and Europe.
In order to manage these growth opportunities we have two the outsourced service is generally well established, the opportunities management regions covering mainland Europe: our Nordic region for volume growth and winning of new contracts remain.
and our Continent region, which have separate management teams.
In growing our European business we look to enter new markets, We also continue to innovate and improve our customer service, moving which provide opportunities for growth.
An immediate priority has the focus from product supply to delivering service solutions.
Service been to enter the Baltic region and Central Europe where the new quality is an essential component of both winning and retaining accession countries to the EU should see higher levels of economic contracts with significant benets arising from a stable contract base.
growth over the long term than their Western European counterparts.
5 All our teams are focused on delivering pricing that recovers the Our Clinical Solutions business in the UK has extended the area of increases in our cost base and enables us to invest to support the service we provide to Healthcare customers into decontamination of growth our customers are expecting.
Our business teams continually surgical instruments and provision of sterile consumables.
Both these drive for efficiency and to be the lowest cost provider in their markets, services are based around the operating theatre and together with our using our scale, investment and experience.
We also maintain health and reusable textile service support the theatre staff in efficient preparation safety as a priority and continually seek to reduce the impact of our for surgical procedures.
They also leverage our expertise in logistics business on the environment.
We believe in investing in an experienced management and processing.
management that is capable of managing the detail of our industry.
Hotel and restaurant linen services is the most mature part of the We believe that attractive returns can be delivered from the right business with higher levels of outsourcing than in other segments in opportunities to invest in bolt-on acquisitions where we can leverage the markets in which we operate.
Our hotel and restaurant services our market leading position and scale to deliver higher levels of are limited to four markets, UK, Ireland, Denmark and Sweden.
operational efficiency to the acquisitions that we have made.
In 2008 we also provided hotel linen services in Finland but will cease in 2009 following the sale of this business.
In these markets we are Our enablers able to use our scale to generate the economies that are needed to deliver margins that are acceptable to us.
However, we continue to We have experienced management seek appropriate pricing for our efforts and generally to increase our margins so that we can reinvest in capacity that we believe will be We have market leading positions necessary to meet the long-term growth ambitions of our customers.
We have new market opportunities Our direct sales businesses complement our textile maintenance We generate good cashows and have a sound financial position businesses and focus on specic niches, being garments and personal protection equipment primarily to smaller businesses in Sweden or linens and soft furnishings to hotel customers in the UK.
Our markets We also have specialist manufacturing and procurement operations We discuss below the key drivers in our business segments.
that service our textile maintenance business and seek to capture the benets of low cost supply opportunities.
We benefit in our Workwear divisions from the trend to outsourcing of non-core services and we continue to see, even in our more developed markets, a significant proportion of sales to customers who Our contracts have never previously had a service first time customer.
In our newer We have a diverse contract base across many business segments, markets, for example, Poland, we see much higher levels of first time customer industries and geographies.
In each of our larger markets customers and this is helping drive the higher levels of growth overall.
No contract accounts for more than In all our markets we are targeting new sectors for our service, 1.5% of group revenue.
whether this is to local community services whose staff provide care services to people at home, which has been a growing segment in Contracts in Workwear are typically for three years whereas in the Denmark and Sweden in particular, or in building a clean room facilities part of the business they vary from one to three years.
in Poland to service the electronics or pharmaceutical industries.
In Hotels and Healthcare our customers contract primarily for between As we expand into new countries we will focus on Workwear three and five years or, in the case of surgical decontamination, up to activities, as this part of our business is higher margin.
Nearly all contracts provide for annual cost increases.
In the trends are also important to the growth in this market.
case of Healthcare contracts, this is typically based on agreed external indices.
Our billing of Workwear services is usually at a xed monthly Our Facilities business is also higher margin as we provide a highly amount, whereas in other parts of our rental business we bill for valued service to our customers at relatively low invoiced value.
Density of customer contracts is important to ensure the distribution costs are absorbed over sufficient revenue.
The key markets in which Our most significant supplier contracts are for textiles and utilities.
we provide this service we have more limited operations, for example, Our sourcing strategy has developed in this area in recent years with in the UK are relatively under developed and provide good scope more of our supply direct from manufacturer in low cost country for long-term growth.
This is a sales led business and a higher operations.
In this way we are able to capture more of the scale proportion of first year revenue is taken in sales cost than in other benets of supply across the different countries of the group.
As supply is typically in US dollars we buy currency forward in order to hedge any currency exposures.
Our Healthcare customers benefit by outsourcing the wide range of textiles that it takes to keep a hospital or care facility running.
We also have significant contracts for energy supply into our plants Healthcare customers are seeking to manage the demographics of for gas and electricity.
It is our policy to seek xed term and price an ageing population, pressures on country budgets for healthcare contracts, where appropriate, to cover supply for the financial year.
and the need to maintain rigorous standards of hygiene for infection We also have facility arrangements with our relationship banks.
These are all drivers for outsourcing of non-clinical services More information on these arrangements can be found in note 18 such as textile maintenance.
of the group financial statements on page 74.
