18 Operations review continued UK and Ireland Key performance indicators 2008 2007 Revenue x 10% 22% 54 9, 8 00 Adjusted operating profit x 5% 13% Number of plants Number of people UK Adjusted operating margin x10.0% 10.4% we operate we employ Operational efficiency h 3.4% 0.4% Ireland Major injury rate h 0.42 0.36 Includes Clinical Solutions and Decontamination businesses.
Growth before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts Operating brand and intellectual property rights.
Improvement since 2006. in the UK region Major injury rate Number of major injuries total hours worked x 1,000,000.
Steve Finch, Regional Managing Director Using our experience to manage change Business objectives Achievements in 2008 Priorities in 2009 k Margin improved in core textile k Promptly manage our cost base to the Maintaining maintenance changes in our markets driven by economy operational efficiency k Two plants closed in response k Manage the volume growth in our to downturn in UK Hotel volumes Healthcare division with improving customer service k Operational efficiency in the core textile division improved by 3.4% since 2006 k Integration of Clinical Solutions with k Start up operations on decontamination Delivering on acquisitions existing Sunlight business: strengthening contracts relationships with Healthcare customers k Deliver the pipeline of new contract k Build for two decontamination opportunities in Clinical Solutions contracts underway k Pro-forma sales growth in Clinical Solutions of 7% k Continued enhancement of existing k Continued focus to reduce our accident Maintaining training modules frequency rate health and safety k significant re prevention investments k Sprinkler investment in Coventry as a priority in Merton and Mountain Ash k Additional training programmes on re ghting Workwear Facilities Hotels and restaurants Healthcare Sales and production 19 Our revenue grew by 10% to 401.2 million 366.5 million a significant level of new contracts signed in quarter four of 2008. including 55.4 million 35.6 million from Clinical Solutions and This momentum will be required to offset the potential impact of Decontamination Services which has been reported as a separate lower customer volumes.
Organic revenue growth was 5% at the half year but ended Our Sunlight business has a direct sales business with revenues of the year at 2% because of the lower volumes in the hotel linen 15 million which complements primarily our hotel contract business.
The plants in operation number 54, with 9,800 staff It was signicantly impacted by the economy during the second half in the region.
of the year and we took mitigating actions to reduce costs.
Adjusted operating profit was up 5% to 40.2 million 38.2 million, The Clinical Solutions and Decontamination business has continued including 3.8 million 2.9 million for Clinical Solutions and to make good progress through the year following its integration Decontamination Services.
The core textile maintenance businesses into the group.
The sterile consumables business is generating good in the UK and Ireland have performed solidly, with revenue up 5% contract wins and there is a pipeline of profitable opportunities.
to 345.8 million 330.9 million and adjusted operating profit 3% On a pro forma basis the business grew 7%.
During the year we higher at 36.4 million 35.3 million resulting in a margin of 10.5%, started the construction of the four new decontamination centres for close to the previous year.
the North West London and Kent contracts which are expected to As indicated at the time of the Interim Announcement in August begin operation during the second half of 2009.
Capital expenditure 2008, our Hotel business volumes have reduced and in the second of 7.2 million has been incurred in 2008 with 11 million expected in half they were 5% lower year on year as a result of the economic the first half of 2009.
During 2008 we have seen progress on the NHS downturn.
The London market was particularly affected and has seen tendering of contracts for the National Decontamination Programme a progressive softening in the second half and into 2009.
The driver for outsourcing of decontamination services quickly and closed two plants in response.
We are also redirecting investment to meet regulatory compliance remains strong and we capacity towards the growing hospital volumes.
We took the are committed to the opportunities that this will bring in the longer opportunity of falling energy prices to x and secure a majority of term.
Our priority is to establish our existing contracts where we see our gas supply for 2009 and we will seek in our pricing to recover the opportunity for profitable growth.
cost ination, which has come down from its peak in the summer.
During the year, we paid 7 million of deferred consideration to the Overall the division is reacting well to the challenging economic previous owners of the business on achieving financial close on the environment.
No further deferred Our Healthcare division saw revenue grow at around 10% with profits consideration is payable on this acquisition.
moving ahead as a result of higher volumes and improved pricing.
Our operations in Ireland grew revenue 6% in constant currency The main drivers for this good volume growth were new contract with higher adjusted operating profit margin.
The business has wins from further outsourcing by NHS Trusts and the continued benefited in recent years from a well executed textile management emphasis on cleanliness and hygiene at NHS hospitals, which has programme that has reduced textile investment and depreciation increased underlying volumes on existing contracts by 4%.
The Irish economy, particularly around Dublin, Performance in the Workwear division was stable during the year, has been impacted by the economic downturn but we are well growing revenues and benefiting from the additional contracts placed with good management to meet the challenges that this acquired in 2007.
Opportunities for new sales remain with has brought.
A small acquisition was transacted in Ireland for 1.0 million consideration.
Workwear opportunities Managing textiles efficiently Ozone replacement We continue to see new customers taking Our Spring Grove business in Ireland has Rocialle in the UK provides hospitals with advantage of the benefits of rental over reduced by around 20% its investment sterile custom procedure trays, single-use capital purchase of Workwear.
The final in hotel textiles by more efficient circulation instruments, dressing packs and medical quarter of 2008 was a record for new sales and sorting of textiles across purchasing, consumables.
Their high technology ebeam in our Workwear division.
production, service and maintenance sterilisation process releases ozone back into operations.
