31 Executive directors Chairman I Roger Dye 57 Kevin Quinn 48 Christopher R M Kemball 62 Chief Executive Finance Director Chairman Roger was appointed Finance Director in Kevin was appointed Finance Director in Christopher was appointed to the board in August 2000, subsequently becoming May 2005.
He has previously held senior January 1999 and subsequently became Chief Executive in May 2005.
He has been finance positions within Amersham plc.
non-executive Chairman of the board and an executive director of several public Prior to 1997, Kevin was with the nomination committee in May 2005. companies since 1987, a non-executive , latterly as a He is a Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint director of Nestor Healthcare plc since 2005 partner in its Prague office, having also Partners Limited and also a non-executive and is Chairman of its audit committee.
worked in the USA and France.
director of Scott Wilson Group plc.
Non-executive directors John D Burns 64 # Philip G Rogerson 64 # Ren H Schuster 47 # Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director John was appointed to the board as a Philip was appointed to the board in June Ren was appointed to the board in March non-executive director in 1987.
He is 2004 and became Senior Independent 2007.
Until September 2008 he was CEO, Chief Executive of Derwent London plc, Director and Chairman of the audit UK and Ireland, of Adecco S. A.
He was a consulting partner of Pilcher Hershman committee in May 2005.
He is nonpreviously a non-executive director of & Partners and a former Chairman of the executive Chairman of Aggreko plc, SurfControl plc and was previously in Westminster Property Owners Association.
Carillion plc, Northgate plc and, until senior management positions with February 1998, was Deputy Chairman of significant international responsibilities BG plc formerly British Gas plc having with Vodafone plc, the Hewlett Packard been a director since 1992.
Per H Utnegaard 49 # David A Lawler 45 Non-executive director Company Secretary Key Per was appointed a non-executive David joined the group in 1995 and was Audit committee director of the company in January 2005 appointed Company Secretary in May 2005.
Remuneration committee and Chairman of the remuneration He has previously held senior finance Nomination committee committee in May 2005.
He is currently positions with Thorn EMI plc and KPMG, Member of the executive board President & CEO of Swissport International and has worked extensively outside of the Ltd, previously ran his own consultancy UK including Denmark, Germany, Ireland # Identified by the board as an firm in Switzerland, and prior to that and the USA.
independent director was Wholesale Director of Alliance UniChem plc.
32 Corporate governance statement continued The Chief Executive, Roger Dye, and the Finance Director, Kevin Quinn, ensure that the board is kept fully aware on a timely basis of business issues and prospects throughout the group.
Both are directors of Sunlight Service Group, the holding company of our UK trading businesses, and attend bi-monthly UK Ireland board meetings, as well as having frequent less formal contact with Sunlight board members.
They are also directors of Sophus Berendsen A S, the management company of our Nordic and Continent businesses, and, as well as attending bi-monthly Nordic and Continent board meetings, they regularly attend individual country board meetings, thereby meeting the management teams of each operation.
The key issues raised at these meetings are brought to the attention of the board.
Also, as with the UK Ireland region, frequent less formal contact is maintained with Nordic and Continent board members.
During 2008 the board met senior management teams at both Berendsen and Sunlight.
This was achieved through site visits to Sweden in May 2008 and Leicester, UK in September 2008.
These sessions were comprehensive and gave board members detailed insight into the operations of our businesses, their challenges and opportunities.
These meetings and subsequent follow-up are consistent with the free flow of information and communication between the board and the senior management teams within the group.
Similar sessions have already been scheduled for 2009.
Composition of the board During 2008, consistent with the provisions of the 2006 Combined Code, the board comprised two executive and five non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Their biographies on page 31 reflect a suitable breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
Independence of the board In December 2008, the nomination committee performed a thorough review of the independence of the non-executive directors.
The committee concluded that all the non-executive directors remain independent from management and provide a strong independent element on the board, being free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
To safeguard their independence, directors are not entitled to vote on any matter in which they have a material personal interest unless the directors unanimously decide otherwise and, where necessary, directors are required to absent themselves from a meeting of the board while such a matter is being discussed.
To strengthen the independence of the non-executive directors and to enable them to discuss more freely the performance of the groups executive management, the Chairman meets formally with the non-executive directors at least once each year without the executives being present.
The independence of the directors is further supported by the work of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is the responsibility of the board as a whole.
The Company Secretary, who is also secretary to the audit, nomination and remuneration committees, ensures that board procedures are complied with and provides advice on corporate governance and regulatory compliance.
All directors have unfettered access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure by which directors can, where necessary for the discharge of their duties, obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
John Burns has served on the board for more than nine years and as a result the board has reviewed the extent to which he remains independent.
Following this review the board are of the view that he continues to demonstrate strong independence in character and judgement, and in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board is satisfied that, despite his length of tenure, there is no association with management that could compromise his independence and that therefore he remains independent.
As required by the 2006 Combined Code, the board has determined that any non-executive director who has served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
John Burns will therefore be subject to re-election at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the board has concluded that his performance as non-executive director continues to be effective.
He contributes significantly as a director through his individual skills and his considerable knowledge and experience of the group.
Directors induction and training There is a formal induction programme for all new non-executive directors covering matters such as the operations and activities of the group, the groups key financial and non-financial risks, the role of the board and the matters reserved for its own decision, and the responsibilities of the groups board committees.
The Chairman of the board is also responsible for ensuring that all non-executive directors receive ongoing training in order that they can appropriately perform their duties.
Training needs were discussed at the non-executive directors meeting in November 2008 and, where appropriate, during the annual evaluation of each director.
Each non-executive director has confirmed that in 2008 they have kept themselves properly briefed and informed on current issues.
Board and committee evaluations In the last quarter of 2008 the board carried out a comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and each of its individual directors.
The process was led by the Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
As in previous years, the views of all directors were canvassed in respect of the performance of the board as a whole and of its committees.
Each director was also asked to assess the strengths and weaknesses of his individual contribution to the boards performance.
This year, the board also engaged the services of Lintstock, an independent governance consultancy, to assist in the design and distribution of the questionnaires and to help in the collation and analysis of the results.
33 Amongst other things, the assessment focused on the boards effectiveness in the following areas: Its contribution to the testing and development of group strategy: Its understanding of, and contribution to, the groups risk management: Its ability to directly observe and assess the performance of the business units managing directors: The quality of the relationships between the board and senior management: Its oversight of the risks and opportunities inherent in the management of group subsidiaries: and Its maintenance of a close alignment between shareholders interests and executive remuneration.
This process was then complemented by separate meetings between each director and the Chairman where feedback was discussed.
The evaluation of the Chairman himself was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, through consultation with the other directors and the Chief Executive.
In addition to the exercise described above, the executive directors are evaluated in respect of their executive duties through a separate process whereby the Chairman and the non-executive directors assess the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive assesses the Finance Director and the Executive Board.
The full results of the board evaluation were initially discussed at the non-executive directors meeting in November 2008 and then presented to the board in December 2008.
The directors have concluded that following this comprehensive review, the board and its committees operate effectively and also consider that each director is contributing to the overall effectiveness and success of the group.
Nevertheless, in light of the evaluation, the board has identified a number of areas in which it would like to see further improvement.
These include furthering its knowledge of markets and key customer requirements, encouraging the business units to work more closely together, particularly in procurement, as well as increased focus on risk management in the current economic climate.
Attendance at board and committee meetings The board requires all directors to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, and board visits to Sweden and Leicester, the board met ten times during 2008.
One of these meetings was the strategy review meeting during October 2008.
In addition, as referred to above, the non-executive directors met without the executive directors in November 2008.
The three principal committees of the board are the remuneration committee, the audit committee and the nomination committee.
The terms of reference of these committees are set by the board and are available for inspection either on our company website www.
co. uk, or upon request from the Company Secretary.
The membership of these committees, details of which are set out on page 31, is in compliance with the provisions of the 2006 Combined Code.
The attendance of all individual directors at board and committee meetings for the year ended 31st December 2008 is detailed below.
Board and committee meetings members attendance Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended Executive directors I R Dye 10 10 2 2 K Quinn 10 10 Non-executive directors C R M Kemball 10 10 6 6 2 2 J D Burns 10 10 2 2 P G Rogerson 10 10 3 3 6 6 2 2 R H Schuster 10 10 3 2 6 6 2 2 P H Utnegaard 10 10 3 3 6 6 2 2 Excluding non-executive directors meeting and site visits.
Role of the executive board July 2007 saw the establishment of a group level executive board.
This board sits at the apex of managerial decision-making within the company.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The other members are the Finance Director, the three Regional Managing Directors and the Company Secretary.
It has met formally four times during 2008, in addition to regular ad hoc communication between members.
The executive board members have collective responsibility for running the groups business.
They develop the groups strategy and budget for board approval and monitor the financial, operational and service performance of the whole group.
They review the groups risk register, allocate resources across the group within plans agreed by the board, plan and have started to produce major cross-business programmes, development plans for the senior talent base and succession plans for the group.
34 Corporate governance statement continued In December 2008, with the assistance of Lintstock, a critical review of the executive boards performance was carried out, the results of which were discussed at the meeting of the full board on 25th February 2009.
Report of the audit committee Composition The committee met three times during 2008.
The committee comprised Philip Rogerson committee Chairman, Ren Schuster and Per Utnegaard.
All members of the committee are non-executive directors and are considered by the board to be independent.
The Finance Director, the group Internal Audit Manager and representatives from the external auditors attend each meeting at the request of the committee Chairman.
At least once each year, the committee meets with the external auditors without executive management present.
From time to time, the committee Chairman also meets in private session with the group Internal Audit Manager without any other member of management being present.
The board considers that the committee Chairman has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge the committees duties.
In particular, Philip Rogerson is a Chartered Accountant and from 1992 to 1998 he was the Finance Director and then the Deputy Chairman of BG plc.
Role and authority The committees principal function is to enable the board to monitor the integrity of the groups financial reports and its system of internal controls: to monitor the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: and to manage the relationship with the groups external auditors.
The committees terms of reference were reviewed and approved by the board on 26th August 2008 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
Activities in 2008 During the last 12 months the committee: monitored the integrity of the companys financial statements and 2008 preliminary and interim announcements, having reviewed the significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in them: kept under review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management systems: monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: approved the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors, assessed their independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of audit processes: required that, with the exception of tax services, the committee pre-approved all non-audit services to be performed by the groups external auditors that exceeded pre-set thresholds.
In most instances, the individual threshold for any non-audit services is 50,000.
Other external accounting firms may be used for larger, non-audit services, including taxation and consultancy advice and due diligence in relation to significant acquisitions: reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements in place for staff to raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters and, where required, ensuring independent investigation.
reviewed the revised Financial Reporting Council Guidance to Audit Committees.
The committee Chairman reports on each committee meeting at the following board meeting.
Report of the remuneration committee Full details of the committees composition, role, authority and activities are set out in the report on directors remuneration on pages 3640, which will be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 28th April 2009.
Report of the nomination committee Composition The committee met twice during 2008 and comprised Christopher Kemball committee Chairman, Philip Rogerson, Ren Schuster, Per Utnegaard, John Burns and Roger Dye.
Four of the six members of the committee are regarded by the board as independent.
Role and Authority The committee is responsible for board succession planning and makes recommendations to the board on the appointment and reappointment of all directors.
It also keeps under review the succession planning for senior executives.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee were updated and approved by the board on 26th August 2008 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
In June 2008 the nomination committee devoted a considerable amount of time to succession planning, management career planning and training.
This was initiated by the Chief Executive presenting a detailed paper on each senior management position within the group and succession plans for each position.
Further work is now being undertaken on career planning and training.
During the year the committee has also: evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board: assessed thoroughly the extent to which current non-executive directors remain independent and, in particular, the independence of John Burns who has served on the board for more than nine years: and considered the membership of the boards committees.
35 Combined Code compliance statement Throughout the year ended 31st December 2008 the company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Overview of systems of internal control and risk management The board has responsibility for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These systems of internal control are regularly reviewed by the board.
The key elements of the existing systems of internal control, which accord with the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005, and which operated throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, are as follows: Open culture The board considers that the group operates a risk-aware culture with an open style of communication.
This facilitates the early identification of problems and issues, so that appropriate action is quickly taken to minimise any impact on the business.
Ongoing process for risk identification, evaluation and management There is an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and management of the most significant risks faced by the group.
This process includes the following: a defined organisation structure with appropriate delegation of authority: formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for the maintenance of good financial controls and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management information: a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes a rolling three-year planning process, an annual budget approved by the board, review of monthly variances against budget and quarterly forecasting of annual performance: provision to management and the board of relevant, accurate and timely information including relevant key performance indicators, based on reliable management information systems which are continually being improved and updated: monthly reports to the board from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other members of the executive board, which includes the managing directors of the Nordic, Continent and UK Ireland regions: regular business unit management board meetings periodically attended by the Chief Executive or Finance Director, executive board and company board meetings at which existing, new and evolving operational, financial and other risks are discussed, and appropriate actions to manage risks are discussed, agreed and followed up: discussion of any significant issues or control weaknesses identified at these meetings and, if considered necessary, their inclusion in reports to the executive board and company board: the maintenance of business unit risk registers: the maintenance of a Group Risk Register which sets out the most significant risks facing the group and the actions being taken in mitigation, regularly updated and reviewed by the board, and summarised in the Business review on pages 2325: and a structured and approved programme of internal audit visits with the implementation of recommendations made being monitored as part of a continuous programme of improvement.
In April 2008 the board took the opportunity to review responsibilities for the identification of the most significant risks facing the group.
Following this review updated instructions were distributed to both the executive board and business unit management.
Following their acquisition in the early part of 2008, management has worked to bring the standards of internal control and risk management in its Baltic subsidiaries up to a standard comparable with those elsewhere in the group.
We are strengthening our management team in Germany and with the ongoing restructuring we will be taking the opportunity during 2009 to refresh the local systems and procedures for the identification, evaluation and management of risks.
Whistleblowing The group has a system by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
During 2008 the system was operational throughout the group in 15 countries, with the exception of the newly acquired Baltic businesses, where the system was implemented in the final quarter of 2008.
Due to the diversity of our workforce the system operates in 25 languages.
Procedures are in place to ensure issues raised are addressed in a confidential manner.
The Company Secretary is required to report to the audit committee biannually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2008 calls were received from eight individuals and appropriately responded to.
Annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of internal control The board and audit committee requested, received and reviewed reports from executive and senior management, its advisers, group internal audit and our external auditors, in order to assist the board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal controls.
Through the ongoing processes outlined above, areas for improvement in internal controls are continuously identified and action plans are devised.
Progress towards completion of actions is regularly monitored by management and the board.
The board considers that none of the areas of improvement identified constitute a significant failing or weakness.
The board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 26th February 2009
