Report of the Directors The Directors present the report and accounts of the group for Investment Policy the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with Results and Dividends the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
Company has paid interim dividends in the year ended As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually delegated the 31 December 2008 as follows: management of the property portfolio, and other services, to Payment date Rate per share Ignis Investment Services Ltd, the Managers.
"Sixth interim for Investment risks are spread through the Company and its prior period Feb 2008 1.3125p subsidiaries the ""Group"" investing in a diversified portfolio of freehold and long leasehold over 60 years remaining at the First interim May 2008 1.3125p time of acquisition UK commercial properties."
The Group Second interim August 2008 1.3125p intends to invest in income producing investments.
The Group Third interim November 2008 1.3125p will principally invest in three commercial property sectors: office, retail and industrial.
The Group has not set any maximum geographic exposures within the UK nor any maximum It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay dividends as weighting limits in the principal property sectors.
The Directors do not therefore recommend a final dividend.
A fourth interim dividend of 1.3125p was paid The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of on 27 February 2009 to shareholders on the register on its total assets in indirect property funds including in other listed 13 February 2009. investment companies.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, Principal Activity and Status in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
The Company is a Guernsey company and during the year Gearing, calculated as borrowings as a percentage of the carried on business as a property investment company.
Group's gross assets, may not exceed 65 per cent.
It is the Listing Requirements Boards current intention that borrowings will be limited to a maximum of 10 per cent.
of the Groups net assets at the time Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to of borrowings.
The Board receives recommendations on gearing continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property levels from the Managers and is responsible for setting the investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
gearing range within which the Managers may operate.
There is no gearing within the Company.
Business Review The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship As stated in the 20 June 2008 Stock Exchange Announcement, of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, the Company has an 80 million seven year term loan facility corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk with Lloyds Banking Group currently in place.
This facility has not management.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom yet been utilised to date.
are non-executive, can be found on page 14.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives a detailed presentation from the Managers together with a comprehensive analysis of the performance of the Company and compliance with the investment restrictions during the reporting period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested as at 31 December 2008 is contained within the Managers Review on pages 8 to 11 and a full portfolio listing is provided on page 13.
The Companys performance in meeting its objectives is measured against key performance indicators as set out on page 16.
A review of the Companys returns during the year, the position of the Company at the end of the year, and the outlook for the coming year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 15 Report of the Directors Continued Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties Management of Assets and Shareholder Value The Companys assets consist of direct investments in UK As stated above, the Board has contractually delegated the commercial property.
Its principal risks are therefore related to management of the investment portfolio to Ignis Investment the commercial property market in general, but also the Services Ltd. particular circumstances of the properties in which it is invested The Company invests in properties which the Managers believe and their tenants.
More detailed explanations of these risks and will generate a combination of long-term growth in income and the way in which they are managed are contained under the capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based on headings of credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future capital 15 to the accounts.
The Managers also seek to mitigate these growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant risks through continual review of the portfolio, active asset strength, lease length and initial yield.
management initiatives, and carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants before entering into new lease agreements.
All Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties to low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at Other risks faced by the Company include the following: 31 December 2008 is contained on page 13 and further Economic - inflation or deflation, economic recessions and analysis can be found in the Managers Review.
At each Board movements in interest rates could affect property valuations.
meeting, the Board receives a detailed presentation from the Managers together with a comprehensive analysis of the Strategic - incorrect strategy, including sector and property performance of the portfolio during the reporting period.
allocation and use of possible gearing, could all lead to poor returns for shareholders.
The Board and the Managers recognise the importance of managing the discount of share price to net asset value in Regulatory - breach of regulatory rules could lead to enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, marketing and, to this end, the Managers meet with current and financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
potential new shareholders, and with stock broking analysts who cover the investment company sector, on a regular basis.
In Management and control - changes that cause the addition, communication of quarterly portfolio information is management and control of the Company to be exercised in provided through the Companys website.
the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital Key Performance Indicators gains.
The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the Financial - inadequate controls by the Managers or third Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key party service providers could lead to misappropriation of performance indicators are as follows: assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply Net asset value total return against the Investment Property with accounting standards could lead to misreporting or Databank Balanced Monthly and Quarterly Funds Index.
Discount of share price to net asset value.
Operational - failure of the Managers accounting systems or disruption to the Managers business, or that of third party Dividend per share and dividend yield.
service providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss of Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2008 are set The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through out on pages 3 and 4. continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Companys property portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the Turnbull Guidance.
Details of the Companys internal controls are described in more detail on page 19.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 16 There are no service contracts in existence between the Directors Company and any Directors but each of the Directors was The Directors who held office during the period and their appointed by a letter of appointment which sets out the main interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2008 terms of his appointment.
The letters of appointment of the all of which beneficial were: Directors are available for inspection at the Companys As at 31 December 2008 registered office during business hours and for fifteen minutes 25p Ordinary Shares held prior to the Annual General Meeting and at the meeting itself.
Christopher Hill 20,000 Management Keith Dorrian 10,000 Ignis Investment Services Limited provides management services to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the Christopher Fish 10,000 Company and Ignis Investment Services Limited in respect of John Robertson 10,000 management services provided is given in note 2 to the Andrew Wilson 20,000 accounts.
The Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, have considered There have been no changes in the above interests between the investment performance of the Company and the capability 31 December 2008 and 27 March 2009. and resources of the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment performance.
They also considered the length of the notice The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property period of the investment management contract and the fees Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property GP Limited, the payable to the Managers, together with the standard of the Companys wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
The Directors received the following emoluments in the form of Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the fees: continuing appointment of the Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole due to the strength Year to and quality of the management team and the Managers 31 December 2008 commitment to the sector.
Christopher Hill 25,000 Substantial Interests in Share Capital Keith Dorrian 20,000 At 27 March 2009 the following holdings, representing more Christopher Fish 20,000 than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, had been John Robertson 20,000 notified to the Company.
Andrew Wilson 20,000 Number of The Directors are remunerated for their services at such rate as Ordinary Shares Percentage the Directors shall determine provided that the aggregate Held 000s Held amount of such fees shall not exceed 150,000 per annum.
Phoenix Life Limited 303,805 36.2% The fees will be reviewed annually and may be increased in line with usual market rates.
Mr Robertsons directors fees are Phoenix and London payable to his employer Ignis Investment Services Limited.
Assurance Limited 266,613 31.8% In accordance with the articles of association of the Company Nortrust Nominees 35,842 4.3% each of Mr C Hill, Mr K Dorrian, Mr C Fish, Mr J Robertson and Mr A Wilson retired by rotation and, being eligible, offered Waterhouse Nominees 30,789 3.7% themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting held State Street Nominees 27,209 3.2% on 14 March 2008.
Each of the Directors was duly re-elected at the Annual General Meeting.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 17 Report of the Directors Continued The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
A Corporate Governance management agreement between the Company and its Guernsey does not have its own corporate governance code Managers, Ignis Investment Services Limited, sets out the and, as a Guernsey registered company, the Company is not matters over which the Managers have authority and the limits required to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters, Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing, 2006 the Code.
However, it is the Companys policy to and corporate governance procedures, are reserved for the comply with best practice on corporate governance that is approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets at applicable to investment companies.
least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys Arrangements in respect of corporate governance have investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant therefore been made by the Board, which it believes are information in advance of Board meetings.
Except as disclosed in the The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Christopher Fish, operates following paragraph, the Company complied throughout the within clearly defined written terms of reference which are period with the provisions of the Code.
Since all the Directors available on request and comprises all of the Directors other are non-executive, the provisions of the Code in respect of than Mr John Robertson.
The duties of the Audit Committee in Directors remuneration are not relevant to the Company, discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and except in so far as they relate to non-executive Directors.
Interim Accounts: the system of internal controls: and the terms Consequently there is no requirement for a separate of appointment of the auditors together with their Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are considered by the remuneration.
It is also the forum through which the auditors Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
report to the Board of Directors and meets at least once a year.
In view of its non-executive nature and the requirement of the The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Articles of Association that all Directors retire by rotation at least Committee which also reviews the terms under which the every three years, the Board considers that it is not appropriate external auditors are appointed to perform non-audit services.
for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term as The objectivity and independence of the auditors is safeguarded recommended by provision A.
7.2 of the Code, nor for a Senior by obtaining assurances from the auditors that adequate Independent Director to be appointed as recommended by policies and procedures exist within its firm to ensure the firm provision A.
and its staff are independent of the Company by reason of family, finance, employment, investment and business The board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which Mr relationships other than in the normal course of the business Christopher Hill is Chairman.
All Directors, other than Mr John and enforcing a policy concerning the provision of non-audit Robertson are considered by the Board to be independent of services by the auditors which governs the types of work from the Companys Managers.
New Directors receive an induction which the additions are excluded.
The Committee reviews the from the Managers and Secretary on joining the Board, and all scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to 29,231 2007:371,670 for the year ended 31 December 2008 and related principally to taxation services.
The 2007 fees mainly related to the launch of the Group and two share issues, 352,000 of which was charged against the Share Premium Account.
Notwithstanding such services, the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent of the Company.
Director Meetings Attendance Summary Board of Directors Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 4 4 3 2 2 2 K Dorrian 4 4 3 3 2 2 C Fish 4 4 3 3 2 2 J Robertson 4 4 n a n a n a n a A Wilson 4 4 3 3 2 2 The table above sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the year and the number attended by each Director.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 18 The Management Engagement Committee comprises the full Internal Controls Board other than Mr John Robertson and reviews the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal appropriateness of the Managers continuing appointment control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has together with the terms and conditions thereof on a regular therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the basis.
particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with the guidance issued by the During the period the performance of the Board, committees Financial Reporting Council in October 2005. and individual Directors were evaluated through an assessment process, led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the was evaluated by the other Directors.
There have been no period and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the Directors appointed during the year.
Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, independent professional advice on any matter that concerns assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains meeting the Board monitors the investment performance of the appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Company in comparison to its stated objective and against comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the Companys Going Concern activities since the previous Board meeting to ensure that the After making enquiries, and bearing in mind the nature of the Managers adhere to the agreed investment policy and approved Companys business and assets, the Directors consider that the investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to Company has adequate resources to continue in operational such policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, existence for the foreseeable future.
the Board receives reports from the Secretary in respect of compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of the As noted in the Chairmans Statement the Company will almost Company.
certainly be required to convene an EGM to consider a Continuation Resolution in accordance with the terms of the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
launch prospectus as the shares will have traded at a discount of The Board has decided that the systems and procedures greater than 5 per cent for 90 continuous days from the employed by the Investment Managers and the Secretary, anniversary of the last vote in December 2007.
As the major including their internal audit functions and the work carried out shareholder has currently indicated that they intend to vote in by the Companys external auditors, provide sufficient assurance favour of any continuation vote required, the Board has that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards incorporated this indication into its going concern review shareholders investments and the Companys assets, is process.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
For these reasons, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Relations with Shareholders The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places Environmental Policy great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The The Managers acquire, develop and manage properties on Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these activities the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet have both direct and indirect environmental impacts.
The Board shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting of the has endorsed the Managers own environmental policy, which is Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for to work in partnership with contractors, suppliers, tenants and shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and consultants to minimise those impacts, seeking continuous Managers of the Company.
improvements in environmental performance and conducting regular interviews.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 19 Report of the Directors Continued extraordinary general meeting EGM which was held on Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares 19 December 2007.
In the event that such discount is more The Company did not purchase any shares to be held in treasury than 5 per cent, for 90 dealing days or more, the Directors will during the year.
convene an extraordinary general meeting to be held within The Directors current authority to buy back up to 14.99 per three months to consider an ordinary resolution for the cent of the Companys Ordinary Shares in issue as at 14 March continuation of the Company.
1 May 2009 is the first date for 2008, 867,126,287 Ordinary shares expires on 14 June 2009. deciding whether another continuation vote is required, with The Directors will seek annual renewal of this authority from the latest date for holding this EGM being 1 August 2009.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made Given the current discount levels and the market outlook, it is subject to Guernsey law and within guidelines established from unlikely that the discount will fall below 5 per cent and an EGM time to time by the Board which will take into account the will therefore be required.
income and cash flow requirements of the Company and in accordance with the statement in relation to share buy backs in On 17 March 2009, the Company bought back 28,571,429 of the Companys prospectus.
The making and timing of any buy its own Ordinary Shares of 25p at a price of 52.5p per share.
backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
This represents a discount of 24.8 percent to the year end NAV per share.
These shares will be held in treasury.
Following this Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the purchase the Companys issued share capital consists of market for cash at prices below the prevailing published net 880,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 25p of which 41,445,142 are asset value of an Ordinary Share as last calculated where the held in treasury.
The total number of shares with voting rights in Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder the Company is 838,554,858. value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price Auditors to be paid must not be more than five per cent above the Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their for the five business days before the purchase is made.
re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General The Company may retain any shares bought back as treasury Meeting.
shares for future re-issue and re-sale or transfer or may cancel So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant any such shares.
During the period when the Company holds audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, shares as treasury shares, the rights and obligations in respect of and each has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a those shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit Company.
The maximum number of shares that can be held as information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is treasury shares by the Company is 10 per cent, of the aggregate aware of that information.
nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held as treasury shares will only be re-issued, re-sold or transferred at Approved by the Board on 27 March 2009. prices which are not less than the published net asset value of an Ordinary Share.
It is the intention of the Directors that the share buy back Christopher M. W. Hill authority will be used to purchase Ordinary Shares subject to Director the income and cash flow requirements of the Company if the share price of an ordinary share is more than 5 per cent, below the published net asset value for a continuous period of 90 Keith Dorrian dealing days or more, following the first anniversary of the Director UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 20
