Company Summary The Company The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner of the GLP.
The limited partnerships principal business is that of an UK Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is a investment and property entity.
closed ended, Guernsey registered investment company which was launched on 22 September 2006.
Objectives The Company has a single class of share in issue, which is listed The investment objective of the Company is to provide Ordinary on the official list and traded on the London Stock Exchange, Shareholders with an attractive level of income together with and currently has no borrowing.
the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified portfolio of UK commercial properties.
The The Company has an indefinite life and was incorporated on investment policy of the Company is set out on page 15.
Management The Group Ignis Investment Services Limited are the Investment Managers The Group consists of the Company, its two wholly owned of the Group.
On 17 November 2008 Resolution Investment subsidiaries, and a limited partnership.
Services Limited changed its name to Ignis Investment Services Limited, as a result of its parent Resolution plc being acquired by Both subsidiaries, UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited Pearl Group Limited in May 2008.
UKCPH and UK Commercial Property GP Limited the GP, are incorporated in Guernsey and their principal businesses are Further details of the management contract are provided in the that of an investment and property company.
The limited partnership, UKCPT Limited Partnership, the GLP ISA Status is a Guernsey limited partnership.
UK Commercial Property The Companys shares are eligible for ISA investment.
Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property GP Limited have a partnership interest of 98.99 and 1 per cent respectively in Website this entity.
The remaining 0.01 per cent partnership interest is held by The Droit Purpose Trust, which is a Jersey purpose trust.
The Companys website address is: www.
co. uk 6 Arlington St, London, SW1A 1RE UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 2
