Investment Management Team As a result of Resolution plc being acquired by Pearl Group Limited in May 2008, Resolution Investment Services Limited changed its name to Ignis Investment Services Limited on 17 November 2008.
Ignis Investment Services Limited is a leading asset manager and currently has approximately 48 billion of assets under management.
Ignis has a long history of managing commercial property and over the years has built up a high level of knowledge and experience in this asset class.
Ignis Investment Services has the advantage of a strong and well-resourced team that is dedicated to searching out value actively in the property sector.
The team manages a number of property portfolios, totalling around 2 billion.
ROBERT BOAG BSc MRICS Investment SHEILA MILLER MA Hons MSc MRICS Manager Property Asset Manager Property Investment Experience: 23 years Property Market Experience: 12 years Robert, who co-manages the Company with Sheila graduated from the University of Gary, graduated from the University of Paisley in Glasgow in 1996 with a Master of Arts 1986 with a degree in Land Economics.
In honours degree in English Literature and 1987 he became a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Media Studies.
She then went on to study at University of Paisley Surveyors.
He has several years experience operating as property where she obtained an MSc in Urban Property Appraisal in 1997. asset investment manager throughout the UK with Scottish Sheila has worked since 1997 with the retail & professional Metropolitan and Haslemere Estates.
He joined Ignis Investment departments at Jones Lang Lasalle and DTZ Debenham Tie Leung.
Sheila joined Ignis Asset Management in 2007.
She is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors since 1999.
GARY HUTCHESON BSc Dip Prop Inv.
MRICS Investment Director Property RHONA MCCRANOR BSc Hons MRICS Investment Experience: 26 years Asset Manager Property Gary, who is a co-manager of the Company, Property Market Experience: 11 years graduated from the University of Paisley in 1983 with a degree in Land Economics qualifying as a Rhona graduated from the University of Glasgow Chartered Surveyor in 1984.
He obtained considerable in 1994 with a BSc Hons in Geography, experience in retail property development and investment with followed by a Post Graduate Diploma at Norwich Union and Bredero Properties plc.
He joined Ignis Strathclyde Business School in Urban Development in 1995.
Since Investment Services Limited in October 1991 and gained his postthen Rhona has worked in the professional departments at CBRE, graduate Diploma in Property Investment from Reading University Donaldsons and Lambert Smith Hampton.
She became a member in 1996. of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors in 2000.
Rhona joined Ignis Asset Management in 2008.
9 Colmore Row, Birmingham B3 2BJ UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 7
