GOVerNANce bOArd Of dIrectOrS 28 bOArd Of dIrectOrS execUtIVe cOMMIttee VIctOrIA MItchell, 57 dAVId hOwell fcA, 59 A W Pidgley Chairman, A Carey, G J Fry, Appointed a Non-executive Director on Appointed a Non-executive Director and R C Perrins 1 May 2002 and became Group Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee on on 1 August 2007.
He is currently Executive reMUNerAtION cOMMIttee Director of Savills Limited, she was previously Chairman of Western and Oriental plc and A C Coppin Chairman, V M Mitchell, an Executive Director of Savills plc.
She is also Chairman of EBTM plc Everything J A Armitt currently a Non-executive Director of The but the Music having previously been a Golding Properties Group South Africa, Main Board Director of lastminute.
com AUdIt cOMMIttee Development Securities plc, a Trustee of The plc, Group Finance Director of First Choice D Howell Chairman, A Coppin, Landmark Trust and previously a Member Holidays plc and a Non-executive Director V M Mitchell by invitation of the ING REIM Advisory Board.
In June of Nestor Healthcare Group plc.
David 2008 Victoria was appointed as a Nonbecame the Senior Independent Director on NOMINAtION cOMMIttee executive Director of London First.
Victoria 5 September 2007 and is also a member of the V M Mitchell Chairman, D Howell, chairs the Nomination Committee and is a Nomination Committee.
J A Armitt member of the Remuneration Committee.
AlAN cOPPIN, 58 hONOrAry lIfe PreSIdeNt tONy PIdGley, 60 Appointed a Non-executive Director on Jim Farrer MRICS, 77 Co-founder of the Company in 1976 with 1 September 2006.
He is currently a NonAlong with Tony Pidgley a co-founder of the Jim Farrer.
He is the Group Managing Director executive Director of Capital and Regional Company, he was Group Chairman until and Chairman of the Executive Committee.
plc, Non-executive Chairman of Redstone his retirement in 1992.
At that time he was plc and Non-executive Director of Air appointed Honorary Life President.
rOb PerrINS bSc hONS AcA, 43 Command Royal Air Force.
Joined the Company in 1994 having qualified Chairman of The Princes Foundation for the cOMPANy SecretAry as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young Built Environment.
Alan is Chairman of the A Dadd in 1991.
He was appointed to the Group Main Remuneration Committee and a member Board on 1 May 2001 on becoming Managing of the Audit Committee.
Director of Berkeley Homes plc, moving to his current role as Group Finance Director on jOhN ArMItt, 62 2 November 2001.
He is also a member of the Appointed a Non-executive Director on Executive Committee.
He is currently Chairman of the Olympic Delivery Authority and Chairman tONy cArey bSc frIcS, 60 of the Engineering and Physical Science Joined St George PLC in 1987 and was Research Council.
From 2001 to 2007 he appointed Managing Director of that division in was Chief Executive of Network Rail and its 1990.
He joined the Group Main Board in 1993 predecessor, Railtrack.
He was previously and is a member of the Executive Committee.
Chief Executive of Costain and Union Railways.
John is a member of the Remuneration and GreG fry AcA, 51 Nomination Committees.
Joined the Company in 1982 and has been a Director of St George PLC from its inception in 1986.
He is currently Chairman of the Divisions three principal operating companies.
He was appointed to the Group Main Board with effect from 1 May 1996 and is a member of the Executive Committee.
29 David Howell Alan Coppin Greg Fry Tony Carey John Armitt Victoria Mitchell Tony Pidgley Rob Perrins GOVerNANce
