Governance Directors report 30 Directors report The Directors submit their report together with the financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2008.
Principal activities and review of the business The Company is a UK listed holding company of a wider group engaged in residential and commercial property development focusing on urban regeneration and mixed-use developments.
The Company is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and is quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 4, the Managing Directors review on pages 6 to 14, which provides more detailed commentaries on the business during the year together with the outlook for the future, the Finance Directors review on pages 16 to 20 and the Environmental and Social Responsibility report on pages 22 to 26.
In addition, information in respect of the financial risks of the business is set out in the Finance Directors review on page 20.
Trading results and dividends The Groups consolidated profit for the financial year was 137,827,000 2007: 135,545,000.
The Groups joint ventures contributed losses after taxation of 2,416,000 2007: profits of 6,798,000.
No dividends were declared or paid in the financial year.
Share capital At the Extraordinary General Meeting of The Berkeley Group plc on 17 September 2004, shareholders approved the Court Approved Scheme of Arrangement which resulted in a new listed holding company being created, The Berkeley Group Holdings plc.
The Scheme became effective on 26 October 2004 and the Company became the holding company of The Berkeley Group plc.
Under the Scheme of Arrangement all shareholders of The Berkeley Group plc, at the effective date, received Units in The Berkeley Group Holdings plc each comprising one Ordinary Share, one 2004 B share, one 2006 B share, one 2008 B share and one 2010 B share, hereafter referred to as Units.
During the financial year ended 30 April 2008 the Company redeemed 120,820,642 2008 B Shares at 2 per share for a total cost of 241,641,284.
The Company redeemed 120,820,642 2006 B shares during the financial year ended 30 April 2007 at a total cost of 241,641,284.
The Company had previously redeemed 120,820,642 2004 B shares at 5 per share in the year ended 30 April 2005.
The Company had 120,820,642 Units in issue at 30 April 2008 and 30 April 2007.
Movements in the Companys share capital are shown in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.
Of the 10% authority given at the 2006 Annual General Meeting, no share purchases have been made.
Authority will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew the 10% authority for a further year.
Information on the Groups share option schemes is set out in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of the Long Term Incentive Schemes and Long Term Incentive Plans for key executives are set out in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 33 and 41.
Directors The Directors of the Company and their profiles are detailed on pages 28 and 29.
All of the Directors served throughout the year under review with the exception of Mr Roger Lewis who retired from the Board at the end of July 2007, Mr Tony Palmer who retired on 5 September 2007 and Mr John Armitt who was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007.
Mr Mike Tanner announced his resignation from the Board after the year end on 27 June 2008.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Mrs Victoria Mitchell will retire from the Board by rotation and, being eligible, offer herself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr John Armitt, having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, retires from the Board under the terms of the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the Remuneration Committee report on page 41.
At 30 April 2008 each of the Executive Directors were deemed to have a non-beneficial interest in 80,435 2007: 393,836 Units held by the Trustees of The Berkeley Group Employee Benefit Trust.
There were no contracts of significance during, or at the end of, the financial year in which a Director of the Company is, or was, materially interested, other than those set out in Note 26 to the financial statements, the contracts of employment of the Executive Directors, which are terminable within one year, and the appointment terms of the Non-executive Directors, which are renewable annually and terminable on one months notice.
Directors indemnities The Companys practice has always been to indemnify its Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law, in respect of all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities, which they may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the Company, or any entity which is an associated company as defined in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by the Directors on behalf of the Company or any such associated company.
31 Substantial shareholders The Company has been notified of the following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules amounting to 3% or more of the issued capital of the Company, as at 11 July 2008: Number of Units held % of issued capital Nature of holding Saad Investments Company Limited, Mr Al-Sanea, Lombard Atlantic Bank N. V. Awal Bank B. S. C and Saad Investments Finance Co No.
3 Ltd 35,525,000 29.40% Direct Lloyds TSB Group plc 12,094,148 10.01% Indirect Egerton Capital Ltd 6,185,622 5.12% Direct Mirabaud Investment Management Ltd 6,136,874 5.08% Indirect Credit Suisse Securities Europe Ltd 4,941,345 4.09% Direct Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 4,878,419 4.04% Direct Deutsche Bank AG 4,870,011 4.03% Direct Donations During the year, donations by the Group for charitable purposes in the United Kingdom amounted to 268,286 2007: 171,973.
The Group made no political contributions 2007: nil during the year.
Employment policy The Groups policy of operating through autonomous subsidiaries has ensured close consultation with employees on matters likely to affect their interests.
The Group is firmly committed to the continuation and strengthening of communication lines with all its employees.
An Equal Opportunities Policy was introduced in 2001 with the aim of ensuring that all employees, potential employees and other individuals receive equal treatment including access to employment, training and opportunity for promotion regardless of their age, colour, ethnic or national origin, marital status, nationality, religion, race, sex or sexuality.
It is the policy of the Group to support the employment of people with disabilities wherever practicable and to ensure, as far as possible, that training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees.
This policy includes employees who become disabled whilst employed by the Group.
Sustainability Each year Berkeley has evolved its approach to reporting to ensure that it gives the clearest possible portrait of how its sustainability strategy and policies are put into practice throughout the Group.
This year, in its seventh annual Sustainability Report, Berkeley has sought to apply the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Sustainability Reporting Principles in order to give a balanced and relevant account of its sustainability performance.
This approach has allowed Berkeley to focus on what it considers to be the most significant or material issues to the business and how it is managing and responding to them.
The report is structured around the environmental, economic and social dimensions of sustainability under which performance against each relevant material issue is highlighted.
Case studies on a number of our urban regeneration schemes and commentary from a wide range of stakeholders has been used to contextualise progress.
The report also provides detailed reporting against Key Performance Indicators and our targets for 2008 09.
For further information, please refer to Berkeleys seventh annual Sustainability Report on its website.
Health and safety The Group considers the effective management of health and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
Accordingly, the Group Main Board continues to monitor the strategic development and audit the implementation by all divisions of their Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems to ensure that, both at Group and divisional level, they remain compliant with recognised established standards.
We remain committed to enhancing the Groups high standards through continuous improvement.
Our Health and Safety Working Group, comprising divisional Executives and managers, continues to review progress against targets set for our established key performance indicators and reports this quarterly to the Group Main Board.
For further information, please refer to the Environmental and Social Responsibility report on page 26.
In our recently published Sustainability Report 2008, we have reported in more detail on progress made and initiatives taken since last year.
Payment of creditors Each of the Groups operating companies is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions, including terms of payment, relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to abide by the agreed terms of payment where the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
At 30 April 2008, the Company did not have any trade creditors 2007: nil.
Governance Governance Directors report 32 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Takeover Directive Agreements Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to disclose whether there are any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Change of control provisions are included as standard in many types of commercial agreement, notably bank facility agreements and joint venture shareholder agreements, for the protection of both parties.
Such standard terms are included in Berkeleys bank facility agreement which contains provisions that give the banks certain rights upon a change of control of the Company.
Similarly, in certain circumstances, a change of control may give Berkeleys joint venture partners, Prudential Assurance Company Limited and Saad Investments Company Limited the ability to exercise certain rights under the shareholder agreements in relation to its St Edward Homes and Saad Berkeley joint ventures, respectively.
In addition, the Companys share schemes contain provisions which take effect upon change of control.
These do not entitle the participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than that created by the initial grant of the award.
The Company does not have any arrangements with any Director that provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The remaining information required to be disclosed under the Takeover Directive can be found within Notes 5 and 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held at the Woodlands Park Hotel, Woodlands Lane, Stoke DAbernon, Cobham, Surrey KT11 3QB at 11.00am on Thursday 28 August 2008.
The Notice of Meeting, which is contained in a separate letter from the Group Chairman accompanying this report, includes a commentary on the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board r c perrins Director 17 July 2008
