bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 06 MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew beNefItING frOM OUr cleAr StrAteGy I am delighted to report another set of up over many years give us real confidence that rOyAl recOGNItION excellent results.
In a year which has seen we can maintain our operating performance a dramatic change in market conditions through 2008 09.
From this position of strength Berkeley generated 156.1 million of cash, we can adapt to these challenging market before the return of 241.6 million 2 per conditions where sales levels are down since share to shareholders in January 2008 which November by some 25% compared to average means we have now returned 9 per share of historic levels driven largely by the difficulties the 12 per share set out under the Scheme in obtaining credit, rather than a lack of of Arrangement a year ahead of schedule.
underlying demand and in which we are Return on Capital Employed was 29.3% with seeing a number of opportunities to acquire profit before tax up to 194.3 million and, land and invest for the future.
The Berkeley Group is honoured at the year-end, we held forward sales of to have received The Queens Award 1.2 billion with gearing of less than 1%.
Now is the time, therefore, to look to the for Enterprise in the category of This, along with Berkeleys enviable land future and ensure Berkeley fully capitalises Sustainable Development.
bank which now has 31,365 plots and gross on these opportunities.
This is a view margin of 2.7 billion, provides a superb shared by our major shareholders and, The Queens Awards are the UKs most platform from which Berkeley can take full in consultation with them, we have developed prestigious accolades for business advantage of the current market conditions.
an innovative proposal to revise the Scheme performance.
They recognise and of Arrangement to achieve this, also amending reward outstanding achievement by The strong position in which Berkeley remuneration to ensure the interests of the UK companies.
The Awards are made finds itself is a result of the Scheme of Directors and shareholders remain fully each year by The Queen, on the advice Arrangement, which has been an outstanding aligned.
In essence, the proposal is to extend of the Prime Minister, who is assisted success, and put in place a strategy that fully the Scheme of Arrangement to allow for by an Advisory Committee that includes recognises the cyclical nature of residential an anticipated increase in land investment development.
It has given Berkeley a unique with the final 3 to be deferred for up to representatives of Government, industry operating model that allows us to use our three years no later than January 2014. and commerce, and the trade unions.
expertise to create added value through an At the same time, it is proposed that this final entrepreneurial approach to land acquisition payment is restructured so that it can be made The Berkeley Group receives the and development and to realise that value primarily through a series of dividends but award for its continuous achievement in a controlled and disciplined manner, taking also through opportunistic share buy-backs.
in delivering substantial improvements account of prevailing market conditions.
in business performance and We focus on building a unique, quality This will give Berkeley flexibility to create commercial success premised on product that is tailored to the aspirations added value in the business by exploiting sustainability.
The Berkeley Group of our customers and in tune with the current market conditions and so maximise evidences a thorough and committed communities we create, rather than delivering value for our shareholders, without whose understanding of sustainability and standard product types.
Whilst in selling vision and support the success achieved under has systematically striven to embed our product we share similarities with other the Scheme of Arrangement would not have this throughout its operations, at both house-builders, it is this focus on creating been possible.
The strong added value throughout the development process and the quality of our product, as Finally, I am honoured that Berkeley has been leadership of the company in pursuit opposed to relying on sales volume to drive awarded the Queens Award for Enterprise of sustainability has earned Berkeley value, that really differentiates Berkeleys in the Sustainable Development category.
The numerous accolades, a reflection of model and maximises shareholder value.
Queens Awards are the UKs most prestigious the companys strong ethos and best award for business performance, recognising practice for its sector.
Our financial strength, with forward sales and rewarding outstanding achievement in equivalent to more than one years revenue, sustainable development.
This is a credit to all Queens Awards Office the quality of our land bank and the at Berkeley who have embedded sustainability management expertise that has been built and quality in their everyday working practices.
07 ThE BERKELEy VISIoN To be the leading urban regenerator in our chosen market of London and the South East, creating the inspiring sustainable communities that we, our customers and stakeholders demand ThE BERKELEy DIFFERENcE PASSION fINANcIAl StreNGth INNOVAtION A passion for detail, a passion Astute financial management Berkeley continually innovates for being the best, a passion for combined with a confident and and adapts its approach in doing it right and a passion for entrepreneurial business culture order to create the best design empowering people to excel is the affords Berkeley the time and solutions which add value to driver in everything we do.
confidence to make decisions both the communities and which create long-term value our shareholders.
lANd AddING VAlUe rISk MANAGeMeNt creAtING A SeNSe Of PlAce We only buy land for which Berkeley manages its risk by As an urban regenerator as we have a vision and to which selling property off-plan early opposed to a more traditional we can add value throughout in the development cycle and housebuilder, Berkeleys vision is the development and planning managing its capital effectively by always to create modern mixedprocess, consequently we matching production to demand.
use communities where people design schemes that will can live, work and play.
inspire our customers and enhance the community.
MANAGeMeNt creAtING qUAlIty PrOdUct PArtNerShIPS Berkeley operates at a natural The quality and the differentiation Working with Central size which ensures that our of our product is key to our Government, Local Councils experienced management teams success and quality is inherent and the Local Communities in are able to truly understand the in everything we do.
From the which we operate and creating needs and aspirations of the apartment interiors to the public mutually rewarding partnerships areas in which they operate.
open spaces that we create affords Berkeley the opportunity Aligned with a disciplined every detail is designed with to create the solutions for which yet autonomous culture our the aspirations of our customers we are renowned.
management teams are at the in mind.
ThE BERKELEy RESULT Berkeley takes great pride in the creation of truly sustainable developments with a real sense of place where people can live, work and play, whilst maximising value for shareholders bUSINeSS reVIew bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 08 09 MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW CONTINUED A hArbOUr deVelOPMeNt fUll Of MArItIMe herItAGe G unwharf Quays is the centrepiece of the renaissance of Portsmouth Harbour.
It has received numerous awards recognising its landmark nature including the coveted British Urban Regeneration Association BURA Crystal Award for Best of the Best in 2005 The Berkeley Group purchased the derelict site in 1997 and has since invested heavily to make Gunwharf Quays an exemplar of its skills as an urban regenerator T he development comprises 875 new homes and has been acknowledged as significantly contributing to the social and economic regeneration of Portsmouth This mixed-use development contains a new shopping area, leisure facilities and a range of residential accommodation all set overlooking Portsmouth harbour C urrently under construction is the iconic GUNwhArf qUAyS, POrtSMOUth 29 storey tower No 1 Gunwharf Quays bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 08 09 AUtONOMOUS colours from jpg MANAGeMeNt teAMS Berkeley operates at a natural size which ensures that our experienced management colours from previous vector files teams are able to truly understand the needs and aspirations of the areas in which they operate.
Aligned with a disciplined yet autonomous culture our management teams are at the heart of our operations.
trAdING ANAlySIS Revenue for the Group was 991.5 million 2007 918.4 million.
This comprised 960.1 million 2007 867.9 million of residential revenue, of which 13.1 million was from land sales 2007 44.0 million, along with 31.4 million 2007 50.5 million of commercial revenue.
During the period, the Group sold 3,167 units at an average selling price of 295,000.
This compares with 2,852 units at an average selling price of 285,000 in the same period last year.
Last years figures exclude the 441 units at an average selling price of 329,000 sold by St James in the first half of the year when it was still a joint venture.
At 31.4 million 2007 50.5 million, the Groups revenue from commercial activities represents the disposal of commercial units on 11 mixed-use sites.
The most significant of these were the disposals of: a 220 bedroom four-star hotel at Chelsea Bridge Wharf in London: a 70 berth Marina at Royal Clarence 2 Yard in Gosport: and the disposal of 9,400 ft of bar, restaurant and caf facilities at Gunwharf Quays in Portsmouth.
Excluding joint ventures and land sales, the house-building operating margin for the Group was 20.8% compared to 19.5% for the year ended 30 April 2007.
This is above the long-term historic range of 17.5% to 19.5% depending on mix reported by the Group over recent reporting periods and reflects the favourable market conditions in London during the first half of 2007.
Net operating expenses have increased by 6.6 million from 91.8 million in 2006 07 to 98.4 million and this is principally due to the inclusion of St James in the results as a fully consolidated subsidiary this time.
The Groups share of post-tax results from joint ventures was a loss of 2.4 million and compares to a profit of 6.8 million last time which principally related to St James, our then joint venture with RWE Thames Water plc.
With the acquisition of the 50% of St James bUSINeSS reVIew bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 10 11 MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW CONTINUED not already owned in November 2006, its up from 936.3 million last year and includes The current market conditions provide an results are now fully consolidated.
Both the disposal of the remaining 355 units at exciting opportunity for Berkeley to use its St Edward Homes, Berkeleys joint venture our Grosvenor Waterside development to an expertise to acquire new land and this is the with Prudential, and the Groups new joint investor in the first half of the year.
prime driver for the proposed revision to ventures with Saad Investments Company the Scheme of Arrangement set out earlier Limited are in the start-up phase with sites Whilst the immediate future is undoubtedly in this report.
In addition to Berkeleys own in the planning pre-production stage and extremely challenging, provided the wider facilities, the joint venture with Saad provides this is the reason for the 2.4 million loss economy can avoid recession and a degree Berkeley with access to further funds of in the year.
of normality returns to the banking sector up to 1 billion to invest in suitable land to ease the availability of mortgage funds, opportunities which will inevitably arise in the hOUSING MArket the long-term outlook need not be bleak.
The joint venture with Saad 2007 08 has very much been a year of two There remains under-supply of quality will invest in development opportunities which halves.
In the first half of the year the market housing throughout the country and London are outside Berkeleys normal acquisition outside London continued to temper following retains its allure as a World City.
This view criteria due to the size of capital requirement the five increases in interest rates, while is endorsed by the satisfactory level of and or length of planning lead time, utilising the London market remained favourable.
demand we continue to see from customers financial leverage to reflect the capital The change came in the second half of the unaffected by the current liquidity constraints intensive nature and risk profile of the sites, year in November and was dramatic as the who are able to take a longer term view.
whilst limiting the shareholders exposure.
depth and severity of the problems in the The land that we acquire in the current global credit markets began to emerge and Investors remain an important segment market will underpin the future for Berkeley the consequential effect on liquidity and the of Berkeleys customer profile and have and demonstrate the confidence of the Board availability of home loans became clear.
accounted for approximately 50% of and shareholders in Berkeleys business The reality for the UK housing market is that, underlying sales reservations, which is the model and the likelihood of a return to normal in spite of three interest rate cuts, confidence mid point of our normal range.
This fluctuates market conditions in the medium term.
and the all important feel-good factor has due to market conditions, the mix of product been dented at a time when the market had in and the phasing of launches on our sites.
Berkeley continues to use its expertise to any event started to cool following the boom Investors remain attracted by the long-term add value to its land holdings through the conditions of the recent years.
Although there fundamentals underpinning the housing ongoing review of all its planning consents.
are signs of optimism with people wanting market in London and the South East and the The costs associated with obtaining planning to buy, the market is unable to recover while lack of alternative investment opportunities permissions and developing the consented there remains a lack of availability of credit.
and are clearly as frustrated as homeowners schemes have risen considerably over Consequently, since November sales levels by the current lack of availability of credit.
Not only have Section 106 have been approximately 25% below historic planning agreement and affordable housing average levels.
Berkeleys sales comprise Sales prices achieved in the year were requirements increased significantly but so various components including private and above our business plan forecasts and have the costs of meeting the increasingly affordable housing, student accommodation, these continued to cover cost increases stretching environmental standards being set freeholds, commercial sales which include which come from increases in both material for the industry.
retail, office and leisure and land sales.
costs and the costs of meeting technical Of these, the main contributor to this drop challenges presented by todays high In summary, Berkeley will continue to buy is private housing, where sales levels are down standards of environmental and sustainable land innovatively where we can add value.
more than 50% in the last six months of the development practices.
Material costs The key risk we face is sales volumes.
Notwithstanding this, taken as a whole, have come under particular pressure will only return to normal levels once the 2007 08 was a good year for Berkeley with this year with the rise in oil prices adding availability of credit returns for customers.
the value of underlying sales reservations to the ongoing imbalance of supply and While over recent periods sales prices have broadly in line with historic average levels.
demand with the price of steel and concrete been increasing, so have the taxes payable increasing significantly over the course by developers, be this through Section 106 Berkeley has always matched supply closely of the year.
The increase in materials costs payments, other legislation, environmental to demand and this considered approach, has been partially offset towards the latter requirements or affordable housing levels.
coupled with the quality and diversity of part of the year by a softening in the labour In times of moderating sales prices, this Berkeleys product, has resulted in forward market, as the impact of the housing market burden will need to reduce to maintain the sales of 1.2 billion at the year-end.
This is downturn moves through the supply chain.
supply of housing and to ensure homes are bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 10 11 rOyAl ArSeNAl, wOOlwIch A SUStAINAble ANd VIbrANt New cOMMUNIty eNjOyING A rIch hIStOry A multi-phase scheme on a 76 acre site that exemplifies mixed-use urban development and forms part of an entire regeneration of an historic riverside location M any of the Royal Arsenals buildings have been sensitively restored, including 18 listed buildings, among which is the Grade I Royal Brass Foundry W orking in partnership with Greenwich Council, Berkeley has secured the Department for Transports commitment to a Crossrail station at Woolwich O nce complete the regeneration of this former derelict site will include over 3,750 homes bUSINeSS reVIew bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 12 13 MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW CONTINUED hOlbOrOUGh VAlley ANd kNOwle VIllAGe 01 bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 12 13 01 hOlbOrOUGh VAlley, keNt UNrIVAlled lANd bANk A striking development of 1,000 New England inspired homes in an environment of water, nature Berkeleys unique operating model allows us to and tranquility.
02, 03 & 04 kNOwle VIllAGe, hAMPShIre use our expertise to create added value through A new village community of 670 homes created in the grounds, and including the conversion, of an old an entrepreneurial approach to land acquisition Victorian hospital, resulting in a place for families to live and grow.
It is important that we create The new sites include a further site at the communities where people want to live, work Royal Arsenal Woolwich where we now and play and that this cost is fully recognised.
have in excess of 3,500 plots to develop in the second phase of the regeneration of fOrwArd SAleS Woolwich, having previously completed Berkeley held forward sales of 1,210 million 1,200 in phase 1.
With the commitment at 30 April 2008.
This is an increase of 29% on of a Crossrail station now secured for the 936 million at 30 April 2007.
It has always Woolwich, this is an excellent example of been Berkeleys strategy to sell homes at an what can be achieved when developers, early stage in the development cycle, often Local Authorities and Central Government off-plan, to secure customers commitment work together to realise a shared vision and ensure the quality and certainty of future for the revitalisation of our urban areas.
This level of forward sales is key to Berkeleys confidence that it can Also agreed this year was Dickens Yard maintain its operating performance.
in Ealing town centre where we propose to develop some 680 new homes and 03 2 lANd hOldINGS approximately 109,000 ft of commercial At 30 April 2008, the Group including joint space in partnership with the Local Authority.
ventures controlled some 31,365 plots with an When added to Berkeleys other local authority estimated gross margin of 2,728 million.
This sites at Woodberry Down in Hackney and compares with 30,128 plots and an estimated Kidbrooke in Greenwich, these three sites gross margin of 2,234 million at 30 April 2007. account for some 5,500 of the contracted Of these holdings, 23,065 plots 2007 21,209 plots.
Although significant energy has been are owned and included on the balance sheet.
expended on these sites in the year, due to In addition, 8,014 plots 2007 8,848 are their size and complexity, they will take time contracted and a further 286 plots 2007 71 to come through into production.
have terms agreed and solicitors instructed.
In excess of 95% of our holdings are on brownA further 2,200 of the contracted plots are field or recycled land.
on the three sites we are developing in our St Edward joint venture with Prudential and Berkeley agreed 15 new sites in the period and we are delighted that a planning consent continued to submit new planning applications for 798 units at Stanmore in North London on its development sites where appropriate to was received earlier in the year.
We continue 04 optimise its land holdings.
to work on a number of other exciting bUSINeSS reVIew bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 14 15 MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW CONTINUED 02 opportunities with Prudential which we hope Berkeley has the strategy and qualities to will come to fruition over the next 12 months.
continue to maximise shareholder value through its unique operating model, which During the year, Saad Berkeley Regeneration is to acquire land innovatively and use Limited, one of the three recently formed joint its expertise to add value throughout the ventures with Saad, acquired its first two sites development cycle.
As a result, Berkeley has which are currently in commercial use and great balance sheet strength, an unrivalled comprise approximately 150 units.
land bank, strong forward sales along with experienced and focused autonomous Whilst the Groups land holdings include management teams dedicated to continual 2 approximately 1.5 million ft of commercial out-performance.
This is a great position space within our mixed-use schemes, to be in, in todays uncertain market.
no standalone commercial schemes are being undertaken.
OUtlOOk 03 Berkeley has performed well this year and returned 2 per share to shareholders one year ahead of schedule.
This has been tONy PIdGley achieved whilst maintaining our balance sheet Managing Director strength gearing is less than 1% so that we can take advantage of the prevailing market conditions.
The sales market is undoubtedly challenging and we need to continue matching supply to demand and maximising returns from our well located developments.
We do not simply build homes we create inspiring communities where people want to live, work and play.
This gives us great confidence for the future.
04 05 bUSINeSS reVIew MANAGING dIrectOrS reVIew 14 15 01 berkeley PlAceS PUblIc reAlM Berkeley creates a sense of place places where people want to live, work and play 01 At Putney Wharf, London, a vibrant riverside community has been created 02 Innovative and iconic sculpture at Kew Riverside 03 A young girl enjoying the swings at Knowle Village, Hampshire 04 The Youngs pub at Imperial Wharf, London 05 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth, offers a cosmopolitan destination for shopping and dining, or just spending time with friends 06 C af lifestyle at Royal Arsenal, Woolwich 06 bUSINeSS reVIew
