Business review Group business This review provides an overview of our main activities, principal markets, Group and business line performance and risk management.
It also describes our key financial performance measures and our performance against them.
Introduction to the Group Market conditions The key Group financial performance 3i is a world leader in private equity investing After four years of strongly positive influences, measures are: 2008 2007 across Europe, Asia and the US.
We invest from the sub-prime lending crisis in the US which our own balance sheet and also with funds that emerged in summer 2007, together with the Total return 18.6% 26.8% we advise or manage on behalf of others.
Total subsequent volatility in capital markets and debt Gross portfolio return 23.9% 34.0% assets under management at 31 March 2008 markets, not only disrupted mergers and Cost efficiency 5.0% 5.3% were 9.8 billion, including 3.8 billion advised acquisitions markets but also led to a more Gearing 40% 0% or managed on behalf of third parties.
challenging and uncertain economic outlook.
A description of the effect of these conditions is Net asset value growth 1.94 2.24 The Groups vision is to be the private equity detailed in the Market sections in each of our firm of choice: operating on a world-wide scale: Growth in NAV is stated before dividends and other business line reviews on pages 12 to 27. distributions to shareholders.
producing consistent market-beating returns: acknowledged for our partnership style: and The impact on the private equity industry as a The key business line performance winning through our unparalleled resources.
whole has been most pronounced in the large measures are: leveraged buyout LBO market in the US and Our strategy for achieving this vision, along Gross portfolio return in Europe, where new LBO investment activity with a summary of our progress with respect to has come to a virtual standstill because of Portfolio health each element, the key risk factors involved and the lack of availability of suitably-sized debt Long-term IRRs by vintage statistics relating to our performance is set out packages.
In the European mid-market buyouts on pages 10 and 11. market, which is where 3is Buyouts business The key non-financial performance Governance, accountability and alignment of operates, debt has remained available for new measures are: interests are key elements of the private equity investments, albeit on terms and conditions Employee engagement model.
3i achieves this by making investments more reflective of the market in 2004 and through distinct business line partnerships, which 2005 than in 2007.
All of our business lines are Environmental impact operate internationally and draw upon the influenced by the slow down in the realisations combined resources of the Group.
market and the broader macroeconomic uncertainty, although the underlying Detailed descriptions, performance data and performance of the portfolio remains good.
commentaries for each of our Buyouts, Growth Capital, Infrastructure, Quoted Private Equity Overall, global private equity fundraising and Venture Capital business lines can be found remained strong in 2007 at 566 billion 2006: on pages 12 to 27, together with case studies 532 billion, according to Private Equity of our most significant investments and Intelligence data.
calendar year 2007, released by the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association 3i operates in a number of distinct geographical EVCA in March 2008, show that European and sector markets.
The market for each of our private equity firms raised a total of 74 billion business lines has its own specific characteristics.
in 2007 2006: 112 billion and invested However, the environment and competitive 86 billion 2006: 50 billion.
However, data landscape for all of them is influenced by the from unquote, shows that whereas deals with broader macroeconomic context, as well as an enterprise value of over 1 billion fell by over the strength of the capital markets, the level of 50% in quarter four compared to quarter two of private equity funds raised and invested, and the 2007, the number of mid-market transactions extent of mergers and acquisitions activity.
08 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders 3i investment teams: 3is investments Benelux in funds: China Central Europe France China Germany India India Israel Italy Japan Nordic Korea Singapore Russia Spain United Arab Emirates Switzerland UK US Although there is no single source that As a returns-focused business, we set clear Investment policy accurately tracks the European growth capital targets for our key performance measures at a 3i is an investment company which aims to provide market in which 3i operates, our own data Group and business line level.
For the Group, its shareholders with quoted access to private suggests that there was a 36% increase in the these targets are set out in the relevant sections equity returns.
Currently, our main focus is on making quoted and unquoted equity and or debt amount invested to 4.8 billion in 2007. of the Financial review.
For the business lines, investments in businesses and funds across Europe, they are contained within each of the business According to Asian Venture Capital Journal Asia and North America.
The geographies, economic line reviews on pages 12 to 27. statistics, the Asian markets in which 3i operates sectors, funds and asset classes in which we invest directly China, India, North Asia and South East We employed an average of 772 people in continue to evolve as opportunities are identified.
Asia continued to grow strongly with a 20% the year 2007: 765, working in focused teams Proposed investments are assessed individually and increase in investment.
in 14 countries across three continents in a all significant investments require approval from the matrix structure.
The key dimensions of this Groups Investment Committee.
Overall investment 3is approach matrix are business line, geography and sector, targets are subject to periodic reviews and the 3i is a highly selective investor and made 47 with each business line unified through common investment portfolio is also reviewed to monitor exposure to specific geographies, economic sectors new investments during the year to 31 March carried interest schemes and processes.
2008 2007: 62, across a range of sectors, Our internal professional services teams are regions and types of investment.
As can be seen incentivised on Group performance.
We seek to diversify risk through significant from the tables on pages 35 and 36, the dispersion of investments by geography, economic The high levels of staff engagement achieved portfolio is well diversified in terms of sector, asset class and size as well as through the by the Group, which are reported on page 51, investment type, geography and sector.
maturity profile of our investment portfolio.
continue to be supported by our One room: In addition, although we do not set maximum Consistent with our investment strategy, the One firm culture.
This is underpinned by a clear exposure limits for asset allocations, as an approved number of new investments in the period was set of values and developed through combining UK investment trust, no more than 15% of the lower, principally because of a decrease in the capabilities and knowledge, aligning interests and Groups portfolio can be held in a single investment.
number of early-stage technology investments.
by selecting the best team for the job from our Investments are generally funded with a mixture Since 2005, our Venture Capital business has internal and external resources around the world.
of debt and shareholders funds with a view to moved away from predominantly early-stage Our culture is performance-based and highly maximising returns to shareholders, whilst technology and healthcare investments towards collaborative and requires continuous investment maintaining a strong capital base.
We do not late-stage investing.
From 1 April 2008, in our people and in our communications.
set minimum or maximum levels of gearing.
we have formalised this process such that all However, we are nonetheless committed to 3is values and our non-financial key new late-stage technology and healthcare achieving balance sheet efficiency.
The Board of performance measures are set out in our Directors currently consider it appropriate to aim to minority investments will be made by the Corporate responsibility report on pages 44 operate with an optimum gearing ratio of debt to Growth Capital business line and the existing to 53.
This report also describes our approach shareholders funds within a 30% to 40% range Venture Capital business line portfolio will be and performance with respect to corporate across-the-cycle.
Since our flotation in 1994, our managed as a standalone activity.
responsibility, both from the perspective gearing has fluctuated between 0% and 52%.
Private equity thrives on change, and strategic of 3i as a company and 3i as an investor.
shifts within economies and sectors drive activity both in terms of investment and realisations.
3is local presence and dedicated sector-focused teams continue to enable us to achieve competitive advantage in originating investment opportunities, assessing them and in managing and realising value.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 09
