Board of Directors and Management Committee 1 4 5 23 6 7 8 1.
Michael Queen Chairman since 2002 and a non-executive Director since Finance Director and member of the Management Executive Director since 1997.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee and the Committee since joining the Company in 2005.
From 1994 to 1996 Valuations Committee and a member of the Remuneration of the Valuations Committee and the Groups Investment seconded to HM Treasury.
Chairman of Frontier Economics Limited.
A non-executive director of Cable & Wireless Controller in 1996 and Finance Director in 1997.
A director of BG Group plc.
Deputy Chairman of the plc.
Formerly, Director General Finance at the Department A member of the Management Committee and the Groups Financial Reporting Council and a Governor of the London for Constitutional Affairs, Group Finance Director of Robert Investment Committee since 1997.
Ceased to be Finance Business School.
From 1995 to 2002 Chairman of Foreign Fleming and Chief Operating Officer UK of Dresdner Director on assuming responsibility for Growth Capital & Colonial Smaller Companies PLC.
A director of Gardens Pension Trustees Deputy Chairman of GKN plc.
Formerly Head of the Prime Limited, a corporate trustee of the 3i Group Pension Plan.
Willem Mesdag Ministers Policy Unit.
A former non-executive director of Northern Rock plc and Non-executive Director since July 2007.
A member of the past Chairman of the British Venture Capital Association.
Oliver Stocken Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director since Managing Partner of Red Mountain Capital Partners LLC.
Chairman Formerly a Partner and Managing Director of Goldman, 8.
Sir Robert Smith of the Audit and Compliance Committee and of the Sachs & Co.
Chairman of the trustees of the 3i Group Pension Plan.
A member of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and 6.
Christine Morin-Postel Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and Compliance Committee and the Nominations Committee.
A member of the the Valuations Committee.
Chairman of Home Retail Group Chairman of Weir Group plc and Scottish & Southern Energy Audit and Compliance Committee, the Remuneration plc, Oval Limited and Stanhope Group Holdings Limited and plc.
A non-executive director of Aegon UK plc and Standard Committee and the Nominations Committee.
A director a director of Standard Chartered plc.
Formerly Finance Bank Group Limited.
Formerly a non-executive director of of British American Tobacco PLC and Royal Dutch Shell PLC.
Aged 66. the Financial Services Authority and Bank of Scotland plc, Formerly Chief Executive of Socit Gnrale fide Belgique, Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management and 3.
Philip Yea executive Vice-President and member of the executive a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
Chief Executive and executive Director since joining the committee of Suez and a director of Tractebel, Fortis Company in 2004.
A member of the Nominations and Alcan, Inc.
Committee and the Valuations Committee.
A member of the Groups Investment Committee since 2004.
A nonexecutive director of Vodafone Group plc.
Formerly Managing Director within the private equity business of Investcorp.
A former Finance Director of Diageo plc and former non-executive director of HBOS plc and Manchester United PLC.
54 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders 910 13 15 17 14 11 12 18 16 9.
Jonathan Russell Non-executive Director since 2002.
A member of the Group HR Director.
A member of the Management Managing Partner, Buyouts.
A member of the Management Audit and Compliance Committee and the Nominations Committee since joining the Company in 2004.
Previously Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since Committee.
A non-executive director of Elkay employed by HSBC and Standard Chartered.
Chairman-elect of the European Manufacturing and Diamond Hill Financial Trends Fund.
3i was HR Partner at Ernst & Young.
A member of the Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and formerly A member of the supervisory board of Continental AG.
Advisory Boards of Leeds University Business School and Chairman of its Buyout Committee.
Chairman Emeritus, and former Chairman and Chief the School of Business and Economics at Exeter University.
Jo Taylor Executive, of AT Kearney, Inc.
Formerly a director of Maytag Aged 50.
A member of the Corporation, Lawter International, Inc, Mercury Finance 13.
Kevin Dunn Management Committee and the Groups Investment Corporation, John Hancock Financial Trends Fund and the General Counsel and Company Secretary since November Committee since 2005.
Chairman of Chicago Stock Exchange.
Responsible for the Groups legal, compliance, internal the British Venture Capital Association Venture Committee 10.
Robert Swannell audit and company secretarial functions.
Chairman of the and a British Venture Capital Association Council member.
A member of the Aged 47. of the Nominations Committee and the Valuations Management Committee since joining the Company in 17.
Vice Chairman, Citi Europe and a member of October 2007.
Formerly a Senior Managing Director, Managing Partner, Funds.
A member of the Management Citis Global Investment Banking Operating Committee.
running the European Leveraged Finance business for GEs Committee since 1999 and a member since 1997 of the A non-executive director of The British Land Company PLC.
Commercial Finance division after serving as European Groups Investment Committee which he now chairs.
Joined A member of the Takeover Panel Appeal Board, a member General Counsel for GE Commercial Finance.
Past Chairman of the European Private Equity of the Industrial Development Advisory Board of the Commercial Finance, was a partner at the law firms Travers and Venture Capital Association.
Department for Business, Enterprise & Regulatory Reform Smith and Latham & Watkins.
BERR and a trustee of the UK Career Academy Foundation.
A member of the Managing Partner, Asia.
A member of the Management Management Committee since January 2007 and a Other members of Management Committee: Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since member of the Groups Investment Committee since June re-joining the Company in 2002.
Managing Director, Partner, Group Markets.
Previously employed by 3i from Managing Partner, Quoted Private Equity.
A member of Benelux from 1999 to 2002 and Managing Director, France 1984 to 1996.
Formerly a Partner of Andersen and a nonthe Management Committee since joining the Company from 2002 until September 2007.
Aged 50. executive director of Principality Building Society.
Aged 51. in January 2007 and a member of the Groups Investment Committee.
Formerly CEO of Marsh Limited and Head of Debt Capital Markets in Europe and Asia for JP Morgan Chase.
A non-executive director of Close Brothers Group plc.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 55
