Business review Quoted Private Equity QPE Our investment strategy has been cautious in the early phase of our development.
However, market conditions have increased our opportunities and as markets stabilise 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited is well placed to invest.
Business model Returns from QPE m 3is Quoted Private Equity QPE business line year to 31 March 2008 2007 brings capital and value creation techniques to Realised profits over value on the disposal of investments public companies without taking them private.
Unrealised losses profits on the revaluation of investments 42 6 Investments are made by 3i Quoted Private Portfolio income Equity Limited, a company which listed on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 at a Gross portfolio return 42 6 capitalisation of 400 million.
3i Quoted Private Fees receivable from external funds 1 Equity Limited has its own dedicated investor relations website www.
com and is scheduled to announce its annual results for the Assets under management m year to 31 March 2008 later in May 2008. as at 31 March 2008 2007 Own balance sheet 142 20 3i acts as Investment Adviser to 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited.
The QPE team comprises Third-party funds 269 an experienced team of 11 investment 411 20 professionals, one of whom will normally join the board of the portfolio company.
The team identifies investments in the small and mid-cap market across continental Europe and the UK, with a view to 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited holding these investments for a period of years.
These are typically companies which are underresearched, suffer from low liquidity in their shares and where there is an opportunity to unlock and enable significant strategic development.
3i Quoted Private Equity Limiteds approach is to leverage 3is international network and resources and apply a private equity mindset.
22 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders 3is returns are generated through a combination Progress to date of capital appreciation from its 45% holding in 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited was listed 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited and advisory on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 and performance fees received from the listed with a market capitalisation of 400 million.
fund for acting as an investment adviser.
The Group made a 181 million investment in this company to acquire a 45% holding in the An advisory fee of 2% is payable to 3i Group company.
On listing, 3i Group plc also based on the gross investment value of transferred two investments into 3i Quoted 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited less cash Private Equity Limited, generating proceeds of uninvested.
A performance fee becomes payable 18 million.
when the net asset value per share at the end of the relevant performance period exceeds an 8% Since listing, 3i Quoted Private Equity performance trigger, compounding annually, Limited has announced two new investments.
with the performance fee payable being 20% of On 26 February 2008, it announced that it had the entire growth in net asset value.
made a 30 million investment in Jelf Group plc, an insurance broker and wealth adviser based in Strategy the UK employing over 700 staff with more The advisory strategy is to identify a limited than 20 offices across England and Wales.
number of investments in the UK and On 13 March, it announced a US$53 million continental Europe through 3is international purchase of shares in Phibro Animal Health network and sector teams.
Detailed value Corporation, a diversified global manufacturer creation plans are formulated and agreed in and marketer of a broad range of animal health partnership with management for each situation.
Subsequent to the year end, on 4 April, 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited Elements of the value creation plan include announced it had increased this investment to providing capital to accelerate managements US$93 million, following Phibros listing on AIM.
growth plans for their businesses: improving governance: introducing management incentives The gross portfolio return in this initial period to align managements interests with growing following 3i Quoted Private Equity Limiteds value for shareholders: and optimising the capital listing was 42 million.
This was principally due structure of the businesses.
In summary, the to the lower share price at 31 March 2008 QPE team engages with ambitious management 79p, which accounted for 40 million of this.
teams to enhance shareholder value through During the year, an advisory fee of 1 million strategic, operational or financial improvements was generated.
to the businesses in which 3i Quoted Private The net asset value of 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited invests.
Equity Limited at 31 March 2008 was 102.2p per share unaudited, a 4.2% Market increase over proceeds raised at flotation The turbulence in capital markets has less initial expenses of 98.1p per share.
exacerbated the challenges for smaller public companies throughout Europe, potentially In summary, this has been a year of considerable increasing the size of the market opportunity progress for QPE.
Our team is now in place, 3i for 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited since its Quoted Private Equity Limited has been launched listing.
3i Quoted Private Equity Limited has now and its first investments have been made.
I look invested approximately 26% of the initial capital forward to reporting more progress.
raised and has ample capital to invest as market opportunities arise.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Managing Partner Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 23
