24 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Board of Directors Peter Sedgwick 64 Non-executive Chairman Paul Waller 54 Non-executive Director Between 2000 and 2006, member of the management Managing Partner, Funds, at 3i Group, with specific responsibility committee and a Vice President of the European Investment for fundraising and managing 3i Groups global relationships Bank EIB, one of the largest multi-national lending institutions with the fund investor community.
Member of the 3i Group in the world.
Was also a director of the European Investment management committee, director of 3i Investments and chair Fund from 2002 to 2006.
Before the EIB, he was a career of the 3i Group investment committee.
Previously a director HM Treasury civil servant in the UK.
Also sits on the boards of and chairman of the European Private Equity & Venture Capital two of 3i Infrastructure Limiteds Luxembourg subsidiaries, Association and chairman of the Investor Relations Committee.
3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. and Paul Waller is a 3i nominee.
3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. Resident in the UK.
Philip Austin 59 Non-executive Director Peter Wagner 61 Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director.
Worked for Kuehne & Nagel in Switzerland, the US and Germany from 1977 to 1989, latterly as CFO.
Subsequently worked for Managing Director of Equity Trust in the Channel Islands since May Danzas Holding AG from 1989 until 2001, latterly as CEO and also 2006.
Previously Chief Executive of Jersey Finance Ltd, the body as a member of the board of management of Deutsche Post AG.
set up to represent Jerseys finance industry and to promote it Retired from Danzas in 2001 and took up a number of nonworldwide as an international finance centre, since its inception in executive positions, which have included serving as a director May 2001.
Before that, worked for HSBC in the City of London of Swiss International Airlines Limited 2002, as chairman of for over 20 years and since 1993 in Jersey, where he was Deputy Vontobel Holding AG and Bank Vontobel from 2001 to 2005, Chief Executive of the Banks business across Jersey, Guernsey and as a director of Neptune Orient Lines of Singapore since 2005 the Isle of Man.
and as a director of Kaiser Ritter Partner Holding Anstalt and Kaiser Ritter Partner Privatbank, Vaduz, Principality of Liechtenstein since 2006 and as its chairman from 2008.
Martin Dryden 50 Non-executive Director Steven Wilderspin 39 Non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee and formerly Senior Principal of Wilderspin Independent Governance, which provides Independent Director.
independent offshore fund directorship services, since April 2007 and managing director of Active Services Jersey Limited, a Currently serving as a non-executive director at Mourant member of the Active Group which provides specialist regulatory International Finance Administration.
Previously a director of compliance support and offshore fund consultancy services, since Maples Finance Jersey, a company which provides fiduciary, September 2007.
Previously a director of Maples Finance Jersey accounting and fund administration services to structured finance Limited.
Served on a number of private equity, property and hedge and investment fund clients.
Before that, worked for the Gartmore fund boards as well as special purpose companies engaged in Investment Group for over 20 years, 16 of which as Managing structured finance transactions.
Before that, from 1997, acted Director of its Jersey operations.
as Head of Accounting at Perpetual Fund Management Jersey Limited.
