3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 03 Investment Advisers review The infrastructure asset class has shown greater resilience The opportunity for infrastructure than others to the credit contraction.
The stable investment in both mature and emerging and predictable cash flows typically generated by markets remains significant, despite a infrastructure assets remain attractive to debt providers, more challenging market environment.
albeit at less favourable terms than in early 2007.
At the The investment advisory team remains same time, lower equity valuations are beginning to have focused on high-quality investment an impact on vendors expectations.
This could result in attractive investment opportunities in the short term.
opportunities that offer resilience over the long term.
Investment activity Michael Queen Performance indicator Managing Partner, Infrastructure, 3i Group Objective: 3i Infrastructure aims to invest the net IPO proceeds About the Investment Adviser within two years from listing.
3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group, acts as Investment Adviser to the Company through its Status: 64% invested and 88% invested or committed at infrastructure investment team the investment advisory 31 March 2008. team.
The investment advisory team provides advice to the Company on the origination and completion of new Investment summary investments, on the realisation of investments and on As shown in Table 1, investments during the period to funding requirements, as well as on the management of 31 March 2008 totalled 442.1 million, representing the investment portfolio.
64% of the net proceeds raised by 3i Infrastructure at its IPO.
Including undrawn commitments, the Company has The investment advisory team operates as a separate invested or committed 613.1 million, or 88% of the business line within 3i Group and at 31 March 2008 net IPO proceeds.
was staffed by 23 dedicated infrastructure investment professionals of whom 13 are based in London, three in Throughout the period investments have been made, in Frankfurt, five in Mumbai and two in New York.
All have accordance with the investment policy, to build a portfolio significant experience in investing in, or advising on, of assets diversified by geography, sector and maturity.
infrastructure or private equity assets.
The investment The Investment Adviser has adopted a selective approach advisory team can also draw on 3i Groups network of to investment, focusing on opportunities where it can more than 250 investment professionals, based in add value through the 3i Group network and through 14 countries, to originate infrastructure investments.
the specialist sector knowledge of its investment professionals and on opportunities, such as the recent 3i Group was among the subscribers to 3i Infrastructures investments in junior debt assets, arising from the initial public offering and owns 46% of the equity in changing market environment.
Significant time has also the Company.
been devoted by the investment advisory team to assist and advise the Company with portfolio management, Market with the aim of managing the assets to deliver returns 2007 was a year of considerable volatility in both equity in line with the Companys objectives.
The contraction in credit had a negative impact on equity markets, due to concerns that An asset-by-asset review of the portfolio, including it could trigger a macroeconomic slowdown in the more a strategic update, valuation methodology and mature economies of the US and Europe.
High commodity developments in the period, can be found on pages prices and resulting global inflationary pressures put 12 to 17. further pressure on equity valuations.
In contrast, the outlook for infrastructure investment remains strong, despite the recent volatility.
Global infrastructure spending continues to grow, fuelled by favourable demographic trends in the developing world and by the necessity to upgrade ageing infrastructure and to respond to the challenge of climate change in the developed world.
Funding requirements for infrastructure development in both emerging and developed economies are unlikely to be met by government spending alone and significant contributions from the private sector are likely to be needed.
04 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Investment Advisers review continued The initial portfolio Summary of investment policy As detailed in Table 1, 3i Infrastructure acquired an initial 3i Infrastructures primary objective is to build a diversified portfolio portfolio of infrastructure assets from 3i Group at the of investments in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Company aims to invest globally, with an initial focus IPO for a total consideration of 234.4 million.
This initial on Europe, North America and India.
portfolio included minority investments in Anglian The Company intends to achieve this objective by making equity Water Group Limited AWG, Infrastructure Investors 2 investments in quoted or unquoted companies share capital and Limited Partnership I, Octagon Healthcare Limited related shareholder loans, as well as junior or mezzanine debt Octagon and Alpha Schools Highland Holdings investments in infrastructure assets.
The Company may also invest Limited Alpha Schools.
Follow-on investments and in infrastructure funds managed or advised by the Investment drawdowns of existing commitments into these projects Adviser or by third parties.
during the period amounted to 44.1 million.
The objective of building a diversified portfolio means that no single investment will represent more than 20% of gross assets including Eight additional investments and new commitments cash holdings at the time of commitment.
Should the total amount were made after the initial portfolio acquisition, for a required for an individual transaction exceed 20% of gross assets, total consideration of 163.6 million, or 289.9 million the Company may co-invest with other investors including 3i including commitments.
Group, subject to related party transaction provisions.
Most investments will be of a size sufficient to obtain board New investment representation, which is an important means of influencing and Oystercatcher The Companys largest investment actively managing the portfolio businesses.
In cases where the during the period, after the purchase of the initial Company acquires a majority equity interest in a business, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
portfolio at IPO, was the acquisition, through Oystercatcher Luxco 2 Oystercatcher, of a 45.0% interest in three subsidiaries of Oiltanking GmbH Oiltanking, which provide storage facilities for oil, petroleum products and chemicals in the Netherlands, Malta and Singapore.
This investment was completed in August, for a total consideration of 84.5 million.
Table 1 Summary of investment activity in the period to 31 March 2008 m Portfolio asset Initial Further New Total Undrawn Total invested investment basis Sector portfolio investment investment investment commitments or committed Equity investments 1 AWG Utilities Water 140.0 140.0 140.0 2 I Social Infrastructure PFI fund 82.0 43.1 125.1 37.3 162.4 Octagon Social Infrastructure PFI hospital 12.2 1.0 13.2 13.2 Alpha Schools Social Infrastructure PFI schools 0.2 0.2 7.4 7.6 T2C Utilities Power 6.5 6.5 6.5 Oystercatcher Transportation Oil storage 84.5 84.5 84.5 2 3i India Infrastructure Fund Power and Transport fund 36.4 36.4 89.3 125.7 Alma Mater Social Infrastructure PFI university 25.0 25.0 2.8 27.8 Novera Utilities Power 11.2 11.2 11.2 Debt investments Viridian Utilities Power 12.2 12.2 Thames Water Utilities Water 9.9 9.9 NGW Arqiva Utilities Communications 12.1 12.1 Total 234.4 44.1 163.6 442.1 171.0 613.1 1 Formerly known as Osprey Jersey Holdco Limited.
2 The Fund held two investments at 31 March 2008, in the power and infrastructure construction sectors.
Due to the current weighting of the underlying assets the Fund has been classified as a Utilities investment in Chart 1.
3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 05 T2C In August 2007, 3i Infrastructure purchased a Novera On 18 February 2008, 3i Infrastructure 16.7% holding, from 3i Group, in Thermal Conversion confirmed that it had approached the board of Novera Compound Industriepark Hchst GmbH T2C, Energy plc Novera an established UK-focused a company established to develop, own and operate a renewable energy company which generates electricity waste-to-energy plant in Germany, for a consideration from wind, waste and landfill gas and stated that it was of 6.5 million.
considering a possible cash offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Novera at a price of 3i India Infrastructure Fund Following approval 90p per share.
At the same time, the Company purchased from its shareholders at an Extraordinary General 12.4 million Novera shares, a 10.0% holding, at a price of Meeting held in September, 3i Infrastructure committed 90p per share, for a total consideration of 11.2 million.
US$250 million to the 3i India Infrastructure Fund A third party, Infinis Energy Limited, subsequently the Fund, established by 3i Group to invest in acquired a 28.2% holding in Novera.
On 2 June 2008, infrastructure opportunities in India.
As announced by the Company confirmed that it would not make a formal 3i Group, the Fund completed its final close in early offer for Novera.
April 2008 at US$1.2 billion, 20% above the stated US$1 billion target.
At 31 March 2008, the Fund had Alma Mater As set out in the Prospectus at IPO, the completed two investments.
The first of these was in Company was granted an option by 3i Group to acquire Adani Power Private Limited, a company developing all of 3i Groups limited partnership interest in the Alma a portfolio of power plants across India, which was Mater Fund Alma Mater, which is active in the design, followed by an investment in Soma Enterprise Limited, construction, financing and operation of university an infrastructure developer focusing on  facilities in the UK.
On 31 March 2008, Transfer BOT projects.
As new investors were admitted the Company acquired this limited partnership interest, into the Fund before the final close, part of the amount at a price of 25.0 million, following an independent drawn down from 3i Infrastructure was returned to the valuation as at 31 December 2007.
Company in order to apportion the Funds investments Debt investments Prior to 31 March 2008, investment proportionately between all investors, based on each commitments totalling 34.2 million were made to invest investors commitment to the Fund.
The amount in three junior debt facilities of infrastructure businesses, returned, which totalled US$89.7 million 45 million set out in Table 2 below.
Due to the dislocation in the at 31 March 2008, has remained committed to the credit markets, the pricing of such junior debt currently Fund and is available for drawdown as and when new delivers attractive, equity-like returns and a high cash investments are to be made by the Fund.
yield, which is comfortably within the Companys blended Net of the amount returned to the Company, portfolio range.
This market situation has enabled at 31 March 2008, the Fund had drawn down investment in such products, that would previously have US$76.7 million 36.4 million of the Companys been excluded due to the Companys investment return commitments.
The Company also received 1.4 million objective.
The Investment Adviser has carried out a in interest payments in the period from new investors in detailed assessment of the credit worthiness of each the Fund, as compensation for lost interest income on of the underlying assets.
the amount drawn down and subsequently returned by the Fund.
Table 2 Summary of commitments to junior debt facilities as at 31 March 2008 m Amount Asset Facility committed Viridian Electricinvest Holding Company Limited 500m 12.2 Junior Facility Thames Water Kemble Water Structure Limited 835m 9.9 Term Loan Facility NGW Arqiva Macquarie UK Broadcast Enterprise Limited 475m 12.1 Junior Facility 06 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Investment Advisers review continued Portfolio Summary of portfolio management approach Portfolio value and returns The Investment Adviser provides portfolio management The value of 3i Infrastructures portfolio at 31 March support to the Board.
To achieve this, the Investment Adviser 2008 was 489.7 million 30 September 2007: works with the management and shareholders of each of the portfolio companies to deliver improvements in their 426.4 million.
All assets are performing in line operational performance.
At least one member of the with expectations.
investment advisory team regularly attends the board The performance of the Companys investment assets meetings of portfolio companies, where equity stakes are held.
is measured on the basis of the investment return.
The performance of the portfolio companies is monitored The Company generates returns on the assets either by the Investment Adviser and the Board on a regular basis.
through the yield from dividends or interest earned Management accounts for most assets are received and analysed monthly by the Investment Adviser.
On the basis of this from the assets, from the revaluation of the assets, or information, the Investment Adviser prepares quarterly reports from any realised capital profits from the sale or partial for the benefit of the 3i Infrastructure Board of Directors.
Interest income is earned on cash and The Investment Adviser prepares a formal annual review for cash equivalents.
The investment return attributable each asset, which is presented to the Board of Directors.
to the assets for the period to 31 March 2008 is 112.7 million, 16.3% of opening shareholders equity 30 September 2007: 40.3 million, 5.8%.
Portfolio composition 3i Infrastructures objective is to build a portfolio of assets which is diversified by sector, maturity and geography.
Charts 1, 2 and 3 below illustrate the breakdown of the portfolio by sector, maturity and geography as at 31 March 2008.
The portfolio is invested across a range of asset maturities, from mature, typically high-yielding assets, to early-stage development projects, which would generally provide a lower yield, but higher capital growth potential.
Diversification of the portfolio across this maturity spectrum aims to deliver a balance of income returns and capital growth, as well as to balance the portfolios risk profile.
The Company can also further diversify its portfolio by investing in infrastructure funds.
Such funds generally have a geographical or sector mandate and typically invest across a spectrum of risk profiles and, dependent on that profile, will generate either income or capital growth.
3i Infrastructure targets investment in funds where the risk return profile will complement the balance of risk return sought in its portfolio.
Chart 1 Asset portfolio by sector Chart 2 Asset portfolio by maturity Chart 3 Asset portfolio by geography as at 31 March 2008 as at 31 March 2008 as at 31 March 2008 9% 8% 22% 36% 44% 38% 53% 70% 20% Social infrastructure Transportation Utilities Early stage Operational growth Mature UK Continental Europe Asia Includes investment in Oystercatcher, with operations in the Netherlands, Malta and Singapore.
3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 07 Valuation Summary valuation methodology Investment valuations are calculated at the half year and All valuations are based, in part, on information provided by the at the financial year end by the Investment Adviser and project companies or other investment vehicles in which the then reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
The Investment Adviser evaluates all such information and data.
The most up to date financial model will Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of be used and adjusted for material events at the reporting date.
fair value at the reporting date.
The valuation principles used are based on International Private Equity and Generally, the process of estimating the fair value of an investment involves using the DCF methodology to derive the Venture Capital IPEVC valuation guidelines, generally present value of an investments expected future cash flows.
using a discounted cash flow DCF methodology, Cash flow projections are based on reasonable macroeconomic, which the Board considers to be the most appropriate industry-specific and company-specific financing and operating valuation methodology for infrastructure investments.
An appropriate discount rate is then applied.
Portfolio value Chart 4 illustrates the effects of new investment, asset The discount rate for each investment will vary according to the investments underlying risks.
The Investment Adviser exercises returns and income received on portfolio value during its skill and judgment to assess the most appropriate discount the period to 31 March 2008.
In valuing the portfolio, rate which will be derived from a risk premium, applied for each the weighted average discount rate applied at 31 March individual asset, in excess of the risk-free rate.
Other market 2008 was 12.4% 30 September 2007: 13.1%, the information available to the Investment Adviser, both specific decrease arising from the reduced proportion of the to the Companys investment or to the market sector, may also portfolio invested in the 3i India Infrastructure Fund be incorporated into the discount rate.
and a decrease in the discount rate applied to AWG.
The DCF basis will be used as the primary valuation The discount rate applied to the valuation of AWG methodology for the Companys portfolio, except for the was lowered marginally to reflect the partial sale of a following cases: subsidiary company, Morrison Utility Services, which investments in other infrastructure funds where the Company will result in a reduction in the proportion of income will value its limited partnership share of the net asset generated from unregulated sources and therefore in value of the fund.
It can generally be assumed, however, a reduction of the uncertainty of future cash flows.
that most infrastructure funds will value their underlying assets on a DCF basis.
The underlying fund valuation may be adjusted to incorporate discount rates consistent with the Companys assessment of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature of the assets held in the fund: quoted assets which will be valued at closing bid price: assets close to sale, which will be valued on the basis of expected sale proceeds from offers received as part of a sale process, less an appropriate marketability discount: and debt instruments, which will be valued using quoted bid prices Chart 4 Reconciliation of movement in portfolio value provided by third-party broker information, where available, or for the period to 31 March 2008 m will be held at cost less any appropriate fair value adjustment.
A fair value adjustment will be made against any investment in a company that has failed or is expected to fail within the next 94.4 12 months.
489.7 207.7 27.8 19.0 234.4 Initial New Closing portfolio further Asset Income portfolio value investments Proceeds returns received value Includes unrealised exchange gains of 18.1 million.
08 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Investment Advisers review continued The Company has requested that Ernst & Young LLP Basis of preparation provide a review report on the Investment basis.
In the following section, the Investment Adviser has presented the Companys net asset value and key financial statements to show the return on a pro forma investment basis, in addition to Review report to the Shareholders of the consolidated financial statements as shown on pages 34 to 3i Infrastructure Limited 49, as required under International Financial Reporting Standards We have reviewed the accompanying Summary Total IFRS.
This pro forma investment basis presentation provides Return for the period ended 31 March 2008 and the a more meaningful representation of the Companys net asset value, shows the Companys cash utilisation for investment and Summary Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2008 of differentiates between non-recourse borrowings held within 3i Infrastructure Limited, which are prepared on the basis asset specific acquisition companies and borrowings which may of accounting set out in the Investment Advisers review.
be made at the Company level.
The investment basis accounts These statements are the responsibility of the Company.
for majority investments and subsidiaries formed specifically for Our responsibility is to issue a report on these statements investment purposes in the same way as minority investments, by determining a fair value for the investment and therefore based on our review.
does not consolidate these entities line-by-line as is required under IFRS.
This report is made solely to the shareholders of 3i Infrastructure Limited.
Our review work has been Two adjustments have been made in order to show returns undertaken so that we might state to the shareholders on an investment basis.
those matters we are required to state to them in a 3i Infrastructure holds 55.7% of 3i Osprey LP, the vehicle review report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest through which 3i Group also holds its investment in AWG.
3i Infrastructure is required under IFRS to consolidate the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume results and balance sheet of this LP into its accounts on a responsibility to anyone other than the Company, for line-by-line basis.
The remaining 44.3% of this entity is our review work or for this report.
held by 3i Group and a third party.
In the investment basis presentation, 3i Infrastructure has recognised only its share We conducted our review in accordance with the of the income and balance sheet of 3i Osprey LP.
International Standard on Review Engagements 2400.
During the period the Company invested in Oystercatcher Luxco This Standard requires that we plan and perform the 1 and Luxco 2 S. r. l. s, two wholly-owned subsidiaries, to fund review to obtain moderate assurance as to whether these the minority investment into three subsidiaries of Oiltanking.
statements are free of material misstatement.
A review External borrowings were made by Oystercatcher Luxco 2 to fund the investments.
These borrowings are non-recourse to is limited primarily to enquiries of company personnel 3i Infrastructure.
Under IFRS, the results and balance sheets of and analytical procedures applied to financial data and the Oystercatcher Luxco 1 and Luxco 2 subsidiaries are required thus provides less assurance than an audit.
We have not to be consolidated into 3i Infrastructures financial statements performed an audit and, accordingly, we do not express on a line-by-line basis.
In the investment basis presentation an audit opinion.
the Luxco 2 subsidiary is not consolidated but is accounted for as a portfolio asset held for investment purposes and is fair Based on our review of the statements above, nothing valued accordingly.
has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Summary Total Return and the Summary Balance Sheet are not presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the basis of accounting set out in the Investment Advisers review.
Ernst & Young LLP Jersey 11 June 2008 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Returns Capital return The unrealised value uplift, totalling 48.5 million in the Performance indicator period 30 September 2007: 11.3 million increased significantly in the second half of the year.
The largest Objective: 3i Infrastructures objective is to provide its 2 valuation uplifts have arisen from I, Alma Mater shareholders with a total return of 12% per annum on net IPO and AWG.
proceeds, to be achieved over the long term.
2 In the period, I fully invested or committed the initial Status: 13.1% total return for the period to 31 March 2008. commitments received from its limited partners: as part of the strategic review of the asset, further return The commentary below outlines the key drivers of the enhancements have been identified that are expected Companys returns, according to the investment basis to be delivered over the next 12 months.
Alma Mater, which was purchased from 3i Group under 3i Infrastructure achieved a total return of 90.5 million the option agreement granted at the time of IPO, has for the period to 31 March 2008 30 September 2007: been valued on a sale basis following receipt, by the 33.3 million.
The diluted net asset value at 31 March Company, of an offer to purchase the asset, which 2008 before the deduction of the final proposed has generated an uplift of 11.0 million over the dividend was 108.6p per share.
The investment return was 112.7 million, of which Finally, the discount rate applied to determine the 94.4 million was generated from portfolio assets and valuation of AWG has been lowered marginally.
21.7 million was interest on financial assets.
The return comprises dividends and interest yield from the portfolio Exchange movements, arising mainly from the of 27.8 million, as well as an unrealised value uplift appreciation of the euro against sterling since the including foreign exchange gains of 66.6 million, completion of the euro investments in Oystercatcher recognised on the revaluation of certain assets in the and T2C, have resulted in an unrealised value increase portfolio.
This is net of fees arising from investment of 18.1 million.
activity and costs payable to advisers of 3.4 million.
Portfolio income Portfolio income of 27.8 million has been generated from dividends and interest income on loans to portfolio companies.
Fees payable of 3.4 million are transaction costs which are not funded through investment consideration, or incurred pursuing opportunities which were not completed.
Advisory fees, performance fees and operating costs During the period to 31 March 2008, 3i Infrastructure Table 3 Summary total return on an investment basis incurred advisory fees and performance fees of for the period from 16 January 2007 to 31 March 2008 17.5 million.
The advisory fee payable to 3i plc, m calculated as 1.5% of the Gross Investment Value, Unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments 48.5 amounted to 8.0 million.
The performance fee, calculated Foreign exchange gains on investments 18.1 as 20% of returns above a performance hurdle of 8% Capital return 66.6 growth in Net Asset Value adjusted for IPO costs Portfolio income before distributions and performance fee totalled 9.2 million.
For a more detailed explanation of how Dividends 17.3 fees are calculated, please refer to note 17 on page 48.
Income from loans and receivables 10.5 Fees payable 3.4 Operating costs of 3.9 million relate to the running costs of the Company and are attributable to Board Interest receivable 21.7 costs, service provider costs and other professional fees.
Investment return 112.7 Professional fees of 9.8 million relating to the IPO Advisory, performance and management fees payable 17.5 of the Company have been charged directly against Operating expenses 3.9 reserves and are not reflected in the total return shown Other costs 1.4 in Table 3.
Profit for the period 89.9 Exchange difference on translation of foreign operations 0.6 Total recognised income and expense Total return 90.5 10 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Investment Advisers review continued Balance sheet Net asset value and distributions As at 31 March 2008, the cash balance stood at Performance indicator 253.7 million and there were no external borrowings on a recourse basis to the Company.
The Company, Objective: 3i Infrastructures objective is to target an annual at 31 March 2008, had in place a 225 million revolving distribution yield, on full investment of IPO proceeds, of 5.0% multicurrency credit facility which, at the time of of the net IPO proceeds.
Status: Total dividend of 5.0p per share equates to a 5.1% Other current assets are predominantly attributable to distribution on the net IPO proceeds.
cash in transit in relation to the investment commitments made in the junior debt portfolio at the end of the The net asset value at 31 March 2008 was financial period.
769.6 million, which reduces to 748.5 million after the deduction of the proposed final dividend, which will The stated capital account was reduced by Court order be paid in July 2008.
Diluted net asset value per share, on 20 December 2007 and a balance of 693.1 million accounting for the 70.6 million warrants issued at IPO, was transferred to a new, distributable reserve which has was 108.6p per share at 31 March 2008 September been combined with retained reserves in these accounts.
2007: 103.1p which reduces to 105.6p per share Following this transfer, the amount remaining to the credit after the payment of the proposed final dividend of of the Companys stated capital account is 2.
Table 4 Summary balance sheet on an investment basis as at 31 March 2008 m Assets Non-current assets Chart 5 Reconciliation of movements in net asset value Investment portfolio 489.7 for the period to 31 March 2008 m Current assets Other current assets 41.4 90.5 Cash and cash equivalents 253.7 748.5 702.9 Total current assets 295.1 35.1 9.8 Total assets 784.8 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 15.2 Total current liabilities 15.2 Total liabilities 15.2 Net assets 769.6 Equity Stated capital account Retained reserves 769.0 Translation reserve 0.6 IPO IPO Total Total Closing NAV proceeds costs return dividends post-dividend Total shareholders equity 769.6 The stated capital account is 2.
See note 13 for more details.
