3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 25 Directors report corporate governance information This section of the Directors report contains corporate terminated by either the Company or the Investment governance information for the period from 16 January Adviser giving the other not less than 12 months notice 2007 to 31 March 2008 the period.
in writing provided however that neither party may give such notice during the first four years of the Investment Principal activity Advisers appointment, save that such 12 months notice 3i Infrastructure Limited is a closed-ended investment may be given at any time if the Investment Adviser has company that invests in infrastructure businesses ceased to be a member of 3i Group, or with immediate and assets.
The Directors do not anticipate any effect by either party giving the other written notice in change in the principal activity of the Company in the event of the insolvency or material or persistent the foreseeable future.
breach of its terms by the other party.
3i Group was among the subscribers to 3i Infrastructures Regulation initial public offering and owns 46% of the equity in the 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated Company.
Fee arrangements and the amount payable by the Jersey Financial Services Commission as a to 3i plc for the period are set out in note 17 Related collective investment fund under the Collective parties on page 48.
The Directors believe that the continued appointment Results and dividends of the Investment Adviser on the terms set out on The financial statements of the Company and its page 49 is in the interest of shareholders, based on subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the performance in the period.
the period appear on pages 34 to 49.
Other significant service arrangements Total recognised income and expense for the period In addition to the arrangements described above, attributable to equity holders of the parent was 3i plc a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group and 89 million.
An interim dividend of 2.0p per share 3i Investments, in relation to certain regulatory services, in respect of the period to 31 March 2008 was paid on have been appointed by the Company to provide support 19 December 2007.
The Directors recommend a final services to the Company and its subsidiaries including dividend of 3.0p per share be paid in respect of the period treasury and accounting services, investor relations and to 31 March 2008 to shareholders on the register at the other back office services.
Fee arrangements and the close of business on 20 June 2008. amount payable to 3i plc for the period are set out in note 17 Related parties on page 48.
Secretaries Limited have been appointed The Company has a non-executive Board and no as Administrator and Company Secretary to the Company.
The Board acts as the Companys investment committee and is responsible for the determination and Business review supervision of the investment policy of the Company and The Companys development during the period to for the approval of investment opportunities sourced by 31 March 2008, its position at that date and the the Investment Adviser.
The Board will also supervise Companys likely future development are detailed in the the monitoring of existing investments and approve Chairmans statement on page 1 and the Investment divestments and refinancing of portfolio assets.
Advisers review on pages 3 to 10.
Advisory arrangements Share capital 3i Investments acts as Investment Adviser to 3i Ordinary shares Infrastructure through its infrastructure investment team.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 May The investment advisory team provides advice to the 2008 was 702,859,804 ordinary shares.
Company on the origination and completion of new investments, on the realisation of investments, on funding Warrants requirements, as well as on the management of the Under the IPO, for every ten shares purchased, one investment portfolio.
The Company has an exclusivity warrant was issued.
Each warrant entitles the holder arrangement with the Investment Adviser that originally to subscribe for one ordinary share at 1.00 at any lasted for an initial period ending on the earlier of March time from 13 September 2007 to 13 March 2012.
2012 or the full investment of the IPO proceeds.
At 31 March 2008 there were 70,640,980 warrants in Under the agreement with the Investment Adviser, issue, and no warrants had been converted since issue.
the appointment of the Investment Adviser may be 26 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Directors report corporate governance information continued Major interests in ordinary shares Corporate governance As at 31 May 2008, the Company had been notified The Companys approach to corporate governance of the following interests in the Companys ordinary Although there is no published corporate governance share capital in accordance with Chapter 5 of the regime specific to Jersey, the Company is committed Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial to the highest standards of corporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Number of ordinary shares Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code, % as at 31 May as modified by Listing Rule 15 2 and to the extent 3i Group plc 46.43 325,000,000 applicable to the Company given that it has no executive BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 14.29 100,000,000 directors.
Throughout the period, the Company complied Maan Abdulwahed Al-Sanea 7.14 50,000,000 with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Each ordinary share carries one voting right.
Code on the basis set out above, except where indicated below: Directors interests In accordance with FSA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors - the Senior Independent Director was appointed on interests in respect of which transactions are notifiable 15 November 2007 and therefore did not serve in that to the Company under FSA Disclosure and Transparency position throughout the period: and Rule 3.1.
2 R in the shares of the Company as at - given the size and composition of the Board, the 31 March 2008 are shown below: Company does not have a remuneration committee.
Ordinary shares Warrants The Board as a whole instead reviews the scale and Peter Sedgwick 40,000 structure of the Directors remuneration, taking into Phil Austin account the interests of shareholders and the Martin Dryden performance of the Company.
Peter Wagner 40,000 The Board has adopted a code of Directors dealings in Paul Waller ordinary shares, which is based on the Model Code for directors dealings contained in the Listing Rules the Steven Wilderspin Model Code.
The Board will be responsible for taking In the period from 1 April 2008 to 11 June 2008, there all proper and reasonable steps to ensure compliance were no changes in the interests of each Director.
with the Model Code by the Directors.
Directors authority to buy back shares The Boards responsibilities and processes The Company did not purchase any shares for cancellation The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall during the period.
The current authority of the Company management of the Company.
It determines matters to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the including financial strategy and planning and takes all issued ordinary share capital expires on 16 July 2008. investment decisions, taking into account the advice it The Company will seek to renew such authority until the receives from the Investment Adviser.
The Board has end of the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2009. put in place an organisational structure.
This is further Any buy-back of ordinary shares will be made subject to described under the heading internal control.
Jersey law and the making and timing of any buy-backs The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters will be at the absolute discretion of the Directors.
reserved to it and the Audit Committee for decision.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance These include: with the Listing Rules of the FSA which provide that the price paid must not be more than 5% above the average approval of the Companys overall strategy, strategic middle market quotations for the ordinary shares for the plan and annual operating budget: five business days before the shares are purchased.
approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial statements and changes in the Companys accounting policies or practices: changes relating to the capital structure of the Company or its regulated status: 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 27 appointment and removal of the Investment Adviser regular reports from the Investment Adviser relating and periodic review and continued approval of key to the infrastructure market and early stage agreements with service providers, including the work-in-progress: Investment Advisory Agreement with 3i Investments: the recommendations of the Investment Adviser major changes in the nature of business operations or on the valuation of investments: investment policy: the Companys share price performance and investments and divestments: shareholder perceptions following the release of the interim report: approval of portfolio company valuations and review of the performance and plans for each portfolio company: risk management arrangements, internal controls and the investment approval process: adequacy of internal control systems: and corporate responsibility initiatives and performance: appointments to the Board and determination of terms of appointment of Directors.
a review of the performance of key service providers to the Company: and Meetings of the Board The Board is required to meet a minimum of four times independence of Directors.
A calendar of scheduled main Board meetings Information is agreed at the start of the year.
Due to the nature of Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a the Boards close involvement in the operation of the timely manner in preparation for Board and committee Company and in making investment-related decisions, meetings.
These papers are supplemented by information a number of further meetings are arranged at shorter specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
During the period, there were six main meetings of the Board of Directors.
In addition to these meetings, Performance evaluation there were nine full Board meetings arranged at short During the period, the Board conducted its first annual notice and four meetings of specifically formed evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees of the Board.
The Chairman led the process.
All Board members gave personal views to The Directors attendance at main Board meetings is set the Chairman and the Chairman gave feedback to the out in the table below: Board.
As this was the first period of the Company since Number of meetings incorporation, the Senior Independent Director did not whilst a Director Attendance lead a review by the Directors of the performance of Peter Sedgwick 6 6 the Chairman.
An evaluation of the performance of the Phil Austin 6 4 Chairman by the Senior Independent Director will take Martin Dryden 6 6 place in the months to come.
Peter Wagner 6 6 Following the completion of the above process, the Board Paul Waller 5 2 concluded that: Steven Wilderspin 4 4 it had benefited from having strategy sessions during During the period, Paul Waller was unable to attend three meetings due to ill health.
the period in addition to its regular Board meetings, The principal matters considered by the Board during the dealing with high-level strategic issues, and that this period included: practice should be continued: the Companys strategy, budget and financial resources: it would continue to progress a development programme for Directors encompassing both briefings the Companys capital structure, balance sheet on general Company-related matters and topics efficiency and taxation arrangements: specific to the infrastructure market: and investment decisions, including the commitment to the that further external input into the Board review 3i India Infrastructure Fund: process should be introduced to supplement existing portfolio asset performance: processes in the forthcoming year.
28 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Directors report corporate governance information continued The Chairman During the period from appointment to 31 March 2008, The Chairman leads the Board in the determination the Directors were due the following emoluments in the of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
form of fees: The Chairman is responsible for organising the business Director Total fees of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting Peter Sedgwick 150,000 its agenda.
The Chairman acts as a manager of Phil Austin 60,000 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. and Martin Dryden 60,000 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. which are Peter Wagner 105,000 subsidiaries of the Company.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of all the Directors and Paul Waller 40,000 constructive relations between the Companys advisers, Steven Wilderspin 21,096 including the Investment Adviser, and the Directors.
These Directors were paid emoluments as from 1 October 2006.
The Chairman ensures that regular reports from the In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as Companys advisers are circulated to the Directors to Directors, the Directors are expected to bring an enable Directors to remain aware of shareholders views.
independent judgment to bear on issues of strategy, The Chairman ensures a programme of effective performance, investment appraisal and standards communication with the Companys shareholders of conduct.
They are also expected to ensure high is followed.
standards of financial probity on the part of the Company.
Senior Independent Director The Directors receive monthly management accounts, The Board appointed Martin Dryden as Senior reports and information which enable them to scrutinise Independent Director on 15 November 2007 and Phil the Companys performance against agreed objectives.
Austin replaced Martin Dryden as Senior Independent Directors independence Director on 29 May 2008.
In accordance with the All the Directors with the exception of Paul Waller are Combined Code, concerns can be conveyed to the considered by the Board to be independent for the Senior Independent Director.
purposes of the Combined Code.
The Board assesses and Directors reviews the independence of each of the Directors at The Board comprises the Chairman and five nonleast annually, having regard to the potential relevance executive Directors.
Biographical details for each of and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships the Directors are set out on page 24.
Peter Sedgwick, rather than applying rigid criteria in a mechanistic manner.
Phil Austin, Martin Dryden and Peter Wagner served No Director was materially interested in any contract throughout the period under review.
Paul Waller served as or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the Director from 28 March 2007.
Steven Wilderspin served financial period that was significant in relation to the as a Director from 20 September 2007. business of the Company.
No Director has a service contract with the Company, Training and development nor are any such contracts proposed.
The Directors were The Company has developed a framework within which appointed as non-executive Directors by the subscribers training for Directors is planned, with the objective to the Memorandum of Association of the Company or of ensuring Directors understand the duties and at a subsequent Board meeting.
Their appointment was responsibilities of being a director of a listed company.
confirmed by letters dated 29 January 2007 in the All Directors are required to update their skills and case of Peter Sedgwick, Phil Austin and Martin Dryden, maintain their familiarity with the Company and its 16 February 2007 in the case of Peter Wagner, 27 March business continually.
Presentations on different aspects 2007 in the case of Paul Waller and 20 September 2007 of the Companys business are made regularly to the in the case of Steven Wilderspin.
Their appointment is Board, most commonly by the Investment Adviser.
expressed to be subject to the Companys Articles On appointment, all Directors have discussions with the of Association.
The Directors appointment can be Chairman, following which appropriate briefings on the terminated in accordance with the Articles of Association.
responsibilities of Directors, the Companys business and the Companys procedures are arranged.
The Company provides opportunities for Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys business and the industry it operates in by meeting senior members of the investment advisory team who in turn can arrange, as required, visits to portfolio investments or support teams.
3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 29 During the period the Directors received training, briefing The Boards committees or advice on the following: Due to the structure of the Company, having no employees or executive management, the non-executive the Combined Code on Corporate Governance: Directors do not benefit from having numerous developments in relation to the implementation of the committees reporting to the Board.
Hence, the Company Transparency Directive and the UK Companies Act does not have a Nominations Committee or Remuneration 2006: and Committee.
The Board as a whole instead reviews the appointment of new directors and the scale and structure changes to the Listing Rules.
Directors also received presentations on specific aspects The Board is assisted by an Audit Committee which of the Companys business.
reports regularly to the Board.
The membership of this The Company has procedures for Directors to take committee is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Audit independent legal or other professional advice about Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which the performance of their duties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee provide that no one Re-election other than the Chairman and members may attend a The Companys Articles of Association provide for: meeting unless invited.
a Directors to retire at the first AGM after their Audit Committee appointment by the Board and for the number nearest The Audit Committee comprises Martin Dryden, to, but not exceeding, one third of the remaining Phil Austin, Steven Wilderspin and Peter Wagner, Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM: and all of whom served throughout the period, save for b all Directors to retire at least every three years.
Steven Wilderspin who served from 20 September 2007.
All the members of the Audit Committee are independent Paul Waller, as a non-independent Director, is required to non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that the retire each year.
Subject to the Articles of Association, Audit Committee chairman, Martin Dryden, has recent retiring Directors are eligible for reappointment.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, at the During the period, there were three meetings of the AGM to be held on 28 July 2008: Audit Committee.
The members who served throughout i Steven Wilderspin, having been appointed as the period attended all meetings, save for Phil Austin who a Director since the AGM in 2007, will retire and, attended two meetings.
Steven Wilderspin attended being eligible, offer himself for election: the two meetings held following his appointment.
ii Paul Waller, as a non-independent Director nominated During the period, the Audit Committee: by 3i Group, will retire and, being eligible, offer himself reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control for re-election.
environment of the Company and the Companys iii Peter Sedgwick will retire by rotation and, being compliance with its regulatory requirements: eligible, offer himself for re-election.
reviewed and recommended to the Board the The Boards recommendation for the election or accounting disclosures comprised in the interim and re-election of Directors is set out in the Notice of AGM.
annual financial statements of the Company and reviewed the scope of the annual external audit plan Directors indemnities and the external audit findings: The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to the provisions of the Statutes, every Director reviewed matters relating to the Companys key of the Company shall be indemnified out of the assets of performance measures, International Financial the Company against all liabilities and expenses incurred Reporting Standards and financial reporting by him in the actual or purported execution or discharge requirements arising from the implementation of his duties.
Statutes here refers to the Companies of the Transparency Directive: Jersey Law 1991 and every other statute, regulation received relevant reports from Internal Audit and or order for the time being in force concerning companies Compliance functions of key service providers: registered under Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Company has, in accordance with Jersey law, entered into indemnity agreements for the benefit of its Directors during the period and these remain in force at the date of this report.
30 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Directors report corporate governance information continued oversaw the Companys relations with its external Portfolio management and voting policy auditors, including assessing independence and In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys objectivity, recommending the auditors reappointment approach is to seek to add value to the businesses in and approving the auditors fees: which it invests through the extensive experience, resources and contacts of the investment advisory team.
reviewed the calculation of the advisory and In relation to quoted investments, the Companys policy performance fees of the Investment Adviser: is to exercise voting rights on matters affecting the met with the external auditors in the absence of interests of the Company.
the Investment Adviser: and Internal control considered whether matters existed which could give The Board is responsible for the Companys system of rise to conflicts of interest between the Board and internal control and reviews its effectiveness at least the Company.
Such a system is designed to manage rather Investment Committee than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business As outlined on page 25, a committee of the Board, objectives and can provide only reasonable and not chaired by Peter Sedgwick and comprising all other absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Board members acts as Investment Committee.
Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board or Audit The Company Secretary Committee for decision, the Board aims to maintain The Company has appointed Mourant & Co.
Secretaries full and effective control over appropriate strategic, Limited as Company Secretary.
financial, operational and compliance issues.
All Directors have access to the advice and services The Board considers and approves Company strategy of the Company Secretary and Legal Advisers to the and approves a budget on an annual basis.
In addition, Company, who advise the Board, through the Chairman, there are established procedures and processes for on governance matters.
The Companys Articles of planning, forecasting and controlling expenditure and Association and the schedule of matters reserved to the the making of investments.
There are also, provided Board or its duly authorised committees for decision through the Investment Advisory and UK Support provide that the appointment and removal of the Services agreements, information and reporting Company Secretary would be a matter for the full Board.
systems for monitoring the Companys investments Relations with shareholders and their performance.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a Due to the structure of the Company, the Company is purposeful relationship with the Companys shareholders.
reliant on the operating procedures and internal controls The Chairman maintains a dialogue with shareholders of key service providers.
The Board has put in place a on strategy, corporate governance and Directors process to review the operation of these controls.
Senior members of the investment advisory team also meet with the Companys The overall internal control process is regularly reviewed principal institutional shareholders to discuss relevant by the Board and the Audit Committee and complies issues as they arise.
with the internal control guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Turnbull Committee.
The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers and other advisers on shareholder issues and Directors are invited to attend the Companys presentations to analysts and are offered the opportunity to meet shareholders.
The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to communicate with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, business presentations are made by the Chairman and senior members of the investment advisory team.
The chairman of the Audit Committee is also available to answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of AGM for 2007 was dispatched to shareholders not less than 20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting on each resolution was taken on a show of hands and the results were made available on the Companys website.
3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 31 Principles and processes They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as the Company adopts a set of core values, high level are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of principles and controls: the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Suitable accounting policies, which follow a planning framework which incorporates a Board generally accepted accounting practice and are explained approved medium-term strategy: in the notes to the financial statements, have been applied formal business and operating risk reviews which consistently and applicable accounting standards have evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood been followed.
In addition, these financial statements of identified risks and possible new risk areas: comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and reasonable and the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring prudent judgments and estimates have been used in procedures and the review of actual occurrences, their preparation.
identifying lessons to be learnt: In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency a comprehensive system of financial reporting to Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of their the Board, based on an annual budget with monthly knowledge that: reporting of actual results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance measures and regular a the financial statements, prepared in accordance re-forecasting: with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse the profit or loss of the Company: and funding requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity and record the level b the Directors report includes a fair review of the of compliance with the Companys funding objectives: development and performance of the business and and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties well defined procedures governing the appraisal and faced by the Company.
approval of investments, including detailed investment and divestment approval procedures, incorporating The Directors of the Company and their functions appropriate levels of authority and regular post are listed on page 24. investment reviews.
Going concern Verification The Directors are satisfied that the Company has the external auditors who are engaged to express an adequate resources to continue to operate for the opinion on the annual financial statements: and foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to an Audit Committee which considers significant control adopt the going concern basis for preparing the matters and receives relevant reports from key service financial statements.
providers, compliance or internal audit functions.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are required by Companies Jersey Law 1991 to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the period and of the profit for the period.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
32 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Directors report corporate governance information continued Auditors independence and objectivity Appointment of auditors Subject to annual appointment by shareholders, In accordance with Article 109 of the Companies Jersey auditor performance is monitored on an ongoing basis Law 1991, a resolution proposing the reappointment of and formally reviewed every five years, the next Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put review being 2012.
Following the first period since to members at the forthcoming AGM.
incorporation, the Audit Committee will review auditor By order of the Board performance during the period.
The Audit Committee recognises the importance of Authorised signatory ensuring the independence and objectivity of the Mourant & Co.
Secretaries Limited Company Secretary Companys auditors.
It reviews the nature and extent of the services provided by them, the level of their fees 11 June 2008 and the element comprising non-audit fees.
The Audit Registered Office: Committee Chairman is notified of all assignments 22 Grenville Street allocated to the auditors, other than those related to due St. Helier diligence within the Companys investment process where Jersey the team engaged would be independent of the audit Channel Islands team.
Safeguards are in place to reduce the likelihood JE4 8PX of compromising auditor independence, including the following principles which are applied in respect of services provided by the auditors and other accounting firms and monitored by the Audit Committee: services required to be undertaken by the auditors, which include formalities relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars.
This work is normally allocated directly to the auditors: services which it is most efficient for the auditors to provide.
In this case, information relating to the service is largely derived from the Companys audited financial records: for example, review of Advisory and Performance fee calculations.
This work is normally allocated to the auditors subject to consideration of any impact on their independence: and services that could be provided by a number of firms including general consultancy work.
All significant consultancy projects are normally put out to tender and work would be allocated to the auditors only if it did not present a potential threat to the independence of the audit team.
Included in this category is due diligence work relating to the investment process.
If this service were to be provided by the auditors, the specific team engaged would be independent of the audit team.
Details of the fees paid to the auditors are disclosed in note 17 to the financial statements on page 48.
