3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 11 Profile of senior members of the investment advisory team Michael Queen Neil King Managing Partner, Infrastructure, 3i Investments Partner, Infrastructure, 3i Investments Currently heads the Infrastructure business line at 3i Group and is Joined 3i Group in 2005, with more than 15 years of infrastructure a member of the Board of Directors of 3i Group.
Joined 3i Group in project financing experience, having previously worked at Innisfree, 1987 as an investment executive.
Was seconded to HM Treasury WestLB, Barclays Capital and Lloyds Bank.
Arranged many major from 1994 to 1996, where he established and led the Private deals across the infrastructure market during his career, including Finance Unit within the NHS to champion the roll-out of PFI across Wembley Stadium, Premier Prisons Group, the Cross Israel health capital projects.
Was also a member of the Private Finance Highway, Cornwall Schools PFI and the SELCHP waste to energy Panel Executive which developed PFI projects in the education, plant.
Since joining 3i Group, has been heavily involved in the AWG transport, prisons and water sectors.
Became an executive director acquisition and the raising of the India Infrastructure Fund, while of 3i Group in 1997, since when he has been a member of overseeing the origination and execution of new transactions.
Was Group Finance Director from 1997 until April 2005, when he became Managing Partner of 3i Groups Growth Capital investment business and set up the dedicated Infrastructure business line.
Qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand before joining 3i Group.
Cressida Hogg Stephen Halliwell Senior Partner, Infrastructure, 3i Investments Chief Financial Officer, Infrastructure, 3i Investments Joined 3i Group in 1995.
Was appointed head of the Infrastructure Chief Financial Officer for 3i Groups Infrastructure business line investment team when it was set up in May 2005, before since April 2007.
Manages all of the operational, financial and which was a Director in the UK Growth and Buyouts businesses.
reporting requirements for the Infrastructure business line within Worked on a number of infrastructure transactions, including 3i Group, as well as performing CFO duties for 3i Infrastructure Merlin Communications, Alert Communications, Alma Mater, Limited.
Joined 3i Groups Finance Team in 1998, most recently 2 I and AWG.
holding the post of Head of Financial Planning and Analysis.
Between 2001 to 2005 was also Operations Director for 3i Groups businesses in the Benelux countries.
Qualified as a Chartered Accountant while at Binder Hamlyn London and Arthur Andersen between 1991 to 1998.
Girish Baliga Partner, Infrastructure, 3i Investments Joined 3i Group in December 2005.
Before transferring to the Infrastructure investment team in 2007, helped to establish and build 3i Groups Growth Capital business in India.
Previously at JPMorgan, Whitefield Capital Investment Advisors and Chryscapital Investment Advisors, one of the largest independent private equity funds in India.
