Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1 5 2 1,2 Charles Irby FCA Donald Waters OBE CA Chairman Age 63 senior Independent Non Executive Director Age 70 Charles was appointed to the board on 1 August 1999 and became Donald was appointed to the board on 1 February 2000.
He is also a director of Great chartered accountant, Donald is a director of James Johnston & Portland Estates plc, North Atlantic Smaller Companies Investment Co of Elgin Limited.
He was formerly deputy chairman and chief Trust plc and QBE Insurance Group Limited and a trustee and executive of Grampian Television plc and a director of SMG plc.
governor of King Edward vIIs Hospital, Sister Agnes.
A chartered Donald is chairman of the Groups audit committee.
accountant, Charles spent 27 years with ING Barings Limited, 6 specialising in corporate finance and is a former member of the 3 Roger Cornick Takeover Panel.
Charles is chairman of the Groups nomination Independent Non Executive Director Age 64 committee.
Roger joined the board on 23 January 2004.
Roger was with 2 Perpetual PLC for over 20 years, serving latterly as deputy Martin Gilbert MA LLB LLD CA chairman.
Roger has over 30 years' experience of sales and Chief Executive Age 53 marketing in financial services and is currently a trustee of the Martin is a founding director and shareholder of the company River and Rowing Museum.
having been appointed a director on 1 July 1983.
Martin trained 7 as a chartered accountant in Aberdeen before moving into 1,3 Anita Frew BA MPHIL investment management with an Aberdeen firm of solicitors.
Independent Non Executive Director Age 51 Martin is chairman of FirstGroup plc and Chaucer Holdings PLC.
Anita was appointed to the board on 1 October 2004.
Anita Martin is also a director of Aberdeen Asian Smaller Companies started her career at The Royal Bank of Scotland before moving Investment Trust PLC, Aberdeen Asia-Pacific Income Fund, Inc, to Scottish Provident where she became head of uK Investment.
Aberdeen Asia-Pacific Income Investment Company Limited, Anita then joined WPP Group PLC as director of corporate Aberdeen Australia Equity Fund Inc, Aberdeen Development Capital development and was an executive director at Abbott Mead vickers PLC, Aberdeen Football Club plc, Aberdeen Global Income Fund, Inc, plc in 1997.
Anita is currently chairman of victrex PLC and a non and Primary Health Properties PLC.
executive director of City of London Investment Trust plc, IMI plc, 3 Northumbrian Water Limited and Securities Trust of Scotland PLC.
Andrew Laing MA LLB 8 Deputy Chief Executive Age 56 2,3 The Rt.
Sir Malcolm Rifkind KCMG QC Andrew joined the Group in 1986 with responsibility for the Independent Non Executive Director Age 62 private equity division.
He was subsequently appointed chief Sir Malcolm joined the board on 1 August 2000.
He is Conservative operating officer, originally joining the board in 1997 and then Member of Parliament for Kensington and Chelsea having again on 23 January 2004.
During 2008, Andrew was appointed previously served as uK defence secretary and uK foreign secretary.
Andrew graduated from Aberdeen Sir Malcolm served on the boards of British Assets Investment Trust university with an MA in Politics and International Relations and F&C Emerging Markets Investment Trust.
Sir Malcolm is also and a degree in Law.
After a period of practising commercial a consultant to BHP Billiton Plc.
Sir Malcolm is chairman of the law, Andrew entered private equity in Edinburgh, before joining Group's remuneration committee.
Andrew is a director of the Groups property division and a number of group subsidiaries.
9 1,3 Giles Weaver FCA 4 Independent Non Executive Director Age 62 Bill Rattray MA CA Finance Director Age 50 Giles was appointed to the board on 1 December 2000.
A chartered accountant, Giles was formerly managing director and Bill joined the Group in 1985 as company secretary and chairman of the Murray Johnstone Group until its acquisition by subsequently became Group financial controller.
He is currently chairman of Charter European appointed finance director on 31 January 1991.
Before joining the Trust PLC, AH Medical Properties PLC, Kenmore European Industrial Group, he trained as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Whinney Fund Limited and Helical Bar PLC.
Giles is also a director of Anglo in Aberdeen and qualified in 1982.
Bill is a director of a number of & Overseas PLC, Investec High Income Trust PLC and ISIS Property group subsidiaries.
1 Member of the audit committee 2 Member of the nominations committee 3 Member of the remuneration committee Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33
