Management board Rickard Backlund Rod MacRae CEO, Aberdeen Property Investors Group Head of Risk Rickard joined Aberdeen in 2001 having Rod is responsible for uK and global risk including previously been the CEO of Celexa internal audit, regulatory compliance, business Fastighetskapital from 1998.
He has a masters and investment risk and serves as chairman of the degree in Civil Engineering from The Swedish Group risk management committee.
Rod joined Royal Institute of Technology and completed a Aberdeen in 2003, following the acquisition of course in Business Administration and Managerial Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Rod graduated with Economics at ume university.
Rickard is a MA Hons in Economics from the university a member of the board of FASTIGO, The of Edinburgh and is a member of the Institute Federation of Swedish Real Estate Employers of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
and is a member of the board of SIPA, the Gary Marshall Scandinavian International Property Association.
Head of Collective Funds Gary Bartlett Gary is head of collective funds, chief Head of Fixed Income and Chief executive of Aberdeen unit Trust Managers Executive Officer us Ltd and chief executive of Aberdeen Asset Gary is head of fixed income globally and Management Life and Pensions Ltd.
He also chief executive officer of our uS operations.
sits on the boards of the Groups Dublin and Gary joined Aberdeen via the acquisition of Luxembourg based offshore fund ranges.
Gary Deutsche Asset Managements Philadelphia graduated with a BSc Hons in Actuarial fixed income businesses in 2005 where he was Mathematics and Statistics from Heriot a senior portfolio manager and led the uS team.
Watt university and is a qualified actuary.
Previously, he worked for PNC Financial as an Charles McKenzie analyst and fixed income portfolio manager.
Head of Fixed Income EMEA Gary graduated with a BA in Economics from Charles joined Aberdeen via the acquisition Bucknell university in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania of Deutsche Asset Managements London and in 1982, and an MBA from Drexel university, Philadelphia fixed income businesses in 2005.
Philadelphia in 1989, and is a CFA charterholder.
Charles was head of uK fixed income at Deutsche Chris Ellyatt Asset Management in London which he joined Head of Distribution in 1993.
Charles graduated with a BSc from Chris is Group head of distribution, overseeing Southampton university and an MBA in Finance Business Development, client service and from London City university Business School.
marketing staff in our worldwide offices.
He Anne Richards joined Aberdeen in 2002, initially based in the Chief Investment Officer Singapore office before moving to London in Anne is chief investment officer and head of 2003.
Chris was educated at the university multi-asset investment.
She was formerly of London where he obtained an MSc in chief investment officer and joint managing Development Studies from the School of director of Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Before Oriental and African studies.
Chris has over that, Anne worked for Merrill Lynch Investment 20 years experience in financial services sales Managers.
Anne graduated in Electronics and and marketing, having worked previously Electrical Engineering from the university for HSBC James Capel and BZW, focused of Edinburgh and has a MBA from Insead.
predominantly on Asian and Emerging markets.
Hugh Young Ken Fry Managing Director Asia Chief Operating Officer Hugh is managing director of Aberdeen Asset Ken Fry graduated from the university of Essex Management Asia Limited, the Groups regional with a BA in Computer Science and joined HQ, and is also Group head of equities.
He Aberdeen with the acquisition of Fredericks co-founded Singapore based Aberdeen Asia in Place Holdings in 1989 as Group IT manager.
1992, having been recruited in 1985 to manage He was appointed to the Group management Asian equities from London.
Hugh graduated board in 2006 and to his current role in 2008. with a BA Hons in Politics from Exeter university.
34 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
