What we do At Aberdeen, asset management is our business.
We operate independently and only manage assets for third parties, allowing us to focus solely on their needs, without conflicts of interest.
We now manage over 111 billion of third party assets from our offices around the world.
Our clients access our investment expertise across the three asset classes: equities, fixed income and property.
We package our skills in the form of segregated and pooled products across borders.
We invest worldwide and follow a predominantly long-only approach, based on fundamentally sound investments we do not chase market fads.
Our investment teams are based in the markets or regions in which they invest.
Clients understand our process and portfolios because they are transparent.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts Aber 2008 deen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 7 What we do continued Bottom-up investment style, emphasising Equities company fundamentals Team approach, with asset managers based in the regions where we invest Low portfolio turnover, buying stocks and holding them for the long term First-hand research is central to our process No investment without interviewing the companys management first Aberdeens mainstream equity process dates from the early 1990s and we believe its advantage lies in the consistency of its approach, irrespective of market conditions.
From the company visits and analysis carried out regionally, through to portfolio construction decisions, we adopt a team approach.
Cross-coverage of securities locally ensures objectivity: we avoid cultivating star managers.
Diversification at the stock level is our main control of risk.
We aim to add value by capitalising on original research.
We see equity risk in terms of investing in a poor quality company, or overpaying for a good one.
Equity investment process Equities breakdown UK North America Company visit note Risk 3.3bn 2.7bn controls Specialist equities STEP STEP STEP 4.0bn 1 2 3 Asia Pacific Global 12.4bn EAFE Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio 4.9bn universe construction Pass or fail?
Cheap or expensive Global emerging Potential Watchlist Monitor European markets revisit review 0.6bn 4.7bn Total 32.6bn 2007: 34.0bn 8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Active management Long-term focus We aim to add value by identifying good Our mainstream strategies are simple: we buy quality securities, defined chiefly in terms of and hold, add on the dips and take profits on management and business model, which are price rises.
This reduces transaction costs and attractively priced.
Good stockpicking is the key keeps portfolios focused.
We rarely pursue shortto our performance.
We downplay benchmarks term returns for mainstream equity strategies, in portfolio construction since these provide little albeit for specialist portfolios, activity may be clue to future performance.
Our asset managers more dynamic.
avoid businesses that we do not understand or those with discriminatory shareholder structures.
Team approach We employ around 90 equity investment Proprietary research professionals, based globally.
Portfolio decisions Our mainstream equity managers always visit are made collectively, and we avoid cultivating companies before investing, making thousands star fund managers.
Cross-coverage of securities of visits annually to existing and prospective also increases objectivity and lessens reliance holdings.
Every contact is documented in detail.
If a security fails our screens, we will not own it, irrespective of its index weight.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 What we do continued Active management, operating globally, Fixed income aiming to deliver outperformance Belief that diversified sources of added value improve the risk-return profile Decisions made by specialists, within allocated risk budgets Local presence in London, Philadelphia, Singapore and Sydney Strong derivatives capability for both active and liability management Aberdeens fixed income process dates back to the 1980s.
Its core characteristics are a focus on proprietary research, identifying the opportunities with attractive risk-reward characteristics and combining different and uncorrelated sources of outperformance, known as alpha.
Our discrete alpha teams cover five areas of expertise, each of which operates independently of the other.
These areas are investment grade credit, high yield, emerging market debt, interest rates and currency.
Fixed income investment process Fixed income breakdown 1 2 Emerging markets Clients Investment teams US 1.9bn Agree your risk and Idea generation in an 14.9bn return requirements unconstrained universe Europe 2.6bn Asia Pacific 3.7bn Global Unfunded 8.9bn strategies 0.4bn High yield 3 0.4bn UK Portfolio Selection 4 14.1bn Portfolio managers Team PST Tailored implementation Risk budgeting with no individual discretion and asset allocation Total 46.9bn 2007: 44.5bn 10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Active management Flexible and disciplined investment process We aim to add value by exploiting market Our investment structure enables us not only to inefficiencies in the areas of relative value, credit, follow a disciplined investment process but also interest rate and currency management.
We have to be flexible to manage portfolios for a wide dedicated portfolio managers and analysts in the variety of client requirements.
This may range three main time zones.
They operate as closefrom strategies which employ multiple sources of knit teams, with investment decision-making uncorrelated returns to those that are focused on devolved to specialists, based on their knowledge a particular specialist area, for example emerging and expertise.
Team approach Diverse solutions We employ around 100 investment professionals Many clients are moving to higher performance across our teams.
They invest within clearly or core plus mandates.
Another trend is the move delineated parameters, with defined reporting away from market-based indices and the use of lines.
Our team structures exploit the inherent liability driven benchmarks.
We aim to deliver advantages of independent alpha sources, and we performance across the full range of our fixed are well established in these strong standalone income capabilities.
We also use derivatives, such capabilities, as well as in co-ordinating risks as interest rate and credit default swaps, to add for individual strategies.
value and also to match liability exposures.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 What we do continued An active property investment manager Property Unrivalled local presence in key international markets Separate accounts and collective funds, including funds-of-funds Disciplined investment process, supported by research on the ground Team approach, with managers based in the regions where we invest We offer a wide range of well-structured property investment vehicles that provide strong risk-adjusted returns and a choice of geographic and sector allocation.
In addition to funds holding direct property, Aberdeen has pioneered the development of funds of property funds, with exposure to Continental Europe and Asia.
Active management, top-class research, local presence and a rigorous investment process are the means by which we add value to property investment.
Property investment process Property breakdown Other 0.3bn Forecasts Investment Investment Asia & Relative Strategy Plan 0.5bn UK Pricing 6.8bn Nordic 7.6bn Continental & Eastern Europe Allocation 10.2bn Selection Management Total 25.4bn 2007: 9.4bn 12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Active management Structured investment process Our understanding of the factors that drive Our proven investment process links the three returns stems from our local presence and our essential disciplines of allocation, selection and dedicated research capability.
A unique feature of asset management.
We apply it rigorously to all property is the value that can be added by active property sectors and geographies.
Our principle asset management, and selecting assets with this is to combine advanced top-down research with potential enables a skilful investment manager a pragmatic, but structured, bottom-up approach to create alpha and outperform the market.
The former focuses on managing beta, or portfolio risk, the latter on creating alpha.
Local presence Active property investment requires a local Delivering risk-adjusted returns presence.
We have expanded in Europes heartland and, through our Singapore office, into We aim to help our institutional clients achieve Asia.
We are based in 13 countries and have well diversified property exposure by delivering added the 135-strong Deutsche Gesellschaft fr superior risk-adjusted returns through funds that Immobilienfonds DEGI team in Frankfurt and offer a clear choice of geographic or sectoral 160 people from Goodman Property Investors in exposure.
With our advanced portfolio modelling the uK and in Continental Europe.
This unrivalled techniques, we provide an understanding of local reach is essential to our understanding the risk of different property investments of local markets and our commitment to local and their place in multi-asset portfolios.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13
