NORTH AMERICA BRITISH ISLES CONTINENTAL EuROPE Aberdeen Head office Amsterdam Philadelphia Edinburgh Brussels Philadelphia, PA is our hub for Glasgow Copenhagen North America and includes Jersey Frankfurt fixed income, mainstream London Helsinki uS equity and specialist uS Luxembourg equity teams that manage As our home market, we have Oslo over 24 billion on behalf of several offices around the Paris uS clients.
It is also the base British Isles.
By AuM, 38% Stockholm for uS client servicing and of our clients are based in St Petersburg consultant relations staff.
With the British Isles, accounting Zurich the uS mutual fund range for 41.7 billion.
The city of acquired from Nationwide, we Aberdeen is our headquarters, We have been developing our now have a strong platform on and where we locate many presence across Continental which to service institutional Group functions including Europe, led by our expanding and wholesale channels.
legal, group information and property division.
From its human resources: London is Nordic base, we have added the investment centre for uK Paris and most recently St & European equity and fixed Petersburg.
Amsterdam is a income teams, our largest key marketing office for the office by number of staff, and Dutch pensions market and also where we locate most uK European property clients.
The client servicing and business Frankfurt office was opened relationship staff.
in January 2007 to develop our business with German Edinburgh is the investment institutions.
Luxembourg is centre for global equity, multithe domicile for the Aberdeen asset and structured product Global fund range: a range of teams, as well as the company pooled funds that is distributed secretarial teams for the uK cross-border to 22 countries investment trust range.
Continental offices reflect longstanding Europe now accounts for businesses such as private 28% of group AuM.
equity and, in the case of Jersey, private client operations.
KEY Main investment centres Sales and distribution offices only Key property centres only 30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC AuSTRALIA The Middle East is an important Bangkok Sydney source of institutional funds, and Hong Kong we have a strong client base Kuala Lumpur With 45 employees and 3.3 there which we service from Singapore billion invested by Australian London.
We currently manage Taipei clients in our products, the over 7.5 billion of assets for Tokyo Group's Sydney operation institutional and sovereign has a sizeable presence in wealth entities in the region.
The Asian headquarters of the this relatively sophisticated Group is in Singapore, and home retirement savings market.
Our to most of our Asian fund funds in Australia offer local managers covering the main investors a comprehensive asset classes, as well as to choice of domestic, regional, substantial marketing, client global and emerging market servicing and administrative investments.
We manage functions, over 140 staff in all.
eleven locally registered funds Other full service offices are and one listed investment in Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur company that is listed on the and Bangkok, plus we have Australian Stock Exchange.
research and client servicing in North Asia.
Asian clients account for 4.0 billion of AuM and our investment in Asian securities, both equities and fixed income, is a core competence for the group.
Global reach, local understanding We know global markets from the local level upwards, drawing on 1,900 staff, across 24 offices in 20 countries.
We believe our focus, size and approach enable us to provide effective asset management and superior client service.
Our teams champion original thinking and knowledge, so investment decisions are based only on our own research.
As a group, we have the scale to provide global coverage of financial markets: yet we are small enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
Close-knit teams, clear investment processes and flat structures are important to us.
We seek to grow our clients assets in a way that is manageable and sustainable over the longer term.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31
