Managers Report Performance The total return of ASCoTs benchmark, the HGSC XIC, was negative 40.8% in 2008.
This was the second worst result in nominal terms over the indexs 54 year history.
The FTSE All-Share performed less poorly but nevertheless experienced a negative total return of 29.9%.
Against this background of extremely weak equity markets, ASCoTs modest gearing position proved unhelpful: its total return was negative 39.6%, slightly ahead of the benchmark.
The performance at the investment portfolio level, after costs but excluding the effect of the gearing, was better, with a decline of 37.8%.
Recent stockmarket weakness has been so severe that the FTSE All-Share has now registered a total return of just 12.4% cumulatively over the past ten years, a negative outcome in real terms.
Small companies have performed rather more respectably, with a 61.5% return over the same period, while ASCoTs total return has been 153.4%.
Investment Background Last years horrible performance from equities was not confined to the UK.
Stockmarkets around the world declined precipitously, with 50% drops not uncommon in both established and emerging markets.
Nor was the weakness of these returns confined to equities: any asset class perceived as risky suffered in 2008 as the credit markets moved from crunch to crisis.
By default, as it were, government debt has been the beneficiary of such extreme risk aversion: in the US, treasury bill yields have at times dropped below zero and ten year government bonds ended the year yielding close to 2%.
And, of course, bank deposits were caught up in the maelstrom: at certain points through the year, equities certainly looked a less risky proposition.
After the relative calm of the first half of the year, the credit crisis intensified in the third quarter.
The process of fide-leveraging, which started over a year ago when US subprime problems were exposed, gathered pace and was punctuated by large downward lurches.
Of these, the most spectacular and deep-reaching was the failure of Lehman, which brought home the reality of counterparty risk.
The reluctance or inability of the banks to make new loans was obvious in extended spreads between LIBOR and base rates.
The consequent dearth of funding compromised what has become known as the shadow-banking system, which is the complex of hedge funds, prime brokers, money market funds and securitisation markets that facilitated the build-up of debt in Western economies over recent years.
The forced unwinding of leveraged investment positions has intensified the cycle of fide-leveraging that is at the heart of the credit crisis.
Meanwhile, real economic conditions deteriorated through the year, to the extent that recession is with us, whether officially as in the US and Germany or fide facto as in the UK.
Housing has been the principal transmission mechanism of credit market problems to the real economy.
On both sides of the Atlantic, falling house prices, together with the difficulty in securing new mortgage financing, have tempered consumers willingness to spend, while rampant commodity prices earlier in the year eroded disposable income.
Additional pressure is coming from rising unemployment, with many large redundancy programmes making the headlines towards the end of the year as businesses, particularly those close to the troubled automotive industry, adjusted to the environment of weaker demand.
Importantly, however, some relief was forthcoming later in the year from the remarkable reversal in fortune for commodities.
Built on hopes that the emerging world could decouple from Western economies and continue to grow through internally generated demand, the prices of commodities, together with the share prices of the companies exploiting them, reached extravagant levels earlier in the year.
These hopes were undermined as it became clear that the ructions in credit markets would feed back to affect real economic activity and that the China phenomenon depended substantially on Western, predominantly American, spending.
The extraordinary journey of the oil price, which rose by almost 51% in the first half before plummeting to end 54% down for the year, is illustrative of the wider commodity arena.
With the bursting of this latest bubble, the concern about stagflation that was so prevalent less than six months ago has vanished.
Expectations for inflation have hurtled downwards: at the end of June, the difference between ten year conventional and index linked gilt yields a proxy for anticipated inflation was over 4%: by the end of the year, this had dropped to almost 1.5%.
Similar movements are observable in the US and European bond markets.
With the stagflationary chimaera exposed, financial markets are again confronted by deflation, with which they last flirted six years ago.
The Bank of Englands November inflation report introduced the prospect of CPI inflation dropping into negative territory at some time in 2009, having been running at over 5% in the third quarter, as the commodities boom works its way out of the system.
So, the Chancellor may be receiving more letters in 2009, albeit rather different in tone.
Relenting inflationary pressures have afforded monetary authorities, even the ECB, the excuse to cut interest rates, though, given the disinflationary nature of the fide-leveraging process and of recession itself, such an 7 Managers Report excuse was hardly required.
In December, the Fed took US rates to zero.
Meanwhile, UK base rates ended the year at 2% and early in 2009 were cut again to 1.5%, their lowest level since the foundation of the Bank of England.
It is worth remembering that at the half year futures markets were anticipating a rise by the year end from the then prevailing level of 5%.
As interest rates approach zero, other remedial measures have been deployed by monetary and fiscal authorities.
Echoing Ben Bernankes speeches back in 2002, these unconventional steps include public ownership of swathes of the financial system and the extension of the range of collateral accepted by the central banks.
Most significantly, as the year drew to a close the Fed confirmed that it had embraced quantitative easing, which is the expansion of the central banks balance sheet and thus of money supply.
The newly printed money is to be used to purchase government debt together with mortgage and other consumer loans.
These various actions have had some success in bringing interbank rates to levels more consistent with prevailing base rates, though they have yet to filter through the extended credit market.
Such measures nevertheless risk encountering the phenomenon of pushing on a string: deluged by cheap money, banks may opt to repair balance sheets rather than lend: similarly, consumers may prefer saving over spending.
In order to deal with this conflict of individual rationality and the collective good, governments are stepping up to play their part, with half an eye to the political capital apparently available from playing my TARPs bigger than yours.
In the UK, a combination of partial or full nationalisations, tax cuts and a commitment to government spending programmes has seen projections for public sector borrowing rise to around 8% of GDP over the next year or so.
The consequent probability of rising gilt issuance must exert an upwards drag on gilt yields, though this has so far been overwhelmed by the flight to safety.
So far, the more tangible effects of the UKs difficult economic circumstances have been sterlings falls of 26% and 23% against the dollar and euro respectively over the course of 2008.
Investment Performance Against this background of stress in the real economy, dysfunctional credit markets and general risk aversion, the share prices of small companies struggled.
As already noted, the HGSC XIC s total return of negative 40.8% was the second worst since its inception in 1955.
With the FTSE All-Shares 29.9% decline, large companies fared relatively well: a much greater exposure than their smaller peers to the high-profile casualties in banks and commodities was offset by the benefit of higher weightings in resilient parts of the market such as utilities and pharmaceutical companies.
The subsequent paragraphs, together with the table, provide an analysis of ASCoTs relative performance.
The weakness within the small company universe was widespread: the HGSC XIC entered 2008 with 509 constituents: of those, only 68 managed a positive total return in 2008.
In order to achieve this feat, it helped to be on the receiving end of M&A activity: 34 of these companies received bids, mostly in the first half of the year before credit markets seized up in the third quarter.
ASCoT, which entered the year with 100 companies in its portfolio, had holdings in 18 of the 68 companies noted above.
Benefiting from active management, it had holdings in another nine companies that achieved a positive total return.
As described in greater detail below, ASCoT did well from M&A activity.
Performance Attribution Analysis For the 12 months to 31 December 2008 Basis Points Stock selection 23 Sector selection 350 Attributable to the portfolio of investments calculated on a mid-price basis 373 Impact of mid-price to bid-price 32 Purchase of Ordinary Shares 29 Cash gearing 186 Management fee charged net of the VAT refund 59 Other expenses 7 Total attribution based on bid-prices 118 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total attribution is the difference between the total return of the net asset value and the Benchmark Index i. e. net asset value 39.65%: Benchmark Index 40.83%: difference is 1.18% being 118 basis points.
8 Managers Report The negative returns from equities in 2008 clearly formed an unfavourable backdrop for a geared investment trust.
A precise quantification of the drag to ASCoTs relative performance from its gearing is given in the Cash gearing line in the preceding table.
From a very short term viewpoint, the utilisation of even a modest amount of debt may be considered ill-timed.
However, your Managers contend that decision should be assessed over a longer period of time and within the context of their value investment philosophy.
By the late second quarter, small companies valuations were already at levels that appeared attractive in relation to their own history, to large companies and to bonds.
At that stage, your Managers were already anticipating a decline in earnings, consistent with a recession, but believed that much of this had already been built into valuations.
However, through the second half of the year, the fundamental outlook has seen further deterioration and prices have adjusted further.
The valuations now on offer are examined in detail in the Investment Outlook section of this report.
Stock selection made a small positive contribution, though this was overshadowed by a strong showing from sector selection to produce ASCoTs overall out-performance at the portfolio level.
Your Managers have not given up on their fundamentally driven, bottom-up approach to investment!
Behind the contribution from sector selection was a large under-weight position in the commodities sectors Industrial Metals, Mining and Oil & Gas, which performed extremely poorly.
Within the small company universe, the constituents of these sectors are typically involved in exploration and development of resources and, consequently, seldom generate cash.
This positioning was motivated less by an insight into the commodities prices themselves, which would have been a top-down consideration, than by the lofty valuations of the individual stocks on offer within these sectors.
These stocks were frequently priced for an improbable rate of exploration success, on top of some potentially heroic assumptions about the underlying commodity price.
So, this positioning is essentially driven by bottom-up considerations, although the attribution calculation drags most of the benefit into sector selection.
At the interim stage, the portfolios bias to businesses with overseas profit streams was noted.
This proved advantageous, but the benefit was substantially confined to the first half.
Through the third quarter, the logic was undermined as it became clear that the implications of the credit crisis were not confined to the US and UK: the global economy, if not entering recession, is at least undergoing a meaningful deceleration.
The problems facing the capital goods arena were highlighted by a spate of trading statements from companies around the world that warned of an extremely sharp contraction in demand in the fourth quarter.
From the portfolios point of view, the valuations of its capital goods holdings in many cases appear already to be discounting a sharp decline in profits.
However, at the margin, your Managers have been tilting the portfolio back towards the domestic economy, adding to holdings in the Media, Household Goods, Construction & Materials and General Retailers sectors.
Behind this shift, which has been undertaken tentatively, are the low valuations of businesses within these sectors together with a contention that these businesses will be among the first to see a pick-up in profitability, when the recovery comes.
In a diversified collection of small companies, it is inevitable that during recession some will see their profitability decline to a level that will challenge banking covenants.
Reflecting this risk, the portfolio retains the bias to companies with strong balance sheets that was noted in the interim report.
This defensive positioning, which is influenced by the parlous state of the credit markets, has been beneficial to ASCoTs performance and remains very much in place: 34% of the portfolio is invested in companies with net cash on their balance sheets: at the other extreme, 9% of the portfolio sits in companies whose net debt to EBITDA ratios exceed three times.
Where net debt is a feature, the current emphasis is on the tenure of funding from the banks, rather than the interest rate margin payable over LIBOR.
Margins have been rising extravagantly as banks seek to restore their own profitability: 100 basis points a year ago might now be 300 basis points.
The alternative to accepting these new terms would be worse for shareholders.
9 Managers Report As already noted, M&A activity was prevalent in the first half of the year but tailed off substantially in the second.
The credit markets in effect closed during the third quarter and those companies with sufficiently strong balance sheets to contemplate acquisitions are often being discouraged from doing so for the time being by investors, your Managers included.
Therefore, with rescue rights issues becoming common, fide-equitisation, which describes the replacement of equity financing with debt financing and which has provided an underpinning to UK equity valuations in recent years, has run out of steam.
ASCoT benefited from the completion of nine bids for its holdings over the year, though all those were completed before Octobers turmoil.
Exit valuations were on the whole high, typically over 15x EV EBIT, though trended downwards as the year wore on.
Two holdings received bids in the second half: these had yet to complete at the year end.
As an indication of the change in attitudes, ten companies within the portfolio received approaches through the year but subsequently saw the talks ended.
As described in the Investment Outlook section of this report, your Managers believe that dividend yield will make a crucial contribution to forthcoming equity returns.
Despite last years deteriorating trading environment and rising uncertainty, the dividend payments from ASCoTs investments were robust.
Of ASCoTs 93 holdings at the year end, it was the policy of 15 not to pay a dividend, while another two had started paying a dividend only in 2008, rendering year on year comparisons meaningless.
Of the remaining 76, nine cut their dividends, a further seven held them unchanged and 60 reported increases.
The median company within the 76 raised its dividend payment by 10%.
This rate of growth is considerably ahead of that achieved by UK equities over the longer term and given present economic challenges is extremely unlikely to be sustained in 2009.
It should be noted that the median figure does not necessarily reflect ASCoTs actual receipts, since the portfolio is actively managed and a specific rate of dividend growth is not targeted.
Investment Outlook Coming out of a year of wrenching declines in equity prices, it is difficult but necessary to take a step back in order to survey the opportunity base with a degree of objectivity.
The easiest observation to make is that the fide-leveraging process has to continue and that the present recession is, regrettably, an essential part of it.
Trading conditions are therefore set to worsen in 2009, and it will take time for banks to repair their balance sheets and pass on the benefit of lower interest rates to the private sector.
Despite the fillip of a weak sterling, profits will therefore fall.
A decline of at least 40% is not out of the question, which would put the present downturn roughly on a par with that of the early 1990s.
Gloomier scenarios are being painted by some commentators, with a replay of the 1930s depression sometimes cited.
Given the extraordinary breadth and depth of remedial actions taken by monetary and fiscal authorities, your Managers suspect that a re-run of the deflationary 1930s is unlikely.
However, this is not to say that policy errors have not been made: for example, a different sleuth of bears reckons that the extreme monetary easing is foisting a substantial inflation problem in the future, which would conveniently erode the present burden of debt and ask serious questions of currently very low government bond yields.
At the very least, it would seem sensible to expect lower returns on equity in the future in an environment of scarcer debt funding, greater regulation and, eventually, higher taxes.
Profits probably commenced their decline in the second half of 2008.
It will in all likelihood not fit conveniently into one calendar year, so it makes sense to plan for a trough in profitability some time in 2010.
Meetings with company management teams can throw little light on the timing of the inevitable recovery.
Instead, the focus has to be on attempting to assess whether the businesses will be around to benefit from the upturn.
Scope to cut costs and balance sheet resilience, preferably to the extent of having net cash, are therefore crucial.
Also important is the concept of being paid to wait.
Given the uncertain duration of the downturn, investors can be rewarded for their faith in a company through the consistent payment of a dividend.
Dividend yields have accounted for the majority of the real return from UK equities of around 5.1% over the long term.
High yields presently abound in the small company universe, with the average from the HGSC XIC being 5.9%, the first time that it has exceeded the yield on ten year gilts since 1974.
Some of these yields will prove illusory as cuts to underlying dividends are made.
It is a focus for your Managers at 10 Managers Report the current time to minimise the effects of such reductions, and to persuade company boards that cuts motivated by fashion, or by the argument that the market expects double-digit yields to be cut, are unacceptable.
The historic yield from ASCoTs portfolio at the year end was 5.3%.
In planning for 2009, your Managers have anticipated a number of dividend cuts.
Importantly, the portfolio is not reliant on a small number of particularly high yielding companies to generate its income: double-digit yielders on a forecast basis account for less than 4% of the portfolio, while 38% is invested in companies with forecast yields between 2.5% and 5%.
Another 15% of ASCoTs portfolio is represented by companies that do not currently pay a dividend.
With the top ten income contributors accounting for less than 30% of total forecast income for 2009, your Managers are hopeful that ASCoTs dividend experience may prove relatively resilient in what will be a very difficult year.
Equity market valuations are presently very low against government bonds and against their own history.
The FTSE All-Share ended 2008 valued on a yield of 4.5% and a PE of 7.3x.
Valuations in the small company world are more extreme.
At 6.4x, the historic PE ratio is back to the levels of the early 1980s.
The average PE over the last 30 years, a period covering two other recessions, has been almost 13x.
So, profits could halve and equities would still look reasonably valued against their history.
The other dimension to take into account is recovery: the stockmarket will anticipate a pick-up before profits themselves start to grow.
Thus it can take stocks to high multiples of depressed historic earnings.
A relevant example is 1993, when the HGSC XIC rose by almost 42%, moving the historic PE up to over 18x, despite earnings continuing to fall in that year.
31 December 2008 31 December 2007 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of Companies 93 495 100 509 Weighted Average Market Capitalisation 259m 442m 439m 577m Price Earnings Ratio Historic 6.0x 6.4x 13.1x 11.7x Net Dividend Yield Historic 5.3% 5.9% 2.6% 2.9% Dividend Cover Historic 3.1x 2.6x 2.9x 2.9x As the table above demonstrates, the portfolio offers better value than the HGSC XIC.
Perhaps the most notable aspect of its valuation is that it could quite easily have been brought down further had your Managers not chosen to eschew a grouping of often sizeable companies within the benchmark that trade on exceptionally low multiples, driven by high levels of debt and substantial defined benefit pension schemes.
At some point it will be appropriate to embrace these highly geared businesses, but with the trading environment still under pressure it seems appropriate not to pursue both operational and financial gearing.
Another indication of value within the portfolio comes from its average EV EBIT multiple, a measure used in the context of corporate activity.
At 5.6x, it is at a significant discount to the multiples of around 15x at which deals were being done earlier in the year.
To be fair such levels of valuation may be considered an aberration, born of an M&A culture that had become too reliant on cheap and freely available debt.
Nevertheless, the portfolio stands at a significant discount to the longer run average of around 10x that has been more typical over ASCoTs lifetime.
So, when the M&A market opens again, your Managers are confident that ASCoT can benefit.
To state the obvious, to a value investor at least, the probability of securing a good return from equities over the medium term is increased when starting from depressed valuations.
Your Managers are thus optimistic on the basis of prevailing valuations but acknowledge that stockmarkets can overshoot in either direction.
Therefore, the duration of the present bear market is tough to call.
That said, sentiment can turn remarkably swiftly once there is the whiff of recovery in the air.
Timing that change in sentiment to the month or even the quarter requires a large dose of luck.
Accordingly, given the characteristics of the small company universe, it is necessary to start positioning the portfolio early.
This pragmatism was an important motivation in ASCoTs decision to deploy a modest amount of gearing earlier in the year and, indeed, in 11
