Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Company's registered office or can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
In the view of the Board, the independent non-executive directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Board's decision making.
Details of the Chairman's other commitments are included in the Chairman's biography.
The Chairman does perform a number of other Non-executive roles outside the Group but the Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties within the Group.
John Sussens has been appointed as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
In accordance with the Company's Articles, which provide that a set number of Directors retire by rotation and stand for re-election at each AGM, Manfred Aldag, Henry Engelhardt and Kevin Chidwick will retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the Group's expense, should they deem it necessary, to carry out their responsibilities.
Professional development On appointment, Directors take part in a comprehensive induction programme where they receive financial and operational information about the Group, details concerning their responsibilities and duties, as well as an introduction to the Groups governance and control environment.
This induction is supplemented by visits to the Group's head office in Cardiff and meetings with members of the senior management team and their departments.
Throughout their period in office the directors are regularly updated on the Group's business: legal matters concerning their role and duties: the competitive environments in which the Group operates: and any other significant changes affecting the Group and the industry of which it is a part.
The Board receives presentations from senior managers within the various Group companies on a regular basis.
Relations with shareholders The Investor Relations team has day-to-day primary responsibility for managing communications with institutional shareholders through a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional shareholders, both at the half-year and full year results.
Site visits and individual discussions with the Executive Directors are also arranged throughout the year with individual shareholders.
Regular dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure that the Company's strategy is understood and that any issues are addressed in a constructive way.
In fulfilment of the Chairman's obligations under the new Combined Code, the Chairman would give feedback to the Board on issues raised with him by major shareholders, although to date there have been no such issues.
This is supplemented by monthly feedback to the Board on meetings between management and investors.
External analyst reports are circulated to all the Directors.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend the Company's Annual General Meeting along with other directors, and are available to answer shareholders' questions on the activities of the Committees they chair.
The Group maintains a corporate website www.
co. uk containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
