2 G O V E R n A n c E & R E M U n E R At I O n Remuneration report Scope of report The remuneration report summarises the Groups remuneration policy and particularly its application with respect to the Directors.
The report also describes how the Group applies the principles of good corporate governance in relation to Directors remuneration in accordance with the Combined Code and Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.02.
Remuneration Committee The Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises only Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by John Sussens, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, with the other members being Martin Jackson and Margaret Johnson.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are invited to meetings where the Committee considers it appropriate to obtain their advice on the matters under review.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Committee met on five separate occasions.
Its remit includes recommending the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors, and the Company Secretary: review of the remuneration of senior management: and review of the awards made under the performance related incentive schemes.
The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed at least annually and approved by the Board, are available on the Groups corporate website and are summarised in the Corporate Governance Report.
They were reviewed by the Committee on 19 November 2008.
The members of the Committee do not have any personal financial interests, or any conflicts from cross-directorships, that relate to the business of the Committee.
The members do not have any day-to-day involvement in the running of the Group.
During the year the Committee purchased consultancy services from Kepler Associates.
In addition, the Company Secretary circulates market survey results as appropriate.
Remuneration policy The Group is committed to the primary objective of maximizing shareholder value over time.
The Committee reviews the framework and remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and the most senior managers.
The main principles underlying the remuneration policy are: Competitive The Group aims to pay below-median salaries but with attractive performance related incentives, which provide individuals with the potential for competitive total reward packages for superior performance.
Performance linked A significant part of Executive Directors excluding Henry Engelhardt and David Stevens and senior managers reward is determined by the Groups earnings growth.
Failure to achieve threshold levels of growth in the Groups earnings results in reduced or no payout under the Groups long-term incentive plan.
Shareholder aligned A considerable part of the reward is related to the growth in earnings versus LIBOR.
Executive Directors have agreed to retain a minimum shareholding equal to at least 100% of base salary, which can be built up over a period of five years from the date of appointment.
Transparent All aspects of the remuneration structure are clear to employees and openly communicated.
