Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 3 The Chief Executive, to whom they report, appraises the performance of the individual Executive Directors annually.
The Chairman, taking into account the views of the other Directors, conducts the performance appraisal of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director John Sussens, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
John Sussens gave individual feedback to the Chairman and was able to confirm that the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective, and that the Chairman continues to demonstrate commitment to his role.
The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each Director during 2008 is provided in the table below.
Scheduled Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 8 4 2 5 Alastair Lyons Chairman 8 2 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive 7 David Stevens Chief Operating Officer 8 Kevin Chidwick Finance Director 8 Manfred Aldag 8 Martin Jackson 8 4 5 Keith James 8 4 2 Margaret Johnson 8 4 5 Lucy Kellaway 8 2 John Sussens 8 5 The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and workings of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is not involved in the day-to-day management of the business.
Save for matters reserved for decision by the Board, the Chief Executive, with the support of the other Executive Directors, is responsible for the running of the business, carrying out the agreed strategy adopted by the Board and implementing specific Board decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
The statement of division of responsibilities and matters reserved for decision by the Board were reviewed in December 2008.
Board balance and independence The Board currently comprises ten Directors, the Chairman who was independent on appointment, three Executive Directors, five independent Non-executive Directors and one Non-executive director who is employed by a significant shareholder and is not, therefore, considered independent.
The Board has accepted the Nomination Committees assessment of the independence of the five Non-executive directors and is not aware of any relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of any of them.
Independent Non-executive Directors are currently appointed for fixed periods of three years, subject to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year period may be extended for one further three-year period and the Board may invite the non-executive director to serve for a further three-year period, subject to
