Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 3 The Group operates the following benefits: Dea th in Service scheme, paying three times salary available to all employees following completion of their probationary period.
Group Personal Pension Plan, matching employee contributions up to a maximum 6% of base salary with maximum employer contribution of 4,800.
This is available to all employees following completion of their probationary period.
Permanent Health Insurance policy covering approximately 120 management level staff.
Priv ate Medical Cover made available to the same staff that are eligible for the Permanent Health Insurance policy.
Appr oved Free Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP is available to all UK staff Henry Engelhardt and David Stevens have declined to be included in the plan.
The maximum annual award under the SIP is 3,000 per employee.
Shares awarded under the SIP are forfeited if the employee leaves within three years of the award.
Awards are made twice a year, based on the results of each half-year.
Overseas staff receive an award under the Discretionary Free Share Scheme equivalent to the SIP award made to UK employees.
Discr etionary Free Share Scheme DFSS.
Awards under the DFSS are distributed on a wider basis than most plans of this type.
The Committee believes that as the DFSS develops, and awards begin to vest in 2008, it will have the effect of reducing staff attrition and strengthening further the alignment of the interests of staff and shareholders.
Of the Groups current Executive Directors, only Kevin Chidwick Finance Director participates in this scheme, as Henry Engelhardt and David Stevens have declined to be included.
The current performance criterion to determine how many shares vest under the DFSS is the growth in earnings per share EPS in excess of a risk free return, defined as average 3-month LIBOR, over a three-year period.
The Committee feels that this is a good indicator of long-term shareholder return with which to align staff incentivisation.
The Committee recommends for approval by the Board awards to the Finance Director and other employees under the DFSS.
The EPS targets are such that for full vesting of shares to occur, the average EPS growth over the three-year performance period would have to be approximately 13.25% per annum assuming LIBOR averages 3% over the period.
Only 10% of shares vest for matching LIBOR over the threeyear period.
There is then a linear relationship up to full vesting of the award whereby 2.5% of the award vests for each point over LIBOR.
The plan allows for a maximum award of 400,000 or 600% of basic salary if lower.
Changes made for 2009 awards For staff below Group Board level the Committee have agreed a change to the award criteria such that from 2009 awards will be split.
50% of the award will be subject to the above performance criteria.
The other 50% will have no performance criteria attaching, except that they have to remain employed by the Group for the three-year vesting period.
The change was made in order to assist the group to attract high calibre staff by providing more certainty over the outcome of vesting awards.
In addition, commencing with the interim 2009 dividend, the Group will pay a bonus to all holders of unvested DFSS shares.
The bonus will equate to the dividend payable on an equivalent number of the ordinary shares of the Group.
The Committee felt that having a Group wide bonus aligned with the dividend flow received by investors further aligned the incentive structure with shareholders.
The Committee is conscious of the maximum allowable awards under both share schemes and controls are in place to ensure that neither scheme is issued shares in excess of 5% of the Group's issued share capital over the 10 year period from 1 January 2005.
The Directors have proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM on 28 April 2009 that henceforth the 10% total be applied across both schemes with flexibility to the Board as to what percentage should be applied to each particular scheme.
The Committee determines the fees for the Chairman of the Board after consultation with the Executive Directors and review of market data.
