8 B O A R D O f D I R E c t O R s The Board of Directors Alastair Lyons, CBE 55 - Chairman N Henry Engelhardt, CBE 51 - Chief Executive Officer Alastair was appointed Chairman of the Company in July 2000.
He is also Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was recruited by the Brockbank Non-executive Chairman of Legal Marketing Services, In Retirement Services, Group in 1991 to set up the Admiral business.
and Cardsave, and Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes.
He was part of the management team that led the MBO in 1999.
Prior to joining He has previously been Chief Executive of the National Provident Institution Admiral, he was Marketing and Sales Manager for Churchill Insurance.
and of the National & Provincial Building Society, Managing Director of the He has substantial experience in direct response financial services in the United Insurance Division of Abbey National plc, and Director of Corporate Projects at Kingdom, United States and France.
Alastair was also a Non-executive Director of Henry was awarded an honorary CBE in April 2008 for services to business the Department for Transport and of the Department for Work and Pensions.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, he was awarded the CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Kevin Chidwick 45 - Finance Director David Stevens 47 - Chief Operating Officer Kevin is responsible for finance, information technology, compliance and David is a founder Director of Admiral.
Initially the Marketing Director, he was investments.
He joined Admiral in 2005, becoming Finance Director in appointed Director responsible for pricing in 1996 and claims and pricing in 1999.
He was appointed as Chief Operating Officer in 2004.
Prior to Admiral, Kevin has been in UK financial services for over 20 years.
He He joined Admiral in 1991 from McKinsey & Co. where he worked in the has held a number of senior roles in other insurance organisations including, Financial Interest Group, London office.
Prior to working for McKinsey & Co, he most recently, Finance Director of Engage Mutual Assurance and Cigna UK.
worked for Cadbury Schweppes in the United Kingdom and the United States.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Certified Accountants and has an David has an MBA from Insead.
MBA from London Business School.
Manfred Aldag 58 - Non-executive Director N Lucy Kellaway 49 - Non-executive Director N Manfred was appointed a Non-executive Director of the Company in 2003 as a Lucy joined the board as a Non-executive Director in September 2006.
She is the management columnist on the Financial Times and author of various books.
He graduated from University of Essen and has a degree in Economics Business Management Diplom-Kaufmann.
In 20 years on the FT she has been oil correspondent, a Lex columnist and Brussels correspondent.
He has worked for Munich Re since September 1981 and is currently the Senior Executive Manager responsible for United Kingdom Ireland.
Lucy also joined the Nominations Committee on appointment to the Board.
Margaret Johnson 50 - Non-executive Director A, R Martin Jackson 60 - Non-executive Director A, R Margaret was appointed Non-executive Director of the Company in September Martin was appointed Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 2006.
She is currently Group CEO of the international advertising agency Committee in August 2004.
Leagas Delaney and has been with that Company for the past 13 years.
He was the Group Finance Director of Friends Provident plc between 2001 Margaret joined the Group's Audit and Remuneration Committees on and 2003 and Friends Provident Life Office between 1999 and 2001.
Prior to appointment to the Board.
that he was the Group Finance Director at London & Manchester Group plc from 1992 to 1998, up to the date of its acquisition by Friends Provident Life Office.
Martin is also a Non-executive Director of IG Holdings plc, Homeserve Membership Limited and Rothesay Life Limited He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Keith James, OBE 64 - Non-executive Director A, N John Sussens 63 - Non-executive Director R Keith was appointed a Non-executive Director in December 2002.
He is John was appointed the Senior Independent Non-executive Director in August Chairman of the Nominations Committee and is also the independent 2004, and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also a NonChairman of Admiral Insurance Company Limited and Inspop.
executive Director of Cookson plc and Anglo & Overseas Trust plc.
He is also a Non-executive Director of Julian Hodge Bank Limited and is He was the Group Managing Director of Misys plc between 1998 and May Non-executive Chairman of Atlantic Venture Capital Limited and International 2004 having been on the Board of the Company since 1989.
Prior to joining Greetings plc.
Misys, he was Manufacturing Director at JC Bamford Excavators Limited.
He was a Non-executive Director at Chubb plc between 2001 and 2003.
He is a solicitor and was the Chairman of Eversheds LLP from June 1995 to April 2004.
He was a Non-executive Director of Bank of Wales plc between 1988 and 2001 and AXA Insurance Company Limited between 1992 and 2000.
Keith was awarded an OBE in 2005 for services to business and the community in Wales.
