Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 3 plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board, and reviews the plans for other senior management positions.
Responsibility for making senior management appointments rests with the Chief Executive.
During 2008, the Committee discussed succession planning across the Group with the Executive team.
Planning for the most senior management positions was formerly in place but below this, succession planning within the Group was not fully documented.
The People Services Manager has implemented a process of documenting and improving the approach taken by the Group to assess and monitor succession planning throughout the Group through the development of a Talent Management programme.
The Committee reviewed the current Board size, structure, and composition and confirmed that no further changes were required and that the leadership of the organisation was such that the Company could continue to compete effectively in the marketplace in which it operates.
The Remuneration Committee The membership at the year-end was John Sussens Chairman, Martin Jackson, and Margaret Johnson.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Chief Executive and Chairman to attend the meetings where it deems appropriate.
The Committee has formal terms of reference, which were last reviewed on 17 December 2008.
The Committee met five times during 2008.
During the year the Committee carried out the following activities :- Re viewed the Groups overall remuneration policy and strategy Rec ommended for approval individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors, and Company Secretary Re viewed the rules and performance measures of the Group share schemes and recommended for approval the grant, award, allocation or issue of shares under such schemes.
A separate Remuneration Report is included within the Report and Accounts.
During the year the Committee purchased consultancy services from Kepler Associates.
In addition, the Company Secretary circulates market survey results as appropriate to enable it to make judgments on the levels of remuneration for the Directors and to review the remuneration of the Groups senior Executives.
Internal control and risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of these systems.
The systems of internal control over business, operational, financial and compliance risks are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups internal controls: that it has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2008: and that, up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for Directors provided in the Code.
A key element of the control system is that the Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility.
In order to ensure these responsibilities are properly discharged, the Board has delegated the task of supervising risk management and internal control to the Risk Management Committee RMC.
There are several key elements to the risk management environment throughout the Group.
These include the setting of risk management policy at Board level, enforcement of that policy by the Chief Executive, delivery of the policy by the RMC via the Groups systems of internal
