G O V E R n A n c E & R E M U n E R At I O n Non-executive Directors remuneration is set by the Chairman and Executive Directors and approved by the Board as a whole.
A summary of their contracts and remuneration is shown below.
The fees of the Non-executive Directors were reviewed in December 2008.
Executive Directors are allowed, although none currently do, to accept appointments as Nonexecutive Directors of companies with prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in respect of such appointments these will be retained by the Company.
Executive Directors remuneration Two of the three Executive Directors Henry Engelhardt and David Stevens are founding directors.
They and the Committee continue to hold the view that the significant shareholdings held by them provide a sufficient alignment of their interest in the performance of the Group with the interests of other shareholders.
In light of this, their remuneration packages consist of below-median base salary compared to market rates as assessed by the Committee and benefits such as private medical cover, permanent health insurance and death in service cover.
The Group does not contribute to any pension arrangements on behalf of these Executive Directors, and they have not participated, nor is it intended that they participate, in any Group share schemes.
Their remuneration was reviewed in September 2008.
Henry Engelhardt was awarded a rise of 4.9% taking his salary to 320,000 and David Stevens awarded a rise of 20% taking his salary to 320,000.
The Committee aims to ensure that the remuneration of the Finance Director is fair and in total, in line with market rates, and is designed to provide rewards for achieving increases in shareholder value.
In addition to benefits such as private medical cover, permanent health insurance, death in service cover and eligibility to the Groups Personal Pension Plan, there are two main elements to the Finance Directors remuneration package: Basic annual salary Awards under the DFSS.
It is the Committees general strategy to pay salaries below median levels together with attractive awards under the DFSS bringing the total remuneration to competitive levels for superior performance.
With effect from 1 July 2008 Kevin Chidwicks base salary was increased by 25% to 300,000.
Whilst the increase in Kevin Chidwicks base salary is above inflation the Committee felt that the increased responsibilities taken on during the year justified such an increase.
300,000 remains below the median base salary of FTSE 100 Finance Directors.
Kevin Chidwick received an award of 48,667 DFSS shares on 29 April 2008 with a value at the date of the award of 393,229.
The awards represent the maximum number of shares that could vest after a three-year period and are subject to the performance criteria described above.
Directors service contracts The following table summarises the notice periods relating to the service contracts of the Executive Directors serving at 31 December 2008.
Notice Director Notice Company months months Kevin Chidwick 12 12 Henry Engelhardt 12 12 David Stevens 12 12
