Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 2 1 Price comparison What we do Confused.
com is an insurance and financial services comparison website Operating in the UK, the site allows consumers to compare a range of general insurance and financial services products across price and policy benefits Confuseds income is primarily generated via commissions paid by the product provider on the sale of an insurance policy or financial product We are the UKs leading car insurance comparison website measured by sales generated.
Confused delivered over 13 million insurance quotes in 2008 Strategy Confuseds strategy is to become the comparison website of choice in the UK for financial products, and to maximise the value to the business of each customer relationship.
The Group also plans to capitalise on our experience in the UK by establishing new price comparison operations overseas.
Success in delivering against this strategy is measured by a wide range of key performance indicators, including quote volumes, conversion rates, sales, income per sale and cost per sale.
Financial Performance Non-GAAP format income statement m 2006 2007 2008 Revenue: Compound growth rate of 24%, year on year decline 10% Motor 34.3 58.8 52.9 Other 4.2 10.3 13.2 Compound growth rate of Total 38.5 69.1 66.1 71%, year on year growth 28% Operating expenses 15.4 32.4 40.5 Operating profit 23.1 36.7 25.6 Price comparison financial commentary Competition in UK price comparison intensified further during 2008, evidenced by substantial increases in media spends by the major players.
The market also saw a number of new entrants.
At the same time, the size of the market although somewhat difficult to measure precisely also grew significantly.
We estimate the number of car insurance policies sold through price comparison websites grew by nearly 60% during 2008 to a point where the channel now accounts for around 40% of all new business sales.
One of the main effects of the increased competition has been to remove a large amount of the markets profitability as business becomes significantly more expensive to acquire, against only a modest increase in income per sale.
As a dominant and highly profitable player in the market, Confuseds results inevitably suffered against this backdrop.
In spite of the challenging market conditions, Confused achieved an operating profit of 26m, and an operating margin of 39%.
Confused did generate notable growth in its activities beyond car insurance.
Household insurance and utilities were particularly strong and contributed to growth in other revenue of 28% to 13.2m.
2 2 B U s I n E s s R E V I E W At the end of 2008, Confused launched its rebuilt website, which makes the quote process faster and easier for customers.
It has also launched a new TV advertising campaign early in 2009, which led to January being a record month for quotes.
The Group is also currently in the process of developing a price comparison business to launch in Spain, and Rastreator.
es based in Madrid is expected to start operating there in the first half of 2009.
Regulatory environment As an insurance intermediary, Confused is regulated by the UK FSA and is required to comply with all relevant rules, including those on solvency capital.
The price comparison industry in the UK has attracted a lot of attention from a number of parties over the past year or two, including a review by the FSA.
Confused contributed willingly to the review and actively responded to the issues raised by the regulator during its course.
Confused tries always to act in the best interests of its users.
Price and benefit comparison in motor and home insurance have made what was a very time consuming process substantially easier for consumers, and in general the new industry has contributed to better decisions being made by consumers.
Risks and uncertainties This section sets out a list of risks which could affect the business future results and prospects.
Again, it is not intended to cover all risks and uncertainties.
The business may be affected by difficult economic conditions Recession in the UK potentially offers an opportunity for Confused as more and more consumers use comparison websites to search for the best deals.
It could also, however, pose a threat with fewer new car and home purchases possibly leading to fewer price searches than would otherwise arise.
As yet, Confused has seen little evidence of this.
The industry may continue to attract new entrants and fierce competition As noted above, the price comparison market in the UK, especially in car insurance, has been extremely competitive over the past two years, leading to a position where the market overall is currently estimated to be unprofitable.
Although these might not appear to be ideal conditions to attract new players, it remains possible that significant new companies might enter the market, further increasing competition.
The business faces regulatory risk Price comparison has attracted attention from a number of bodies, including the FSA and it is possible that the industry becomes subject to more stringent regulation that is currently in place.
Any such change in regulation might adversely affect Confuseds business.
Counterparty and other financial risks are discussed in the notes to the accounts.
