DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION E n e v l i p r o o e n P m r e u n O t BG078 p35-39 vAW2.
qxd:Layout 1 19 3 09 15:19 Page 35 35 The way we work In order for BG Group to continue to create Our Business Principles set out the core values and outstanding value for its shareholders, it must be assured of sustainable returns on behaviours that we believe are essential elements its investments over many years.
In the in creating sustainable value Groups view, corporate performance cannot be sustained over an extended period unless it is founded on enduring and positive relationships with those who have an interest in the Group's activities, including governments, customers, host communities and employees.
BG Groups Statement of Business Principles sets out the core values and behaviours that the Group believes are essential elements of sustainable value creation.
Our commitment is that we should operate to the highest ethical Business standards: that safety should be the overriding priority in the way we manage our business: Principles that our employees should feel that they have an opportunity to realise their full potential and that through our businesses we should make a positive contribution to economic, social and environmental development in the countries in which we operate.
We believe that, taken together, these commitments deliver the rm foundation of stakeholder support for our operations that is key to sustainability.
In March 2009, the BG Group Board approved new terms of reference for the Corporate Responsibility Committee see page 48 Conduct Our People which include a new name: the Sustainability Committee.
This name reects the Groups We act with integrity, fairness We treat people with fairness, commitment to sustainability, which is and transparency respect and decency an essential requirement for durable We comply with legal, regulatory We help employees develop shareholder value and which results from and licence requirements their potential the consistent application of the Groups We do not tolerate corruption in any form, We believe that all injuries Business Principles.
whether direct or indirect are preventable Our investment criteria take account We provide healthy, safe and This year, the Groups Annual Report and of economic returns, environmental secure work environments Accounts has been published on the same impacts, social consequences and day as the BG Group Sustainability Report human rights formerly the Corporate Responsibility High standards of corporate governance Report, which sets out a detailed analysis are integral to the way we manage our of the Groups progress against its Business business Principles.
The two publications are designed to be read in conjunction with one another to provide the Groups many stakeholders Society Environment with a broader perspective on corporate performance through the year.
We work to ensure that neighbouring We make a positive contribution to communities benefit from our the protection of the environment The BG Group Sustainability Report can be presence on an enduring basis found online at www.
com sr We go beyond compliance with local We listen to neighbouring communities environmental regulation to meet and take account of their interests internationally accepted best practice We support human rights within We reduce to the minimum practicable our areas of influence any adverse effects of our operations on the environment BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 t c S o u c d i n e t o y C E n e HUMAN RIGHTS v l GOVERNANCE i r p o o n e P m r e u n O t COMMUNITY ETHICAL CONDUCT BG078 p35-39 vAW2.
qxd:Layout 1 19 3 09 15:21 Page 36 36 Directors Report Business Review The way we work continued Conduct Business Principles We act with integrity, fairness and transparency We comply with legal, regulatory and licence requirements We do not tolerate corruption in any form, whether direct or indirect Our investment criteria take account of economic returns, environmental impacts, social consequences and human rights High standards of corporate governance are integral to the way we manage our business The Sustainability Committee formerly the Corporate Responsibility Committee of the BG Group Board provides direction to and oversight of the implementation of BG Groups Business Principles, the Groups statement of core values and behaviours.
Further details of the Committees work can be found on page 48.
We believe BG Groups continued success over the long term will depend on the extent to which it acts in accordance with the highest standards of integrity, at all levels of the organisation, in the management of its many stakeholder relationships.
The Group is committed to ensuring compliance with its Business Principles.
Business Principles training is made available to all employees, including clear guidance on how the Business Principles should govern Further information on BG Group's approach and performance in their day-to-day working practices.
External stakeholders, including the area of Conduct can be found in the Sustainability Report, at contractors, are provided with guidance on the standards that www.
com sr conduct Our People Employees by region % Business Principles We treat people with fairness, respect and decency We help employees develop their potential 11% We believe that all injuries are preventable We provide healthy, safe and secure work environments 37% 16% BG Groups competitive advantage is derived as much from its people who they are, and how they do their work as from its low-cost, long-life asset base.
As at 31 December 2008, BG Group employed a total of 5 854 people, the large majority of whom work outside the UK.
More than 1 000 36% new employees joined the Group in 2008, including the employees of Queensland Gas Company Limited QGC in Australia.
The Group benets from a highly-skilled and diverse workforce, drawn from more than 70 different nationalities across five continents.
We are committed a Americas and Global LNG to providing a work environment free from discrimination and Africa, Middle East and Asia harassment as supported by our Group-wide Equality and Diversity Europe and Central Asia Statement, Human Resources Policy and Harassment Policy.
BG Advance As part of its commitment to develop employees potential, BG Group a Includes Australia in 2008. actively supports career mobility across its global workforce.
During Does not include UK-based corporate employees.
the year, 15% of all employees changed roles within the Group, and 623 employees were on assignments outside their home country.
The Further information on BG Group's approach and performance in Group doubled its graduate intake during 2008 to 82, recruiting future the area of Our People can be found in the Sustainability Report, at www.
com HEALTH SAFETY S CLIMATE CHANGE t o c c u i e d t n y o C EMPLOYMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION BG078 p35-39 vAW2.
qxd:Layout 1 19 3 09 15:22 Page 37 37 BG Group requires in its operations.
During the period under review, the BG Groups practices and policies are kept under review in the light Group launched an online Business Principles training module for all of international best practice and to ensure that they comply with the managers and employees, building on established Business Principles Business Principles.
In 2008, BG Group reviewed and revised its Ethical induction and awareness programmes.
Conduct Policy, expanding the number of Standards from five to seven.
In 2008, BG Group relaunched its Whistleblowing Policy, renamed Speak Up.
The Speak Up Policy includes a new duty on all employees to report any suspected breaches of the BG Group Business Principles or any other forms of misconduct.
They may raise their concerns in confidence and anonymously if they wish via an independent external provider.
The BG Group Ethical Conduct Policy defines the core ethical Every report is fully investigated and monitored by a team headed by behaviours expected of all employees.
Those requirements include: the BG Group General Counsel.
The BG Group Business Principles we do not give or receive bribes or facilitation payments: Investigations Committee, a sub-group of the Governance and Risk we apply strict limits to the value of corporate hospitality and Committee GRC, also has oversight of concerns raised.
It meets gifts given or received, and apply rules to the provision of gifts, regularly to review progress of investigations and ensures that the hospitality and travel-related expenses to public officials: Company takes appropriate and consistent action to address any we do not make political donations or incur political expenditure, issues.
Feedback from these investigations is provided to the relevant and exercise caution in the hiring and management of individuals BG Group function or asset for action.
The General Counsel provides who are connected to public officials: quarterly statistical reports to the GRC on concerns received, related we seek to avoid any real or perceived conict of interest investigations and remedial actions.
The Group Executive Committee between our private interests and the performance of our duties to BG Group, and we prohibit the misuse of information: and Audit Committee were also provided with a statistical overview we conduct appropriate due diligence in the selection of joint of the 2008 cases.
venture partners and contractors: and The total number of reported Whistleblowing Speak Up cases fraud and theft of any sort are unacceptable.
during 2008 was 70, of which 14 cases related to fraud.
Of the 14 cases, evidence of fraud or wrongdoing was found in eight cases.
None of the reported fraud cases demonstrated a material weakness over financial reporting controls.
business leaders from universities across ten countries.
The employee As the Key Performance Indicator chart on page 4 shows, TRCF rose turnover rate for 2008 was 9%.
during 2008 after several years of steady decline.
This was largely as a consequence of accidents involving contractors and sub-contractors.
BG Group undertook its second Group-wide employee opinion survey This is a source of serious concern.
There are a number of possible in 2008, which achieved a 79% response rate.
Findings from the reasons for this increase, including the recent growth in demand survey indicated that people are proud to be a part of BG Group for oil and gas eld services worldwide during the period of high 89% positive responses and fully support the Groups Business commodity prices, which the Group believes resulted in an expansion Principles 96% positive responses.
However, employees expressed in the recruitment of new and relatively inexperienced contractor a number of concerns, notably with regards to issues associated staff across the industry.
In 2009, BG Group will further strengthen with talent management and career development.
Addressing these its efforts to ensure that the Groups contractors and sub-contractors points will be a key priority for BG Group in 2009. develop and assure the appropriate levels of safety competency.
Safety BG Group regards its commitment to safe operations as its highest priority.
Safety management is a particular challenge in countries where the Groups mandatory HSSE Standards signicantly exceed The BG Group Safety, Health and Security Standards define the local working practices.
BG Group seeks to ensure that its worldwide mandatory processes which all employees must follow at all times.
contractor and sub-contractor community reects the Groups safety The Standards include: culture and processes in their own operations.
In spite of these efforts, as the Chief Executive reports in his statement on pages 8 to 10, three Behaviour-Based Safety: contractors died in 2008 whilst providing services to BG Group.
Personal Protective Equipment: Driving: Total Recordable Case Frequency per million hours worked TRCF is a more comprehensive safety indicator than the Lost Time Injury Health Management: and Frequency metric previously reported by BG Group.
been identied as one of the Groups key performance indicators, to In addition, BG Group also requires all employees to follow simple be reported in this years Annual Report and Accounts see page 4 rules, known as the BG Life Savers, which govern the most potentially and in future years.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BG078 p35-39 vAW2.
qxd:Layout 1 19 3 09 15:23 Page 38 38 Directors Report Business Review The way we work continued Society Social Performance Standard Business Principles Socio-economic baseline We work to ensure that neighbouring communities benefit from our presence on an enduring basis Impact assessment Understanding We listen to neighbouring communities and take account Consultation the context of their interests We support human rights within our areas of influence Involuntary resettlement The achievement of BG Groups business objectives over the long Indigenous peoples Managing impacts, term depends on the extent to which these are supported by host Cultural heritage risks and communities and other stakeholders.
The Group therefore seeks Social investment opportunities actively to contribute to the socio-economic aspects of host nations broader sustainable development agendas.
This approach takes into account two factors.
First, that many of the Groups operations are based in countries facing complex social and development challenges.
Social performance plans Second, that the wide range of internal and external stakeholders Management, integration expect the Group to operate according to the highest standards of and metrics Process assurance social performance.
In 2008, BG Group launched its Social Performance Standard.
This governs how the Group intends to meet its commitments to society, as dened in the Business Principles.
The new Standard is closely aligned with the International Finance Corporation IFC Policy and Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability, Further information on BG Group's approach and performance in which are the industry benchmark for good practice.
the area of Society can be found in the Sustainability Report, at www.
com sr society Environment a BG Group GHG emissions: by source Business Principles million tonnes CO2e We make a positive contribution to the protection of 10 the environment We go beyond compliance with local environmental regulation to meet internationally accepted best practice 8 We reduce to the minimum practicable any adverse effects of our operations on the environment 6 4 Natural gas offers a number of critical advantages when compared to competing hydrocarbon fuels such as coal.
Those advantages include 2 signicantly lower carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas GHG emissions and cleaner air quality.
As a result, natural gas is widely viewed as an energy source with a positive role to play in global warming b 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 mitigation strategies.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IPCC identied gas utilisation as an important short and medium-term Venting Distribution losses technology in its Fourth Assessment Report on climate change.
Flaring Electricity generation However, the process by which natural gas is discovered, produced and Fuel use delivered to market has an unavoidable impact on the environment, including the emission of GHGs in the journey from reservoir to burner a Under BG Group control.
Excludes system fugitive losses of no more than 21 000 tonnes CO2e per annum.
BG Group fully acknowledges its responsibility to do all it can to b Restated from 2007 revised downwards by 0.05m tonnes due to corrected minimise those effects to the lowest level practicable.
In 2007, the Group announced a target of one million tonnes of Further information on BG Group's approach and performance in the sustainable GHG reduction compared to a no-action base case area of Environment can be found in the Sustainability Report, at www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION BG078 p35-39 vAW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 09 12:38 Page 39 39 The BG Group Social Performance Standard is endorsed at the The BG Group Social Performance Governance Framework most senior levels of the Group.
During 2008, the Group conducted consists of: workshops led by IFC-accredited trainers for the Chief Executive, a Policy statement: the Group Executive, and for the majority of regional executives and the Social Performance Standard: asset managers.
The Standard is now incorporated into core business guidelines and tools to assist with implementation: and processes, including the Value Assurance Framework, which provides an assurance process.
assurance on all of the Groups development projects.
Based on international best practice, the Social Performance During the year, implementation of the new Standard focused on four Standard covers nine elements, including: assets assessed to have high levels of social performance exposure.
socio-economic baseline impact assessments: Training sessions were held in Tunisia, Egypt, Kazakhstan and Trinidad effective consultation: and Tobago.
In 2009, the Standard will be extended to other assets, the management of high-risk issues, such as involuntary including those in Australia, Nigeria and areas of South America.
The resettlement, economic displacement, indigenous peoples Group aims to achieve full compliance with the Standard across all and cultural heritage: and of its operations worldwide by 2010. social investment and the alignment of business and community priorities.
Human rights BG Group supports the principles of the Universal Declaration of Commitments under the BG Group Human Rights Policy include: Human Rights as well as the core International Labour Organisation we will pay fair wages and will not employ forced, bonded conventions on equality, freedom of association and the abolition of or child labour: forced and child labour.
The Group is a signatory to the United Nations we seek to ensure any security forces guarding our operations Global Compact UNGC and supports the UNGCs six principles respect human rights: relating to human rights.
The Group is also fully committed to the we will take particular measures where our operations may Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
impact on the human rights of indigenous peoples: and we encourage our partners and contractors to demonstrate the same level of commitment to human rights.
As at 31 December 2008, BG Group had achieved approximately The key BG Group Environmental Standards include: 400 000 tonnes sustainable GHG reduction and is on track to meet its Best Available Techniques for Environmental Protection.
In 2008, assets directly under the control of BG Group defines the most effective and advanced engineering practices emitted 8.8 million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent CO e, a decrease and methods of operation which are available, practical and 2 of 0.5 million tonnes 6% compared to 2007.
The Group also measures suitable to prevent, and where this is not practicable, reduce CO e emissions on an equity share basis, reporting those emissions emissions and the impact on the environment as a whole.
2 as a proportion of the total in line with the Groups equity share in Environmental Expectations.
BG Groups Business Principles the operation.
Equity share emissions from BG Group-operated and state: We go beyond compliance with local environmental non-operated activities fell by 1.0 million tonnes 6% to 13.9 million regulation to meet internationally accepted best practice.
This Standard defines what is meant by beyond compliance 2 and internationally accepted best practice.
BG Group takes a structured approach to the implementation Greenhouse Gas Management.
Aims to help to drive improvement of environmental risk management and complementary waste in the greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production gas minimisation processes.
The Group undertakes Environmental throughput gas transported or electricity produced.
Impact Assessments EIAs in parallel with environmental engineering Air Quality.
Aims to prevent significant harm to environment processes when planning a new project.
It also seeks to identify and or people from air emissions, including attending to local, apply the Best Available Techniques for reducing environmental regional and global environmental issues that may be affected hazards at source.
The Group works to develop and deploy leading environmental Water Quality.
Aims to prevent significant harm to the environment measures to enhance protection.
In 2008, it introduced a Resource or to people from aqueous discharges by ensuring that the Use and Waste Management Standard to assist BG Group-operated discharge is compatible with the water body into which it enters.
assets in focusing appropriately on the conservation of limited Resource Use and Waste Management.
Aims to reduce to resources.
At the end of 2008, 92% of all major Group-operated assets the practicable minimum the risk of harm to people and had been certied to the International Environmental Management the environment by minimising resource demand and waste Standard ISO 14001, compared to 77% in 2007. generation and by effective treatment and disposal of all unavoidable waste.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
