50 Directors Report Corporate Governance Other statutory information There are a number of legal and regulatory requirements with which due and careful enquiries, the shareholder is satisfied that none of BG Group must comply, such as the Companies Act, Listing Rules and the shares included in the transfer are Default Shares.
Where the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This section contains additional Default Shares represent 0.25% or more of the existing shares of a information, required by these laws and regulations to be included class, the Directors can, at their absolute discretion, by notice to the by the Directors in the Annual Report and Accounts.
shareholder, direct that a any dividend or other money which would otherwise be payable on the Default Shares shall be retained The information provided below was current as at the date this report by the Company without any liability to pay interest when that was published.
However, changes to the Companies Act 2006, which dividend or money is finally paid to the shareholder, and or b the will come into force on 1 October 2009, will have the effect of changing shareholder will not be allowed to choose to receive shares in place some of this information.
For further details see the Notice of Meeting of dividends, and or c no transfer of any of the shares held by the which includes explanatory notes on pages 127 to 133. shareholder will be registered unless one of the provisos specified above is satisfied.
SHAREHOLDERS Substantial shareholders Variation of rights As at 3 March 2009, the Company had received no notifications of voting If the Companys share capital is split into different classes of shares, interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under subject to the relevant English law and unless the Articles or rights the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
attaching to any class of shares provide otherwise, the special rights that are attached to any of these classes can be varied or abrogated as Annual General Meeting provided by those rights or approved by a special resolution passed at The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.00 pm on a separate meeting of that class.
Alternatively, the holders of at least Monday 18 May 2009 at the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre, three-quarters of the existing shares of the class by nominal value Reading.
The Notice of AGM along with an explanation of the can give their consent in writing.
proposed resolutions, including the proposed amendments to the Companys Articles of Association, is set out on pages 127 to 133.
Alteration of share capital The shareholders can by ordinary resolution a increase the Companys A summary of the business carried out at the AGM will be published authorised share capital, b consolidate, or consolidate and then divide, on the BG Group website.
all or any of the Companys share capital into shares of a larger nominal Voting rights amount than the existing shares, c cancel any shares that have not been When a shareholder is entitled to attend a general meeting and vote, taken, or agreed to be taken, by any person at the date of the resolution, where there is a poll, subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching and reduce the amount of the Companys share capital by the amount to any class of shares, if he is entitled to be present and to vote, he has one of the cancelled shares, and d subject to the relevant English law divide vote for every share that he holds.
Shareholders are entitled to appoint a some or all of the Companys shares into shares which are of a smaller proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and nominal amount than is fixed in the Memorandum.
The shareholders vote at a general meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to can, subject to the relevant English law, pass a special resolution to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
a reduce the Companys authorised share capital in any way, or b reduce any capital redemption reserve, share premium account or To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice of other undistributable reserve in any way.
The Company can, subject to the meeting can give a time by which people must be entered on the the relevant English law, buy back, or agree to buy back in the future, any Register which must not be more than 48 hours before the meeting.
However, if the Company has existing shares that are Unless provided otherwise in the Articles, the only people who can admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange and that are attend or vote at general meetings are shareholders who have paid convertible into equity shares, then the Company can only buy back the Company all calls, and all other sums, relating to the shares that equity shares of that class if either the terms of issue of the convertible are due at the time of the meeting.
shares permit the Company to buy back equity shares or the buy back or Restrictions on shareholders rights agreement to buy back has been approved by a special resolution passed by such holders.
If a shareholder has been properly served with a notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring information about interests Rights of foreign shareholders in shares, and has failed to supply such information within 14 days There are no limitations imposed by the relevant English law or of the notice, then subject to the Articles and unless the Directors the Articles on the rights to own securities, including the rights otherwise decide the shareholder is not for so long as the default of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise voting continues entitled to attend or vote at a shareholders meeting or to rights on the securities.
exercise any other right in relation to a meeting as holder of any shares Notification of the acquisition or disposal of major shareholdings held by the shareholder in default.
Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires disclosure Any person who acquires shares in relation to which a default has to the issuer by a holders of shares with voting rights attached, occurred Default Shares is subject to the same restrictions unless: b those entitled to exercise voting rights, and c those holding financial instruments that result in a right to acquire shares with the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant to a takeover or one voting rights already in issue, when their interests reach, exceed, which, to the Directors satisfaction, is a bona fide sale to a person or fall below 3%, and every percentage point above 3%.
unconnected with the shareholder: or Transfer of shares the transfer was by a shareholder who was not himself in default in supplying the information required by the notice and a the transfer Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of issue of any shares, any shareholder may transfer any or all of his shares.
However, is of only part of his holding, and b the transfer is accompanied by a certificate in a form satisfactory to the Directors stating that, after the Directors can refuse to register a transfer a in certificated form, if www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 51 such shares are not fully paid up or the evidence of entitlement to such RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT shares is missing, b if it is in respect of more than one class of share, The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors Report to state any c if it is in favour of more than four persons jointly, or d if it is not activities in the field of research and development undertaken by the properly stamped where required.
However, if any of those shares Company.
The Company currently has no significant activities to report upon.
have been admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, the Directors cannot refuse to register a transfer if this would stop See note 3 on page 79 for research and development expenditure dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
included in the income statement.
If the Directors decide not to register a transfer, they must notify EMPLOYEES the person to whom the shares were to be transferred of the refusal, together with reasons for the refusal, as soon as practicable and in any Employees are informed about significant business issues and the Groups performance using electronic mail, webcasts, the Groups event within two months after the date on which the transfer is lodged with the Company.
intranet and in-house publications, as well as DVDs and briefing meetings at each business location.
When appropriate, consultation The Directors can decide to suspend the registration of transfers by with employee and union representatives also takes place.
closing the Register, but the Register cannot be closed for more than 30 days per year.
In the case of shares in uncertificated form, the The Group takes the issues of equality and diversity seriously and encourages its partners to do likewise.
By using the talent and skills Register must not be closed without the consent of the operator of a relevant system currently Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited, the operator available in all groups and communities in the countries in which of a relevant system under the UK CREST Regulations.
it operates, the Group is able to build a strong foundation for the lasting success of its business.
This is achieved by using appropriate Share capital recruitment and selection techniques, ensuring equality of employment In order to enable the Company to return value to shareholders, the opportunities and equal access to development opportunities.
Company was given authority at the 2008 AGM to make market The Group is also committed to providing a work environment free purchases of up to 334 404 035 of its own ordinary 10p shares at a maximum price per share of 105% of the average middle market from harassment and discrimination.
This commitment is included in the Groups policy on Human Resources.
The policy is available on the closing price of the shares for the five trading days prior to the relevant purchase.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM BG Group website.
The Group remains committed to the full and fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to job applications, and approval from shareholders will be sought at that meeting to renew the authority for a further year.
During February 2008, the training, promotion and career development.
Every effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who are unable to continue Group completed the share repurchase programme of 750 million, announced in February 2007, having repurchased 88 million ordinary in their existing job because of disability.
Equally, the Group encourages its partners to take a similar approach to these issues where Group shares of 10p each at an average price of 8.51 per share.
For further information and details of shares repurchased and those issued during policies are not able to be implemented directly.
the year, see page 130 and note 24 to the accounts on pages 104 to 105.
Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company Dividends and a significant number participate in the Groups share plans.
The shareholders can declare final dividends by ordinary resolution.
COMMUNITY No dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Donations No interim dividend shall be paid on shares that carry deferred or During 2008, the Group donated around 0.2m to registered charities non-preferred rights if, at the time of payment, any preferential in the UK.
By adding contributions of cash, employee time and dividend is in arrears.
Unless the rights attaching to shares or the equipment to community groups in the UK in accordance with the terms of any shares provide otherwise, dividends are paid based on the London Benchmarking Group model, this figure rises to around 0.3m.
amounts that have been paid up on the shares in the relevant period.
The Groups policy is not to make donations for political purposes.
In The Directors can recommend the shareholders to pass an ordinary 2008, no donations were made in any EU member state for political resolution to direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by distributing purposes, as defined in Section 364 of the Companies Act 2006. specific assets.
The Directors must give effect to such a resolution.
If a dividend has not been claimed for one year, the Directors may invest More information on the Groups Social Performance Standard, the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of the Company charitable donations and community involvement can be found on until the dividend is claimed.
Any dividend that has not been claimed pages 38 to 39 of this report and in the 2008 Sustainability Report, for 12 years may be forfeited and belong to the Company if the Directors available on the Groups website.
Suppliers Winding up The Group aims to adopt fair payment practices in line with each If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the authority of country in which it operates and aims to pay all its creditors promptly a special resolution and any other sanction required by relevant law, and in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
It is divide among the shareholders all or part of the assets of the Company the Groups policy to agree the payment terms with each supplier at or transfer any part of the assets to trustees on trust for the benefit of the the start of business and to ensure that they are aware of the terms shareholders.
No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept of payment.
any shares or other property under the Articles that carries a liability.
The Group had 20 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2008 2007 19 days based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 52 Directors Report Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS CHANGE OF CONTROL Certain safeguards apply when the Directors consider whether to There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only Directors who have upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking any decision, the Directors must act in a Under the agreement governing the Companys equity investment in way that they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Comgs, in the event of a change of control of the Company following Companys success.
In addition, the Directors are able to impose limits or a takeover bid, Shell Gas B. V. has the right to acquire the Companys conditions when giving such authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
equity in Comgs at market value.
In exercising the power to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan may claim to have a right interest, the Board has adopted the guidelines issued by the GC100 the to acquire BG Groups interest in the Final PSC governing the operation Association of General Counsel and Company Secretaries of the FTSE of the Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field BG Group 32.5% 100 and appropriate procedures have been put in place to ensure that or the shares in the company holding that interest in the event of all Directors notify the Company of any situation where they have, or a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly could As at 31 December 2008, BG Energy Holdings Limited had bilateral conflict, with the Companys interests.
Once notified, all such matters are considered by the Nominations Committee and an appropriate committed multi-currency revolving borrowing facilities with a number recommendation is made to the Board on whether or not to authorise of its relationship banks in an aggregate amount of US$ 2 365 million.
such matters, and, if so, on what terms.
The Board believes that these All are currently undrawn.
When taken together, these facilities are procedures are operating effectively.
significant to the ongoing liquidity of the Group and repayment or cancellation of any or all of them may be demanded upon a change Indemnities and insurance of control of the Company.
BG Group maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
The Directors, Company Secretary and members of the Group Executive No other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Committee have also been granted a qualifying third-party indemnity, of control of the Company following a takeover bid are considered to under Section 234 of the 2006 Act, which remains in force.
Neither be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the the Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event Group as a whole.
that the indemnified individual is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR OTHER ARRANGEMENTS BG Group confirms there are no persons with whom the Company AUDITORS has contractual or other arrangements, which BG Group considers Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to are essential to its business.
the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
DIRECTORS Sir David Manning was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Auditor independence Director in July 2008.
Martin Houston was appointed as an Executive The Audit Committee annually agrees a framework of non-audit Director in February 2009.
Newly-appointed Directors are required to activities for the external auditors, which are described with sufficient retire at the first AGM following their appointment and to seek election specificity to enable the Committee to ensure that the proposed by shareholders.
Sir David Manning and Martin Houston will therefore activities will not compromise the independence of the external be seeking election by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
For each activity, the Committee approves a budget for the financial year.
In addition, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
Accordingly, Sir Robert Wilson, Frank Chapman, Accordingly, the Audit Committee is deemed to have given its Ashley Almanza and Jrgen Dormann will retire and be proposed for pre-approval in respect of individual assignments where the fees re-election by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
Further details, including fall within the agreed framework and agreed budget for that service.
the Boards reasons for proposing their re-election, are set out in the Pre-approval of assignments that are either outside the agreed Notice of AGM on pages 127 to 133. framework, or are within the agreed framework but not within the agreed budget, is delegated to the Audit Committee Chairman or, in For information relating to the powers of the Companys Directors his absence, any other member of the Committee.
The Committee please see page 126. regularly reviews a list of all the non-audit services provided by the Conflicts of interest external auditors, the specific nature of the work and the fees involved.
From 1 October 2008, the Directors became subject to a statutory duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to avoid a situation Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that As required by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Directors has approved this report and confirmed that, so far as he she 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information and potential conflicts where appropriate, if the articles of association needed by the Auditors in connection with preparing their Audit report contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles to of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and he she has taken all contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make to avoid a breach of duty.
At the 2008 AGM, revised Articles of him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Association that contained such provisions were adopted.
that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION 53 FINANCIAL The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps Results and dividend accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial For the year ended 31 December 2008, the total profit before tax was position of the Company and of the Group and that enable them to 5 468m 2007 3 039m.
A final dividend of 6.55p per ordinary share ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration is proposed 2007 5.76p, making a total dividend for 2008 of 11.23p report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and as regards the Group 2007 9.36p.
The results are dealt with more fully in the Financial Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
Statements pages 64 to 124 and summarised in the Financial review The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are pages 28 to 34. reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to The trustees of the BG Group New Employees Share Trust and the prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and have adopted a BG Group Share Incentive Plan have waived their right to receive control framework for application across the Group.
dividends over 27 837 and 26 471 shares respectively.
The Directors, having prepared the Financial Statements, have asked GOING CONCERN the Auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake whatever The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purposes of enabling them to give their Audit report.
its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Business Review on pages 2 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee continues to review its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities: and the the adequacy of the system of internal control adopted by the Group.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital are described on pages 28 to 34.
Financial risk management objectives: A copy of the Financial Statements of the Company is placed on the details of financial instruments and hedging activities: and exposures BG Group website.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 19, page 95. involve consideration of the maintenance of the BG Group website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that The Directors consider that the Groups business activities and may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially financial resources ensure that it is well placed to manage its presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of The Directors are satisfied that the Groups and the Companys financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
activities are sustainable for the foreseeable future, and that the business is a going concern and the accounts have therefore been Pursuant to Rule 4.1.
12 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, each prepared on this basis.
of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out on pages 40 to 41, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PREPARING the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the adopted by the European Union give a true and fair view of the Directors Remuneration report and the Financial Statements in assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the management report represented by the Directors Report Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements on pages 2 to 63 includes a fair review of the development for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the and performance of the business and the position of the Group, Group and the parent company Financial Statements in accordance together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the that the Group faces.
European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The financial statements are required by law By order of the Board to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Frank Chapman Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Chief Executive The Directors consider that, in preparing the Financial Statements Ashley Almanza on pages 64 to 124, the Company has used appropriate accounting Chief Financial Officer policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, and all applicable accounting standards 11 March 2009 have been followed.
The Company has complied with UK disclosure Registered Office: requirements in this report in order to present a consistent picture 100 Thames Valley Park Drive to all shareholders.
Reading Berkshire RG6 1PT Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
