qxp:Layout 1 24 3 09 12:45 Page 42 42 Directors Report Corporate Governance Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary The members of the Group Executive Committee are the Executive Directors and those senior managers whose details are set out below.
The Committee has primary authority for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations within agreed limits 12 set by the Board.
Ashley Almanza h Portfolio Development Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer i Exploration and Appraisal h, i, j, l, m j, k, o j Investment 3.
Jrn Berget k Group Performance Executive Director and Executive Executive Vice President & Managing l HSSE Vice President & Managing Director, Director, BG Advance and on an interim m People and Organisation Americas and Global LNG basis from 25 November 2008 Africa, n Governance and Risk k, l Middle East and Asia o Energy Trading and Credit Risk Jrn Berget 56 joined BG Group plc in p Reserves November 2004.
He is responsible for the See page 40 for biographical details following Group functions: Exploration: Petroleum Engineering and Developments: Engineering Projects: Operations and Well Engineering: Commercial and Assurance, Strategy and Portfolio Development: HSSE and IT & Technology.
BG Advance also provides the Group with corporate technical and commercial assurance and services, including resourcing and development of staff capabilities.
Jrn is also responsible for overseeing the Groups E&P activities in Brazil.
He joined the Company from Shell and has over 30 years international experience in the oil and gas industry, covering all aspects of the E&P business with assignments in the UK, Europe, the Gulf, the Far East, South America and the USA.
i, j, k, l, p Stuart Fysh, Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Africa, Middle East and Asia, left the Company in December 2008 as mentioned in the Chairman's Statement.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION BG078 p40-43 vAW2.
Charles Bland Executive Vice President & Managing Executive Vice President & Managing Executive Vice President, Policy Director, Europe and Central Asia Director, Australia & Corporate Affairs Mark Carne 50 joined BG Group plc in Catherine Tanna 47 joined BG Group plc Charles Bland 59 joined BG plc in 1999.
He is responsible for the Groups in March 2009.
Based in Brisbane, she is He is responsible for government and activities in the UK, Italy, Norway and responsible for the Groups activities in public affairs, communications, social Kazakhstan and business development Australia.
Formerly, she worked for Shell performance and Business Principles.
He activities elsewhere in the region.
Formerly, where she gained extensive LNG, gas was appointed to his current position in he worked for Shell where he gained transmission and power distribution 2002 having previously been President, extensive international industry experience experience, and before that BHP Petroleum BG Kazakhstan, and Vice President, including general management roles in the where she worked in a number of exploration Government Affairs.
Before joining the UK, Europe, Brunei and Oman, covering and production roles.
She is a qualified Group he worked in UK government, operations, engineering, commercial and solicitor in Australia and England.
k, l holding various posts in the Ministry business development.
Keith Hubber Executive Vice President, Human Resources General Counsel Company Secretary Robert Booker 42 joined BG Group plc Graham Vinter 53 joined BG Group plc Keith Hubber 44 joined BG Group plc in 2006.
He is responsible for all matters as General Counsel in November 2007.
He in 2001 and is responsible for all matters relating to human resources strategy and has responsibility for the legal affairs of the relating to the Board, its committees and policy.
He was appointed to his current Group.
Prior to becoming General Counsel, governance.
Prior to becoming Company position in February 2009, having previously he spent 27 years with the international law Secretary in November 2007, he held a been General Manager, Performance & firm, Allen & Overy LLP.
He was a partner number of roles within the Groups Legal Reward.
A chartered accountant, he holds there for just under 20 years and was Global Department.
He acted as General Counsel a Masters in Finance from London Business Head of Projects from 1996 to 2007.
His from May to November 2007, having School.
Formerly, he worked as a senior HR experience includes advising on energy previously been Chief Counsel, Corporate consultant for Ernst & Young and Mercer transactions in Europe, the Middle East, from July 2004.
Before joining the Group, Human Resource Consulting in the UK and Asia and elsewhere.
j, n he worked as a lawyer in private practice Canada.
n Peter Duffy, the previous Executive Vice President, Human Resources, left the Company in February 2009, having been on leave of absence for personal reasons since October 2008.
During this period Robert Booker assumed Peter Duffys responsibilities.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
