Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 19 Alliance Alliance T Tr rust ust PLC PLC Report Report & & Accounts Accounts || 19 19 Japan % of Net Assets Jan 07 7% Jan 08 1% Japan Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2008 Alliance Trust Japan Portfolio -7.25% FTSE Japan All-Cap Index -11.27% Shinkansen Hayate.
Courtesy of Japan Railways Group New York Office.
Japanese economic recovery stalled by subdued Outlook consumer spending.
The near term outlook for the Japanese economy is clouded by Recent GDP numbers have been weak pulled down by a fall the slowdown in its key export markets.
As regards the domestic in investment spending.
economy, we have difficulty identifying a catalyst that will have The economy remains dependent on export growth which a positive impact.
This is likely to impact share price could be impacted by the stronger yen and slower growth in performance.
As a result, we are likely to maintain our low key export markets.
Investment Activity In the first half of the year we reduced our exposure to Japanese assets in both equities and yen from 7.1% of net assets at end January 2007 to 1.1% by the end of June, when the market was trading near its 2007 peak.
The decision was based on a gloomy outlook for the Japanese macro-environment.
The risk of yen strengthening was increasing as the US subprime turmoil spread through global stock and currency markets.
Profits that were supported by a weak yen looked vulnerable.
Our position in Japan is currently held through the Premier Alliance Trust Japan Equity Fund, which is managed by our Asian investment team in Hong Kong.
This fund was ranked in the top quartile over the 12 months to 31 January 2008.
We have trimmed some of the export oriented companies such as Komatsu and Toyota.
Overweight positions in banks and financials have also been reduced.
The holding of East Japan Top investment Railway has been a consistent outperformer, as it is one of the key beneficiaries of population growth in Tokyo.
One of the Company Sector m best performing stocks in the fund was Works Applications, Premier Alliance Trust which gained 49% during the year.
The company is a leader in Japan Equity Fund Nonequity Investment Instruments 31.7 packaged software in human resource management distributed to large enterprises and in accounting software packages.
The company is gaining orders from new segments such as the public sector, where its efficient but low cost packaged software is attractive in light of budget tightening.
UK Investment Management Association Japan Sector.
