42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 20 20 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Private Equity % of Net Assets Jan 07 3% Jan 08 5% Private Equity Patient screening.
Courtesy of Digital Healthcare Limited, a private equity fund investment.
A total of 55m was committed to these funds with drawdownsThe credit crisis halted most major merger & acquisition and management buy out transactions in the second half building through 2008 to 2010. of 2007 The total invested in unquoted private equity funds and direct Publicly traded private equity trusts have seen large increases investments is 25.9m with a further 118.9m in quoted in discounts to net asset value due to expectations of lower investments.
In addition there have been commitments given to returns in a weaker economy invest up to a further 71.3m in private equity investments.
Reduced valuations and less aggressive debt structures are resulting as liquidity has become less accessible Outlook Our outlook for 2008 is positive as the credit market issues will Investment Activity reduce valuations and will provide a base to drive strong returns The last year saw private equity investments face a number of over the long term.
Our quoted private equity investments challenges.
The first six months were dominated by issues of should provide a good positive return as market sentiment accountability, responsibility and taxation and the second half by returns, allowing us to build the commitments to funds and credit issues and economic slowdown.
2007 will be marked as co-investments with quality managers.
the peak of the current private equity cycle.
Our intention is to build a high quality private equity portfolio As a result there has been a commitment to providing more which will generate strong returns in the long term.
We have a clarity in financial reporting by the private equity managers and robust investment process which we apply to each opportunity changes, in the UK, to the taxation of capital gains.
We believe and we have an investment team which can build on strong that further measures will be announced as a result of the relationships with private equity managers to deliver our goals.
growth and impact of private equity investment in the global economy.
We are focusing on developing business relationships with good quality UK and European private equity managers who have a demonstrable successful track record, significant human and financial resources and a robust investment process.
We will make commitments to the funds that they manage and we will seek to co-invest alongside them.
If appropriate, we are happy to invest in the management companies themselves.
Our Private Equity Top ten investments exposure to private equity grew during 2007 through additions Company Sector m and expansion of the quoted private equity investments and through the commitment to four new private equity funds.
Standard Life European Private Equity Private Equity 17.4 Caledonia Investments Private Equity 16.0 These funds provide an indication of where we intend to focus RIT Capital Partners Private Equity 15.1 the future growth of the portfolio:- Candover Investments Private Equity 12.3 European low to mid market buy-out August Equity Eurazeo Private Equity 11.5 SVG Capital Private Equity 11.2 Mezzanine Alcuin Partners Fleming Family Private Equity Vehicle Private Equity 9.7 Venture Pentech Impax Environmental Markets Private Equity 8.5 Promethean India Private Equity 7.7Emerging managers Climate Change Capital Private Equity 3i Group Private Equity 7.5
