42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 16 16 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Europe % of Net Assets Jan 07 13% Jan 08 17% Europe Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2008 Alliance Trust Europe ex UK Portfolio -0.88% FTSE World Europe ex UK Index 1.99% Corn harvesting.
Economic growth has held up relatively well, helped by good Outlook export performance Valuations in Europe are beginning to look attractive, although Recent improvements in labour markets particularly in many sectors may yet see reductions in earnings forecasts.
The Germany should underpin domestic spending in the severity of the US economic slowdown is the key factor for the year ahead.
Although less dependent on the US economy The European Central Bank ECB remains committed to than previously, the region will still be affected by the fighting inflation and is expected to maintain interest rates at US slowdown.
4% in the short term If European economies do show signs of cooling, then inflationary pressures will ease and we would expect the ECB to Investment Activity be able to begin to cut interest rates, albeit gradually.
Throughout the year we repositioned the portfolio to increase The outlook in Europe remains challenging, but volatility will our holdings in large cap stocks following a strong period of present the opportunity to be selective and to buy into relative out-performance by smaller companies.
We added attractive stocks at cheaper valuations.
significantly to our holdings in the Swiss food producer Nestl and RWE the German electricity utility.
We also reduced our exposure to cyclical stocks as our concerns grew over the future path of economic growth.
We sold our holdings in the Scandinavian engineering companies Sandvik and SKF.
Our overweight position in fixed telecommunications worked well for the portfolio with the significant holding in Telefnica outperforming strongly.
The industry shift towards bundled services is playing to Telefnicas strengths.
Our underweight position in banks helped performance although certain individual stocks did cause some pain Anglo Irish Bank was particularly weak as a result of a softening Irish economy and concerns over the commercial property market.
Our significant position in support services performed poorly.
Top ten investments Holdings in Adecco and Randstad fell sharply after the latter highlighted that future growth may prove more difficult.
The Company Sector m use of cautious language by management was sufficient to Telefnica Fixed Line Telecommunications 26.2 cause investors to sell down the shares.
Total Oil & Gas Producers 22.4 Nestl Food Producers 22.1 We established a holding in the Swiss crop protection and seed BNP Paribas Banks 18.9 company Syngenta early in the year with a view to benefiting Roche Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 18.8 from the secular growth potential of agricultural markets.
These Syngenta Chemicals 17.7 markets remain buoyant as is shown by record crop prices and UniCredito Italiano Banks 17.2 low inventories.
We envisage that a number of positive macroAXA Nonlife Insurance 17.2 economic trends will continue to drive Syngentas business over Swatch Personal Goods 16.0 the next few years.
Deutsche Telecom Fixed Line Telecommunications 15.7
