42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 14 14 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts UK Large Cap % of Net Assets Jan 07 35% Jan 08 40% UK Large Cap Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2008 Alliance Trust UK Large Cap Portfolio -1.14% FTSE World UK Index -2.04% Courtesy of Xstrata.
Commodity prices strengthened further on strong were thrown into the spotlight by Northern Rock, which we did global demand not hold.
The very competitive nature of the UK mortgage market and pressures on the housing market have long been aSterling strength through much of the year was a burden to exporters concern to us, and we sold our bank holdings with significant mortgage exposure Bradford and Bingley and HBOS wellGlobal credit squeeze hit the UK liquidity is no longer readily available before conditions deteriorated.
Downward pressure beginning to build in the UK We also reduced our position in housebuilder Persimmon during housing market the year, due to concerns over a difficult housing market.
Rising interest rate environment through most of the year, reversed towards the end Outlook We are hopeful that interest rates will be cut further and that Investment Activity this will help avoid recession in the UK in 2008.
In this scenario We adopted a defensive bias in the portfolio for much of 2007 UK large cap companies should perform reasonably well.
UK with large positions in many classically defensive names such as financial companies are now looking interesting: more bad news Scottish & Southern Energy, Severn Trent and British American is likely but much is anticipated in current share prices.
This reflects our cautious economic stance through some very high yields available from UK financials but they are the year.
We currently are also retaining our resource positions as their key drivers of Chinese demand, supply We benefited significantly from investments in mining constraint and consolidation remain in place.
Finally, it may be companies Rio Tinto, Anglo American, Xstrata and Vedanta as early to increase exposure to the UK consumer, but, where commodity prices rose strongly over the year.
Another area of companies have solid asset backing and strong long-term strong performance was in blue chip companies.
Investors have business models there may be some bargains for the been attracted to them by their long term solid performance long-term investor.
Of note in this group were large portfolio holdings in Reckitt Benckiser, Tesco, Vodafone and National Grid.
Consolidation was an ongoing theme of the year.
We benefited from takeover activity in Alliance Boots, Hanson, ICI, Reuters and Top ten investments Scottish & Newcastle.
Liquidity is no longer readily available following the credit crunch.
Nevertheless, strong companies are Company Sector m likely to continue with value creating corporate activity and we Royal Dutch Shell 'B' Oil & Gas Producers 81.6 happily are exposed to such potential through Xstrata and Vodafone Mobile Telecommunications 75.9 Rio Tinto.
BP Oil & Gas Producers 67.7 What of disappointments in 2007?
Top of this list are financials Royal Bank of Scotland Banks 64.7 HSBC Banks 51.8 and within this banks.
Many UK banks made investments in Lloyds TSB Banks 50.1 financial instruments which often had large underlying Xstrata Mining 40.4 exposures not just to US housing but to the subprime element of Rio Tinto Mining 39.9 this lending.
We are now seeing some very large capital writeTesco Food & Drug Retailers 39.7 downs as a result.
The risks of borrowing short and lending long GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 39.6
