Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 21 Alliance Alliance T Tr rust ust PLC PLC Report Report & & Accounts Accounts || 21 21 Property % of Net Assets Jan 07 3% Jan 08 3% Property 107 George Street, Edinburgh.
The global credit crunch has impacted valuations of UK the year.
We are confident that our legacy assets in the US will commercial property markets continue to attract exploration interest and therefore produce good future income streams.
Overall demand has slowed as liquidity has tightened Recessionary fears are over-hanging the market Outlook Investment Activity The outlook for the UK property market in 2008 remains clouded by the twin threats of economic slowdown and further Commercial Property in the UK endured a difficult year in 2007 credit tightening.
This will, in our view, provide opportunities to as an overheated market began to cool rapidly due to the us to acquire quality property assets at attractive prices.
We will economic headwinds of a global credit crunch coupled with continue to adopt a prudent and cautious policy to property increasing recessionary fears.
Having dominated the bull market investment with yield considerations of prime importance.
in property for the past few years, demand from highly leveraged investors and from open-ended property investment funds virtually dried up in the second half of the year.
As a consequence, the commercial property market fell back with yields rising from their recent low levels.
In recent years, the UK commercial property market has also enjoyed the support of overseas investors the globalisation of property investment has had a profound effect on the pricing of property assets, especially in major centres like London.
The UK has been perceived as a relatively safe haven as far as property investment is concerned.
The impact of overseas investment may, however, become less pronounced against the current backdrop of economic uncertainty and taxation changes.
Since we entered this asset class, we have adopted a cautious approach to property investment: looking to add core prime holdings to complement our existing property portfolio.
Two acquisitions were made over the course of the year: 11-12 Hanover Street, London, W1, a prime Mayfair freehold office Property Top investments and 107 George Street, Edinburgh, an office retail property.
The value of our UK commercial property investments fell by Property Sector m 10.5% capital return over the year while the IPD UK All Edinburgh House, 4 North Property Index fell by 12.0% capital return and the FTSE AllSt Andrew Street, Edinburgh Offices 17.2 Share Real Estate Index declined by 29.3% total return.
Gross Kings Court, 12 King Street, Leeds Offices 16.0 11 Hanover Street, London Offices Retail 14.1 rental income from our properties more than doubled from 125 George Street, Edinburgh Hotel 10.0 1.91million last year to 4.02 million: a gross yield of 5.01%.
6-10 Frederick Street, Edinburgh Retail 8.8 Our US mineral interests continue to produce good revenues for Monteith House, George Square, our shareholders, having generated 1.63 million of income over Glasgow Offices 8.1 107 George Street, Edinburgh Offices Retail 5.9
