Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 15 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 15 UK Small Cap % of Net Assets Jan 07 9% Jan 08 7% UK Small Cap Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2008 Alliance Trust UK Small Cap Portfolio -12.81% FTSE GEIS UK Small Cap Index -10.97% Petrofacs facilities upgrade project for KOC in Kuwait.
Consumer sector slowed in response to increases in interest acquired by an HBOS consortium and Bovis was sold, but we rates in first half of the year have retained our investment in Bellway, which trades at a significant discount to the value of the land it owns.
Downward pressure building in the UK housing market Performance in the portfolio was negatively impacted by Sterling strength a burden to export companies exposure to the commercial property sector.
Our holding in Global credit market woes have impacted commercial Great Portland Estates suffered along with the rest of the property markets quoted property sector despite another year of encouraging results but, as they are a developer focused on the more Investment Activity resilient West End of London, we retain our holding given the The optimistic tone that emanated from many UK small cap inherent value in the assets of the group.
companies in the first half of last year was rapidly overtaken by investor concerns regarding the potential impact of the credit Outlook crisis and the expected slowdown in economic growth.
The As investors nerves have been tested, share price volatility has strong returns of the previous three years provided plenty of become a prominent feature with January recording a fall of opportunity for investors to lock in gains.
12% for the small cap index at the worst point of the month.
The last 12 months have been characterised by a number of We have adjusted our portfolio to reflect our more cautious investment themes.
The continued strong demand for economic outlook.
We believe that valuations in the more infrastructure related investments which has been evident within cyclical industries are beginning now to discount the expected the support services area of the oil industry has been one, and downturn and we expect to re-visit companies operating in the the continuing role of outsourced services within the UK engineering sector and in employment services.
In contrast, companies that are dependent on UK consumer spending have suffered.
Share prices of companies exposed to the retail sector and the house building sectors felt the greatest impact.
Our positive opinion on the oil services companies has continued to deliver positive returns for the portfolio.
Wood Group has continued to benefit from global demand for its engineering expertise, whilst Petrofac has been particularly successful in Top ten investments winning business from the national oil companies of the Middle Company Sector m East and Africa.
Gyrus Health Care Equipment & Services 13.4 Outsourcing continues to be utilised by the public and private Petrofac Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 12.4 sectors and both Serco and WS Atkins have been successful in Wood Group Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 11.4 the development of their business and order books over the Merrill Lynch last year.
World Mining Trust Mining 10.5 First Group Travel & Leisure 9.5 The house building industry witnessed a reduction in Admiral Group Nonlife Insurance 8.8 prospective buyers and events at Northern Rock impacted Great Portland Estates Real Estate 8.8 consumer confidence.
Share prices in the sector fell sharply, and Croda International Chemicals 8.6 valuations have fallen to levels not seen in the last 10 years.
TUI Travel Travel & Leisure 8.5 Prior to these developments, our holding in Crest Nicholson was Babcock Support Services 8.2
