Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 17 Alliance Alliance T Tr rust ust PLC PLC Report Report & & Accounts Accounts || 17 17 North America % of Net Assets Jan 07 11% Jan 08 16% North America Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2008 Alliance Trust North American Portfolio 5.86% FTSE World North America Index FTSE North America All Cap Index -2.44% The Ocean Patriot.
US subprime crisis spread into global financial markets assisted by our largest significant exposure being to the Bank of Nova Scotia which, sterling adjusted, rose 9%, significantly The value of the US dollar fell through the year better than most US banks.
We were also helped by our bias to Fallout of the housing market downturn has spilled into the defensive stocks, with, in dollar terms, the utility Exelon, wider economy pharmacist CVS and tobacco company Altria all doing well.
Key now is employment: if it deteriorates consumer activity Our best performer, rising by 33%, was Diamond Offshore may slow enough to push the economy into recession Drilling, owner of the worlds second biggest deepwater drilling Both the Federal Reserve and the Government have now fleet, to which we added during the year.
Most of the major responded in a stimulatory fashion but results may take a untapped oil fields are now thought to lie offshore and contract while to feed through rates continue to rise.
Diamond now has a contract backlog of $11bn and equally important, the company pays out a Investment Activity significant portion of its income in dividends.
Our outperformance in North America was driven by good stock selection.
Equity markets are rarely dull, but the past year has Outlook been a particularly interesting one.
The US subprime crisis, and After years of feasting on easy credit the American consumer is resulting financial fallout, has dominated the headlines, while likely to rediscover how to save again.
Whether or not the US structural changes in the global economy caused many economy falls into recession, economic growth is unlikely to roar commodities to reach record prices.
Some of these rises can be away again and growth in consumer spending will be fairly explained as an offset to the falling value of the dollar.
This does not mean that there will not be interesting However, in contrast, the Canadian dollar, buoyed by its natural or exciting investments to own, but for the time being we will mineral wealth, rose to a record of 1.09 US dollar to one look to have a defensive bias to our stock selection.
Portfolio activity increased over the year as we sought to The benchmark index for the portfolio was altered on 31 July 2007 from navigate through the financial storms and to take advantage of the FTSE World North America Index to the FTSE North America All Cap the dramatic share price volatility.
Reflecting either economic or Index to align it with the changed mandate of the portfolio to include investment in small cap stocks.
company specific concerns we sold General Electric, Disney, Home Depot, Microsoft and JP Morgan.
In their place we looked to buy companies we believe have more dependable earnings Top ten investments prospects, adding to Exelon, Altria and Bank of Nova Scotia.
New positions were started in railroad company Canadian Company Sector m Pacific, industrial conglomerate United Technologies, waste Exxon Mobil Oil & Gas Producers 28.7 handler Republic Services and timber company Plum Abbott Laboratories Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 23.4 Creek Timber.
Altria Group Tobacco 22.9 Petro-Canada Oil & Gas Producers 18.5 During the market turmoil we benefited from our defensive Exelon Electricity 17.2 stance.
Our large investment in the oil and gas sector responded Canadian Pacific well to the rise in the oil price, although one of our biggest Railway Industrial Transportation 16.6 holdings, Petro Canada, disappointed, restrained by the Diamond Offshore Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 16.5 Bank Of Nova Scotia Banks 14.4 strength of the Canadian dollar and proposed new royalty taxes Ultra Petroleum Oil & Gas Producers 13.5 in Alberta.
A limited investment in financials also helped avoid ITT General Industrials 13.4 much of the damage unleashed by the subprime crisis.
