42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 18 18 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Asia Pacific % of Net Assets Jan 07 9% Jan 08 11% Asia Pacific Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2008 Alliance Trust Asia Pacific Portfolio 6.41% FTSE Asia Pacific ex Japan All-Cap Index 21.24% Courtesy of BHP Billiton.
Economic growth has remained strong, driven by investment Outlook spending and exports Consensus estimates expected Asian economies to slow Inflation has become a problem across the region as a whole, somewhat in 2008 even before the possibility of a US recession due to the combination of higher food and energy prices arose.
The region remains heavily reliant on exports so is Most Asian countries are now experiencing slower growth in unlikely to be immune to a significant slowdown in the US and exports to the US other global export markets.
There is a pool of domestic Other export news is mixed underpinning hopes that Asia demand and planned infrastructure spending in the two largest will show at least some signs of decoupling from the US economies of India and China not solely related to the Beijing Olympics which will be critical for economic performance in 2008.
Investment Activity We believe that there may be more negative news to come, We were concerned about the effects of a slowdown in the US both in financial markets and from earnings downgrades.
economy before these concerns were reflected in the market.
As Compared to the recession of 2000-2001, corporate balance a result we adopted a defensive stance too early.
Our sheets in Asia are in a much healthier shape and we anticipate underweight position in Korea, in particular industrials, also hurt that opportunities will arise to purchase good quality companies performance.
Our relative performance suffered in a market at attractive valuations.
which was rising very fast.
The portfolio benefited over the past year from being overweight in Hong Kong and from being underweight in Australia.
We were, and continue to be, very optimistic about the prospects for capital investment both private and public in China and in India, and the consequent effect on steel and raw materials prices.
We added to our holding in Rio Tinto in Australia attracted by its mineral holdings and its very competitive cost positioning.
It generates large free cash flows Top ten investments and we found the valuation attractive on both a cash flow and earnings basis.
Driven partly by the bid received from BHP Company Sector m Billiton, the share price has performed strongly since its Premier Alliance Trust initial purchase.
Asia Pacific Equity Fund Nonequity Investment Instruments 39.9 BHP Billiton Mining 11.9 An overweight position in financials and underweight position Hong Kong Land in basic materials impacted negatively on our relative Holdings Real Estate 11.8 performance.
In the technology sector, holdings in Mediatek, Far East Textile Personal Goods 10.5 Hon Hai Precision and China Railway Logistics did not perform as China Overseas Land Real Estate 10.4 we had expected.
Rio Tinto Mining 10.2 Taiwan Fertilizer Chemicals 9.6 Bank Mandiri Banks 9.3 Prime Success International Personal Goods 8.7 RReef China Commercial REIT Real Estate 8.2
