4 BoaRd oF dIReCtoRS and gRoUP ManageMent CoMMIttee 4.1 Board of Directors Don Argus Ao, sF Fin, FCPA, 70 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Term of office: Director of BHP limited since november 1996 and Chairman of Spectra Energy Corporation since January 2007 Chairman since April 1999.
Chairman of BHP Billiton limited and Former Director of Qantas Airways Limited from September BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Mr Argus was last re-elected in 2002 to April 2008 2007 and, in accordance with the Groups policy described under Former Chairman of Duke Energy Corporation from November tenure in section 5.3.
5 of this Annual report, is retiring and 2003 to January 2007 and former Chief executive officer standing for re-election in 2008. from november 2003 to April 2006 Former Director of Temple Inland Inc from February 2002 Independent: Yes to May 2004 Skills and experience: Don Argus has considerable experience Member of the US Presidents Council of Advisors in international business and a strong management background.
on science and technology He has more than 40 years experience in the banking industry Board Committee membership: and is a former Managing Director and Ceo of the national Member of the Sustainability Committee Australia Bank limited.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Alan Boeckmann Be electrical eng, 60 Director of Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc since May 1999 since september 2008.
Mr Boeckmann will seek election at the Former Chairman of Brambles Limited from September 1999 to 2008 Annual General Meetings.
February 2008 and a Director from May 1999 to February 2008 Independent: Yes Member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft since April 2000 Skills and experience: Alan Boeckmann is currently Chairman and Chief executive officer of Fluor Corporation, usA, Member of International Advisory Committee to the New York having originally joined Fluor in 1974.
He holds non-executive stock exchange Board of Directors since november 2005 directorships with Archer Daniels Midland and Burlington Board Committee membership: northern santa Fe Corporation.
Mr Boeckmann has extensive Chairman of the Nomination Committee experience in running large-scale international industrial companies and experience in the oil and gas industry.
Marius Kloppers Be Chem, MBA, PhD Materials science, 46 He has global experience in engineering, procurement, Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc construction, maintenance and project management across since January 2006.
Mr Kloppers was appointed Chief executive a range of industries, including resources and petroleum.
He was appointed Group President Other directorships and offices current and recent : non-Ferrous Materials and executive Director in January 2006 and was previously Chief Commercial officer.
Mr Kloppers was Chairman and CEO of Fluor Corporation since February 2002 elected in 2006.
Director of Archer Daniels Midland Company from November 2007 to november 2008 Independent: no Director of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation Skills and experience: Marius Kloppers has extensive knowledge since september 2001 of the mining industry and of BHP Billitons operations.
Active in Board Committee membership: the mining and resources industry since 1993, he was appointed Chief Commercial officer in December 2003.
He was previously none Chief Marketing officer, Group executive of Billiton Plc, Chief John Buchanan Bsc, Msc Hons 1, PhD, 65 executive of samancor Manganese and held various positions at Billiton Aluminium, including Chief operating officer and Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc since February 2003.
Dr Buchanan has been designated as General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
the senior independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc since his Other directorships and offices current and recent : appointment.
Dr Buchanan was last re-elected in 2006 and none is retiring and standing for re-election in 2008.
Board Committee membership: Independent: Yes none Skills and experience: educated at Auckland, oxford and Harvard, John Buchanan has had a wide international business Paul Anderson B s Mech eng, MBA, 63 career gained in large and complex international businesses.
Term of office: Appointed a non-executive Director of He has substantial experience in the petroleum industry, BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc on 26 April 2006 with and knowledge of the international investor community.
He was the Chief executive officer He has held various leadership roles in strategic, financial, and Managing Director of BHP limited from December 1998 operational and marketing positions, including executive until June 2001 and of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc experience in different countries.
He is a former executive from June 2001 until July 2002.
He was a non-executive Director director and Group CFo of BP, serving on the BP Board for of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc from July to november six years.
Mr Anderson was last elected in 2006 and is retiring and standing for re-election in 2008.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Chairman of Smith & Nephew Plc since April 2006 and Independent: Yes Former Deputy Chairman from February 2005 to April 2006 Skills and experience: Paul Anderson has an extensive background Chairman of ICC UK since May 2008 in natural resources and energy and, as one of the architects of Director of AstraZeneca Plc since April 2002 the merger that created BHP Billiton, has a deep understanding Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman of Vodafone of the strategy behind the Groups success.
He is Chairman Group Plc since July 2006 and Director since April 2003 of spectra energy Corporation and retired as Chairman of Duke energy Corporation in January 2007 where he had more Board Committee membership: than 20 years experience at Duke energy and its predecessors.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 27 4 BoaRd oF dIReCtoRS and gRoUP ManageMent CoMMIttee continued Carlos Cordeiro AB, MBA, 52 Gail fide Planque AB Mathematics, Ms Physics, PhD env Health sciences, 63 Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc Plc since February 2005.
Mr Cordeiro was last re-elected in 2007. since 19 october 2005. the Hon e Gail fide Planque was last re-elected in 2007.
Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Carlos Cordeiro brings to the Board more than 25 years experience in providing strategic and financial Skills and experience: Gail fide Planque is an expert in nuclear advice to corporations, financial institutions and governments technology and has over 40 years experience as a physicist, around the world.
He was previously Partner and Managing adviser and regulator in the field of nuclear energy.
she also Director of Goldman sachs Group inc. has significant experience as a non-executive director of global energy companies and is a consultant on atomic energy matters.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : she is a former Commissioner of the united states nuclear Non-executive Advisory Director of The Goldman Sachs regulatory Commission, a former Director of the environmental Group inc since December 2001 Measurements laboratory of the us Department of energy, Non-executive Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia a Fellow and former President of the American nuclear society, since December 2001 a fellow of the American Association of the Advancement of science and a Member of the us national Academy of engineering.
Board Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Other directorships and offices current and recent : Director of Northeast Utilities since October 1995 David Crawford BComm, llB, FCA, FCPA, FAiCD, 64 Director of Energy Solutions, Inc since November 2007 Term of office: Director of BHP limited since May 1994.
Director President of Strategy Matters Inc since March 2000 of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc since June 2001.
Director of Energy Strategists Consultancy Ltd since May 1999 Mr Crawford was last re-elected in 2007 and, in accordance with Former Director of TXU Corporation from February 2004 the Groups policy described under tenure in section 5.3.
5 of to February 2007 this Annual report, is retiring and standing for re-election in 2008.
Former Director of BNFL Plc from November 2000 to March 2005 Independent: Yes and of BnG America inc from March 1995 to March 2006 Skills and experience: David Crawford has extensive experience Former Director of Landauer Inc from December 2001 in risk management and business reorganisation.
He has acted to June 2008 as a consultant, scheme manager, receiver and manager and Board Committee membership: liquidator to very large and complex groups of companies.
Member of the Sustainability Committee He was previously Australian national Chairman of KPMG, Chartered Accountants.
the Board has nominated Mr Crawford Member of the Remuneration Committee as the financial expert of the risk and Audit Committee for the David Jenkins BA, PhD Geology, 69 purposes of the us securities and exchange Commission rules, and is satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial Term of office: Director of BHP limited since March 2000. experience for the purposes of the uK listing Authoritys Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Combined Code.
Dr Jenkins was last re-elected in 2007.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Independent: Yes Chairman of Lend Lease Corporation Limited since May 2003 Skills and experience: David Jenkins is a recognised authority and Director since July 2001 on oil and gas technology.
He was previously Chief Geologist, Chairman of Fosters Group Limited since November 2007 Director technology and Chief technology Advisor to BP Plc.
and Director of Fosters Group limited since August 2001 He was also a member of the technology Advisory Committee Former Director of Westpac Banking Corporation of the Halliburton Company and the Advisory Council of Consort from May 2002 to December 2007 resources and Chairman of the energy Advisory Panel of science Applications international Corporation.
Former Chairman of National Foods Limited Director from november 2001 to June 2005 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Board Committee membership: Director of Chartwood Resources Ltd since November 1998 Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee Director of Mintaka International Oil & Gas Limited previously Orion International Oil & Gas Ltd since March 2005 Director of Orion International Petroleum Limited previously Director of orion international Petroleum Gibraltar limited since June 2007 Director of Orion Sangaw North Limited since July 2008 Board Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Risk and Audit Committee 28 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 David Morgan Bec, Msc, PhD, 61 Keith Rumble Bsc, Msc Geochemistry, 54 Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc Term of office: Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc since January 2008.
Dr Morgan will seek election at the 2008 since september 2008.
Mr rumble will seek election at the Annual General Meeting.
Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: David Morgan was the Managing Director Skills and experience: Keith rumble was until recently Chief and Chief executive officer of Westpac Banking Corporation executive officer of sun Mining, a wholly-owned entity of the from March 1999 until January 2008.
He has extensive experience sun Group, a principal investor and private equity fund manager in the financial sector, having worked in the international Monetary in russia, india and other emerging and transforming markets.
Fund in Washington DC in the 1970s and the Australian Federal He has over 30 years experience in the resources industry, treasury in the 1980s where he headed all major areas before being specifically in titanium and platinum mining, and is a former appointed senior Deputy secretary.
Dr Morgan joined Westpac Ceo of impala Platinum Pty ltd and former Ceo of rio tinto in 1990 where he had responsibility for all major operating iron and titanium inc.
He began his career at richards Bay divisions including, Westpac Financial services, retail Banking, Minerals in 1980, and held various management positions, Commercial Banking, Corporate and institutional Banking before becoming Ceo in 1996. and international Banking.
Other directorships and offices current and recent : Other directorships and offices current and recent : Board of Governors of Rhodes University since 2005 Chairman of J C Flowers & Co. Australia since June 2008 and Michaelhouse College since 2002 Former Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Trustee of the World Wildlife Fund, South Africa since 2006 of Westpac Banking Corporation from March 1999 Board Committee membership: to January 2008 none Former Chairman of Westpac New Zealand Limited from september 2006 to December 2007 John Schubert BCh eng, PhD Chem eng, FieAust, Ftse, 65 Former Director of Westpac New Zealand Limited Term of office: Director of BHP limited since June 2000 and from september 2006 to January 2008 a Director of BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc since Former Member of Australian Bankers Association, June 2001.
Dr schubert was last re-elected in 2006 and Business Council of Australia, AsiC Business is retiring and standing for re-election in 2008.
Consultative Panel and international Monetary Independent: Yes Conference from March 1999 to January 2008 Skills and experience: John schubert has considerable Board Committee membership: experience in the international oil industry, including at Ceo Member of the Risk and Audit Committee level.
He has had executive mining and financial responsibilities and was Ceo of Pioneer international limited for six years, where Jacques Nasser Ao, BBus, Hon Dt, 60 he operated in the building materials industry in 16 countries.
Term of office: Appointed a non-executive Director of He has experience in mergers, acquisitions and divestments, BHP Billiton limited and BHP Billiton Plc on 26 April 2006 with project analysis and management.
He was previously Chairman effect from 6 June 2006.
Mr nasser was last elected in 2006 and Managing Director of esso Australia limited and President and is retiring and standing for re-election in 2008. of the Business Council of Australia.
Independent: Yes Other directorships and offices current and recent : Skills and experience: Following a 33-year career with Ford in Chairman of Commonwealth Bank of Australia since various leadership positions in europe, Australia, Asia, south november 2004 and Director since october 1991 America and the us, Jacques nasser served as a member of the Director of Qantas Airways Limited since October 2000 Board of Directors and as President and Chief executive officer Chairman of G2 Therapies Pty Limited since November 2000 of Ford Motor Company from 1998 to 2001.
He has more than Former Chairman and Director of Worley Parsons Limited 30 years experience in large-scale global businesses.
from november 2002 until February 2005 Other directorships and offices current and recent : Board Committee membership: Director of British Sky Broadcasting Ltd since November 2002 Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Partner of One Equity Partners since November 2002 Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the International Advisory Council of Allianz Aktiengesellschaft since February 2001 Group Company Secretary Former Chairman of Polaroid Corporation from November 2002 Jane McAloon Bec Hons, llB, GDipGov, FCis, 44 to April 2005 Term of office: Jane McAloon was appointed Group Company Former Director of Quintiles Transnational Corporation secretary in July 2007 and joined the BHP Billiton Group in from March 2004 to november 2007 september 2006 as Company secretary for BHP Billiton limited.
Former Director of Brambles Limited from March 2004 Skills and experience: Prior to joining BHP Billiton, Jane McAloon to January 2008 held the position of Company secretary and Group Manager Board Committee membership: external and regulatory services in the Australian Gas light Member of the Risk and Audit Committee Company.
she previously held various state and Commonwealth government positions, including Director General of the nsW Ministry of energy and utilities and Deputy Director General for the nsW Cabinet office, as well as working in private legal practice.
she is a Fellow of the institute of Chartered secretaries.
BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008 - 29 4 BoaRd oF dIReCtoRS and gRoUP ManageMent CoMMIttee continued 4.2 Group Management Committee Marius Kloppers Alberto Calderon Marcus randolph Alex Vanselow Karen Wood J Michael Yeager Marius Kloppers Be Chem, MBA, PhD Materials science, 46 Alex Vanselow BComm, Wharton AMP, 46 Chief Executive Officer and executive Director Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Group Management Committee Member of the Group Management Committee Chairman of the investment review Committee Marius Kloppers has been active in the mining and resources and Financial risk Management Committee industry since 1993 and was appointed Chief executive officer Alex Vanselow joined the Group in 1989 and was appointed in october 2007.
He was previously Chief Commercial officer, President Aluminium in March 2004 and appointed Chief Financial Chief Marketing officer, Group executive of Billiton Plc, officer in March 2006.
He was previously Chief Financial officer Chief executive of samancor Manganese and held various of Aluminium, Vice President Finance and Chief Financial officer positions at Billiton Aluminium, among them Chief operating of orinoco iron CA and Manager Accounting and Control officer and General Manager of Hillside Aluminium.
BHP iron ore. His prior career was with Arthur Andersen.
Alberto Calderon PhD econ, M Phil econ Yale university, JD law, He has been in his current position since April 2006.
BA econ Andes university, 48 Karen Wood Bed, llB Hons, FCis, 52 Group Executive and Chief Commercial Officer Member of the Group Management Committee Group Executive and Chief People Officer Member of the Group Management Committee Alberto Calderon joined the Group as President Diamonds and Chairman of the Global ethics Panel specialty Products in February 2006 and has been in his current position since July 2007.
Prior to this, he was Chief executive Karen Woods previous positions with BHP Billiton were Chief Governance officer, Group Company secretary and special Adviser officer of Cerrejn Coal Company from July 2002.
His previous and Head of Group secretariat.
she is a member of the takeovers positions include President of ecopetrol, President of the Power Panel Australia, a Fellow of the institute of Chartered secretaries Company of Bogot and various senior roles in investment and a member of the law Council of Australia and the law institute banking and in the Colombian Government.
Before joining BHP Billiton, she was General Counsel Marcus Randolph Bsc, MBA Harvard Business school, 52 and Company secretary for Bonlac Foods limited.
she has been in her current position since December 2005.
Group Executive and Chief Executive Ferrous and Coal Member of the Group Management Committee J Michael Yeager Bsc, Msc, 55 Marcus randolph was previously Chief organisation Development Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum officer, President Diamonds and specialty Products, Chief Member of the Group Management Committee Development officer Minerals and Chief strategic officer Minerals Mike Yeager joined the Group in April 2006 as Group President for BHP Billiton.
His prior career includes Chief executive officer, energy.
He was previously Vice President, exxonMobil Development First Dynasty Mines, Mining and Minerals executive, rio tinto plc, Company with responsibility for major joint venture projects.
Director of Acquisitions and strategy, Kennecott inc, General other previous roles include senior Vice President, imperial oil ltd Manager Corporacion Minera nor Peru, Asarco inc, and various and Chief executive officer, imperial oil resources, Vice President mine operating positions in the us with Asarco inc.
He has been Africa, exxonMobil Production Company, Vice President europe, in his current position since october 2005. exxonMobil Production Company and President, Mobil exploration and Production in the us.
He has been in his current position since May 2006.
30 - BHP Billiton PlC ConCise AnnuAl rePort 2008
