Directors report The directors present their annual report and financial Details of the service contracts of the current directors are statements for the year ended 30 June 2008.
The Company, shown in the remuneration report on page 35. formerly registered as a private company and named Ashmore The Companys Articles require the newly appointed directors Group Limited, was re-registered as a public limited company Graeme Dell and Jonathan Asquith to retire from office at the on 3 October 2006, changing its name on that date to Ashmore first annual general meeting following their appointment.
The Company was admitted to the Official List of Additionally, excluding new directors, a minimum of one third the London Stock Exchange Admission on 17 October 2006. of the Board is required to retire by rotation annually.
Nick Land The financial statements have been prepared in accordance will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted meeting.
All directors being eligible offer themselves for reby the EU IFRS.
Any directors who have held office for a period of 9 years or Principal activity and business review more other than executive office shall also be subject to The principal activity of the Group is the provision of re-election Accordingly, John Moulton will be subject to investment management services.
The Company is required to retirement but will not be offering himself for re-election at the set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group annual general meeting.
during the financial year ended 30 June 2008 and of the Details of the constitution and powers of the Board and its position of the Group at the end of that financial year and a committees are set out in the corporate governance report on description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the pages 28 to 33.
The corporate governance report also Group referred to as the business review.
The information summarises the Companys rules concerning appointment that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be and replacement of directors.
found in the financial highlights on pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executive Officers statement on pages 5 to 11, the Directors interests business review on pages 14 to 23 and the corporate The interests of directors in the Companys shares and in governance report on pages 28 to 33. options over the Companys shares are shown on page 39 The principal risks facing the business are detailed in the within the remuneration report.
business review on pages 14 to 23 and in the corporate governance statement, internal control, on pages 31 and 32.
Significant agreements with provisions applicable to a change in control of the company Results and dividends Save as described there are no agreements in place The results of the Group for the year are set out in the applicable to a change in control of the company.
consolidated income statement on page 42.
Resolution 12 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will The directors recommend a final dividend of 8.34p per share seek approval from shareholders to a waiver of the provisions which, together with the interim dividend of 3.66 p per share of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code in respect to the obligation that already declared, makes a total for the year ended 30 June 2008 could arise for Mark Coombs to make a mandatory offer for of 12.0p per share 2007: 9.0p.
Details of the interim dividend the company in the event that the company exercises the payment are set out in note 8 to the financial statements.
authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
Further details are contained in the separate Notice of AGM.
Subject to approval at the annual general meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 5 December 2008 to shareholders Restrictions on transfer of shares on the register on 7 November 2008 ex-dividend date being Employees of the Company who held ordinary shares in the 5 November 2008.
Company or who held options in respect of ordinary shares at the time of Admission are, subject to certain exceptions, Related party transactions restricted by lock-in arrangements from selling, pledging or Details of related party transactions are set out in note 22 to otherwise disposing of their holding of or options in respect of the financial statements.
such shares at the time immediately following Admission Lock-in Shares.
The restriction is lifted in respect of one third Post balance sheet events of the relevant persons holding of Lock-in Shares on the date As set out in note 25 to the financial statements there were no of publication of each of the full-year results of the Company post balance sheet events.
Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by persons Directors discharging managerial responsibilities, employees of the The members of the Board together with biographical details Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are are shown on page 24.
Michael Benson, Mark Coombs, Nick subject to the Groups Dealing Code which adopts the Model Land and Jon Moulton served as directors throughout the year.
Code of the Listing Rules contained in the Financial Services Jim Pettigrew was appointed a director on 7 August 2006 and Authoritys Handbook.
Graeme Dell was appointed to the Board on 19 December 2007 and Jonathan Asquith was Certain restrictions, customary for a listed company, apply to appointed to the Board on 1 September 2008. transfers of shares in the Company.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 25 Directors report continued The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of any transfer of a share which is not fully paid or where there proxy forms of 48 hours before the meeting.
are more than four joint holders.
Purchase of own shares In the case of certificated shares, registration of a transfer may The Company is, until the date of the next annual general also be refused where i the instrument of transfer is not duly meeting, generally and unconditionally authorised to buy back stamped unless exempt from stamping : ii insufficient up to 70,892,500 of its own issued shares.
No purchases were evidence of title is produced in respect of a transfer: and iii the made in the year under review.
The Company is seeking transferor has been served with a restriction notice as defined renewal of this authority at the 2008 annual general meeting.
in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be Power to issue and allot shares provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised to shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum Registration of a transfer of shares may be refused in the case nominal amount of 19,107.50. of uncertificated shares in the circumstances set out in the A further authority has been granted to the directors to allot the Uncertificated Securities Regulations as defined in the Articles.
Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of 3,544.62, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of Substantial shareholdings the Companies Acts.
No such shares have been issued or At 16 September 2008 the Company had been notified of allotted under these authorities, nor is there any current the following significant interests over 3%, other than those of intention to do so, other than to satisfy outstanding obligations the directors, in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.01p each: under the employee share schemes.
Number of Number of Percentage These authorities are valid until the date of the next annual Shares Options interest general meeting.
A resolution for the renewal of such authorities will be proposed at the 2008 annual general meeting.
Jerome Paul Booth 42,250,000 3,500,000 6.45 FMR Corp 34,466,601 4.86 Amendment of Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made Carey Pensions and Benefits in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts Limited as Trustee of the by way of a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust 34,012,500 4.80 The Notice of AGM contains a resolution recommending a number of amendments to the Articles to bring them into line Lone Pine Capital LCC with recent changes in the law and best practice.
and Stephen F Mandel Jr 29,068,057 4.10 Julian Redvers Green 26,775,000 3.78 Employees Details of the Companys employment practices including the Seumas Dawes 21,440,000 3.02 employment of disabled persons can be found in the Note: In addition to the interests in the Companys ordinary shares referred to corporate governance report on page 33. above, each director and senior manager who is an employee of the Group has an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by Carey Pensions and Benefits Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as trustee of the Ashmore Limited under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust.
2004 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights over shares which it holds in respect of employee share options that have not vested and other Share capital restricted share awards.
The current arrangement is that the The Company has a single class of share capital which is EBT considers the Companys recommendation s before divided into ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each of which rank voting such shares at a general meeting of the Company, pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
subject to an overriding duty to act in the interests of the EBT.
The shares are in registered form.
Details of structure of and changes in share capital are set out Corporate governance in note 14 to the financial statements.
The Company is governed according to the applicable provisions of company law and by the Companys Articles.
As Restrictions on voting rights a listed company, the Company must also comply with the A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call issued by the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA.
Listed or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share companies are expected to comply as far as possible with the remains unpaid or if a member has been served with a Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to Governance, and to state how its principles have been provide the Company with information concerning interests in applied.
A report on corporate governance and compliance those shares required to be provided under the Companies with the provisions of the Combined Code is set out on pages Acts.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
26 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Charitable and political contributions During the year, the Group made charitable donations of consistently: 30,000 2007: nil.
Note 3 to the financial statements refers make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and to charitable donations that will be made in the year to prudent: June 2009.
The work of the Ashmore Foundation is described further below in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of state that the financial statements comply with IFRS as this report.
It is the Groups policy not to make contributions for adopted by the EU: and political purposes.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern Creditor payment policy basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The Groups policy and practice in the UK is to follow its Company and the Group will continue in business.
suppliers terms of payment and to make payment in accordance with those terms subject to receipt of satisfactory The directors confirm that they have complied with the above invoicing.
Unless otherwise agreed payments to creditors are requirements in preparing the financial statements.
made within 30 days of receipt of an invoice.
At 30 June 2008, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the amount owed to the Groups trade creditors in the UK records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the represented approximately 30 days average purchases from financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable suppliers 2007: 30 days.
them to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report comply with the Companies Acts and, as Auditors and the disclosure of information regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS to auditors Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the The directors who held office at the date of approval of this assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys other irregularities.
auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the Going concern directors to agree their remuneration.
Note 4 to the financial After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and confirm that the 2008 annual general meeting Company and the Group are going concerns.
For this reason The 2008 annual general meeting of the Company will be held they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing at 9.00 am on Thursday 30 October 2008 at Kingsway Hall, these financial statements.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting are Companies Act 2006 given in the separate circular and notice of meeting.
This directors report on pages 25 to 27 inclusive has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance on Statement of directors responsibilities English company law and the liabilities of the directors in The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations the remuneration report and the financial statements in and restrictions provided by such law.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
References in this directors report to the financial highlights, UK company law requires the directors to prepare financial the business review, the corporate governance report and the statements for each financial year.
remuneration report are deemed to be included by reference Under that law the directors have prepared the Company and in this directors report.
the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Michael Perman Company Secretary In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: 16 September 2008 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 27
