Aviva plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Capital management Different measures of capital Capital management In recognition of the requirements of different stakeholders, Capital management objectives we measure capital on a number of different bases, all of which Avivas capital management philosophy is focused on capital are taken into account when managing and allocating capital efficiency and effective risk management to support a progressive across the group.
These include measures which comply with dividend policy and EPS growth.
Rigorous capital allocation is one the regulatory regimes within which we operate and those which of our primary strategic priorities and is ultimately governed by the the directors consider appropriate for the management of the group Executive Committee.
The primary measures are: Overall capital risk appetite is set and managed with i Accounting bases reference to the requirements of a range of different stakeholders We report our results on both an IFRS and a Market Consistent including shareholders, policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
The directors consider that the In managing capital we seek to: MCEV principles provide a more meaningful measure of the longterm underlying value of the capital employed in our life and related maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength to support businesses.
This basis allows for the impact of uncertainty in the new business growth and satisfy the requirements of our regulators future investment returns more explicitly and is consistent with the and other stakeholders, and thus give both our customers and way the life business is priced and managed.
Accordingly, in addition stakeholders assurance of our financial strength: to IFRS, we analyse and measure the net asset value and total capital optimise our overall debt to equity structure to enhance our returns employed for the group on this basis.
This is the basis on which to shareholders, subject to our capital risk appetite and balancing group return on equity is measured.
the requirements of the range of stakeholders: ii Regulatory bases retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, including Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency based significant unutilised committed credit lines and access to a range on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the regulations of capital markets: established by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
These measures allocate capital rigorously across the group, to drive value adding are also consolidated under the European Insurance Groups Directive growth in accordance with risk appetite: IGD to calculate regulatory capital adequacy at an aggregate group level.
We have fully complied with these regulatory requirements increase the dividend on a basis judged prudent, while retaining during the year.
capital to support future business growth, using dividend cover on an IFRS operating earnings after tax basis in the 1.5 to 2.0 times iii Rating agency bases range as a guide.
Agency ratings are an important indicator of financial strength and maintenance of these ratings is one of the key drivers of capital Capital resources risk appetite.
Certain rating agencies have proprietary capital models The primary sources of capital used by the group are equity which they use to assess available capital resources against capital shareholders funds, preference shares, subordinated debt and requirements as a component of their overall criteria for assigning borrowings.
We also consider and, where efficient to do so, utilise ratings.
In addition, rating agency measures and targets in respect alternative sources of capital such as reinsurance and securitisation of gearing and fixed charge cover are also important in evaluating in addition to the more traditional sources of funding.
Targets the level of borrowings utilised by the group.
While not mandatory are established in relation to regulatory solvency, ratings, liquidity external requirements, in practice rating agency capital measures and dividend capacity and are a key tool in managing capital in tend to act as one of the primary drivers of capital requirements, accordance with our risk appetite and the requirements of our reflecting the capital strength required in relation to our target various stakeholders.
In February, the Standard & Poors S&P rating committee iv Economic bases downgraded NU Life from AA to AA-, which is now aligned with We also measure capital using an economic capital model that the other 'core' group subsidiaries.
At the same time S&P have takes into account a more realistic set of financial and non-financial changed the outlook on NU Life's ratings from negative to assumptions.
This model continues to be developed and is stable.
There are no changes to any of the group's other ratings increasingly relevant in the internal management and external or outlooks.
The groups financial strength rating from Moodys assessment of our capital resources.
The economic capital model is Aa3 excellent with a stable outlook from AM Best.
is used to assess capital strength in accordance with the Individual Capital allocation Capital Assessment ICA requirements established by the FSA.
Capital allocation is undertaken based on a rigorous analysis of a Further developments are planned to meet the emerging range of financial, strategic, risk and capital factors to ensure that requirements of the Solvency II framework.
capital is allocated efficiently to value adding business opportunities.
A clear management decision making framework, incorporating ongoing operational and strategic performance review, periodic longer term strategic and financial planning and robust due diligence over capital allocation is in place, governed by the Group Executive Committee and Group Asset Committee.
These processes incorporate various capital profitability metrics, including an assessment of return on capital employed and internal rates of return in relation to hurdle rates to ensure capital is allocated efficiently and that excess business unit capital is repatriated where appropriate.
Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information On 13 May 2008 we issued 0.8 billion equivalent of Lower Accounting basis and capital employed by Tier 2 hybrid in a dual-tranche transaction 400 million and segment 500 million.
0.6 billion of the proceeds was used to repay The table below shows how our capital, on an MCEV basis, short-term commercial paper borrowings.
On 8 August 2008 is deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
we issued a further 0.2 billion of Lower Tier 2 hybrid.
These transactions had a positive impact on group IGD solvency 2008 2007 m m and economic capital measures.
Long-term savings 19,250 22,397 Financial leverage, the ratio of external senior and subordinated General insurance and health 5,516 5,594 debt to MCEV capital and reserves, was 34.7% 31 December 2007: Fund management 340 355 19.2%.
Fixed charge cover, which measures the extent to which Other business 326 831 external interest costs, including subordinated debt interest and Corporate 30 31 preference dividends, are covered by MCEV operating profit was Total capital employed 24,750 29,146 9.2 times 31 December 2007: 9.2 times.
Financed by: Equity shareholders funds 12,912 19,998 Regulatory bases Minority interests 3,013 2,501 Direct capital instrument 990 990 Regulatory basis Group: Preference shares 200 200 European Insurance Groups Directive Subordinated debt 4,606 3,054 External debt 919 1,257 UK Life Other funds business 2008 2007 Net internal debt 2,110 1,146 bn bn bn bn 24,750 29,146 Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital resources 5.7 9.8 15.5 16.2 Net asset value per share MCEV basis 486p 763p Less: capital resource requirement 5.7 7.8 13.5 13.3 The Corporate net liabilities represent the element of the pension scheme deficit Insurance Group Directive IGD excess solvency 2.0 2.0 2.9 held centrally.
Cover over EU minimum calculated excluding UK Life funds 1.3 times 1.5 times At 31 December 2008 we had 24.8 billion 31 December 2007: 29.1 billion of total capital employed in our trading operations, We have a regulatory obligation to have positive solvency measured on an MCEV basis.
Net asset value per ordinary share, on a regulatory IGD basis at all times.
Our risk management based on equity shareholders funds, has decreased to 486 pence processes ensure adequate review of this measure.
At 31 December per share 31 December 2007: 763 pence per share.
2008, the estimated excess regulatory capital was 2.0 billion Total capital employed is financed by a combination of equity 31 December 2007: 2.9 billion.
This measure represents the shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt and excess of the aggregate value of regulatory capital employed in borrowings.
In addition to our external funding sources, we have our business over the aggregate minimum solvency requirements certain internal borrowing arrangements in place which allow some imposed by local regulators, excluding the surplus held in the UK of the assets that support technical liabilities to be invested in a and Ireland with-profit life funds.
pool of central assets for use across the group.
These internal debt The minimum solvency requirement for our European balances allow for the capital allocated to business operations businesses is based on the Solvency I Directive.
In broad terms, to exceed the externally sourced capital resources of the group.
for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and Although intra-group in nature, they are included as part of the capital unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general insurance base for the purpose of capital management.
These arrangements portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross premiums or arise in relation to the following: 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
For our major non-European businesses Certain subsidiaries, subject to continuing to satisfy standalone the US, Australia and Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities capital and liquidity requirements, loan funds to corporate and approach is used.
The IGD is a pure aggregation test with no holding entities, these loans satisfy arms-length criteria and all credit given for the considerable diversification benefits of Aviva.
interest payments are made when due.
Our excess solvency of 2.0 billion reflects a net decrease Aviva International Insurance AII Ltd acts as both a UK general of 0.9 billion since 31 December 2007 reflecting the prevailing insurer and as the primary holding company for our foreign challenging market and general insurance trading conditions offset subsidiaries.
Internal capital management mechanisms in place by various capital initiatives undertaken during the year including allocate a portion of the total capital of the company to the UK the issue of hybrid debt.
Following individual guidance from general insurance operations.
These mechanisms also allow for the FSA we now recognise surpluses in the non-profit funds of some of the assets backing technical liabilities to be made available our UK life and pensions business which is available for transfer for use across the group.
Balances in respect of these arrangements to shareholders of 0.4 billion, the benefit of which is offset by are also treated as internal debt for capital management purposes.
reserve strengthening elsewhere in the group.
In the current economic conditions we are proactively Net internal debt represents the balance of the above amounts managing balance sheet risk.
In addition to the fide-risking exercise due from corporate and holding entities, less the tangible net we undertook in 2007 we have taken out further equity hedges assets held by these entities.
during 2008 and continue to actively manage our equity risk exposures.
We expect our IGD surplus would be approximately 1.2 billion in the event of a 40% fall in equity markets from the 31 December 2008 position.
Aviva plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Capital management continued Regulatory basis Long-term businesses 2008 2007 For our non-participating worldwide life assurance businesses, Estimated Estimated Estimated realistic Estimated capital requirements, expressed as a percentage of the EU minimum, realistic realistic inherited risk capital Estimated Estimated, assets liabilities estate margin excess excess are set for internal management and embedded value reporting bn bn bn bn bn bn purposes as the higher of: CGNU Life 12.8 12.1 0.7 0.4 0.3 1.1 CULAC 12.4 11.7 0.7 0.4 0.3 0.8 Target levels set by reference to internal risk assessment and internal # NUL&P 21.4 20.2 1.2 0.7 0.5 1.3 objectives, taking account of the level of operational, demographic, Aggregate 46.6 44.0 2.6 1.5 1.1 3.2 market and currency risk.
These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of future bonuses of 0.8 billion 31 December 2007: 1.2 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders Minimum capital level ie level of solvency capital at which local share of future bonuses are 43.2 billion 31 December 2007: 48.8 billion.
regulator is empowered to take action.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision net of charges included within realistic The required capital across our life businesses varies between 100% liabilities is 1.4 billion, 1.5 billion and 4.1 billion for CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P and 325% of EU minimum or equivalent.
The weighted average respectively 31 December 2007: 0.7 billion, 0.8 billion and 3.0 billion for CGNU Life, level of required capital for non-participating life business, expressed CULAC and NUL&P respectively.
as a percentage of the EU minimum or equivalent solvency Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2007 was 1.4 billion, 1.2 billion margin has remained stable at 142% 31 December 2007: 141%.
and 1.9 billion for CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P respectively.
These levels of required capital are used in the calculation The risk capital margin RCM is 1.8 times covered by the inherited estate 31 December of embedded value to evaluate the cost of locked in capital.
At 31 December 2008 the aggregate regulatory requirements based # The NUL&P fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund which has realistic assets on the EU minimum test amounted to 6.0 billion 31 December and liabilities of 1.8 billion and therefore does not impact the realistic inherited estate.
At this date, the actual net worth held in our long-term business was 9.5 billion 31 December 2007: Investment mix 9.4 billion which represents 157% 31 December 2007: 205% The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the three main of these minimum requirements.
with-profit funds at 31 December 2008 was: Regulatory basis UK Life with-profit funds 2008 2007 % % The available capital of the with-profit funds is represented by Equity 24% 37% the realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the assets Property 12% 13% of the long-term with-profit funds less the realistic liabilities for Fixed interest 56% 37% non-profit policies within the funds, less asset shares aggregated Other 8% 13% across the with-profit policies and any additional amounts expected 100% 100% at the valuation date to be paid to in-force policyholders in the future in respect of smoothing costs, guarantees and promises.
The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting with-profit Realistic balance sheet information is shown below for the three asset shares are 57% in CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P.
With-profit main UK with-profit funds: CGNU Life, Commercial Union Life new business is mainly written through CGNU Life.
Assurance Company CULAC and Norwich Union Life & Pensions Proposed reattribution of inherited estate NUL&P.
These realistic liabilities have been included within the In July 2008 following extensive discussions with the Policyholder long-term business provision and the liability for insurance and Advocate, Norwich Union announced a 1 billion offer to one investment contracts on the consolidated IFRS balance sheet at million eligible policy holders in return for giving up the right 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007. to the 2.1 billion inherited estate of CGNU Life Assurance Ltd and Commercial Union Life Assurance Company Ltd.
Since then, investment market performance has caused the value of the estate to reduce to 1.4 billion meaning that the offer made in July no longer meets our criteria of being fair to both policyholders and shareholders.
As a consequence, we are working closely with the Policyholder Advocate to see how we can restructure our offer and expect to be in a position to provide an update to policyholders in the next few months.
These developments do not affect the entitlement to receive a 2.1 billion special distribution that we announced in early 2008.
Regulatory basis Solvency II Solvency II represents new EU legislation which totally redefines prudential supervision of EU insurers.
It aims to establish a new economic risk sensitive approach to capital and solvency calculation and a new harmonised EU supervisory regime which places importance on effective internal governance and risk management practices.
Aviva has already recognised that Solvency II offers a blueprint for industry best practice and is fully prepared to meet the challenge that offers.
To that end we are an active participant in the key European industry working groups who provide the voice of industry in ongoing negotiations in Brussels.
Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information It is possible that the first stage of the Solvency II project will reach conclusion by June 2009 if the EU Parliament, Council and Commission are able to reach agreement on the Level 1 Framework Directive.
If this happens, it is envisaged that full implementation of Solvency II requirements could be imposed on EU insurers in the first quarter of 2013.
Rating agency bases Agency ratings are important in supporting access to debt capital markets and in providing assurance to business partners and policyholders over the financial strength of the group and our ability to service contractual obligations.
In recognition of this, we have solicited rating relationships with a number of rating agencies.
Rating agencies generally assign ratings based on an assessment of a range of financial eg capital strength, gearing and fixed charge cover ratios and nonfinancial eg competitive position and quality of management factors.
Managing our capital and liquidity position in accordance with our target rating levels is a core consideration in all material capital management and capital allocation decisions.
Economic bases We use a risk-based capital model to assess economic capital requirements and to aid in risk and capital management across the group.
This model is also used to support our Individual Capital Assessments ICA which are reported to the FSA for all UK regulated insurance businesses.
The model is based on a framework for identifying the risks to which business units, and the group as a whole, are exposed.
A mixture of scenario based approaches and stochastic models are used to capture market risk, credit risk, insurance risk and operational risk.
Scenarios are specified centrally to provide consistency across businesses and to achieve a minimum standard.
Where appropriate, businesses also supplement these with additional risk models specific to their own risk profile.
When aggregating capital requirements at business unit and group level, we allow for diversification benefits between risks and between businesses, with restrictions to allow for non-fungibility of capital when appropriate.
This means that the aggregate capital requirement is less than the sum of capital required to cover all of the individual risks.
For internal management purposes, our economic capital model is calibrated to our target capital adequacy rating.
Financial modelling techniques enhance our practice of active risk and capital management, ensuring sufficient capital is available to protect against unforeseen events and adverse scenarios.
Our aim continues to be the optimal usage of capital through appropriate allocation to our businesses.
We continue to develop our economic capital modelling capability for all our businesses as part of our development programme to increase the focus on economic capital management.
The FSA uses the results of our ICA process when setting target levels of capital for the UK regulated insurance businesses.
In line with FSA requirements, the ICA estimates the capital required to mitigate the risk of insolvency to a 99.5% confidence level over a one year time horizon equivalent to events occurring in 1 out of 200 years against financial and non-financial tests.
