Aviva plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Our global brand The creation of a single global brand is a key part of delivering one Aviva, twice the value and the implications go far beyond changing the name on our brochures or signs.
We know that if we are to achieve our objective of being our customers most recommended brand we will be judged by what we do, not what we say.
Why were changing Why now?
Our start point was to ensure we had a real understanding Aviva already an established of what our customers want from us across the globe so and respected brand that we could build the brand around meeting their needs.
Customers in 21 markets across the world already know us as Throughout 2008 we never stopped listening to our customers.
Were market leaders in everything from bancassurance They told us in fact 3 4 of customers that it was the products in Europe and Asia, to Fixed Indexed Annuities in the USA.
and service they recieved that matters most.
To that end we And in 2008, our fund management operations around the created our brand promise of no one recognises you like Aviva world came together to form one single, global business, as across the globe customers expressed a strong need to be Aviva Investors.
We have also traded as Aviva plc since 2001. recognised for who they are, their situation and their needs.
Alongside this work, we also developed detailed plans to enable More impact with customers us to manage the name change in those markets that are yet to become Aviva.
Although the current market conditions are tough The creation of a single brand globally will mean we will be able we took the decision to proceed with our plans.
We are a long to improve the effectiveness of our marketing spend across our term business and our growth will be achieved more successfully businesses.
This means achieving greater impact for less spend by making the investment in our global brand.
As a business and be better placed to more effectively compete with other we are in a sound capital position so what better time to make strong global brands, such as Axa and Aegon.
the investment when we can benefit from the significant In addition, our commercial partners, shareholders, reduction in media costs and greater impact for those remaining regulators and customers, as well as our people, operate advertisers operating in a less cluttered market.
Further, it is well increasingly across national and cultural boundaries that once documented that those brands that continue to maintain their separated us.
Through ensuring that Aviva operates in a consistent profile in downturns significantly outperform their rivals when and integrated way across our markets will make it easier for markets recover.
people to do business with us.
Creating opportunities How we will make A strong global brand helps us to open doors as we enter new markets and secure new business partnerships.
This is about doing the name change things once and doing things right by utilising the best expertise from wherever it is across Aviva and applying it once for all our We are managing the change of name in a careful, considered markets.
This also means that good ideas whether for improved way appropriate for each market and it will take two years to service, new products or better ways of doing things are shared complete in full.
Our asset management business completed across all parts of the business.
the change to Aviva Investors in September 2008.
And at the Our people acting as a global team not only means ensuring end of the year we began to communicate the planned change we leverage our scale, expertise and ideas more effectively but of Norwich Union to Aviva in the UK, which will complete in it also opens up more opportunities for our people to develop June this year.
Poland and Ireland have also started their name and grow.
change process, moving to Commercial Union Aviva and Hibernian Aviva respectively as an initial step before adopting RAC and Delta Lloyd fully the Aviva name.
Two major brands will remain unchanged: RAC in the UK is Recognising our customers a leader in a specialist market with very high levels of trust and recognition among its members that are specific to its roadside Throughout the name change our key priority is to ensure we recovery heritage.
In the Benelux countries, Delta Lloyds keep our customers, corporate partners and brokers in all these governance means that it operates more independently than markets well informed.
Moving to Aviva creates an opportunity our other businesses and so will not take part in the change.
to give our customers a clear sense of our scale and financial strength and of how they will benefit in the future.
But it is also an opportunity to remind them how central we know they are to the continued success of our business.
Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information So at the heart of moving to a global brand is our commitment to creating a strong, unied business that understands what our customers need and is organised in a way that can deliver consistently.
This means using our resources and expertise from across Aviva to create ways of delivering prosperity and peace of mind for all our customers, wherever they are around the globe.
What the change will mean to our customers This also makes good economic sense: we will be able to remove Who are Aviva, duplication across a wide range of activities and remove costs from the business, to the benefit of our shareholders and investors.
and what do they stand for?
We plan to recoup the cost of the name change in two years and then to deliver significant benefits.
to our shareholders and investors Our business has its roots in the 300 year old heritage of Norwich Union, Commercial Union and General Accident and we have built our business on helping and supporting our customers, protecting their goods, properties and their families and providing for their futures.
We are just as committed now as we have always been.
Through the creation of a single global brand we will be better placed to ensure we are using all our resources from across Case study: Aviva, in the most effective way, to improve service and develop UK councils products that better meet our customers needs.
to our employees During 2008 we created advisory councils We make the same promise to our employees as we do to our formed of customers and commercial customers.
We respect and value our colleagues and recognise the partners around the UK, in addition to our contribution they make towards meeting the needs of our customers.
These councils provided us with a real understanding of what the brand change would mean for them and how we could best communicate the change.
We also consulted the councils on the impact of the credit crunch and onset of recession which informed our final communications plans.
We will continue to work with customer councils to help inform future product and service developments and of course we share the learnings from the councils with colleagues across our markets too.
How do the benefits warrant the costs?
Case study: Commercial benefits In the UK we used detailed modelling to increase the efficiency of our media spend.
The initial stage of building awareness of Norwich Union moving to Aviva has delivered well against the targets set, putting us ahead of our plan.
Acting as a single brand we have been able to minimise the cost of producing high profile, high impact advertising by sharing work across markets.
