Aviva plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Aviva Investors What we do Employees and locations Operating brands Aviva Investors is a global asset management business 1,298 dedicated to building and providing our clients with 2007: 967 focused investment solutions.
Our client base ranges from among the largest financial institutions to individuals Australia Ireland Singapore investing for the future.
We operate under a single brand Canada Italy Spain in 15 countries so our clients benefit not only from our China Luxembourg Taiwan unique access to, and experience of, our local markets France Poland United Kingdom but also from our ability to leverage an infrastructure Germany Romania United States that comes with global representation.
Case study: Each client has specific needs Working in partnership with them, we listen to client requirements, understand their objectives and approach to risk, and then design a bespoke solution.
We have a wide array of investment capabilities to draw on.
As a unified provider we can now tap into virtually every type of investment opportunity all over the world, giving our clients access to more products than ever before.
Our expertise and global and local knowledge, meanwhile, help us select the right solutions to match each clients needs.
Visit Aviva Investors at www.
com Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Whats happened?
Global financial markets in turmoil Global banking crisis, frozen credit markets and falling equity markets Commercial and residential property prices fell sharply Commodity prices at record lows Investors look for security Government bonds and guaranteed products perform well in volatile market conditions Stimulus packages provided by governments Government made huge sums of money available to banks in an attempt to restart credit markets Interest rate cuts and tax incentives to stimulate spending Other incentives provided to industries to shore up businesses Economies around the world slipping into recession US and UK moved into official recession in fourth quarter of 2008 What action have we taken?
Consolidated our fund management business under Aviva Investors As a global asset management business we can provide our clients with focused investment solutions Risk management The risk management culture across the group continues to give significant competitive advantages as we grow our external business around the globe Protecting our clients We took action to improve transparency for our clients in liquidity funds Global research We launched a global research centre that will allow collaboration and sharing of information worldwide What have we achieved?
Funds under management MCEV operating profit IFRS operating profit 236bn 41m 114m 2007: 235bn 2007: 64m 2007: 147m Whats next?
Our medium-term targets are to: Complete the integration of our business across the world Transform the business model Increase our third party business Grow contribution to group profits Aviva plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Aviva Investors continued Fund management Profile and strategy IFRS operating profit MCEV operating profit Our global asset management arm, Aviva Investors, is a leading institutional asset management company.
We operate under 2008 2007 2008 2007 United Kingdom 64 70 34 40 a single brand in 15 countries across our regions of the United Europe 35 43 9 15 Kingdom, Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
North America 14 27 3 3 The business combines the former Aviva operations in the Asia Pacific 1 7 1 6 UK Morley, France Aviva Gestion dActifs, Ireland Hibernian Total Aviva Investors 114 147 41 64 Investment Managers, Poland CUIM Polska, Romania CertInvest, Other fund management 9 32 1 26 North America Aviva Capital Management, Aviva Investment Total Aviva FM results 123 179 42 90 Canada and Australia Portfolio Partners.
In 2008 we also Note: Full year 2007 has been restated to reflect the new Aviva Investors management established operations in China, Taiwan and Singapore.
The fund management portion of the US business has been separately Following our successful rebranding in September we are identified with a 24 million transfer from the life business result.
focusing on investment performance and client solutions and service.
Under the leadership of chief executive Alain Dromer, Operating profit 140 we plan to take advantage of scale and build on our legacy strengths to develop a presence in new and rapidly growing markets.
120 We aspire to increase operating profits by four times and to 100 double our contribution to the group as we continue to integrate 80 and grow the business around the globe.
We are able to leverage 60 the strong awareness of Aviva through our Aviva Investors sub-brand 40 and will contribute to the group vision of prosperity and peace of mind while developing a distinctive high performance culture and 20 IFRS operating profit MCEV operating profit global reputation as a leading institutional asset management 0 business.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 The marketplace Analysis of 2008 funds 1 3 under management bn 2008 was one of the most volatile economic periods in history with a wide range of assets posting record or near record falls.
What began in 2007 as a crisis in US sub-prime mortgages spread first through the global banking system and then the bn 381bn broader economy.
As credit markets froze, investors aggressively 1 Aviva investors 236 cut leverage causing many other asset prices to collapse.
2 Other Aviva Policymakers coordinated a series of measures aimed at managers 120 2 3 External fund restarting lending and supporting economies and by year-end managers 25 a large part of the global banking system was effectively under Total 381 government control.
In a further step, huge stimulus packages were announced by governments around the world, designed to limit the damage as their economies slipped into recession.
However, by the end of December most of the worlds equity markets had fallen by around 40% for the year.
Within equity markets there was nowhere to hide in 2008, with all global markets being dragged down together.
UK equities fared better than most despite clear signs of a serious recession.
Bond markets were more varied with government bonds performing well as investors sought security.
The spread on investment grade corporate bonds widened to unprecedented levels as investors became scarce and default risks increased.
Real estate investments generally fared badly with both commercial and residential property prices falling sharply, particularly in the US and the UK.
Finally, commodity prices, which had performed very well early in 2008, collapsed along with global growth expectations.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
34th globally, 3rd based in the United Kingdom, based on Cerulli Associates December 2007 ranking of asset managers by assets under management.
m Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Operational performance Against this economic backdrop, the launch of Aviva Investors in September was well received by clients, industry analysts and the media.
The risk management culture and the full support of the group continue to be significant competitive advantages as we grow our external business around the globe.
In 2008, falling asset prices and a global flight to more liquid and transparent investments impacted our business in both negative and positive ways.
In line with the broader market we saw significant outflows of cash from the open-ended funds in our UK real estate business.
However, we also experienced record monthon-month net inflows into our sterling and euro liquidity funds.
Award winning As part of an effort to promote transparency and to protect education programme clients liquidity in extremely volatile markets we moved two of our constant net asset value liquidity funds to a variable net asset value policy in November.
This decision was considered to be in the best interest of investors as a variable net asset value provides a more accurate reflection of the underlying value of the funds on a daily basis.
2008 was a busy year for us and key operational developments included: Business Development Alain Dromer built his executive team in 2008.
In addition, further key appointments were made in the year, increasing the capacity of our global organisation while shaping a high performance culture that continues to attract, cultivate and retain talent.
We are building a business focused on clients, aiming to generate transferable benefits from partnerships with both internal and external clients and excel at cross-border sales.
We delivered significant progress in client services in 2008, with a substantial improvement in the UK institutional business rating by the annual Greenwich survey.
Case study: Investment performance Top marks for Trustee Tutor We have aligned the organisation to long-term investment trends, supporting our focus on investment performance.
This includes the separation of our investment offerings into components which Trustee Tutor is our award-winning education programme.
enables us to customise and package investment solutions across We use it to give trustees the knowledge to challenge and a range of client segments and needs.
gain the most from their fund managers and consultants.
We reshaped our investment portfolios by separating those Through various learning and development media, it caters that benefit from a global scale and reach from those that leverage for different knowledge levels and learning styles.
We also launched a global research centre Weve already received positive feedback from numerous that allows investment teams to collaborate and share internal trustees.
An excellent series of seminars pitched at the research and information worldwide, strengthened our platform right level and well delivered, comments one trustee.
of investment solutions and established a global solutions team.
Meanwhile, another adds: Excellent presenters.
Good coverage of the topics at an appropriate level.
Finally, one trustee concludes: As a new trustee Ive found this an excellent starting point.
com Aviva plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Aviva Investors continued Case study: Trusted to deliver solutions Were not just investment managers.
We also want our key institutional clients to regard us as trusted advisers Cross-border sales and third-party sales offering sound advice and contributing We created a scalable infrastructure in 2008.
This included using to their strategic planning.
our Luxembourg SICAV platform to launch the Aviva Investors Australian Resources Fund, Aviva Investors Global High Yield When one of our largest pension fund Bond Fund, Global Equity Income Fund and the Aviva Investors clients wanted to fide-risk their portfolio, Renewable Energy Fund.
This platform is expected to generate we worked with them to devise a further transferable benefits from our partnerships with both solution.
The plan utilised derivative internal and external clients and to drive cross-border sales.
instruments and bond purchases to meet risk objectives.
Crucially, it was also Real estate sufficiently flexible to adapt to current Our real estate business is the worlds largest manager of volatile market conditions.
European commercial real estate assets and is well positioned to So were delighted to see its build a global business.
It has a large and highly experienced team, implementation now well underway.
a reputation for innovation, offices in six locations across the world, a tried-and-tested investment process, exemplary customer service, Visit Aviva Investors at a strategy team producing quality research and a constant emphasis www.
com on improving and expanding its capability.
Highlights of 2008 included the launch of the Aviva Investors Asia Pacific Property fund, the first and only daily priced fund focused on the region, A trusted adviser and the beginning of the integration of the French real estate team.
Additional developments included the acquisition in April of Madison Harbor LLC, a US real estate multi manager.
As a result of these actions, our commitment to excellence and performance during the year, we were recognised by our industry through winning several prestigious awards including: Fixed income hedge fund of the year, G7 Fund, Eurohedge Awards All Quality Long Convertible Bond Manager, No.
1 for 1-Year Period ended 30 June 2008, eVestment Alliance North America Silver medal, European Convergence Equity, five-year performance, Investir magazine France Best Australian equity large-cap share fund, Portfolio Partners Elite Opportunities Trust, Australian Financial Review Smart Investor Blue Ribbon Awards Property Manager of the Year, European Pension Awards Best Trustee Education Provider, Trustee Tutor, Engaged Investor Trustee Awards Based on findings from Property Funds Research FT Banker magazine issued May 2008, data as at December 2007. Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Financial performance Total funds under management at 31 December 2008 were 236 billion 2007: 235 billion.
In common with the asset management industry in general, market factors had an adverse impact on the value of our funds under management.
However the fall in equity and property capital values and outflows from some open-ended property funds was more than offset by exchange gains as sterling declined against other major currencies towards the end of the year, increasing the value of our non-sterling investments.
Total operating profit was 116 million 2007: 151 million.
Of this, fund management operating profit totalled 114 million 2007: 147 million, principally derived from our UK, French and North American businesses.
The pooled pension business, reported in the UK long-term savings segment, contributed a further 2 million 2007: 4 million.
While the decline during the year in funds under management in local currency terms had an adverse impact on management fee income, this was offset by strong results from the UK stock lending business and performance fees recognised.
During the year we continued to invest in developing a scalable, cost efficient operating platform, ensuring that cost growth is controlled and focused on adding value for our clients.
However, as a result of the decline in underlying management fee income, the cost income ratio increased to 71% 2007: 62%.
Outlook The global economy begins 2009 in the midst of a deep recession.
Industrial production and corporate profits are falling sharply and unemployment rising equally fast.
Economic growth is expected to be significantly negative in 2009 but should benefit from the considerable amount of money injected by governments worldwide and is likely to recover in 2010 led by the US and China.
From start to finish the recession is likely to cut western GDP by at least 4%, with the risk to that figure being on the downside.
Looking out beyond 2009, we expect that the fide-leveraging of the private sector a rise in savings rate is likely to remain in place for several years.
With no return to normal lending and a sustained rise in savings, we expect economic growth to be very subdued over the next cycle.
Chinese growth should be helped by a reversal of the prior objective to cool growth, with increased lending and infrastructure building.
For markets we expect short term interest rates to stay very low and bond yields to be similarly low.
Equity valuations now appear cheap globally, providing good return prospects over the very long term, with other assets such as corporate bonds are cheaper still.
In the short run however equities will struggle to make progress until closer to the trough in global economic activity.
This could allow some recovery in asset prices later in the year, but the risks remain to the downside.
Conditions in real estate markets remain challenging, with most expected to see further capital value decline during the course of this year as the economic contraction feeds through into lower corporate demand for property space and investor sentiment remains weak.
Aviva Investors has a growth plan in place designed to reflect the current environment that is focused on enhancing the delivery of investment performance and third party and cross border sales.
Aviva plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review UK What we do Employees and locations Operating brands In the UK we are a leading provider of life, pensions, 28,424 investment, general insurance and health products 2007: 32,872 to more than 20 million customers.
We also provide roadside assistance through the RAC.
Products are Our life and general insurance businesses are based in distributed via a number of channels including IFAs, York and Norwich respectively, with operations spread brokers, corporate partners and direct to customers across the UK.
We also have overseas operations in India via the internet.
Currently trading as Norwich Union, and Sri Lanka we are rebranding to Aviva during 2009.
Case study: Back in the driving seat Imagine spending a year painstakingly Delighting our customers restoring a car only to have it stolen.
Thats what happened recently to a policyholder.
We settled the claim, but it wasnt the end of the story Our policyholder continued searching car websites for his beloved Land Rover.
After two years, he finally discovered it for sale on-line despite significant modifications and notified the police.
After the car was recovered, we made sure it was returned free of charge without any claims settlement to repay.
In fact, we even arranged delivery back to an understandably delighted customer: Finally getting the Old Girl back was a dream come true hopefully she'll be back on the road soon.
Visit Norwich Union at www.
com Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Whats happened?
Economic downturn Global economic crisis, a dramatic slowdown in the housing market and the onset of a recession Savings ratio at its lowest level since the 1940s as disposable incomes decline and cost of living increase Significant decline in consumers confidence as value of investments fall Regulatory changes Capital gains tax and value added tax VAT changes Level of creditor business impacted by the Financial Services Authoritys reviews of payment protection insurance Review by FSA of retail distribution What action have we taken?
UK Life Maintained market share Life and Pensions market share increased to 11.3% along with our top three ranking in key savings, protection, pensions and annuities markets Operational excellence Outsourced administration of 1 million policies to Swiss Re Achieved four stars in the Financial Adviser Service awards Launched financial adviser academy in advance of Retail Distribution Review recommendations 1,037 employees graduated from the Service Academy Helped 7,500 of our customers to unlock more value from their homes in these tough times UK General insurance and health Operational excellence Made significant progress on our transformation change programme designed to deliver true operational excellence Focus on profit Great strides in reshaping our book Rate increases achieved across all commercial lines Improved our price competitiveness and introduced sophisticated pricing techniques Delivery on the promise of scale 265 million of cost savings in the year What have we achieved?
Total sales MCEV operating profit IFRS operating profit 18,756m 1,509m 1,377m 2007 restated: 20,445m 2007 restated: 1,225m 2007: 1,126m PVNBP 11,858m Long-term savings 883m Investment sales 1,485m Fund management 18 m General insurance 656m Net written premiums 5,413m Other operations 12 m 18,756m 1,509m Whats next?
Our medium-term targets are to: Continue to transform our business model Exploit the synergies of our separate UK businesses Generate capital for the group Aviva plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review UK Life Long-term savings Profile and strategy IFRS MCEV Value New As Norwich Union we are one of the leading providers of life, operating operating of new business pensions and investment products in the UK with a total market profit profit PVNBP business margin m m m m % share of 11% and a top three position in our key markets of savings, 2008 751 883 11,858 204 1.7 protection, pensions and annuities.
Our ambition is to offer products 2007 723 822 11,797 278 2.4 and services that provide financial security and peace of mind for our existing 7 million customers, while attracting new customers and delivering profitable growth for our shareholders.
Norwich Union has a compelling combination of balanced Total long-term 14,000 distribution and broad product choice.
We have significant reach saving sales 12,000 into the Independent Financial Adviser IFA sector where we 10,000 transact with over 3,500 registered advisers and conduct significant volumes of business through all the leading networks and service 8,000 providers.
We have successful strategic partnerships with the 6,000 Royal Bank of Scotland Group RBSG and many leading UK 4,000 financial services brands including Post Office Financial Services 2,000 and 18 building societies.
Investment sales Life & Pension sales Our product range includes life assurance and healthcare 0 products which protect our customers and their families in times 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 of difficulty as well as our pension and savings products which Operating profit 900 provide prosperity and help secure a more comfortable retirement 800 for our customers.
700 Our main operations are based in York though we have a 600 significant presence in Norwich, Eastleigh, Bristol and Sheffield.
500 We also have outsourcing relationships with a number of partners 400 including Swiss Re in the UK, WNS in India, Scottish Friendly and 300 International Financial Data Services IFDS.
200 Our ambition is to create value for our customers and protect IFRS operating profit 100 what is important to them.
We also aim to improve financial literacy MCEV operating profit 0 and engage with our customers to provide support and advice 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 whenever it is needed.
In 2008, we received over 8 billion in premiums from our customers, settled 6,500 death claims equating Split of life and 6 1 to 319 million, paid over 1 billion in annuities, 500 million to pension sales 5 pension customers, helped in excess of 14,500 customers make a claim and received 2 million calls from our customers, supported by the commitment of more than 8,500 staff.
% Our people have continued to perform with dedication 1 Individual pensions 31 11,858m throughout 2008.
In our latest survey, the percentage of our people 2 Group pensions 9 3 Annuities 21 who are personally committed to achieving our organisational 2 4 Bonds 28 goals has increased to 89% 2007: 86%, a significant achievement 5 Protection 9 4 3 given the current economic climate and the degree of change 6 Equity release 2 Total 100 within the organisation.
To enhance our approach of offering straightforward, easy to access products and services tailored to individual customer needs, we will continue with our current strategy of: simplifying the business through addressing the legacy system issues built up through past mergers and acquisitions: transforming our business model: realising synergies and operational efficiencies across the UK: and generating capital for the group.
The strategy we embarked on in 2006 has already seen us extract greater value from our business.
Our major simplification and operational initiatives will complete during 2009, and through our investment in technology and customer propositions, will accelerate our transformation into an e-commerce business.
In addition, we will seize the opportunity of our re-brand to Aviva to improve customer experience, deliver first class service and build customer loyalty.
PVNBP m m Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information They also ensure that all customers are treated fairly by striking The marketplace a balance between those wishing to access their capital and those The UK long-term savings market declined by 7% in 2008 remaining in the affected funds.
after five consecutive years of growth.
In 2008 we have seen All of these events have had an adverse effect on the life an unprecedented series of events affect our market including the insurance sector as a whole and we expect further slowdown in global economic crisis, a dramatic slowdown in the housing market new business sales in 2009 across the majority of product lines.
and regulatory impacts such as capital gains tax changes and the Opportunities for growth remain in some market segments, ongoing reviews into the payment protection insurance market particularly within the corporate sector as companies remove and advice-remuneration models.
pension risk from their balance sheets.
In the medium to longer The combination of lower disposable income, cost of living term we expect to see the market return to growth as there remains increases, investment market falls and the onset of an economic a significant savings and protection gap.
The current economic recession have seen the savings ratio decline to its lowest level conditions have left a number of smaller and less well diversified since the 1940s, resulting in an increase in the savings gap and companies in a weaker capital position.
This will drive better the percentage of the population that are financially unprotected.
capital discipline and may encourage further market consolidation.
Overall, people have invested less than in previous years and have already experienced a significant decline in the value of their Operational performance retirement savings and investments.
In 2008 we worked across the business towards making a real In 2008, we saw falls in all the major investments markets difference to our customers.
Actions ranged from simplifying including a 31% decline in the FTSE 100 index, a 20% decline in our direct debit forms to improvements in our service promises commercial property values and a sharp fall in the value of corporate by supporting our ambition to make it easier for customers.
These conditions have resulted in industry wide reductions We improved the accessibility of our offering through e-commerce to with-profits bonus levels, the introduction of market value propositions such as the Simplified Life, introduced new rating reductions for early withdrawals and, in relation to some specialised factors for our annuity business and helped 7,500 of our forms of investment, deferral of settlement of withdrawals.
customers unlock more value from their homes through our Norwich Union customers have not been immune to these equity release products.
We recognise that this has caused disappointment We continue to provide our staff with the tools to meet to many of our customers but these actions reflect our prudent customer needs by developing their knowledge of our industry, management of our funds in these conditions.
In 2008 over 1,000 of our colleagues graduated from the Service Academy, a joint venture with the Chartered Insurance Institute CII which provides an accredited qualification for Customer Experience employees.
A further 2,722 More than Id expect employees are currently enrolled in the programme.
We recognise that service levels in 2008 have fallen below our aspirations in some areas and we have taken the appropriate action to remedy this situation.
We continue to look for ways of improving service and are prepared to partner with third parties where they have greater expertise.
One such example is our wrap offering where, despite our best endeavours to address service and operational issues, we concluded that the proposition was better delivered through a third party and have outsourced the administration to Scottish Friendly.
Throughout the second half of 2008 we have experienced an increase in both the number and frequency of customer calls driven by the ongoing market volatility and the media coverage of the Case study: global financial crisis.
The majority of customers enquired about the value of their policies, as consumer confidence was impacted Well-spotted!
The focus of our service teams was to provide the necessary help and support to customers and re-assure A UK customer contacted our tele-advice them that their savings are safe.
Furthermore, our dedicated team to discuss a new mortgage protection retention team has concentrated its efforts on reminding our policy.
She was concerned about the customers of the features of their policies and associated benefits.
potential cost of her premiums as she In addition the teams proactive customer service engagement led had been treated for breast cancer.
to the retention of over 9,000 policyholders contemplating early However, our adviser, Jason, noticed that surrender of their policies.
she still had some existing policies, For the third successive year we improved our rating in the including critical illness cover but she had Financial Adviser Service Awards and our four-star rating reflects our assumed she couldnt claim because her highest position since 2000 demonstrating that financial advisers are treatment was successful.
So Jason took acknowledging the improvements we are making to our customer responsibility for investigating the situation service.
In advance of the publication of the Retail Distribution and engaged with the claims team on Review recommendations, which will change the way advice is given the customers behalf.
We paid to customers buying retail investment products, we have launched her almost 100,000.
And that virtually our Financial Adviser Academy which is currently supporting over paid off the mortgage she had originally 2,000 advisers in achieving their CII Diploma in Financial Planning.
The savings ratio is the proportion of household income which is saved as a percentage Visit Norwich Union at of total disposable household income.
com Read more about the Retail Distribution Review on the FSA website at www.
uk Aviva plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review UK Life continued We recognise that it will be a real challenge for advisory businesses The value of new business declined in 2008 to 204 million to transform their business models and are fully committed to 2007: restated 278 million leading to a new business margin supporting advisers through these changes.
The reduction in margin in 2008 In July 2008 following extensive discussions with the is attributable to annuity business and reflects non recognition of Policyholder Advocate, Norwich Union announced a 1 billion offer asset yield net of credit default allowances which we have secured to one million eligible policy holders in return for giving up the right above risk-free rate.
In 2008 an estimated 0.5% of additional to the 2.1 billion inherited estate of CGNU Life Assurance Ltd asset yield has been achieved net of default allowances but not and Commercial Union Life Assurance Company Ltd.
This is equivalent to a value 130 million pre-tax investment market performance has caused the value of the estate and this will emerge in future years through the expected return.
to reduce to 1.4 billion meaning that the offer made in July no The effect in 2007 is less pronounced.
Excluding this effect new longer meets our criteria of being fair to both policyholders and business contribution has improved reflecting pricing changes, shareholders.
As a consequence, we are working closely with the management of business mix and the benefit of operational efficiencies.
Policyholder Advocate to see how we can restructure our offer The new business internal rate of return has increased for the and expect to be in a position to provide an update to policyholders third successive year and now stands at 14% for business written in the next few months.
These developments do not affect the in 2008 2007: 13%.
entitlement to receive a 2.1 billion special distribution that we On an IFRS basis, life operating profit increased by 4% to announced in early 2008.
751 million 2007: 723 million, driven by the with-profits business Throughout 2008 we continued to be customer centric and and supported by 124 million of profit relating to the shareholder diversify and improve our product offering and distribution footprint.
proportion of the special distribution announced in February 2008.
We successfully launched our Norwich Union Income drawdown The non-profit result was 462 million 2007: 545 million.
product and enhanced our annuities ratings factors to include The prior year result included a 167 million one-off benefit from postcode, smoking and marital status, enabling us to satisfy the implementation of the reserving changes introduced by PS06 14. customer needs with products that are designed to meet their Underlying earnings were up 84 million reflecting the cumulative individual requirements throughout their lives.
benefits of the efficiency programme 65 million and lower new Our simplification strategy has proceeded at pace throughout business strain.
2008 We have made significant progress in our partnership with In 2008 we have strengthened our allowances for credit Swiss Re with over one million policies now administered on their defaults on commercial mortgages and corporate bonds held systems.
This in turn has allowed us to switch off over 200 systems by shareholders by 550 million bringing total allowances at and we remain on track to meet our 100 million annualised cost 31 December 2008 to 1.13 billion, equating to 85 bps over the savings target by the end of 2009, 60 million of which has already lifetime of these securities.
Despite the effects of falling investment been achieved.
markets and the increases in default allowances, the solvency position of our funds remain healthy.
Financial commentary Finally, on an MCEV basis the embedded value of our life business has fallen to 4.9 billion 2007: 6.9 billion reflecting In 2008 we delivered our highest life and pension sales, up 1% the impact on net worth and future profits of adverse investment to 11,858 million 2007 restated: 11,797 million increasing market movements.
This performance was underpinned by: the success of our pensions strategy, growth in Outlook annuities and higher sales through our joint venture with RBSG whose sales were 1,639 million restated 2007: 1,615 million.
The outlook for 2009 is very uncertain as the impact of the global Sales of collective investments were lower by 46% in 2008 at financial crises continues to affect customers' ability to save and 1,485 million 2007: 2,751 million, as a result of the down-turn plan effectively.
We expect the trends experienced in 2008 to in the property, equity and fixed income markets.
In the current environment we will Our operating profit for the year on an MCEV basis was up maintain our focus on rigorous capital discipline and on driving 7% to 883 million 2007 restated: 822 million as we improved higher returns through operational efficiency, product innovation performance from our in-force book, maintained our focus on and targeted commission changes.
We are optimistic that we our control of persistency variances and continued to deliver on can continue to deliver profitable growth in these turbulent times.
We are confident that through our strong brand, extensive Our continued focus on retention initiatives have enabled product range and distribution reach we will emerge from these us to contain our lapse experience to a loss of 23 million, economic conditions in a strong position.
We also expect that against a backdrop of changes to capital gains tax rules for bonds our strategy of simplifying and transforming our business, and the prevailing economic climate.
In addition, we have taken coupled with the resilience of our compelling business model the prudent step of establishing an additional provision of will provide us with the opportunity to capitalise on our leading 50 million in anticipation of higher short-term recessionary position in the market place and create further shareholder value.
related withdrawals and a further provision of 20 million in relation to likely increases in mortgage and income protection related claims as unemployment rises.
The adverse expense experience variance has halved in 2008 to approximately 40 million, leaving us on track to achieve our commitment of a zero cost overrun in 2009 as we deliver the full benefit of the 100 million annualised cost savings announced in October 2007. Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV UK General insurance and health Other information General insurance and health Profile and strategy IFRS Combined Long-term As Norwich Union Insurance NUI we are the leading general insurer operating operating Net written Underwriting investment in the UK, with 14% of the total market.
We focus on personal and profit ratio premium result return m % m m m SME small to medium enterprise insurance and are also a leading 2008 656 99 5,413 71 585 provider of roadside assistance through the RAC.
2007 421 106 5,896 226 647 We have unparalleled distribution reach.
Our personal Norwich Union Insurance only.
products are sold directly to customers over the phone and through our website www.
com, via brokers and through over 100 corporate partnerships.
For commercial insurance we Analysis of UK general insurance and health results focus on broker distribution and believe that independent brokers remain the best source of the advice SME customers require.
IFRS operating profit Net written premiums We contribute to the one Aviva, twice the value vision 2008 2007 2008 2007 by sharing our experience as market leader in the UK general Norwich Union Insurance 566 368 4,981 5,440 insurance market with the groups general insurance businesses Aviva Re 97 53 43 50 across the world, providing peace of mind to our customers and Agency run-off 21 generating cash and capital overtime to support group expansion.
Norwich Union Healthcare 14 389 406 Our strategy to maintain market leadership is to focus on insurance United Kingdom 656 421 5,413 5,896 excellence through: being outstanding in the core general insurance skills of 106 IFRS operating underwriting, pricing and claims handling that will allow us 105 1,000 profit to create the conditions for profitable growth: 104 103 800 reshaping our book of business to maximise our access to 102 customers whilst delivering a sustainable distribution ratio: 101 600 100 delivering the promise of scale by addressing legacy issues: 99 400 98 providing products and services that meet the varying needs 97 200 of our customers: 96 Operating profit 95 COR supporting independent brokers and working with our partners 94 0 to present a natural synergy for the benefit of our customers: and 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 inspiring a genuine passion for our business in our people.
Net written 6,000 premiums To underpin these key themes we are executing a series of major 5,000 initiatives across the business.
4,000 The marketplace 3,000 The UK general insurance market continues to be characterised 2,000 by over-capacity, high competition and falling prices.
However, 1,000 after a lengthy period of these soft market conditions in commercial lines, we are seeing tentative signs of hardening although rate 0 increases remain below the level of claims inflation.
There are 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 also early signs that personal lines rates are also starting to harden.
The UK market remains one of the most dynamic in the world both in terms of products and distribution.
In 2008 the proportion of customers buying insurance on-line has continued to increase and this is now a major distribution channel.
In particular, internet price comparison sites have again grown their market share as customers seek price transparency, with sales for personal motor insurance via these sites increasing from 16% to 52% over the last three years.
Two developments have been increasing insurance companies costs in recent years: An increase in the unregulated practice of claims farming This is a major emerging issue for the industry and involves claims being referred to third party companies who generate referral fees which inflate claims settlement costs and drive up the overall cost of insurance for customers without delivering commensurate value.
The growth of broker consolidators This has directly impacted costs through demands for higher commissions from the consolidated broker businesses.
Lately, however, this growth has slowed as capital to fund acquisitions has been increasingly difficult to raise and insurers seek to reduce commissions in an effort to drive down costs.
m m COR % Aviva plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review UK General insurance and health continued The level of creditor business within the market has fallen as a The focus we place on profit has led to a number of key decisions result of reduced lending due to the economic environment and the being made to reshape our book of business.
Within personal lines: response of distributors to the Financial Services Authoritys review We have a clear strategy to distinguish between our direct offerings.
into the sale of payment protection insurance.
Looking forward, NU Direct soon to be Aviva UK Direct Insurance has been the payment protection insurance market will undergo further respositioned away from the aggregators to provide direct customers significant change when the final remedies of the Competition with our best price service.
Initiatives implemented in 2008 to support Commission are fully implemented but the protection provided this include the Happys back advertising campaign and providing to customers by this product continues to be of vital importance price transparency by including competitors prices alongside our particularly in this time of economic instability.
We are actively website quotes.
working with the distributors to ensure our products are designed to provide this protection in a manner that also addresses the We are leveraging the trusted RAC brand to provide the motorist Competition Commissions concerns.
with access to an even wider range of insurance options through the RAC panel, which has now been launched to serve those Operational performance customers who wish to select their insurance provider through a trusted aggregator.
In 2008 we were delighted to be voted General Insurer of the Year at the Insurance Times Awards for the sixth successive year, We have improved price competitiveness through the introduction demonstrating the confidence and trust that independent brokers of sophisticated pricing techniques.
In addition, RAC was voted by JD Power as the best We are committed to supporting independent brokers and have Roadside Assistance provider for the third year running.
established broker networks as well as working on delivering our We made significant progress on our transformational change trading platform directly into the offices of 3,000 independent brokers programme designed to enable us to maintain our market-leading position.
This programme, first announced in October 2007, We are focusing our partner business on where there is both will deliver our core objective of insurance excellence and is a genuine moment of truth and the right return.
underpinned by our focus on building a world class underwriting A moment of truth occurs when there is a clear point in the capability that uses the data and expertise we have to ensure that buying process where purchasing insurance has a logical position we write the right risks at the right price.
at front of mind for the customer.
During the year we have continued to implement initiatives to improve the efficiency of our organisation.
In addition to our ongoing activity to minimise claims inflation, work is well advanced Going the extra mile on the second phase of the programme announced in June 2008 to improve service and enable growth.
This phase is delivering the promise of scale by addressing legacy issues built up through past mergers and acquisitions and is being undertaken with the customer in mind so that we can deliver a much better service once the phase has been completed.
It involves the redesign of the operations function, simplifying our processes and products, delivering improvements in customer services and completing the consolidation of our business from 27 sites into nine modern insurance centres of excellence.
Excellent progress has already been made with over 50 systems decommissioned and 14 properties where NUI or RAC was the main occupier vacated by the end of 2008.
Case study: A perfect start A colleague had just started working in our claims department, when a customer called.
Hed left his chip pan on, fallen asleep, and was upset that he and his wife would have died if their dog hadnt raised the alarm.
He was also confused about his cover his wife usually dealt with insurance, but now suffered from Alzheimers.
Unfortunately, the customer only possessed contents insurance with us so most fire damage wasnt covered.
Thats when our new colleague decided to track down the buildings insurance policy for him.
And make sure they helped this distressed customer.
She even came into work early to do so.
Thats a fantastic show of customer care.
Not to mention the quality of our recruits.
Visit Norwich Union at Read more about the Competition Commission remedies for the payment protection www.
com insurance market on their website at: www.
uk Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information For the transformation to be successful we must have the full Our combined operating ratio has improved to 99% 2007 restated: commitment of our staff as they are ultimately tasked with 106%.
2008 saw a step change in our operational efficiency, its delivery.
As such, one of our priorities is to ensure we create with the expense ratio improving to 12.1% 2007 restated: 13.9% an environment which recognises and fosters the contribution despite the significant reduction in business volumes.
This has and the needs of individuals.
To enable this we have initiated been achieved by 265 million of cost savings in the year, the roll-out of a new talent management framework in 2008, including 200 million from the first phase of our programme a process that will continue during 2009. announced in October 2007, together with the excellent progress As discussed on page 16, Norwich Union will be rebranding already made on phase 2 with over 50 systems decommissioned to Aviva in 2009.
However, we will be retaining the iconic RAC and 14 properties where NUI or RAC was the main occupier brand which continues to command an exceptional level of loyalty vacated by the end of 2008. and we are developing strategies and propositions eg the re-launch In line with group policy as set out in note 2 b on page 146, of RAC Insurance as a panel offering to build upon the position we have moved to a more transparent reserving policy including of trust engendered by this brand.
the discounting of latent claims.
We have also reviewed our latent claims reserves to ensure we are in line with externally benchmarked Financial performance levels.
Accordingly we have strengthened gross undiscounted provisions by 623 million in the year.
The net discounted General Insurance strengthening of 279 million in our latent claims reserves has Total general insurance operating profit was 642 million been included as an exceptional item below operating profit.
This includes a contribution from Aviva Re, Health the group's captive reinsurer, of 97 million 2007: 53 million, Total health insurance operating profit increased to 14 million which benefited from a one-off commutation of 30 million in 2007: nil resulting from pricing decisions throughout the year to the year.
Losses of 21 million 2007: nil relate to agency business improve margins, tighter expense controls and exiting unprofitable in run-off.
The following commentary relates only to NUI.
Our financial performance in 2008 reflects the continuing tough market conditions and our focus on sustainable profitability rather Outlook than volumes.
We have seen net written premiums fall 8% to 4,981 million in 2008 2007: 5,440 million.
While all business Following several years of profitable growth, we anticipate lines have been affected the decline was most notable in creditor, that the challenging market conditions we have seen in 2007 and where volumes have fallen by around 30% reflecting distributor 2008 will continue into 2009, both in the UK general insurance response to the issues with payment protection insurance and the market specifically and the wider economy generally.
In particular decline in lending.
we would expect: In personal lines we have achieved motor rating increases In a mature market such as UK general insurance, trends in gross of 5% 2007: 6%.
Following our initiatives to improve the price domestic product to be reflected in premium levels leading to a competitiveness of our direct channel we have focused on better contraction in volumes quality risks resulting in a reduction in our average premium levels.
Homeowner rates have increased by 9% 2007: 7%.
While overall An increase in the frequency and severity of claims driven by the rating in personal lines has been marginally better than headline economic climate and moral hazard issues such as theft and fraud, claims inflation, the impact of claims farming and an increase in offset in part by lower levels of activity bodily injury claims have adversely impacted profitability.
The commercial market has remained particularly price Offsetting this it is possible that a global shortage of capital and competitive.
Against this backdrop we have reversed the trend of lower investment returns will be catalysts for the market to harden, declining rates seen in the past four years, achieving an overall rate leading to an improvement in underwriting profitability, and may increase in 2008 of 3% a 5% improvement on the 2% reduction also prompt customers to turn to trusted brands such as ours.
Our stance on commercial pricing is underlined by the We are confident that the actions we are undertaking to implementation of the second phase of rating action in the final deliver true operational excellence are the right ones.
We have quarter of the year.
While this represents a significant improvement on already seen tangible impacts from this programme, most notably recent trends, the rating achieved in the year remained below the level in the improvement in efficiency within our organisation, although of claims inflation and has also contributed to a reduction in volumes.
it will take time for all of the benefits to be reflected in our financial Operating profit in 2008 was 566 million 2007 restated: results.
In addition, we will continue to move personal lines rates 368 million, which mainly reflected an improvement in weatherup generally and consistently with the trends we expect in the related claims for the year which were in line with normal market, as well as applying targeted increases to specific segments expectations 2007: 475 million adverse.
This benefit was partly within our book.
offset by a reduction in the savings on prior year claims development In 2009 we will continue with the second phase of the to 285 million 2007 restated: 430 million, including 215 million programme to improve service and drive growth.
As announced of a non-recurring nature, together with a reduction in investment in October 2008 we expect this phase, together with additional returns to 549 million 2007 restated: 613 million.
actions being taken in other areas most notably in the IT function, While the income we have received from our investments to deliver further cost savings of 150 million per annum by 2010. has remained relatively stable, the unprecedented economic The actions taken to reduce distribution costs and impact of volatility experienced in 2008 had a significant adverse impact on claims ratio improvements arising from rating and risk selection our profitability as a result of unrealised losses on our investment will result in a real improvement in current year profitability.
The decision we took last year to fide-risk our balance sheet gives us confidence in delivering a UKGI COR in 2009 in line with by disposing of our equity holdings has given greater stability to our worldwide target of 98% or better, without the benefit of long-term capital returns: however, we remain a major investor in historical levels of prior year support.
the market principally through our gilt and corporate bond holdings.
Looking forward, the market volatility and declining interest rates are likely to continue to influence profitability in the near future.
