We will only succeed by meeting customers needs Governance 82 119 Governance our Aviva plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Board of directors Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Andrew Moss Chairman Group chief executive Age 66 Age 51 Appointed to the Board in January 2005 and became chairman Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Joined as group finance in January 2006.
Currently an independent non-executive director director and became group chief executive in July 2007. of BG Group plc utility and Reed Elsevier plc publishing.
Previously director finance, risk management and operations Former chairman of Aegis Group plc media services and KPMG in Lloyds insurance and formerly held a number of senior International auditors, former deputy chairman of Group 4 management positions at HSBC plc banking.
Securicor plc security services, former member of the supervisory Member of the corporate social responsibility and nomination committees board of ABN AMRO N. V. banking and a former independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery plc drinks and AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
Chairman of the Board and nomination committee and member of the corporate social responsibility committee Philip Scott FIA Nikesh Arora Chief financial officer Independent non-executive director Age 55 Age 41 Appointed to the Board in May 2000 and became chief financial Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Currently Senior Vice President, officer in July 2007.
Joined Norwich Union in 1973 and held a and President of Europe, Middle East and Africa Operations at number of senior positions before joining the Norwich Union Google consumer services.
Non-executive director of Bharti Airtel board in 1993.
Formerly, responsible for the groups insurance telecommunications.
Formerly chief marketing officer and a businesses outside Europe and Aviva Investors, the groups UK member of the management board at T-Mobile communications fund management operations.
Currently a non-executive director and held senior management positions at Deutsche Telekom of Diageo plc drinks and chairman of the European Insurance telecommunications, Fidelity Investments financial services CFO Forum.
and Putnam Investments financial services.
Member of the nomination and the risk and regulatory committees Mark Hodges Wim Dik Executive director Non-executive director Age 43 Age 70 Appointed to the Board in June 2008.
Joined Norwich Union in Appointed to the Board in December 1999.
Currently chairman of January 1991 and held a number of senior roles within the finance the supervisory board of Ziggo Holdings B. V. telecommunications, function before becoming finance director of Norwich Union a non-executive director of Unilever N. V. and Unilever plc consumer, Insurance in 1998 and managing director of Norwich Union of LogicaCMG plc computer services and vice-chairman of Stage Insurance in 2005.
Appointed chief executive of Norwich Union Life, Entertainment B. V. entertainment.
Former Minister for Foreign the groups long-term savings business in the UK, in April 2006.
A former chairman of Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven B. V. consumer and former chairman and chief executive officer of KPN Royal Dutch Telecom telecommunications.
A former chairman of the supervisory board of Holland Casino gaming and of Tele Atlas N. V. information systems, a former member of the supervisory boards of TNT Post Group mail services and ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Member of the corporate social responsibility and the risk and regulatory committees Governance 82 119 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 85 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Mary Francis CBE Carole Piwnica Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Age 60 Age 51 Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Currently senior Appointed to the Board in May 2003.
Currently a member of the independent director of Centrica plc utilities, a non-executive New York and Paris bars, a director of Naxos UK private equity and director of St Mowden Properties plc property development and a non-executive director of Toepfer International GmbH trading, a director of Almeida Theatre Company Limited.
A senior adviser Dairy Crest Group plc dairy foods and a member of the biotech to Chatham House and Governor of the Pensions Policy Institute.
advisory board of Monsanto biotechnology.
Former non-executive Formerly Director General of the Association of British Insurers, nondirector and vice-chairman of governmental affairs for Tate & Lyle plc executive director of the Bank of England, Alliance & Leicester plc agricultural industrial and a non-executive director of S A Spadel banking and Fund Distribution Limited and a senior civil servant.
N. V. food and beverages and former chairman of Amylum Group agricultural industrial.
Chairman of the risk and regulatory committee and a member of the audit and remuneration committees Chairman of the corporate social responsibility committee and member of the remuneration committee Richard Karl Goeltz Russell Walls Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Age 66 Age 65 Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Currently non-executive director of the Warnaco Group Inc clothing and the New Germany director of Signet Jewelers Ltd retail and chairman of its audit Fund investment trust, the Central Europe and Russia Fund committee, non-executive director of Delphic Diagnostics Limited investment trust, the European Equity Fund investment trust and medical and treasurer and trustee of The British Red Cross.
a governor of The London School of Economics and Political Science.
Former group finance director of BAA plc transport, Wellcome plc Former chief financial officer of American Express Company pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella plc textiles.
Former senior financial services and NatWest Group plc banking.
Former nonindependent non-executive director of Stagecoach Group plc executive director of Delta Air Lines, Inc transport and Federal transport and Hilton Group plc leisure and a former non-executive Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac financial services director of the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company transport.
and a former member of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the nomination and the risk and regulatory committees Member of the audit and nomination committees Euleen Goh Scott Wheway Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Age 53 Age 42 Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Currently a non-executive Appointed to the Board in December 2007.
Former director of director of Singapore Airlines Limited transport, MediaCorp Pte Ltd The Boots Company plc now known as The Boots Company broadcasting, DBS Bank Limited, DBS Group Holdings Ltd banking Limited pharmacy and managing director of Boots the Chemist at and the Singapore Exchange Limited.
Former Chief Executive Officer Alliance Boots plc.
Formerly held a number of senior management of Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore banking.
positions at Tesco plc retail services.
Member of the audit and corporate social responsibility committees Chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the corporate social responsibility committee Graham Jones Group company secretary
