Aviva plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Europe What we do Employees and locations Operating brands We operate in 15 countries across Europe and are 16,501 the second largest insurer in the region, providing life, 2007:15,989 general and health insurance products to more than 20 million customers.
Customers are served through Belgium Italy Romania a diverse set of distribution channels, including banks, Czech Republic Ireland Russia brokers, agents, direct sales force, telephone and France Lithuania Slovakia the internet.
Our ability to operate across distribution Germany Netherlands Spain channels allows us to meet different customer Hungary Poland Turkey preferences and respond to market developments.
Case study: Knowledge is power The global economic downturn has hit all parts of the world.
And customers everywhere demand up-to-date information and advice.
In Romania, for instance, were issuing a monthly savings and investment bulletin to help our agents understand the implications of the crisis and ensure their customers make the best financial decisions.
Weve also updated our marketing materials, created an on-line risk profile detector and revised call centre scripts.
Elsewhere in Eastern Europe, were providing additional knowledge and training to our Hungarian agents and broker companies including PR initiatives to better inform customers.
Its all part of our commitment to keeping both colleagues and customers in the loop.
Visit Aviva Romania at www.
ro Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 51 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Whats happened?
Aging populations approaching retirement age Throughout western Europe the baby boomer generations approaching retirement age has increased demand for services that fund retirement and care Economic and market turbulence across Europe Slowing business volumes as consumers adjust spending Bancassurance sales impacted as banks seek to increase liquidity and capital Demand for trusted and secure asset classes as consumers reduce their risk appetite Market harmonisation across the region Converging regulations, cross-border bank and broker consolidation and an increasing global nature of financial markets.
What action have we taken?
Focused on our products, distribution and our customers needs We have responded to difficult economic conditions by adjusting products to meet our customers altered needs such as the launch of the Safe Haven Fund in Ireland Cross border sales from Hungary to Slovakia have increased our geographical coverage We have enacted initiatives that support our distributors and policyholders alike.
Such as explaining to customers most affected by market volatility what is happening in the market and how it impacts them Mergers and Acquisitions Acquisition of VIVAS Health in Ireland completes Hibernians product range New joint venture arrangements in Poland provides additional distribution coverage Increased holding of our profitable Spanish venture in Cajamurcia Vida Introduced a new senior management team and pan European structure What have we achieved?
Total sales MCEV operating profit IFRS operating profit 21,844m 1,925m 1,141m 2007 restated: 20,488m 2007 restated: 1,921m 2007 restated: 1,197m PVNBP 16,990m Long-term savings 1,638m Investment sales 764m Fund management 6m General insurance 397m Net written premiums 4,090m Other operations 116 m 21,844m 1,925m Whats next?
Our medium-term targets are to: Seize unique growth opportunities Leverage our scale across the region Generate capital Aviva plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Europe continued Long-term savings Total sales 2008 20,000 IFRS MCEV Value of New operating operating new business profit profit PVNBP business margin 15,000 m m m m % France 275 692 3,880 135 3.5 10,000 Ireland 61 78 1,299 15 1.2 Italy 48 131 2,331 71 3.0 5,000 General insurance Netherlands 196 187 4,097 73 1.8 Investment sales Poland 162 241 1,842 65 3.5 Life & Pension sales 0 Spain 155 286 2,527 236 9.3 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Other Europe 16 23 1,014 29 2.9 Europe 881 1,638 16,990 478 2.8 Operating profit 1,500 2007 IFRS MCEV Value New operating operating of new business 1,000 profit profit PVNBP business margin m m m m % France 243 568 3,790 144 3.8 500 Ireland 73 85 1,780 37 2.1 Italy 78 137 2,975 77 2.6 IFRS operating profit MCEV operating profit Netherlands 181 316 3,133 8 0.3 0 Poland 110 181 1,120 48 4.3 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Spain 119 233 2,433 181 7.4 Other Europe 27 17 453 7 1.5 Europe 777 1,503 15,684 502 3.2 General insurance and health 2008 IFRS Combined Net Underoperating operating written writing profit ratio premium result m % m m France 107 96 882 39 Ireland 68 103 513 Profile and strategy Netherlands 177 94 2,278 43 Aviva operates in fifteen countries across Europe, providing life, Other Europe 45 98 417 general and health insurance products to more than twenty million Total 397 97 4,090 82 customers.
Our core European business comprises the mature markets of France, Spain, Italy and Ireland, together with the central and eastern 2007 IFRS Combined Net UnderEuropean, higher growth markets of Poland, Russia, Turkey, Hungary, operating operating written writing Romania and the Czech Republic.
In addition, we operate in the profit ratio premium result m % m m Netherlands, Belgium and Germany through our Dutch business France 70 99 733 11 Delta Lloyd.
Delta Lloyd is managed independently from our other Ireland 162 80 474 101 operations due to its governance structure and its performance is Netherlands 169 85 1,717 75 covered in more detail at the end of this review.
Other Europe 41 94 308 10 We provide life and pensions products in each of our Total 442 89 3,232 197 European markets, where we are recognised for the quality of General insurance business only.
our products and customer service.
In addition we provide general insurance products with operations in France, Italy, Poland and Turkey as well as in Ireland, where we are the market leader.
Fund management Customers are served through a diverse set of distribution channels, Investment sales IFRS operating profit MCEV operating profit including banks, brokers, agents, direct sales force, telephone 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 and the internet.
We are the leading provider of insurance via m m m m m m the bancassurance channel in Europe with 31 bank partners.
Netherlands 304 811 10 23 2 17 Other Europe 460 761 4 4 4 4 We have relationships with more than 5,000 brokers and Total 764 1,572 14 27 6 21 independent agents and in addition we operate a direct sales force of more than 8,500 consultants.
Our ability to operate across distribution channels allows us to meet different customer preferences and respond to market developments.
During the course of 2008 we have continued to strengthen our distribution capability across Europe.
Our bancassurance channel has benefitted from the addition of agreements in Spain with Cajamurcia, in Poland with Bank Zachodni WBK, Turkey with Citibank and Tekstilbank and our acquisitions of Avipop and UBI Vita in Italy.
In our retail channel, principally direct and intermediated business, we have successfully launched a direct motor business in Poland On an MCEV basis for 2008 and 2007.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
and acquired VIVAS Health in Ireland.
m m Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 53 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information We have also strengthened our leadership team with the appointment of Andrea Moneta as CEO.
Andrea has extensive experience in the European financial services arena, having held a number of senior positions in UniCredit and the European Central Bank.
Andrea has created a new European leadership team which will lead the transformation of the European business ensuring that our customers, our vision and our values are at the centre of our decision making.
We remain committed to achieving our one Aviva, twice the value targets for shareholders and bringing prosperity and peace of mind to our customers.
The marketplace Europe is the largest market in the world generating more than 40% of global insurance premiums and accounting for over 30% of global personal financial assets.
It has a relatively affluent population of more than 800 million people and encompasses both mature markets, such as France and Ireland, and some of the worlds largest emerging markets, such as Russia and Poland.
Some of the insurance markets in central and eastern Europe have been among Produits innovants the fastest growing across the globe, a pattern that is likely to Innovative products resume once global economic conditions improve.
Insurance market development varies considerably across the region from mature and highly-penetrated markets such as Ireland 4,000 premiums per capita to emerging markets such as Russia and Turkey below 500 per capita.
Within this range some western markets, for example Spain and Italy, have low penetration levels compared with other western European countries and therefore have the potential to grow substantially over the next decade.
The impacts of economic turbulence and the credit crunch have been felt across the region.
While insurers are far less exposed than banks to the availability of capital, business volumes have slowed as consumers adjust their spending and banks seek to increase liquidity and capital.
This changing environment presents us with opportunities.
Insurance products offer a valuable profit stream for banks and can stimulate growth in new bancassurance opportunities.
As the leading bancassurer in the region we are well placed to capitalise on this market trend.
We will also benefit from organic growth opportunities, arising from low market consolidation across the region, the migration of customers to brands in which they have confidence.
Case study: Premium safety Pay as you drive insurance is being piloted in greater Paris.
Launched throughout France later this year, it will allow young drivers to pay lower premiums through actual kilometres driven and usage times.
Its an innovative response to younger drivers needs: 18 to 25-year-olds who havent previously held insurance and drive less than 9,000km per year.
And its designed to promote responsible driving, too.
The pricing system encourages drivers to use the road when accident risks are lowest.
Also, we offer a 10% reduction for parents who hold car insurance with us and ensure their offspring drive their own vehicle rather than more powerful parental cars.
The pilot scheme will also test the re-adjusting of premiums to reflect policyholder behaviour.
Visit Aviva France at Sigma 2008.
Aviva Oliver Wyman research 2007. www.
fr Axco 2008, Comite European des Assurances 2008, Central Intelligence Agency 2008.
Aviva plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Europe continued Over the next decade, Europe will be the region most likely impacted by the effects of an ageing population.
Governments will struggle to fund state pensions and healthcare and will increasingly encourage self provision.
For consumers this will result in an increased need to save but also in a reduction in risk appetite Case study: and a flight to trusted and secure financial services providers.
Web-wise In western Europe, the baby boomer generations approach to retirement will prompt a flow of investments in more secure asset classes followed by increased demand for services that Savings and pensions arent always easy to understand.
Thats why fund retirement and care.
Insurers like Aviva are well positioned weve launched two new educational websites to help French to benefit from this market shift.
fr offers completely impartial Market harmonisation continues across the region as a guidance on investment choices.
The website includes step-byresult of converging regulations, cross-border bank and broker step learning materials so individuals can discover what kind consolidation and the increasingly global nature of financial of saver they are and how to improve their capital management.
While significant differences remain, such as taxation, Meanwhile, www.
fr offers a comprehensive customer expectations and demands are increasingly similar collection of practical and objective information on pension issues.
These trends, when combined with technology Studies have already shown that the French population feel developments, are creating opportunities to leverage product under-prepared for their retirement.
Thats why this website design, efficient operations and expertise across national borders.
aims to show how to best prepare a pension.
We also offer each client a Personalised Pension Assessment.
It all helps to prove that Operational performance customers remain our main focus.
Customer Visit Aviva France at We are committed to providing our customers with prosperity and www.
fr peace of mind and putting them at the heart of everything we do.
Working as a region ensures that we are able to give a consistent Assister ses clients response to the challenges created by the credit crunch.
A number of initiatives have been enacted to support our distributors and Helping customers policyholders alike.
For example, we contacted the 40,000 French unit-linked customers most affected by market volatility to explain what is happening in the markets and how this will impact them.
In Italy, although not contractually obliged, we have signalled our intention to work with our bank partners to support our customers who were impacted by the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the Icelandic banks where customers assets were involved with these organisations.
We have also adapted our savings products to provide customers with safer investment options.
Products and distribution Our European business is an excellent example of Avivas diversity.
We meet customers long-term savings needs in 15 markets, with a broad range of products, through a range of distribution channels.
In France and Poland the majority of our sales are through retail channels, while bancassurance channels dominate sales in Spain and Italy.
Customers in Ireland are served evenly through both retail and bancassurance.
Our businesses are focused on our customers, developing products and distribution based on their needs and supported by actively sharing knowledge and experience across the region.
In 2008 we have adjusted our product and fund offerings to respond to the needs of customers in these difficult economic conditions.
Aviva Europe is also committed to delivering the benefits of one Aviva by capitalising on our scale to achieve further growth and to generate capital and in 2008 we have continued to expand our distribution capability across Europe.
Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Mergers and acquisitions The acquisition of VIVAS Health in Ireland completed Hibernian Avivas product range and we are currently pursuing cross-selling opportunities with our existing life and general insurance operations.
In Poland we launched a new joint venture with Bank Zachodni WBK, the Polish subsidiary of AIB, which provides additional distribution coverage following the conclusion of our partnership with Deutsche Bank.
We also completed our acquisition of UBI Vita in Italy, increased our holding in our profitable Spanish joint venture Cajamurcia Vida to 50% and entered into new bancassurance opportunities in Turkey with Citibank and Tekstilbank.
Corporate responsibility Delta Lloyd Corporate Responsibility CR is fundamental to our vision for Aviva Europe.
Gaining admiration and trust, in particular through Profile and strategy our interactions with customers, partners, our employees and our The Delta Lloyd DL group is one of the top-five leading financial communities, are the natural outcomes of a consistent application services providers based in the Netherlands, with significant of Avivas CR policies and principles.
As an evolving region, operations in Belgium and Germany.
The DL group has over the levels of awareness of CR and the speed of its implementation, 70 billion of assets under management, 4.5 million customers naturally depend on the maturity of each business in each of and employs 6,500 staff.
our markets and its integration with the culture and values of There are three distinct brands in the DL group.
Netherlands the Delta Lloyd brand works exclusively with In 2008 we launched a pan European CR initiative, focusing independent insurance intermediaries, whilst OHRA focuses on raising levels of understanding and engagement to embed our on direct channels such as telephone, internet and mail.
CR approach across the region.
Aviva Europe has received several The third brand comprises a joint venture with ABN AMRO, awards for its CR programme including Aviva Lithuania named reaching customers through the extensive distribution networks as Socially Responsible Company of the year 2007 and Aviva of ABN AMRO bank.
Frances diversity programme awarded the Trophes fide la DLs strategy concentrates on security for its customers and diversit en Entreprise by the National Agency for Social Cohesion other stakeholders through income protection, wealth creation and Equal Opportunities.
Our focus in 2009 will be to continue and risk insurance and is founded on five strategic pillars: reputation, this progression and to share best practices amongst our markets.
distribution power, efficiency, expertise and core values.
The DL Employees group is aiming to secure a position among the top three insurers Operating as one business across 15 European markets offers our in the Netherlands by 2010 and, where appropriate, to grow employees enhanced development opportunities and the chance its banking and asset management businesses.
Scale and cost to gain experience in different locations, as well as stimulating the effectiveness are essential as customers focus on price and use sharing of best practice across the region.
This helps us to improve different distribution channels to buy their financial products.
the retention of talented staff and gives us a competitive advantage.
DL Bank has introduced its own annuity products in response For example, the development of new life policy administration to the challenge from the banking sector, which is now allowed systems in Romania and Czech Republic has been undertaken by to offer unit-linked savings and pension products on the same a team drawn from a number of our markets across the region.
In Belgium the acquisition of Swiss Life Belgium Our philosophy is to treat our employees as individuals, from SNS REAAL on 30 June 2008 further strengthened its position recognising the unique contribution they make to the success in the Belgian life insurance market.
DL has opted for a positioning of our business.
One of the mechanisms we use is an annual of its asset management business as a niche player and aims to employee survey, and in 2008 we were pleased that three quarters expand its activities in Belgium and Germany and to increase third of our people chose to participate.
The results of the survey party distribution.
indicated that we continue to make progress in a number of the DL has actively committed to corporate responsibility ranging areas that matter most to our people.
Importantly, it also enabled from complying with various codes of conduct to realising energy us to identify those areas where we need to make more progress savings.
In May 2008 DL teamed up with Rabobank to become and close the gap between Aviva in Europe and ISR top performing co-owners of Econcern, a sustainable energy company which European companies and thereby become the most admired, operates in 21 countries, and invests in a number of sustainable trusted, sought-after and financially successful company in our energy projects including an off-shore wind-park.
The sale of the health business to OWM CZ Groep Zorgverkeraar UA CZ was completed on 1 January 2009 and as part of the alliance, DL has exclusive rights to market life, general insurance and income protection products to CZs 2.6 million customers.
This agreement will enable DL to focus on its core life and general insurance businesses while providing access to products from a top-three health provider and continuity of service to customers.
Aviva plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Europe continued Case study: Green schemes Hibernian Aviva is taking steps to reduce Irelands carbon tyreprint by offering motorists reduced rates for selected lower CO2 producing cars.
Specifically, we offer a discount of 20% to motorists driving eco-friendly cars such as the Toyota Prius, Honda Civic IMA Hybrid, Ford Focus The Marketplace Flexifuel and Saab 9-3 Flexifuel.
The Dutch insurance market is mature with cost reduction These cars are better for the environment and economies of scale becoming increasingly important.
as they produce lower carbon emissions There is a focus from the customer on increasing transparency and use alternative energy sources through value-for-money high performance products.
such as non-fossil fuels, like hydrogen, There is also an increase in legislation, for example, in the areas and solar power.
of customer protection and new compensation rules for brokers The Dutch savings market is extremely competitive with Visit Hibernian at banks now able to offer retirement products on the same terms www.
In addition, the 2007 industry review of charges on unit-linked insurance policies, combined with volatile equity markets, has reduced demand.
The general insurance market An environmental approach has seen competition on premium rates, particularly in the key motor account.
Following market-wide challenge in respect of charges, DL has agreed a settlement with its unit-linked policyholders.
It is the first insurer in the Dutch market to reach such an agreement which represents a considerable improvement for customers in comparison to the original Financial Services Ombudsman recommendation.
The acquisition of ABN AMRO by the Dutch state and subsequent confirmation of the continuation of DLs long-term joint venture with ABN AMRO has enhanced DLs bancassurance position and ensures that they can continue to provide products to customers through the full range of distribution channels.
Both parties have agreed that the joint venture will be the exclusive insurance partner for both the existing and the future Dutch banking operations of ABN AMRO.
DL is well placed due to its distribution strength, market position and investment in its brands to gain advantage from the current market downturns.
Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 57 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information General insurance and health businesses Net written premiums increased by 27% to 4,090 million 2007: 3,232 million.
Against a backdrop of increasing price competition across a number of countries, operating profit decreased to 397 million 2007: 442 million.
This result has been favourably impacted by the strengthening of the euro and the development of new distribution channels and product launches in the year.
However, these improvements were countered by the current competitive nature of insurance markets, particularly in Ireland and the Netherlands.
Our business in Ireland was greatly impacted by a difficult year for the Irish economy and severe floods which led to an increase in weather related claims.
A more favourable claims experience for our French business was reflected in a 50% increase in operating profits to 107 million 2007: 70 million.
Although the Europe COR has worsened compared with the prior period, at 97% 2007: 89% it remains within the group target of meet or beat 98% and we expect to continue to achieve this target in the future.
Other businesses Regional costs of 28 million 2007: 11 million reflects the first full year of regional costs.
Other operations losses of 123 million 2007: 38 million includes holding company costs in a number of our markets, principally France, Italy and Delta Lloyd.
Additional costs of 30 million have been incurred this year in relation to the implementation of the global financial strategy and other projects.
Financial performance In addition, Delta Lloyds banking and retail mortgage divisions reported an operating loss of 22 million 2007: profit 8 million The financial results of Aviva Europe, including Delta Lloyd, as a result of the adverse economic climate, and in Italy we incurred are described below.
a loss of 6 million in our distribution associate Banca Network Life businesses Investimenti, acquired in December 2007.
The 2007 result benefited Total life and pensions sales were up 8% at 16,990 million from a one-off pension scheme adjustment in France of 17 million.
2007 restated: 15,684 million, buoyed by the strong euro.
Outlook On a local currency basis our sales were down by 7%.
This decline The outlook for trading in 2009 is difficult to predict with any is a direct result of the credit crunch, which also affected our certainty.
We expect new business markets to remain subdued investment sales, which dropped to 764 million 2007 restated: across the region, particularly for life products where the current 1,572 million.
Overall, this is a resilient performance supported economic conditions mean that consumers propensity to save by the diversity of our markets and distribution.
General insurance markets continue to perform Our Aviva Europe new business margin, excluding Delta Lloyd, better in terms of volume, although price competition is fierce, was 4.3% 2007 restated: 3.9% reflecting a focus on profitability.
particularly in the more mature western European markets.
In Delta Lloyd the new business margin reduced to 1.8 % Our focus in 2009 will be the prudent management of 2007 restated: 0.3% due to the writing of large corporate capital, ensuring that we appropriately balance the need to pension schemes.
Overall, the new business margin was 2.8% generate current year profits with a desire to invest in business 2007 restated: 3.2%.
This has been supported by increased development.
Despite difficult economic conditions the process efficiency and strong cost management across the region.
European market still presents a number of growth opportunities.
This will continue to be important in 2009 as new business markets We will be alive to these opportunities yet selective in where continue to contract across much of the region.
In 2009 we will we choose to invest, maximising our shortand medium-term optimise our sales volumes consistent with our focus on prudent returns on capital.
Within the context of these challenging capital management and seeking the greatest returns on capital.
economic conditions, customer retention will be a particular IFRS operating profit increased to 881 million 2007 restated: focus in 2009.
The strength of the euro has had a positive impact on these results and, on a local currency basis, IFRS operating profit decreased by 4%, driven by higher new business strain in Delta Lloyd.
In Poland we saw increased cost efficiencies and higher returns from existing business and in Spain we benefitted from a new bancassurance joint venture with Cajamurcia.
In Turkey we saw the continued successful development of our joint venture AvivaSA.
MCEV operating profit increased by 9% to 1,638 million 2007 restated: 1,503 million.
Currency strengthening had a favourable impact on the result which declined 6% on a local currency basis.
The underlying decrease mainly reflected a strengthening of allowances for annuitant mortality in Delta Lloyd and negative experience variances due to the worsening economic climate.
This was partly offset by good growth across our central and eastern European operations, with increased value of new business and higher expected returns in these growing markets.
