Aviva plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Asia Pacific What we do Employees and locations Operating brands We have been present in Asia Pacific for over 100 years 2,376 and today operate in nine markets across this region.
2007: 2,052 We are particularly focused on providing long-term savings products through a multi-channel distribution Australia India South Korea strategy with particular strength in bancassurance China Malaysia Sri Lanka and wrap administration.
We also sell general insurance Hong Kong Singapore Taiwan products in Sri Lanka and Malaysia and are an established provider of health insurance in Singapore.
Committed to meeting customers needs Case study: No freeze at Christmas Christmas wasnt forgotten at Aviva Australia.
Despite the fund freeze across much of the mortgage sector, we made sure tens of thousands of self-funded retirees received their pension as usual.
Our decision to continue making the payments came just after several major mortgage funders announced theyd be suspending or limiting redemptions.
Our customers have worked hard to fund their retirement and were committed to meeting their needs, explains Frank Lombardo, Aviva group director operations.
There have been lots of discussions about the issues facing retirees but when our customers are worried we need to act now to find solutions.
Visit Aviva Australia at www.
au Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 65 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Whats happened?
Investors confidence has fallen Local stock markets in the Asia Pacific region have been significantly affected by the global economic crisis and sales of investment and investment-linked products have been negatively affected Prospect for continued growth across the region Low insurance penetration, an aging population and high Gross Domestic Product GDP growth indicate prospect for continued growth across the region Bancassurance is the fast-growing channel in the emerging markets of China and India What action have we taken?
Leveraged bancassurance expertise in new and emerging markets New bancassurance partnerships have been formed to consolidate our strong position in the high growth potential markets of India and China Focused on developing successful bancassurance partnerships with our JV partners in new markets of Malaysia, Taiwan and South Korea Realising synergies across the region Substantial investment made to expand our distribution network and optimise our shared service model into high growth potential and new markets Developing and retaining talent Launched a series of initiatives aimed at building our employee brand and developing our top leaders Exceptional performance in developing markets We achieved exceptional growth in the developing China market and had a successful first year of operations in Taiwan along with promising sales in new markets such as South Korea What have we achieved?
Total sales MCEV operating profit IFRS operating profit 3,499m 69m 36m 2007 restated: 4,283m 2007 restated: 101m 2007 restated: 37m PVNBP 1,720m Long-term savings 79m Investment sales 1,746m Fund management 13m Net written premiums 33m General insurance 3,499m Other operations 23 m 69m Whats next?
Our medium term targets are to: Prioritise our portfolio Develop the regional operating model Invest in the markets with the best opportunities Aviva plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Asia Pacific continued Long-term savings Profile and strategy 2008 We have been present in Asia Pacific for over 100 years and today IFRS MCEV Value of New operate in nine markets across this region.
Our footprint spans operating operating new business profit profit PVNBP business margin the markets of Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong, India, China, m m m m % South Korea, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Taiwan.
We are particularly Asia 2 31 1,351 30 2.2 focused on providing long-term savings products and believe that Australia 44 48 369 13 3.5 Asia is still an attractive region for growth due to low insurance Asia Pacific 46 79 1,720 43 2.5 penetration in most countries, an ageing population, a fast expanding middle class and high gross domestic product GDP growth.
Our ambition in the region is to establish Aviva as a leading 2007 international player in Asia Pacific and grow the business to become IFRS MCEV Value of New operating operating new business a meaningful part of the group.
During 2008, we made significant profit profit PVNBP business margin m m m m % efforts and investments to strengthen the Asia Pacific regional team Asia 6 45 1,141 49 4.3 which, under the leadership of Simon Machell, will lead and support Australia 37 50 454 16 3.5 the implementation of our strategy in the region.
Asia Pacific 31 95 1,595 65 4.1 We serve our customers through a multi-channel distribution strategy with particular strength in bancassurance and wrap administration.
We have more than 50 bancassurance partners Fund management throughout the region, including major players such as Development Investment sales IFRS operating profit MCEV operating profit Bank of Singapore DBS in Singapore and Hong Kong, ABN AMRO 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m m m in India and Bank of China and ICBC in China.
In addition we operate Total 1,746 2,660 13 15 13 15 joint ventures with prestigious banks in Taiwan First Commercial Bank, Malaysia CIMB, Sri Lanka National Development Bank and South Korea Woori Bank.
We are a leading provider in the wrap General insurance and health administration business in both Australia and Singapore with our IFRS Combined Net Undersuccessful Navigator platform.
operating operating written writing profit ratio premium result We have made important steps towards realising our ambition m % m m having achieved rapid growth in most of our markets in recent years.
2008 108 33 1 In 2008 we again experienced exceptional growth in China and 2007 4 97 28 3 have had a successful first year of operations in Taiwan.
We started General insurance business only.
operations in South Korea in April and achieved promising sales through the bancassurance channel.
Significant progress was also made in delivering our key regional initiatives.
For example, Total sales the one Aviva regional operating model has started providing 4,000 synergies in IT and product development and is enabling us to share 3,500 skills and services across the group and within the Asia Pacific region.
3,000 Our strong distribution partnerships, wide footprint and regional 2,500 operational model create a solid platform from which to compete 2,000 effectively in the region.
1,500 1,000 The marketplace General insurance 500 Investment sales 2008 was a difficult trading year for the financial services industry.
Life & Pension sales 0 As a region Asia Pacific is not immune to the global economic 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 crisis and local stock markets were significantly affected.
Investor confidence dropped considerably over the year and sales Operating profit of investment and investment-linked products were negatively 80 impacted across the region.
Despite this, the Asia Pacific region remains highly attractive 60 with markets ranging from large and mature to emerging powerhouses.
The low insurance penetration in most countries, ageing populations 40 and high GDP growth indicate that prospects for continued growth in the life and pensions industry are very good.
The latest economic 20 IFRS operating profit forecasts predict GDP growth for the region of 5.8% in 2009.
MCEV operating profit We manage our portfolio of businesses in this region by their 0 stage of development: 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Established: our operations in Australia, Singapore and Hong Kong are established businesses in advanced markets.
High potential: we have fast-growing businesses in India and China which we consider to be the markets with the highest potential for growth in the region.
New start: these are relatively new businesses with strong local bank partners, located in South Korea, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Taiwan.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
Source: Asia Development Bank, December 2008. m m Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 67 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Established markets Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong The Australian market has moved away from older style retail investment products and today over 90% of retail investments are being channelled through the wrap administration market.
While current market volatility and declining investor confidence will clearly have an impact on growth in the short term, we believe that the strong fundamentals in the Australian market will enable double digit growth in both the protection and platform markets over the next decade.
Singapore and Hong Kong are relatively mature markets and are developing as offshore private wealth management hubs in Asia.
As a result, demand for retirement planning and wealth management products is increasing.
High potential markets India, China India is a highly attractive market with its large population, a high gross domestic savings rate creating capital for investment, Responding quickly a large and growing middle class to support long-term growth and the governments commitment to economic reform.
China is also a very attractive market due to its population size and stable, rapid GDP growth.
The life insurance market grew by an average of 26% per annum between 2000 and 2007 and grew by 48% in 2008.
We believe that the low insurance penetration and changing demographics a growing affluent class, an ageing population and the acceleration of urbanisation will continue to fuel growth in the medium term.
We are now the second largest, in terms of total premium income, of the foreign insurance companies in this market with a presence in nine provinces and 39 city branches.
New start markets South Korea, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Taiwan We have recently started joint ventures with bank partners in markets at various stages of development.
In 2008 we commenced our operations in Taiwan and established market entry in South Case study: Korea, both through joint ventures with leading local banks.
Emergency action These are both advanced markets with insurance penetration similar to the UK.
On 12 May, 2008 a devastating Malaysia is an emerging market where the government earthquake hit the Sichuan province initiatives to make the country an international Islamic financing hub of China.
Tragically, tens of thousands are expected to translate into a strong increase in Takaful business.
of lives were lost in the disaster.
And the The life insurance industry in Sri Lanka grew by an average challenge facing colleagues at our Avivaof 19% per annum between 2003 and 2007.
It has South Asias COFCO Sichuan branch was enormous.
fastest ageing population and the low insurance penetration has the potential to drive continued growth in the future.
After an emergency meeting, a command centre was set up.
Text messages were sent to all Sichuan customers, letting them know how to make a claim or get help.
Within three days, the first claim payment of 120,000 yuan was made to a customer in Qingyi town, Mianyang city.
Aviva-COFCO colleagues later donated their bonuses to help those in the worst-affected areas, and colleagues are still working fast to settle claims.
Visit Aviva-COFCO at Insurance Regulatory Commission CIRC.
cn Insurance Board of Sri Lanka, based on gross written premiums.
Aviva plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Asia Pacific continued Operational performance During 2008 we have made substantial investments to expand our distribution network and optimise our one Aviva shared services model.
This model enables us to realise synergies across the region and in 2008 we expanded the existing Singapore and Hong Kong services and introduced this into Malaysia.
We remain committed to supporting expansion in high potential and new start markets to secure future profitability and growth.
As part of the shared service model we have created a regional propositions team to both anticipate changes in customer needs and to lead and coordinate the development of products and their roll out across the region.
Additionally, Navigator, our Australian wrap administration platform, was successfully launched in Singapore in recent years, an example of how we are able to share expertise and provide support to developing businesses.
We plan to build on this success by introducing Navigator in Hong Kong in 2009.
During 2008 we have expanded our customer reach in our local markets.
In Australia, where we recently won Life Company of the Year at the AFA Plan for Life Awards, our strategy of taking strategic stakes in dealer groups has continued to generate additional business.
We successfully acquired an interest in a further dealer group this year and now have five such strategic investments in place.
In addition we have signed a bancassurance agreement with Wide Bay Australia.
The sales of risk products through their branches will commence by the end of the first quarter of 2009.
In India and China bancassurance is a fast-growing channel and in 2008 we signed new bancassurance partnerships to Berkongsi kepakaran consolidate our strong positions.
We are also strengthening our multi-distribution approach by investing in new distribution merentas perniagaan channels such as direct marketing.
In India, we have started up Sharing expertise across the business the Aviva Sales Training and Recruitment Academy ASTRA and have already seen the productivity of our agents improving.
In Malaysia, Taiwan and South Korea we are focusing on developing successful bancassurance partnerships with our JV partners, leveraging Avivas recognised bancassurance expertise.
We have focused on aligning our human resources with the strategic priorities of the business and have initiated programmes to develop our ability to harness adversity and strengthen our leadership.
The goal of making Aviva a great place to work is matched by our ambition to see Aviva recognised as an employer of choice around the region.
A common talent management system was introduced across the region in 2008 along with a uniform reward and recognition programme, bringing the Aviva brand to life and taking us one step closer to achieving our one Aviva vision.
Finally, our aim to integrate responsible practices with corporate business strategy is now firmly embedded into the core culture of the company.
In the past year we have demonstrated a strong belief in our corporate responsibility mission through a Case study: variety of social and environmental initiatives from providing aid Malaysia launches Easylife range to victims of the China earthquake to promoting micro-insurance in India.
We also found ways to build corporate responsibility into our daily activities through developing energy efficiencies Insurance ownership is still relatively low in Malaysia and in the in the workplace, with Australia leading the charge.
2008 Aviva Consumer Attitudes to Savings study, CIMB Aviva found that 35% of Malaysians said they did not understand insurance and 40% wished that somebody else could help to sort out their financial affairs.
Through sharing expertise across our Asia Pacific region, CIMB Aviva has created EasyLife, combining simple products with needs-based advice services to address the need for education.
Well complement Easylife with a range of Easy Takaful plans in 2009.
com Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 69 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information General insurance and health Financial performance Net written premiums in the general insurance and health businesses Long-term savings increased to 33 million 2007: 28 million.
This mainly reflected the contribution from Malaysia which commenced operations in Total long-term savings sales for Asia Pacific were 3,466 million July 2007.
Within this, life and pensions sales Operating profit of nil 2007: 4 million included the costs grew by 8% to 1,720 million 2007 restated: 1,595 million.
of the closure of the Malaysia motor portfolio.
On a local currency basis, life and pension sales were 1% below the prior year and total sales down 26%.
Outlook Investment sales were down 34% to 1,746 million Despite the global economic and financial turbulence, 2007: 2,660 million reflecting consumers reticence to buy Asia remains an attractive growth region.
In 2009, while we investment products in the current volatile market conditions.
will continue to grow the business in line with the market Further to this, investment sales were adversely impacted by we will also focus on the efficient use of our capital.
We have a change to local pension laws in Singapore, which restricts a sound business in Asia Pacific with successful, established external distributions from the government pension fund, partnerships and a strong financial position and we remain and the one-off impact in 2007 of favourable changes in committed to building a strong presence in this region.
In Australia, life and pension sales decreased 19% to 369 million 2007 restated: 454 million.
In addition to the impact of a difficult economic climate, sales in 2007 were very strong following a one-off group pension transfer and Working together favourable changes to superannuation legislation.
Sales of life and pensions products in Asia grew 18% to in times of crisis 1,351 million 2007 restated: 1,141 million.
This was driven by 66% growth in China, following significant expansion of our distribution network, and first-time contributions from our new joint ventures in South Korea and Taiwan.
This growth was partly offset by results from our other Asian operations.
In India and Singapore regulatory changes had a negative impact on our sales while in Hong Kong our products are mainly investment related and were therefore greatly impacted by the market volatility.
MCEV operating profit for our long-term businesses decreased by 17% to 79 million 2007 restated: 95 million.
Lower value of new business of 43 million 2007 restated: 65 million mainly reflected the lower volumes in Hong Kong, a change in lapse assumptions in India, following regulatory changes to a number Case study: of products, and the one-off benefit in 2007 from legislation Facing up to disaster changes in Australia.
These, together with the impact of the start-up businesses in South Korea and Taiwan and changes in business mix to lower margin products in China and India, resulted Colleagues at Aviva Australia pulled in a lower new business margin of 2.5% 2007 restated: 4.1%.
together in response to the recent On an IFRS basis, operating profit from the long-term Victoria bushfire disaster.
businesses improved to 46 million 2007: 31 million due to At Aviva Australia headquarters lower new business strain from reduced sales and changes in in Melbourne, Victorias state capital, the business mix.
determined colleagues immediately assisted with the aid effort.
Within days, theyd donated over AUD$20,000 to the Bushfire Appeal.
Free counselling was also offered to any staff member affected by the disaster.
Allan Griffiths chief executive officer of Aviva Australia, was understandably proud of the magnificent response.
This is what Aviva is all about.
