Aviva plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Executive management Andrew Moss Amanda Mackenzie Group chief executive Chief marketing officer Age 51 Age 45 See page 84 Joined the Group in 2008.
Previously commercial and marketing director for British Gas and has more than 20 years of experience in Philip Scott FIA the marketing and advertising profession.
Holds a Bachelor of Chief financial officer Science degree in Psychology from the University of London and is a graduate of the INSEAD advanced management programme.
Age 55 She is a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, a member of the See page 84 Government Strategic Marketing Advisory Board, a fellow of the Marketing Society and a governor of the National Youth Orchestra.
Mark Hodges Executive director and chief executive, Norwich Union Life Igal Mayer Age 43 Chief executive, Norwich Union General Insurance See page 84 Age 47 Joined the Group in 1989.
Formerly chief executive officer of John Ainley Aviva Canada, chief financial officer and executive vice-president.
Group human resources director Previously finance director for Norwich Union Insurance and Age 52 managing director for CGU Insurance in London.
Holds a BA Joined the Group in 1999.
Formerly held senior HR positions with Honours in Commerce and Economics from the University of WH Smith plc, ICL plc, Priory Hospitals Group and General Electric Toronto, is a chartered accountant and has received an honorary plc.
Previously also Group HR Director for Norwich Union plc and Chartered Insurance Professional designation from the Insurance HR Director for Norwich Union Insurance and Norwich Union Life.
Holds a law degree and is a companion of the Chartered Institute Andrea Moneta of Personnel Development.
Chief executive, Aviva Europe Alain Dromer Age 43 Chief executive, Aviva Investors Joined the Group in 2008.
Previously managing director of Dubai Age 54 Financial Group.
Has extensive experience of European financial Joined the Group in September 2007.
Formerly global head of group services, having held senior executive positions at UniCredit, the investment businesses at HSBC, senior executive vice president and European Central Bank and Accenture.
Holds honours degrees in head of asset management and insurance at Credit Commercial fide Political Sciences and Economics and Business Administration.
France and director of capital markets at La Compagnie Financire Qualified Dottore Commercialista and Revisore Contabile.
Previously at the French Treasury in the Anupam Sahay Ministry of Finance and the French Institute for Statistics and Group strategy and development director Economic Studies.
Educated at lcole Polytechnique, Paris and lcole Nationale fide la Statistique lAdministration conomique, Paris.
Formerly a partner with the global Thomas Godlasky financial services group at McKinsey & Company, advising leading Chief executive, Aviva North America insurers and banks in Europe, USA, Asia and Australia.
Holds an Age 53 engineering degree and an MBA from the Indian Institute of Joined the Group in 2006.
Formerly chairman, president and chief Management.
executive officer of AmerUs Group and chief investment officer of AmerUs Capital.
Previously with Providian Corporation, Federated Investors, Inc and Mellon Bank.
Holds a Bachelor of Science degree in urban and regional planning from Indiana University of Pennsylvania and a masters degree in public administration from the University of Pittsburgh.
A graduate of Harvard Business Schools Advanced Management Program and a Chartered Financial Analyst.
Simon Machell Chief executive, Aviva Asia Pacific Age 45 Joined the Group in 1994.
Formerly chief executive of Norwich Union Insurance in the UK and managing director of the RAC.
Previously held positions with Ernst & Young LLP and Legal & General.
Holds a BA Honours in Economics from the University of Durham and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
