Aviva plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review North America What we do Employees and locations Operating brands Our North America region is comprised of two distinct 5,627 businesses.
In Aviva USA we provide a comprehensive 2007: 4,634 portfolio of life insurance and annuity products to more than one million customers in all 50 states through Canada independent agents and brokers.
Through Aviva Canada, United States we market a wide range of conventional personal and commercial lines insurance to more than three million customers using brokers and affinity groups.
Will you go the extra mile?
Case study: an extra five miles Irez-vous encore plus loin?
on a snowmobile In early spring 2008, a customer had his seasonal cottage vandalised.
Like most of Canada, the city of Fredericton New Brunswick had received lots of snow and the only way to access this particular property was by using snowshoes and a snowmobile.
But that didnt stop two field service representatives... To ensure the customer received immediate service, one of our reps arranged for a snowmobile to get her and her colleague out to the customers property to assess the damage.
The customer was very pleased because Aviva believes in going the extra mileor even an extra five miles on a snowmobile.
Visit Aviva Canada at www.
com Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 59 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Whats happened?
Industry changes Severe credit exposure experienced in the second half of 2008 by many of the largest financial institutions US Security and Exchange Commission SEC adopts new rule which classifies equity indexed annuities as securities for federal regulatory purposes Steady consolidation of highly fragmented general insurance business in Canada Demographic changes With 78 million members of the US baby boom generation approaching retirement age, demand for household savings and insurance products remain high Significant population increases, changing demographic profile and significant economic development in Western Canada drive organic growth opportunity What action have we taken?
Focused on customer needs Major change towards customers-centricity resulted in the launch of Aviva Canadas Lets Change Insurance brand campaign Claims Service Guarantee in Aviva Canada promises great claim experience every step along the experience Wellness for Life programme in the US Optimised regional business model Implemented a major change programme in the highly competitive personal lines market that has streamlined and standardised underwriting We have initiated efficiency improvements and expense reduction programmes focused on delivering streamlined IT infrastructure outsourcing, regional finance function transformation, consolidation of investment accounting and a structured approach to procurement Expanded contribution of asset management Exposure to a more diversified range of investment products became available since Aviva Investors became a single centre of excellence in 2008 What have we achieved?
Total sales MCEV operating profit IFRS operating profit 7,316m 334m 149m 2007 restated: 5,058m 2007 restated: 274m 2007 restated: 229m PVNBP 5,715m Long-term savings 201m Net written premiums 1,601m General insurance 145m 7,316m Other operations 12 m 334m Whats next?
Our medium-term targets are: Optimise business mix, growth and margin Generate capital for the group Aviva plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review North America continued Long-term savings Profile and strategy IFRS MCEV Value New Our North America region is comprised of two major lines of operating operating of new business business, each of which operates in a distinct geographic market: profit profit PVNBP business margin m m m m % life insurance and annuities in the United States and general 2008 16 201 5,715 55 1.0 insurance in Canada.
2007 79 124 3,646 52 1.4 In Aviva USA we provide a comprehensive portfolio of life insurance and annuity products to more than one million customers across all 50 states.
We are currently number one in sales of both General insurance fixed indexed annuities and fixed indexed life insurance.
In response IFRS Combined Net Underto the evolving requirements of the marketplace, the companys operating operating written writing term products were improved and relaunched in 2008.
At present, profit ratio premium result m % m m products are primarily distributed through independent agents and 2008 145 99 1,601 21 brokers, although opportunities may exist to expand our distribution 2007 154 98 1,412 18 capabilities.
Through Aviva Canada, we market a wide range of conventional personal and commercial lines insurance to more than three million customers using brokers and affinity groups.
Total sales 7,000 Aviva Canada is the largest general insurance operation in the 6,000 Aviva group outside of the UK, with a 9% share of the Canadian # 5,000 market.
We have a top five position in all major provinces and are well placed for steady organic growth.
Our success is founded 4,000 on strong fundamentals: strong distribution relationships, 3,000 underwriting excellence and a balanced portfolio of commercial 2,000 and personal lines.
1,000 General insurance The regional executive office is based in Chicago.
This office Life & Pension sales 0 provides governance to the US and Canadian business units, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 leads business development opportunities and determines the strategic direction of the region.
Our four regional strategic Operating profit priorities in 2008 were: 350 300 Grow in existing and new markets: 250 Expand the contribution of asset management by leveraging 200 the capabilities of Aviva Investors: 150 Optimise the regional business model to achieve efficiencies 100 and accelerate performance: and 50 IFRS operating profit Develop a customer-centric culture that is engaging to employees MCEV operating profit 0 as well as customers.
2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 The marketplace USA Split of long-term 1 savings sales 2 United States 3 The US is the worlds largest economy as well as its largest insurance market.
This is especially true for retirement savings products as 78 million members of the baby boom generation 5,715m move into retirement.
% The US savings market is undergoing substantial structural 1 Life 11 changes.
This is the result not only of the shifting demographics 2 Annuities 74 3 Funding agreements 15 of an ageing population but also due to a cascading set of crises Total 100 stemming from US sub-prime mortgage foreclosures, which in turn initiated a massive fide-leveraging effect in the capital markets with a profound adverse impact on many financial institutions.
Retirement savings represent 40% of household assets in the US and, despite the uncertainty affecting the financial markets, people are still saving and buying insurance from brands they trust.
In Aviva USA we are well positioned to respond to this customer need for safety, having savings and investment products with downside guarantees which are a very attractive offering for retiring customers.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
The World Bank, based on 2007 GDP.
3 2008, World Insurance in 2007: emerging markets leading the way.
Investment Company Institute, Research Fundamentals, October 2008, Vol.
# MSA Report, Property and Casualty, Canada, 2008 Published by Market-Security Analysis and Research Inc. m m Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 61 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC has adopted a new rule Rule 151A which classifies equity indexed annuities as securities for federal regulatory purposes on contracts issued on or after 12 January 2011.
In addition to creating additional administrative requirements for issuers, the ruling requires agents to be licensed to sell these products.
Indexed products meet an important customer need and are a key element of our product suite.
We are currently assessing the specific actions needed to position ourselves advantageously with respect to the potential adoption of this or a similar rule.
Canada As the seventh largest in the world, Canadas general insurance market is established and stable.
The four largest provinces generate around 90% of total premiums with Ontario, the largest, # representing 47% on its own.
The biggest growth market is western Canada, where economic development has resulted in significant population increases and a changing demographic profile.
The Canadian general insurance industry is highly fragmented with many small players and no dominant consumer brand.
Steady consolidation has resulted in the top five companies sharing 35% of the market with the top two companies, ING and Aviva, # controlling 20%.
The rest of the industry consists of smaller, provincially based models or niche companies.
Further consolidation is therefore anticipated.
The trend of insurers purchasing independent brokers through loans and minority equity investments continues.
However, the need to preserve capital and the slowing availability of acquisition targets are driving aggressive organic growth activity among the industrys leading insurers.
Emerging distribution opportunities and trends in consumer buying habits are resulting in customers of personal lines progressively moving away from the well-established and Taking care of our customers dominant retail broker model.
Direct and affinity marketing are the fast-growing new channels in personal lines, with commercial lines distribution expected to remain firmly broker based.
Operational performance We made significant progress in implementing our four regional strategic priorities in 2008 and delivered exceptional growth results.
Grow in existing markets In Aviva USA we achieved new business sales of 5,715 million in 2008.
In doing so, we have achieved our target of doubling the scale of the US business a year ahead of plan.
Our decision to exit certain markets in late 2007 to focus on selling higher margin products contributed to a slight decrease Case study: in the sales of life products in 2008.
To pave the way for our Taking time future growth, we made changes to our product mix in response to customer needs.
This included the introduction of new term In a recent claim, the insured had passed insurance products and new fixed universal life products as well away and the beneficiary named was as the expansion of our distribution network with focus on larger his common-law wife.
The insured died in brokerage general agents.
a different state and his wife was refused While we will put greater emphasis on life sales in 2009, the death certificate as she was not next we will continue to market indexed annuities and refresh of kin.
She was very upset and worried our traditional fixed annuity product set in order to capitalise about how the claim could be paid.
on the growing savings and retirement demographic.
We contacted the office in charge and gave them her authorisation as well as documents naming her as the beneficiary.
Shortly afterwards, they agreed to post her a copy of the death certificate.
She got back in touch with us and couldnt express how much she appreciated the extra effort wed shown her.
com Aviva plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review North America continued In general insurance, strong performance in commercial lines ensured sustained growth.
In the highly competitive personal lines market, we implemented a major change programme that included: standardisation, streamlining and automation of personal lines underwriting centralisation of broker underwriting support: and introduction of more than 100 business development roles combined with culture change initiatives in underwriting and sales Expand contribution of asset management As Aviva Investors became a single centre of excellence in 2008, the combined funds under management became larger.
This increased scale has given us exposure to a more diversified range of investments.
Optimise the regional business model We have wholeheartedly adopted the groups one Aviva, twice the value vision and worked hard to implement efficiency improvements and reduce expenses.
This includes ongoing initiatives such as IT infrastructure outsourcing, regional finance function transformation, consolidation of investment accounting and a structured approach to procurement.
Engage our people and customers The launch of Aviva Canadas brand campaign Lets Change Insurance was a major step change in the industry, resulting in a substantial increase in consumer awareness of Aviva in our target territories.
The brand commitment to earn the trust of Canadians is underpinned by a mission to change insurance for the better by being honest about the things people dont like about insurance Spreading the word and taking steps to change them.
A key element of this commitment was the introduction of a unique Claims Service Guarantee in 2008.
The guarantee promises customers great claims service at every step of the experience, with a commitment to refund the customers full premium if they are not completely happy.
The Claims Service Guarantee was the first in a series of proof points designed to showcase our leadership in customer-centricity.
In Aviva USA we introduced customers to our Wellness for Life programme which provides premium reductions to customers who maintain healthy lifestyles.
We provide wellness information services through our affiliation with the world-renowned Mayo Clinic Health Solutions.
We have also maintained our industryleading approach to conducting suitability reviews.
These reviews are designed to ensure that customers understand the design and nature of the product they are purchasing, and that it is appropriately matched to their needs.
Employee engagement in the region remained strong, as demonstrated by a 96% overall response rate to the 2008 climate survey and an employee engagement score of 84%, Case study: well above the industry norm..... saves the day Stewart Hamilton in Scarborough was chatting to a BMO rep and, when he mentioned Aviva, was told he was hearing good things about us.
Asked what specifically, the rep told how a friend of his was very happy because wed sent her a disposable camera to keep in her glove box.
She ended up getting in an accident and there were disputes over what had happened, but the pictures she had taken at the time made her case clear.
She was delighted about how forward thinking we were and has been raving about us ever since.
com Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 63 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information General insurance business Financial performance Aviva Canada continues to deliver profitable growth.
Net written Long-term savings premiums increased 13% to 1,601 million 2007 restated: In the US, our long-term savings sales increased by 57% to 1,412 million with growth in both personal and commercial 5,715 million 2007 restated: 3,646 million.
This was the business and high retention across all lines of business.
In personal second consecutive year of record volumes despite significant lines premiums grew by 10% despite increased competition and challenges in the financial markets which have changed the challenging pricing in a large part of Ontario.
Commercial lines competitive landscape and shaken consumer confidence.
premiums increased 20% due to strong new business coupled We retained our number one sales position in both the indexed with a major broker acquisition in the second half of the year.
annuity and the indexed life insurance markets and have already We achieved rate increases on all lines of business.
doubled sales within two years of the acquisition of the former Both personal motor and homeowner rates increased by 6% AmerUs business, one year ahead of the stated target.
2007: 3% and 4% respectively reflecting general claims experience Expanded distribution, marketing programmes and new in the market.
Commercial motor continues to be a profitable product launches contributed to sales of both our annuity and line for us, and we improved rates by 3% during the year 2007: life products.
63% growth in annuity sales was a significant 6% decrease.
We were able to increase commercial property rates accomplishment given the challenging economic environment.
by 4% 2007: 1% keeping in line with claims inflation and loss Sales of life products, which mainly include indexed universal experience felt across the market.
Liability rates remain extremely life and term assurance products, were slightly down on the prior competitive but we are beginning to achieve rate increases that year as growth was offset by the impact of our tactical decision are broadly in line with claims inflation.
to exit certain markets in late 2007 to focus on selling higher Our combined operating ratio was 99% 2007: 98%.
The claims ratio was in line with 2007 as good prior year loss Funding agreement sales were very strong as the volatile development was offset by higher claims following a harsh winter investment markets created a favourable environment for these and significant storm activity.
However, the expense ratio was large institutional transactions.
slightly higher in 2008 reflecting increased spending to support Long-term business operating profit on an MCEV basis our corporate change programmes and strategic investment.
was 201 million 2007 restated: 124 million, an increase Operating profit decreased 6% to 145 million 2007: of 62% driven by improved value of new business, higher expected 154 million.
Underlying this was an increase in underwriting return from widening credit spreads and less adverse operating result to 21 million 2007: 18 million, offset by lower investment assumption changes.
income following the equity fide-risking that took place in the New business margins of 1.0% 2007 restated: 1.4% were latter half of 2007 as well as lower reinvestment rates on our consistent with 2007.
Annuity margins are lower than those of life bond portfolio.
products but the increases in annuity volumes allowed the value of new business to increase to 55 million 2007 restated: 52 million.
Outlook IFRS operating profit was 16 million 2007 restated: We believe that 2009 will be turbulent as the economy combats 79 million.
Core margins are under pressure due to the low the adverse effects of a crisis many believe is only exceeded by interest rate environment in the US, coupled with a volatile the Great Depression of the 1930s.
This has resulted in lower account values, Despite significant challenges in the financial markets and a higher lapse activity and a higher cost of options to support weaker economy we also believe that in North America we are in the product guarantees.
right place at the right time with the right products.
Our established focus on products with downside guarantees and an ongoing commitment to value-adding programmes and features that are important to customers provide a strong foundation for the future.
2008 was focused on achieving our growth agenda.
The immense change in our environment caused by the financial crisis in late 2008 requires us to be ever diligent on staying financially healthy and strong.
We have adapted our strategic emphasis in 2009 to profitability, productivity and capital efficiency.
To conserve capital, we will focus our attention on our existing core businesses in Canada and the US.
Over the long term, Aviva Canada is well placed to benefit from consumers interest in the purchase of leisure and life style products such as insurance for boats and antique cars, playing to Avivas strength and enabling us to maintain our dominant market share.
We will also continue to address increasing customer demand for choice and simplicity through our multi-distribution model and brand investment in key territories.
In commercial lines, we aim to retain our current market position through our expertise in Canada 160 distribution and product innovation.
Operating 98 140 In addition, we will continue to progress the efficiency and profit and COR 120 effectiveness of the regions operating model.
The North America 96 100 region was in a start-up position at the beginning of 2008: 80 by the end of the year we had established the regional office in 94 60 Chicago and staffed all key positions.
For 2009, our focus will be 40 on ensuring the regions business concepts and processes continue 92 Operating profit to progress the group model with clarity of accountabilities and 20 COR focus across the region.
