Governance 82 119 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 87 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Directors report Other information The directors submit their report and accounts for Aviva plc, together Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, with the consolidated accounts of the Aviva Group of companies, participants are the beneficial owners of shares, but not the for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Business review for the registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised at the Company is contained on pages 14 to 81 and includes a review of discretion of the participants.
No person holds securities in the the Groups operations, current position and future prospects Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the together with a description of the principal activities of the Group Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between and other information required to be included.
Details of material holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the transfer of acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during the year are securities or voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary contained in note 3 to the accounts.
in the articles of association of the Company, the Companys articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
There are a number of agreements that Results take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the The Group results for the year are shown in the consolidated income Company, such as commercial contracts and joint venture statement on page 140. agreements.
None is considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of Dividends control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and The directors are recommending a final dividend of 19.91 pence become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the per share 2007: 21.10 pence, which together with the interim satisfaction of any performance conditions.
dividend of 13.09 pence paid on 17 November 2008 2007: 11.90 pence, produces a total dividend for the year of 33.00 pence per At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be share 2007: 33.00 pence.
The total cost of ordinary dividends paid asked to consider an increase in the authorised share capital of the in 2008, was 902 million 2007: 801 million.
The final dividend Company, to renew the directors authority to allot shares and to for 2008 will be paid on 15 May 2009 to all holders of ordinary reintroduce the Scrip Dividend Plan.
Details are contained in the shares on the Register of Members at the close of business on Notice of Meeting.
Authority to purchase own shares Share capital At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 1 May 2008, The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased shareholders renewed the Companys authorities to make market by 35.9 million ordinary shares during the year.
35,908,796 shares purchases of up to 262 million ordinary shares, up to 100 million 3 3 were allotted under the Groups employee share and incentive plans 8 4% preference shares and up to 100 million 8 8% preference and the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme for the May 2008 dividend.
These authorities were not used during the year and, at the At 31 December 2008 the issued ordinary share capital totalled forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be asked to 2,658 million shares of 25 pence each and the issued preference renew them for another year.
Details are contained in the Notice of share capital totalled 200 million shares of 1 each.
The Company held no Treasury shares during the year.
the issued ordinary share capital constituted 77% of the Companys total issued share capital and the issued preference share capital Directors constituted 23% of the Companys total issued share capital at The following persons served as directors of the Company during 31 December 2008.
All the Companys shares are fully paid up and the year: quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Details of the Companys share capital and shares under option at 31 December 2008 and Nikesh Arora shares issued during the year are given in notes 28 to 31 to the Guillermo fide la Dehesa retired on 31 December 2008 financial statements.
Wim Dik Mary Francis The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Richard Karl Goeltz shares and preference shares as well as the powers of the Mark Hodges appointed 26 June 2008 Companys directors, are set out in the Companys articles of Andrew Moss association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies Carole Piwnica House, or by writing to the Company Secretary and can also be Philip Scott found on the Companys website.
With the exception of restrictions Lord Sharman of Redlynch on transfer of shares under the Companys share incentive plan while Russell Walls the shares are subject to the plan, there are no restrictions on the Scott Wheway voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company.
The biographical details of the persons currently serving as directors appear on pages 84 and 85.
Aviva plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors report continued The Companys articles of association require one-third of the Health and safety directors to retire by rotation each year and also require each The health and safety of the Groups employees is a priority and is director to retire at intervals of not more than three years.
At the reviewed at regular intervals.
Each business within the Group has an forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Mary Francis, Richard Goeltz, appointed health and safety representative, whose role is to bring to Carole Pwinica and Russell Walls, all non-executive directors, will the attention of senior management any areas of concern that retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
should be addressed within the health and safety programme.
Euleen Goh and Mark Hodges will offer themselves for election by Information on health and safety matters is communicated to staff shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting being the first through the normal communication channels.
Under the Groups such meeting after their appointment.
Euleen Goh is a non-executive Health and Safety Policy the Group chief executive is accountable director and was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2009. for health and safety.
Mark Hodges is an executive director with a service contract with the Company, details of which can be found in the Directors Charitable donations remuneration report.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa retired from the Board on 31 December 2008 and Wim Dik will retire at this years Annual The Company has continued to support community initiatives and General Meeting in line with the Boards plans to renew and refresh charitable causes worldwide and the total Group commitment its composition.
during the year was 9.6 million 2007: 6.8 million.
In 2008, the Groups community investment in the United Kingdom Directors interests and indemnity arrangements totalled 5.6 million 2007: 4 million of which 2.2 million 2007: 1.4 million was given in the form of donations to charitable At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest organisations.
The Company continues its global partnership with in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its the Oxfam 365 Alliance which ensures that Oxfam can maintain subsidiary undertakings other than an indemnity provision between a state of constant preparedness, enabling them to respond each director and the Company and service contracts between each immediately to emergencies wherever they occur in the world.
executive director and a Group company.
The Company has The Company promotes a strong volunteering policy and employees purchased and maintained throughout the year directors and are entitled to up to three days annually to support volunteering officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
The Company allocates a part of its budget to matching The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provision contributions to charitable causes raised by staff and for providing contained in the Companys articles of association.
The Company financial support to charities and communities where members of has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of staff give a personal commitment in terms of their time.
the Company, and each person who was a director of the Company during the year, in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in In addition, the Groups businesses are committed to supporting their capacity as directors of the Company or of associated their local communities in line with the Companys strategy which companies.
These indemnities were granted at different times focuses on education, financial literacy and life trauma.
For example, according to the law in place at the time and where relevant are in the United Kingdom the business partners with schools to deliver qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by Section education citizenship modules into schools for 14 19 year olds 309B of the Companies Act 1985 and Section 234 of the with a focus upon economics, as part of the Paying For It scheme.
These indemnities were in force throughout Since 2007, Aviva Canada has partnered with ThinkFirst Foundation the year and are currently in force.
Details of directors remuneration, of Canada.
ThinkFirst seeks to prevent brain and spinal cord injuries service contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are through education by promoting healthy behaviour in children set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Substantial shareholdings Political donations As at 27 February 2009 the Company had received the following At the Annual General Meeting held in 2008, shareholders passed a notification in accordance with the provisions of the Disclosure and resolution, on a precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: the holdings make political donations and or incur political expenditure as such of Legal & General Group plc had fallen below 5% of the total terms are defined in Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the 2006 in amounts not exceeding 100,000 in aggregate.
The definitions used in the Companies Act 2006 are broad in nature and this authority was sought to ensure that any activities Financial instruments undertaken throughout the Groups businesses which could Aviva Group companies use financial instruments to manage certain otherwise be construed to fall within these provisions could be types of risks including those relating to credit, foreign currency undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
During the year exchange, cash flow, liquidity, interest rates, and equity and property the Company sponsored events in support of the rebranding of prices.
Details of the objectives and management of these Norwich Union to Aviva amounting to a total of 8,627 which could instruments are contained on page 32 of the Business review and an be construed to fall within these provisions.
It is not the policy of the indication of the exposure of the Group companies to such risks is Company to make donations to EU political organisations or to incur contained in note 55 to the accounts.
As the authority granted at the 2008 Annual General Meeting will expire on 29 April 2009 renewal of this authority is being sought at this years Annual General Meeting.
Further details are available in the Notice of Meeting.
Governance 82 119 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 89 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The directors in office at the date of this report confirm that, so far Group employees as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of The Groups statement on its employees is set out in the Business which Ernst & Young LLP are unaware and each director has taken review.
all steps that ought to have been taken as a director to be aware of In summary, the Groups commitment to communication and any relevant audit information and to establish that Ernst & Young dialogue with employees continues.
The introduction of a truly are aware of that information.
group-wide intranet has enabled, for the first time, engagement and communication with all employees throughout the Group on a Annual General Meeting single platform.
It also helps management to share information, The 2009 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on ideas and opportunities much faster across the entire business.
29 April 2009 at The Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS A strong emphasis is placed on the provision of news and at 11am.
A separate document accompanying the Annual Report information through a range of media.
Employees have and Accounts contains the Notice convening the Meeting and a opportunities to voice their opinions and ask questions through description of the business to be conducted thereat.
intranet sites, Q&A telecon sessions, opinion surveys and the Groups climate survey which is open to all employees.
Face-to-face briefings By order of the Board.
and team meetings are actively encouraged and are held in all business units across the Group.
The Groups businesses in the Graham Jones Group company secretary United Kingdom have established employee consultative forums 4 March 2009 and a European Consultative Forum convenes annually to discuss Registered Office: St. Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Registered in England matters impacting the business across Europe.
2468686 Employee practice The Group respects all fundamental human rights and will be guided in the conduct of its business by the provisions of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation core labour standards.
Aviva also supports the United Nations Global Compact Principles.
Aviva Group companies are committed to providing equal opportunities to all employees, irrespective of their gender, sexual orientation, marital status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, age, religion or union membership status.
Aviva is an inclusive employer and values diversity in its employees.
These commitments extend to recruitment and selection, training, career development, flexible working arrangements, promotion and performance appraisal.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and to provide specialised training where this is appropriate.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for payment.
Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those terms, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
The Company has no trade creditors.
In respect of Group activities in the UK, the amounts due to trade creditors at 31 December 2008 represented approximately 37 days of average daily purchases through the year 2007: 23 days.
Reappointment of the auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company.
A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and nonaudit fees paid.
Further details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out below in the Audit Committee report.
