Aviva plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Basis of preparation This business review complies with the recommendations of the Forward-looking statements European Union EU Modernisation Directive, the Companies Act This business review contains forward-looking statements about: 2006 Contents of Directors report: Business review and is in line with current best practice.
It is addressed to, and written for, the Our future plans members of Aviva plc with the aim of providing a fair review of our Our current goals business development, performance and position at the current Our expectations of our future financial condition, performance time.
In producing this review, we aim to present a view that is balanced and comprehensive and that is consistent with the size and and results complexity of our business.
The review is written in the context of By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and the risks and uncertainties facing our business.
We anticipate that uncertainty because they relate to future events that are beyond our the format and content of the review will evolve over time, along control.
For example, certain insurance risk disclosures are dependent with developments in our business and the external environment.
on our choices about assumptions and models, which by their nature are estimates.
As such, actual future gains and losses could Key Performance Indicators differ materially from those that we have estimated.
Other factors The Companies Act requires that a fair review of the business that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contains financial and, where applicable, non-financial key estimated by the forward-looking statement include, but are not performance indicators KPIs.
We consider that our financial limited to: KPIs are those that communicate to the members the financial performance and strength of the group as a whole.
Global economic business conditions These KPIs comprise: Monetary and interest rate policies Earnings per share International Financial Reporting Standards basis Foreign currency exchange rates Proposed ordinary dividend per share and dividend cover Equity and property prices Operating profit Market Consistent Embedded Value basis The impact of competition, inflation and deflation Operating profit IFRS basis Changes to regulations, taxes and legislation Long-term new business sales PVNBP The timing and impact of acquisitions and business combinations in relevant industries Return on equity shareholders funds Natural and other disasters Management also use a variety of Other Performance Indicators Changes to consumer saving and spending habits OPIs in both running and assessing the performance of individual business segments and units, rather than the group as a whole.
Our success in managing the above factors OPIs include measures such as new business margins, combined operating ratio and underwriting profit.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and In addition to reporting on our financial performance, it is results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations important that as a forward thinking company we are aware set out in our forward-looking statements.
We undertake no of our wider responsibilities and report on the non-financial obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in aspects of our performance.
We consider that our employees this review or any other forward-looking statements we make.
and customers are fundamental to the success of our business: as such, they form the basis for our non-financial measures, Accounting basis of preparation and include: In addition to presenting our results and financial position on an International Financial Reporting Standards basis, we also use Market Leadership and employee engagement Consistent Embedded Value MCEV as an alternative performance Customer satisfaction measure.
Details of the accounting basis of preparation are set out on the following page.
Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 81 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Accounting basis of preparation Other information International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Critical accounting policies and estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared under IFRS, using The preparation of financial statements requires the group to select standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect IASB and endorsed by the EU.
In addition to fulfilling this legal items reported in the consolidated income statement, balance sheet, obligation, the group has also complied with IFRS as issued by the other primary statements and notes to the financial statements.
IASB and applicable at 31 December 2008.
These are set out on pages 125 to 139.
The financial data contained in the report and accounts has Critical accounting policies been prepared using the groups accounting policies set out on The major areas of judgement on policy application are considered pages 125 to 139.
Where applicable, the financial statements have to be over whether group entities should be consolidated set out in also been prepared in accordance with the Statement of policy D, on product classification set out in policy F and in the Recommended Practice SORP on accounting for insurance business classification of financial investments set out in policy S. issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI in December 2005, as amended in December 2006.
Use of estimates Following a review of our general insurance reserving policy, All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current we have restated the 2007 comparative figures to discount our facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge and long-term latent claims provisions.
We have also reviewed our their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results can policy on the consolidation of managed funds and, as a result, have always differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
made further restatements for the effect of third party participation.
The table below sets out those items that we consider Details are given in note 2 to the financial statements.
particularly susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the relevant accounting policy.
Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis Accounting Item policy of reporting Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities F & K We present the results and financial position of our life and Goodwill, AVIF and other intangible assets N related businesses on an MCEV basis, in addition to the IFRS basis.
Fair value of financial investments S MCEV methodology represents a more meaningful basis of reporting Impairment of financial investments S the value of the groups life and related businesses and the drivers of Fair value of derivative financial instruments T performance than IFRS methodology.
This basis values cashflow from Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W assets consistently with market prices and is consistent with the way Provisions and contingent liabilities Z pricing is assessed and the business is managed.
Pension obligations AA The MCEV methodology adopted is in accordance with the Deferred income taxes AB MCEV Principles published by the CFO Forum in June 2008, with the exception of the use of an adjusted risk-free yield due to Future accounting developments current market conditions for immediate annuities in the UK and We continue to take an active role in the development of new Netherlands and for all US contracts.
Under the MCEV methodology, accounting standards, via industry forums and working parties, the total profit recognised over the full lifetime of an insurance policy and reviewing and providing comment on proposals from the IASB.
is the same as under the IFRS basis of reporting.
However, the MCEV Phase II of the IASBs project on insurance contracts continues to be basis gives a fairer indication of the profitability of business on the most significant area of development for us.
Additionally, shareholders funds on an MCEV basis the IASB discussion paper published in 2007 and continue actively to incorporate internally generated additional value of in-force business engage in the debate.
We fully support the timely development of a AVIF, which is excluded for IFRS reporting.
Our incentive schemes global standard for insurance accounting that reflects the economics and internal management reporting are focused broadly evenly of our business, and are working directly and through the CFO between IFRS and MCEV performance.
These financial statements Forum of leading European insurers, to achieve this.
These include supplementary information on MCEV reporting in the developments are still at a relatively early stage, so it is too soon to Alternative method of reporting long-term business section.
assess the impact this change in accounting will have.
While this standard is under development, we will continue to focus on Longer term investment return MCEV as the best measure of value for our long-term business.
The long-term nature of most of our operations means that shortWe continue to monitor other major IASB projects, including term realised and unrealised gains and losses are shown as an financial statement presentation, liabilities, revenue recognition, adjustment to operating profit.
We focus instead on operating profit pensions accounting and fair value measurement.
incorporating a longer term investment return LTIR.
Our rates of return that we use for equity and property in our LTIR methodology are aligned with the rates that we use under MCEV principles.
For fixed interest securities, we include the amortisation of premiums or discounts arising on purchase, thereby producing an LTIR that is equivalent to the gross redemption yield.
