InvestmentPolicy THE INTRODUCTION  policyis to invest directlyor indirectlyin publicor social infrastructure assets locatedin the UK, Australia, Europe, andNorth Americaand, it is anticipated, in duecourse, in other parts of the OECDworld.
TheGroupintends to continue acquiringoperational andconstruction phaseassets eitherdirectlyor from companiesassociated with or in the same groupas the Investment Advisor andother third partyvendors.
TheGroupintends but is not bound to hold its investments for the long term andmay even hold its investments for the lifeof aproject.
TheGroupwillseekto enhancethe capitalvalueof its investments andthe income derivedfrom its investments.
TheGroupintends to acquirefurther investments within any of the following parameters: investments with  the Existing Portfolio: or investments in other assets or concessions having  characterandin respectof which availabilitybased payments areor willbecomepayableor in respectof which apropertyrentalis or willbecomepayableor in respectof which user paidcharges or payments relatedto amount of use areor willbecomepayable:or investments in infrastructure assets or concessions which, basedon the adviceof the Investment Advisor, the Directors believehave high barriersto entry andexpectto generatean attractive total rateof return over the whole of the lifeof the investments.
Such investments may befor Investment Capitalin singleassets or portfolios of assets andmay ariseglobally.
TheGroupmay  in any location or jurisdiction wherethe investment in question meets the parametersset out above, although the Groupdoes not currently expectto invest to any materialextent in infrastructure projectslocatedin non OECD countries in the foreseeablefuture.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Whilethereareno restrictions on the amount of the Companys assets which may beinvested in any one areaor sector, the Groupwill, over the long term, seekaspreadof investments both  industry sectors in orderto achieve abroadbalanceof risk in the Companys portfolio.
Shareholdersshould note that the actualasset allocation willdependon the developmentof the infrastructure market, market conditions andthe judgementof the Investment Advisorandthe Boardas to what is in the bestinterests of Shareholdersat the time of the relevant investment.
TheGroupwillnot other than in respectof HoldingEntities lendto, or invest in the securitiesof, any one company or group, more than 20 percentof the Groupstotal assets as calculatedat the time the investment or loan is made.
TheDirectorshave adoptedthis investment restriction with the intention of maintaining aspreadof investment risk.
This investment restriction appliesat the time of investment.
TheGroupwillnot berequiredto rebalanceits Investment Portfolio in accordancewith such an investment restriction as aresult of achangein the Net Asset Valueof any investment or of the NetAsset Valueof the Groupas awhole.
Asat 31December2008, therewereno investments accounting for more than 20 percentof total assets.
Untilthe Groupis fully invested andpendingre investment or distribution of cash receipts, cash receivedbythe Groupwillbe invested in cash, cash equivalents, nearcash instruments, money market instruments andmoney market funds andcash funds.
TheGroupmay also hold derivativeor other financialinstruments designedfor efficientportfolio managementor to hedge interest, inflation or currencyraterisks.
TheCompanyandany other memberof the Groupmay also lendcash which it holds as partof its cash managementpolicy.
Such loans may includeloans to companies in the same groupas the Investment Advisor providedthat such loans areat market rates of interest.
In such case, these loans willnot betreatedas  however these willbedisclosedin the FinancialStatements andreportedin note 39 andno further consent shall berequiredfor such loans to bemade.
It is anticipatedbythe Directors that such loans may bemadein circumstances wheresuch acompany is investing in the origination or developmentof further assets within aclass of investments that may beattractive to the Groupto acquirein duecourse and wherethe makingof such loans would enhancethe abilityof the Groupto negotiate the acquisition of further investments.
Asat 31December2008, therewereno loans with or shareholdings in any company in the samegroupas the Investment Advisor.
HEDGING Whereinvestments aremadein currenciesother than GBP, it is expectedthat the  to hedgecurrency risk in accordancewith the  determinedfrom time to time bythe Directors.
Aportion of the  may bedenominatedin currenciesother than GBP.
For example, aportion of the Existing Portfolio is denominatedin Australian Dollars, .
However, any dividendsor distributions in respectof the OrdinaryShares willbemadein GBPandthe market pricesandNet Asset Valueof the OrdinaryShares willbe reportedin GBP.
Currencyhedgingmay becarriedout to seekto providesome protection to the levelof GBPdividendsandother distributions that the Groupaims to payon the OrdinaryShares, andin orderto reducethe risk of currencyfluctuations andthe volatility of returns that may result from such currencyexposure.
Such currencyhedgingmay includethe use of  to  .
BABCOCK & BROWN PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED 7 Investment Policy continued Interest ratehedgingis may becarriedout to seekto provideprotection against increasingcosts of  bythe Groupto financeinvestments.
This may involve the use of interest .
 may also becarriedout andthis may involve the use of RPI swaps .
It is intendedthat the currency, interest rateandany inflationary  Directorson aregularbasis to ensurethat the risks associatedwith movements in foreignexchangerates, interest ratesandinflation  managed.
Such transactions if carriedout willonly beundertaken for the purposeof efficientportfolio managementto enhance returns from the portfolio andwillnot becarriedout for speculativepurposes.
Theexecution of currency, interest rateand inflationary hedgingtransactions is at the discretion of the Company in its capacityas Operator, subjectto the policiesset byand the overallsupervision of the Directors.
LEVERAGE TheGroupintends to make prudentuse of leverageto enhancereturns to investors, to financethe acquisition of investments andto satisfy working capitalrequirements.
Borrowings may bemadebythe Company itself or byany of the HoldingEntities.
Underthe Articles, the Groupsoutstanding borrowings, includingany  support subscription obligations in relation to investments, arelimitedupto 50 percentof the Gross Asset Valueof the Groupsinvestments andcash balances, with the Companyhaving the abilityto borrow in aggregateupto 66percentof such Gross Asset Valueon ashort term i. e. lessthan 365day .
Circumstances wherethis might bethe caseincludefor the purposeof new acquisitions.
For the purposesof the borrowing limitation, outstanding borrowings excludeintra group borrowings andthe debtsof underlying Project Entities.
TheGroupmay borrow in currenciesother than GBPas partof any .
Materialchangesto the investment policyset out in this section may only  of the Shareholdersin accordancewith the Listing Rules.
