Thetotal return to shareholdersover the  andsharepricegrowth was negative24.3%.
This compareswith areturn from the FTSE 250 of negative40.3%andthe FTSE AllShareof negative32.8%.
 is the total return on the 15 year UKGiltplus 2.5%, which over the periodamounted to 18.47%.
TheCompanydidnot meet its benchmarkreturn and, as aresult, no performancefeewas payablein the secondhalfof 2008.
Earlierin the yearthe Company undertook aCShareraising, the proceedsof which wereinvested into six new investments.
An additionaltwo assets wereacquiredin the second half of the year, bringingthe total numberof investments in the Companys portfolio to 50.
Theadditionalassets acquiredin the periodaredetailedin the Portfolio Interests section of the AnnualReport.
In December2008, the Company announced an  of 5.55 pencepersharefor 2009, an increaseof 2.8% over the period.
TheInvestment Advisor recommendedthe Boardincreasethe levelof distribution following areviewof the Companysforecast operatingcashflow, which is anticipatedto beentirelysufficient to meetthis payment.
TheInvestment Advisoris also confident of the Companys abilityto  distributions in future periods.
Akeyissue in the periodhas beenthe uncertainty surrounding Babcock& Brown, the ultimate owner of the Investment Advisor.
Throughout the periodthe Investment Advisor has worked closelywith the  ensurethat the Company was insulatedfrom any  the administration of Babcock& Brown in Australia.
To the extent that this has beenachievedit is in no small partdueto the excellentworking relationships betweenthe Investment Advisor andthe Board.
The Companyandits Investment Advisor have strived to ensure that shareholdershave beenkeptinformedof developments and reassuredthat the safeguardingof the Companys assets has beenthe primefocus of the Companyandits Investment Advisor.
PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE In 2008, it is pleasingto once againreportthat allthe assets, with the exception of the Companysinterest in the RiverCity Motorway project, whose economic interests make upthe Companys portfolio have performedat, or in excessof, their basecase projections.
Theasset management team of the Investment Advisor takes apro active approachto  goodrelationships with the publicsector clients who benefitfrom the individualprojects in which the Companyhas invested is of greatimportanceto us.
Theteam of peoplededicatedto managingthe investments of the Company, 16executives in total, meet regularlywith the publicsector clients andgood relationships areenjoyedcurrently in respectof allthe projectswherethe Companyhas an investment.
Thesegood relationships are, in our view, likelyto continue to  the future as therecontinue to beanumber of  clients arein discussion relatingto the provision of additional capitalworks.
If these works areimplementedthen they arelikelyto have apositive impactfor shareholders.
Theconstruction of an additionalschool site at the Companys Northamptonshire Schools project, which commencedin July2008, is just one exampleof how the Companys positive working relationship with the publicsector clientledto the requestfor extra works to be undertakenwhich resultedin additionalrevenuefor the Company.
VALUATION AND NET ASSET VALUE NAV GROWTH TheCompanysportfolio was valuedat 31 December2008 at 431.8million 2007:330.4million.
TheNetAsset Value NAV perOrdinaryShareas at 31 December2008 was 115.2 pence.
This representsan increaseof 4.6%comparedto the NAVat 31December2007 of 110.1 .
BBPP NAV Rebased NAV m NAV per Share 440.0 115.2 115.0 420.0 110.1 109.5 110.0 107.5 400.0 105.0 102.2 380.0 98.7 100.0 360.0 95.0 340.0 90.0 320.0 85.0 300.0 80.0 09 11 2006 31 12 2006 30 06 2007 31 12 2007 30 06 2008 31 12 2008 BABCOCK & BROWN PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS LIMITED 13 NAV m NAV per Share p Investment Advisors Report continued TheAdministrator  Fund ManagersLimited calculatesthe Net Asset Value NAV of an OrdinaryShare with the assistance of the Investment Advisor, who producesfairmarket valuations of the Groupsinvestments on asix monthly basisas at 30 Juneand31 December.
Thevaluation methodology usedis basedon discounted cash flow methodology andutilises the discount ratesset out below, with the exception of the Companys investment in the RiverCityMotorway projectwhich is valuedat mark to market as it is the Companys only listedinvestment.
Themajor determinants of the discount rateutilisedin  for the Companys assets includesthe risk freerateapplicablein the geographyin which eachasset is locatedas at the valuation dateandthe risk premiumover the risk  the asset in question.
Typicallythis risk  the lifeof any asset as an asset matures, its  established, andthe risks associatedwith its future cashflows decrease.
This is particularlythe casewhereassets move from beingin construction to becomingoperational.
Thediscount rates usedfor valuing the Groupseconomic interests as at 31 December2008 rangefrom 5.9%to 11.4% 2007:6.4%to 10.2% andthe weightedaverageis 7.95% 2007:7.5%.
Therisk premiumappliedbythe Directorsof the Companyin valuing the Companys economic interest is basedon the adviceof the Investment Advisor, market knowledgeand information in the publicdomain from .
Over the periodit has beengratifyingto note the increasein the number of assets in construction in the Companysportfolio as, other things beingequalandon the assumption that construction is completedeffectively, these assets should experiencean increasein valueat that time.
TheCompany has asolid track recordof successfully  assets into the operationalandincome producingphase, having managed18 projects through this stage.
Theacquisitions carriedout bythe Companyin 2008, in particularthe early stageassets which areyet to , have not inhibitedthe abilityof the Companyto generatesufficient operatingcashflow to meet the  expectations mentioned above.
ACQUISITION STRATEGY TheInvestment Advisor advisesthe Directors of the Company in respectof possibleacquisitions.
Theacquisition policyis solely basedaround the acquisition of assets that areanticipatedto beaccretiveto the Companyandto shareholdervalue.
This may be becauseassets canbeacquiredat values that  becauseof confidencethat post acquisition an active asset management strategy canunlock latent value such that the additionalasset becomesaccretive.
Investments arenot  requiredto meet the targetlevelsof return.
TheCompanyhas alwaysmaintaineda conservative approachto gearingnew investments.
Debtis generallyemployedat the underlyingasset level andis non recourse to any other asset or the Company itself.
Debtis typicallyfixedfor the lifeof the asset, ensuring minimal refinancingrisk throughout the portfolio.
In 2008, assets wereoriginatedfrom two main sources: firstly certainassets wereacquiredfrom Babcock&Brown.
Unlikethe Company, Babcock& Brown has beenadeveloperof publicinfrastructure assets andthus takes associatedbidcost andpre close developmentrisks to which the Companys shareholdersarenot exposed.
Once these risks have run off, Babcock&Brown has generallywishedto divest such assets andthe Company has enjoyedacontractual right of first look at allsuch assets which fall within its investment policy.
Whereassets wereacquiredin this way from Babcock& Brown in 2008 they wereacquiredon the basisof independentvaluation  Directors of the Company.
Thesecondmajor source of assets in 2008 was from third party vendors.
PROSPECTS Theperformanceof the Company in 2008, in the view of the Investment Advisor, once againdemonstrated the attractions within aportfolio investment strategy, of holdinginvestments which arenot  other markets e. g. realestate or traditional equities.
Assuch the underlyinginvestment thesis of the Company that investment in publicinfrastructure offers attractive  the possibility of capitalgrowth has receivedsubstantial support.
TheInvestment Advisor believesthat volatility in equityanddebtmarkets is likelyto continue in 2009 andthat in such circumstances, the Companys investment performanceshould remainattractive through its relativelackof correlation with other investment classes.
