The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 5 Managers Review Alex Crooke Thankfully there are very few years when the stock market falls increase both equity exposure and gearing into a sustained rise in by more than 25%, the common definition for a bear market.
The economic background will continue to This past year has certainly been the most difficult and deteriorate into 2009 but the substantial fall in share prices does challenging of my career: by the end of 2008 the Dow Jones begin to discount the current recessionary environment.
During index in the US registered its worst annual decline since the the last serious global economic recession 1990-92, the UK 1930s.
But, what made this last year so terrible was that virtually stock market bounced long before annual GDP growth turned every investable asset class fell sharply in value and there was no positive.
We are looking for a mixture of four key indicators to safe haven.
Investors even began questioning whether the money turn in order to make us positive that there can be a sustained in their bank was safe.
There appeared numerous bubbles, most recovery in share prices.
especially in oil, but these all eventually burst, as the flight to Firstly, we need to see the pace of corporate profit downgrades safety took hold.
Bonds, gold, commodities, equities and house ease.
Again, stock markets usually recover long before actual prices all fell over the year: only government bonds registered upgrades to profits occur, but investors need to have confidence gains and there probably lies the next bubble to be pricked.
that we are past the worst.
Secondly, leading economic indicators Today, government debt looks less of a risk free return and more such as those produced by the OECD, need to show signs of a return free risk.
Thirdly, there needs to be a rally in corporate bonds or It was also an extraordinary year for currency moves.
We have felt stabilising US house prices: both were key indicators of the for sometime that sterling looked over valued and have been recovery from the 1973 bear market.
Finally, there needs to be reducing the portfolios UK exposure in favour of US and evidence that investors risk appetite is increasing.
This is still Japanese assets but we were surprised by the pace of sterlings falling, characterised by the redemptions from hedge funds and depreciation in the second half of the year.
The graphs below increasing deposits in money market accounts.
Bear markets show how sterling moved more in value over the last six months typically trade for 4 to 6 months around their lows and take time than it normally does over decades.
The pound had its worst year to build a base.
This one will be no different and we expect to against the US dollar since the gold standard was dropped in see evidence of this formation during 2009.
The real winner globally was the Japanese yen, rising 40% Our focus, in terms of stock selection, is on quality and security against sterling, driven by the dramatic unwinding of the yen over recovery candidates.
The current painful readjustment in carry trade where low yielding yen was borrowed in order to buy terms of availability of credit will favour the stronger and higher yielding, riskier assets in other currencies.
There may be a moderately leveraged companies and blow away the smoke that little more left to sterlings depreciation but we are approaching a has obscured some pretty poor companies, where leverage has point where it begins to look attractive and over the coming year created an illusion of prosperity.
Companies with access to credit we are likely to be reversing the move into overseas assets.
or new equity will prosper and those that dont will fade or fail.
It Asset allocation has principally focused on reducing gearing and is currently too early and potentially ruinous to base an raising cash balances.
Gearing has been eliminated, leaving a net investment strategy on poor businesses being bailed out as we cash position of 3% at the year end and there has been a expect the future economic recovery to be muted compared to reduction in equity investments as a percentage of net assets.
