The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 19 Directors Richard Brewster Richard Burns Richard Killingbeck Francis Sumner David Thomas Matthew Thorne Richard Brewster FCA Chairman was appointed as a director in Francis Sumner Senior Independent Director was appointed as a 1991 and became Chairman in 2005.
Having qualified as a chartered director in 1997.
He spent most of his working life as a City solicitor accountant he has spent over 30 years in industry.
From 1983 he was specialising in corporate finance.
He was for many years a partner in Chief Executive Officer of D. S. Smith plc until 1991 when he became Norton Rose, Bankers having been one of his plc clients.
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of Jarvis Porter plc until 1998.
Since then he has the Deputy Chairman of the Crown Agents and Vice Chairman of The extended his interests in private equity investment and was until recently City and Guilds of London Institute.
Chief Executive Officer of Interbrandpro Holding GmbH, an international promotional print and speciality board business.
He is also David Thomas FIA was appointed as a director in 2000.
He was Chairman of BlackRock British Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Director and General Manager of Investments of The Equitable Life Assurance Society until April 2001.
For two years from August 1996 he Richard Burns was appointed a director in 2006.
He is a former joint was Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Association of senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and former fund manager of British Insurers and at that time was also a member of the Hampel Monks Investment Trust plc.
He is also a director of Adaptive Venture Committee on Corporate Governance.
In addition he sat on the Managers Ltd, EP Global Opportunities Trust plc, Euronova European Institutional Investors Advisory Group of The Stock Exchange for several Smaller Companies Fund, JPMorgan Indian Investment Trust plc, Mid years and was a member of the Lord Chancellors Honorary Investment Wynd Investment Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust plc.
Advisory Committee which assisted the Public Trustee.
Currently, he is From 1999 to 2006 he was a director of the AIC.
a trustee of the pension fund for the staff of Westminster Abbey and is Chairman of the Abbeys Investment Committee, as well as being an Richard Killingbeck was appointed as a director in 2003.
He has investment adviser to the Staffordshire County Council Pension Fund.
been involved in the financial services industry for 20 years, primarily as a fund manager.
He has held a number of senior positions in the industry Matthew Thorne FCA was appointed as a director on 27 November both in London and New York including being the Chief Executive 2008.
Mr Thorne is an adviser to the Consensus Business Group.
He Officer of Singer & Friedlander Investment Management.
He joined the was Group Finance Director of McCarthy & Stone plc and also asset management subsidiary of Close Brothers Group plc in 2005 and Investment Director for Beazer plc.
A qualified Chartered Accountant, was appointed deputy Chief Executive of Close Investments in 2006, and he has significant experience as a finance director, predominantly in the Chief Executive Officer of its Private Client division in 2008. property sector.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Mike Kerley Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America, Michael Kerley Pacific ex-Japan and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
