20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Directors i Share capital The directors present their report and the j Future developments audited financial statements for the Group for the year ended 31 October 2008.
A review of the investment activities for the year ended 31 October 2008 and the outlook for the coming financial Status year are given in the Managers Review on pages 5 to 16.
The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company a Investment objective and policy as defined in Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section growth in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is dividend growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices required to seek HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approval of Index.
To achieve these objectives the Companys investment its status as an investment trust under the above-mentioned policy is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed Section 842 every year, and this approval will continue to be of international equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversified sought.
HMRC approval of the Companys status as an by both geography and sector in order to reduce investment investment trust has been received in respect of the year risk.
The Manager has the flexibility to invest in any ended 31 October 2007 although this approval is subject to geographic region and has no set limits on individual there being no subsequent enquiries under Corporation Tax country or sector exposures, although the Board regularly Self Assessment.
The directors are of the opinion that the monitors the Companys investments and the Managers Company has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner investment activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom that will enable it to continue to gain such approval.
The up value based investment process to identify suitable Company has no employees.
opportunities and pays particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
ISAs While the Company will mainly invest in international equities, With effect from 6 April 2008: there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as the annual Individual Savings Account ISA investment convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is allowance has been increased to 7,200: and deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular all existing PEP accounts have automatically become Stocks period, enhance the performance of the Company in the and Shares ISAs and are subject to ISA rules and pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any derivative instruments regulations.
such as financial futures, options and currency hedges will only be for the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares The Company will not invest more than 15% of its component of an ISA.
investment portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it invest more than 15% of its Business Review investment portfolio in any other UK listed investment The following review is designed to provide information trusts or investment companies.
primarily about the Companys business and results for the The Company will at times borrow money, both short and year ended 31 October 2008 and covers: long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw a Investment objective and policy down of borrowings may be in currencies other than b Performance for the year and dividends Sterling, provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that particular currency.
The gearing range is c Performance measurement and key performance indicators between 0% and 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% d Management arrangements of Net Asset Value at the time of draw down of the e Related party transactions relevant borrowings.
f Continued appointment of the Manager The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment g Principal risks and uncertainties risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which h Bank facilities and gearing at 31 October 2008 contained over 200 individual
