The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2008 25 Report of the Directors continued authorised and sanctioned to make market purchases of Auditors up to 17,007,781 of the Companys own issued ordinary  LLP have indicated their willingness shares.
Since the AGM the Company has made market to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint purchases for cancellation of 301,024 ordinary shares of  LLP as auditors to the Company, 25p.
The reason for the buy backs was to enhance the net and to authorise the directors to determine their asset value per share.
remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Since 31 October 2008 the Company has made purchases Corporate Governance for cancellation of 50,000 ordinary shares.
A formal statement on Corporate Governance is set out on pages 29 to 33.
The Board is seeking shareholder approval to renew the authority to purchase on the London Stock Exchange up to Environmental Policy a maximum of 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in The Company has no employees and outsources its issue at the date of the AGM equivalent to 16,955,162 investment management and company secretarial services to ordinary shares of 25p each at the date of the Notice of subsidiaries of Henderson Group plc Henderson.
Henderson has implemented environmental management The directors do not intend to use this authority unless to do practices, which include systems to limit the use of nonso would result in an increase in the net asset value per renewable resources and minimise the impact of operations ordinary share and would be in the best interests of on the environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse shareholders generally.
The authority being sought provides gas emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
an additional source of potential demand for the Companys shares.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase Payment of Suppliers shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases It is the payment policy for the financial year to 31 October when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising 2009 to obtain the best possible terms for all business and, the benefit to shareholders.
therefore, there is no single policy as to the terms used.
In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on Recommendation which business will take place and it is the Companys policy The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the to abide by such terms.
There were no trade creditors at above items of special business are in the best interests 31 October 2008 2007: nil.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to shareholders that they Going Concern vote in favour of the above resolutions to be proposed The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to at the forthcoming AGM.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to are readily realisable and, accordingly, that the Group has Auditors adequate financial resources to continue in operational The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of existence for the foreseeable future.
approving this Report are listed on page 19.
Each of those Directors confirms that: By order of the Board to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements of which the Companys W J King FCIS auditors are unaware: and For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited he has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be Secretary expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit 22 January 2009 information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
