Governance C14170 Barclays B 171-188. qxp:Rem Report 6 3 09 01:30 Page 187 Corporate governance Accountability and audit Going concern that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in The Groups business activities and financial position: the factors likely conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or to affect its future development and performance: and its objectives procedures may deteriorate.
and policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and Management has assessed the effectiveness of Barclays internal its capital are discussed in the Business Review.
control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2008.
In making its The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated assessment, management has utilised the criteria set forth by the economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Internal Control Integrated Framework.
Management concluded that, Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the based on its assessment, Barclays internal control over financial reporting foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going was effective as of 31st December 2008. concern basis for preparing accounts.
Managements assessment of and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include Internal control internal controls relating to certain of the Lehman Brothers North American The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management maintain investment banking and capital markets businesses acquired from an effective system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.
These businesses Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of have been included in Barclays consolidated financial statements for the failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable year ended 31st December 2008.
The businesses the controls relating to 2 and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
which have not been included in managements assessment represented Throughout the year ended 31st December 2008, and to date, the Group approximately 1.1% of the group income and 0.2% of the total assets of has operated a system of internal control which provides reasonable Barclays for the year ended 31st December 2008. assurance of effective and efficient operations covering all controls, Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a including financial and operational controls and compliance with laws report on Barclays internal control over financial reporting which is set out and regulations.
Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and on page 192. managing the significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Further Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided regularly reviews these processes through its principal Board Committees.
under Supervision and Regulation in the Risk Management section on The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control page 148.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also semi-annually.
An internal control compliance certification process concluded that no significant changes were made in our internal controls is conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
The or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent effectiveness of controls is periodically reviewed within the business areas.
Regular reports are made to the Board Audit Committee by management, Internal Audit and the compliance and legal functions covering particularly Statement of Directors responsibilities for accounts financial controls, compliance and operational controls.
The Board Audit The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Committee monitors resolution of any identified control issues of Group Auditors report set out on page 191, is made with a view to distinguishing level significance through to a satisfactory conclusion.
for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the The Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF auditors in relation to the accounts.
describes the Groups approach to internal control and details Group policies The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare and processes.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Group accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, Chief Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee.
in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have Quarterly risk reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group prepared individual accounts in accordance with IFRSs as adopted significance including credit risk, market risk and operational risk.
Reports by the European Union.
The accounts are required by law and IFRSs to covering risk measurement standards and risk appetite are made to the present fairly the financial position of the Company and the Group and Board Risk Committee.
Further details of risk management procedures are the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 1985 provides, in given in the Risk management section on pages 69 to 149. relation to such accounts, that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to fair presentation.
Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages The management of Barclays is responsible for establishing and 193 to 298, and the additional information contained on pages 315 to maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Barclays 323, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards supervision of Barclays principal executive and principal financial officers to which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the International which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Barclays internal control over financial reporting includes policies The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and the Directors of Barclays: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of Barclays assets that could have a material affect on Barclays financial statements.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 187 C14170 Barclays B 171-188. qxp:Rem Report 6 3 09 01:30 Page 188 Corporate governance Accountability and audit Disclosure controls and procedures Sec 20F Item 15 a The Group Chief Executive, John Varley, and the Group Finance Director, Chris Lucas, conducted with Group Management an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2008, which are defined as those controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the US Securities and Exchange Commissions rules and forms.
As of the date of the evaluation, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Barclays PLC and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b The management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of Barclays PLC and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Signed on behalf of the Board Marcus Agius Group Chairman 5th March 2009 | 188 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
