C14170 Barclays B 151-156. qxp:B File 09 6 3 09 01:29 Page 154 Directors report Business Review On 18th September 2008, the Company issued 226 million new ordinary shares to certain institutional investors.
The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st December During the period 27th November 2008 to 31st December 2008, 2008 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year 33,000 ordinary shares were issued following conversion of Mandatorily and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Convertible Notes at the option of their holders.
The purpose of the Business Review is to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed their At 31st December 2008 the issued ordinary share capital totalled 8,371,830,617 shares.
Ordinary shares represent 100% of the total issued duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the Company.
share capital as at 31st December 2008.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review The Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, a summary can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: of which can be found in the Shareholder Information section on pages 315-323, contain the following details, which are incorporated into this report by reference: Pages The structure of the Companys capital, including the rights and Key performance indicators 6-9 obligations attaching to each class of shares.
Financial Review 15-65 Sustainability 66-68 Restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, including Risk factors 70-74 limitations on the holding of securities and requirements to obtain which are incorporated into this report by reference.
approvals for a transfer of securities.
Profit Attributable The powers of the Directors, including in relation to issuing or buying The profit attributable to equity shareholders of Barclays PLC for the year back shares in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
It will be amounted to 4,382m, compared with 4,417m in 2007. proposed at the 2009 AGM that the Directors be granted new authorities to allot and buy back shares under the Companies Act 1985.
Dividends As announced on 13th October 2008, in the light of the new capital ratios Rules that the Company has about the appointment and removal agreed with the Financial Services Authority FSA and in recognition of the of Directors or amendments to the Companys Articles of Association.
need to maximise capital resources in the current economic climate, the Board Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain of concluded that it would not be appropriate to pay a final dividend for 2008. the Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The Trustees of the EBTs may The Board intends to resume dividend payments in the second half of 2009, exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their fiduciary at which time it is intended to pay dividends quarterly.
The interim dividend duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing for the year ended 31st December 2008 of 11.5p per ordinary share was paid documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the Bank that their on 1st October 2008 and the total distribution for 2008 is 11.5p 2007: 34.0p normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays shares per ordinary share.
The staff shares were re-purchased by the Company held in trust.
The trustees of the Sharepurchase EBT may vote in respect during the year.
The dividends for the year have absorbed a total of 915m of Barclays shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT, but only at the discretion 2007: 2,253m.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of Share Capital shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the creation of Mandatorily Convertible Notes Sterling, Dollar, Euro and Yen preference shares preference shares in order On 27th November 2008, Barclays Bank PLC issued 4,050m of 9.75% to provide the Group with more flexibility in managing its capital resources.
Mandatorily Convertible Notes MCNs maturing on 30th September 2009 As at 27th February 2009 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this to Qatar Holding LLC, Challenger Universal Limited and entities representing report no preference shares have been issued.
the beneficial interests of HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, In order to minimise the dilutive effect on existing shareholders of the a member of the Royal Family of Abu Dhabi and existing institutional issuance of 336,805,556 ordinary shares in 2007, at the start of 2008 the shareholders and other institutional investors.
If not converted at the holders  option beforehand, these instruments mandatorily convert to ordinary shares shares of 25p each, at a total cost of 171,923,243 this was in addition to of Barclays PLC on 30th June 2009.
The conversion price is 1.53276 and, the 299,547,510 shares purchased for cancellation in 2007.
During 2008 the after taking into account MCNs that were converted on or before 31st Company purchased all of its staff shares in issue, following approval for such December 2008, will result in the issue of 2,642 million new ordinary shares.
purchase being given at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, at a total cost of If there is a change of control of Barclays PLC following a takeover bid, 1,023,054.
Asat27thFebruary2009,  Barclays PLC must so far as legally possible use all reasonable endeavours to repurchase shares up to a maximum of 984,960,000 ordinary shares.
to cause the corporation which then controls Barclays PLC to execute a The issued ordinary share capital was increased by 1,772m ordinary deed poll providing that the holders of the MCNs shall have the right shares during 2008.
In addition to those issued as a result of the exercise during the period ending on 30th June 2009 to convert the MCNs into, of options under the Sharesave and Executive Share Option Schemes and to receive on a mandatory conversion, as the case may be, the class during the year, the following share issues took place: and amount of shares and other securities and property receivable upon On 4th July 2008, the Company issued 168.9 million new ordinary such a takeover by the holders of the number of ordinary shares as would shares in a firm placing to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation.
have been issued on conversion of the MCNs had such MCNs been converted immediately prior to the completion of such takeover.
On 22nd July 2008, the Company issued 1,407.4 million new ordinary The issue of new ordinary shares or certain other securities and rights shares following a placing to Qatar Holding LLC, Challenger Universal of the Company, at any time during the period commencing on 27th Limited a company representing the beneficial interests of November 2008 and ending on the date on which a holder exercises its His Excellency Sheikh Hamad Bin Jassim Bin Jabr Al-Thani, the chairman optional conversion right or on the mandatory conversion date, at a price of Qatar Holding LLC, and his family, China Development Bank, Temasek the Future Placing Price lower than the then current conversion price Holdings Private Limited and certain leading institutional shareholders will subject to exceptions for ordinary shares issued pursuant to employee and other investors, which shares were available for clawback in full share schemes, under the warrants or as a result of certain corporate by means of an open offer to existing shareholders.
Valid applications events result in a downward adjustment to the conversion price subject under the open offer were received from qualifying shareholders in to a minimum conversion price of the then par value per ordinary share respect of approximately 267 million new ordinary shares in aggregate, currently 25 pence so that it equals the Future Placing Price.
The representing 19.0% of the shares offered pursuant to the open offer.
conversion price will also be subject to adjustment if the Company Accordingly, the remaining 1,140.3 million shares were allocated to the distributes an extraordinary dividend or if certain dilutive events occur, various investors with whom they had been conditionally placed.
including bonus issues, rights issues or an adjustment to the nominal value or redenomination of the ordinary shares.
| 154 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Governance C14170 Barclays B 151-156. qxp:B File 09 6 3 09 01:29 Page 155 Warrants Community Involvement and Charitable Donations On 31st October 2008 Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a Barclays has an extensive community programme covering many simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays countries around the world.
The Group provides funding and support Bank PLC, warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new ordinary to over 7,000 charities and voluntary organisations, ranging from small, shares at a price of 1.97775 to Qatar Holding LLC and HH Sheikh local charities, like Passage UK, to international organisations like the Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan.
The warrants may be exercised at any Red Cross.
We also have a very successful employee programme which time up to close of business on 31st October 2013. in 2008 saw more than 57,000 employees and pensioners worldwide If there is a change of control of Barclays PLC following a takeover taking part in Barclays-supported volunteering, giving and fundraising bid, Barclays PLC must so far as legally possible use all reasonable activities.
Further information on our community involvement is given on pages 66 and 67. endeavours to cause the corporation which then controls Barclays PLC to execute a deed poll providing that the holders of the warrants shall The total commitment for 2008 was 52.2m 2007: 52.4m.
The Group committed 27.7m in support of the community in the UK have the right during the period in which the warrants are exercisable to exercise the warrants into the class and amount of shares and other 2007: 38.9m and 24.5m was committed in international support 2007: 13.5m.
The UK commitment includes 19.6m of charitable securities and property receivable upon such a takeover by the holders of the number of ordinary shares as would have been issued on exercise of donations 2007: 30.4m.
the warrants had such warrants been exercised immediately prior to the Political Donations completion of such takeover.
2 The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK nor The warrants contain provisions for the adjustment of the gross did it make any donations to EU political organisations or incur any EU number of ordinary shares in the event of the occurence of certain dilutive political expenditure during the year.
events including, amongst others, extraordinary dividends, bonus issues, Absa Group Limited, in which the Group acquired a majority stake alterations to the nominal value of ordinary shares and rights issues.
in 2005, made donations totalling 186,589 in 2008 2007: 170,142 Substantial Shareholdings in accordance with its policy of making political donations to the major Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from those South African political parties as part of their Democracy Support of other shareholders.
As at 27th February 2009, the Company had been Programme.
Donations are made to parties with more than three seats notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA in the National Parliament as confirmed by the Independent Electoral of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares: Commission.
Support for the deepening of democracy in South Africa remains paramount for the new government.
The Group made no other No.
of ordinary shares political donations in 2008.
Qatar Holding LLC 522,755,622 6.4% At the AGM in 2008, shareholders gave a limited authority for Barclays Axa S. A.
460,195,183 5.5% PLC and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political Legal & General Group plc 330,460,896 4.1% expenditure, within an agreed limit, as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in the Companies Act 2006.
This was similar to an authority given by shareholders in 2007.
This authority, which has not Board Membership been used, expires at the conclusion of the AGM held this year, or, if earlier, The membership of the Boards of Directors of Barclays PLC and Barclays 30th June 2009.
Bank PLC is identical and biographical details of the Board members are The Companies Act 2006 largely restates the provisions of The Political set out on pages 152 and 153.
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The risk of inadvertently Patience Wheatcroft and Sir Michael Rake were appointed as nonbreaching the Companies Act 2006 remains, and the Directors consider executive Directors with effect from 1st January 2008.
Simon Fraser will join it prudent to seek a similar authority from shareholders.
A resolution to the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 10th March 2009, authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make EU political donations subject to regulatory approvals.
Dr Danie Cronj left the Board on 24th April and incur EU political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 2008 and Gary Hoffman left the Board on 31st August 2008.
125,000 is therefore being proposed at the Barclays PLC 2009 AGM.
Retirement and Re-election of Directors Employee Involvement As announced on 18th November 2008, at the 2009 AGM all Directors Barclays is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success will stand for re-election, with the exception of Sir Nigel Rudd and of the Group.
Colleagues are encouraged to participate in share option Professor Dame Sandra Dawson, who will retire at the conclusion of and share purchase schemes and have a substantial sum invested in the 2009 AGM and are not offering themselves for re-election.
Directors Interests Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety Directors interests in the shares of the Group on 31st December 2008 of ways, including the corporate news magazines, intranets, briefings and are shown on pages 178 and 180. mobile phone SMS messaging.
These communications help achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and economic Directors Emoluments factors affecting the performance of Barclays.
Information on emoluments of Directors of Barclays PLC, in accordance  with the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom .
Listing Authority, is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 171 to 186  and in Note 43 to the accounts.
 Directors Indemnities , allemployeesand The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to attract and toour European Works Council, Africa Forum, Unite Amicus section, retain the services of the most able and experienced Directors by offering our .
competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of indemnities .
on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying In addition, Barclays undertakes regular and formal consultations with third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the our recognised trade unions and works councils internationally.
Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in force during the course of Diversity and Inclusion the financial year ended 31st December 2008 for the benefit of the then The diversity agenda at Barclays seeks to include customers, colleagues Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the and suppliers.
Our objective is to recruit and retain the best people, Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur regardless of but not limited to race, religion, age, gender, sexual or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
We strive to ensure our workforce reflects the Activities communities in which we operate and the international nature of the Barclays PLC Group is a major global financial services provider engaged organisation.
We recognise that diversity is a key part of responsible in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth business strategy in support of our increasingly global business.
management and investment management services.
The Group operates Barclays is committed to providing additional support to employees with through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the UK and overseas.
disabilities and making it easier for them to inform us of their specific Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 155 C14170 Barclays B 151-156. qxp:B File 09 6 3 09 01:29 Page 156 Directors report requirements, including the introduction of a dedicated intranet site and of the Central Bank of Indonesia.
On 17th February 2009, Barclays announced disability helpline.
Through our Reasonable Adjustments Scheme, appropriate that Barclays Capital will discontinue operations at its EquiFirst subsidiary assistance can be given, including both physical workplace adjustments, and due to the market environment and strategic direction of the Group.
relevant training and access to trained mentors is also provided for disabled The Auditors employees.
A wide range of recruitment initiatives have been taken to increase The Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external the number of people with disabilities working in Barclays.
auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring Health and Safety the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance Barclays is committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of our of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
More details on this can be employees and to providing and maintaining safe working conditions.
found on pages 212 and 213 and Note 9 to the accounts.
Having reviewed Barclays regards legislative compliance as a minimum and, where the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the appropriate, we seek to implement higher standards.
Barclays also Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, recognises its responsibilities towards all persons on its premises, such  LLP, be reappointed.
 as contractors, visitors and members of the public, and ensures, so far LLP have signified their willingness to continue in office and ordinary as is reasonably practicable, that they are not exposed to significant risks resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the to their health and safety.
Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
Barclays regularly reviews its Statement of Health and Safety So far as each of the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Commitment, issued with the authority of the Board and which applies information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the to all business areas in which Barclays has operational control.
In this Directors has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director statement Barclays commits to: in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For demonstrate personal leadership that is consistent with this commitment: these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by provide the appropriate resources to fulfil this commitment: the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
carry out risk assessments and take appropriate actions to mitigate the risks identified: The Annual General Meeting consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and safety: The Barclays PLC AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference ensure that appropriate information, instruction, training and Centre on Thursday 23rd April 2009.
The Notice of AGM is included supervision are provided: in a separate document sent to shareholders with this report.
A summary appoint competent persons to provide specialist advice: and of the resolutions being proposed at the 2009 AGM is set out below: review Barclays Health and Safety Group Process and the Statement Ordinary Resolutions of Commitment, at regular intervals.
To receive the Directors and Auditors Reports and the audited accounts Barclays monitors its health and safety performance using a variety of for the year ended 31st December 2008. measurements on a monthly basis and the Board HR and Remuneration To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended Committee receives annual reports on health and safety performance 31st December 2008. from the Human Resources Director.
As part of its Partnership Agreement To re-elect the following Directors: with Unite Amicus section, Barclays currently funds full time Health Simon Fraser and Safety Representatives.
Marcus Agius David Booth Creditors Payment Policy Sir Richard Broadbent Barclays values its suppliers and acknowledges the importance of paying Richard Leigh Clifford invoices, especially those of small businesses, in a timely manner.
It is the Fulvio Conti Groups practice to agree terms with suppliers when entering into contracts.
Robert E Diamond Jr We negotiate with suppliers on an individual basis and meet our obligations Sir Andrew Likierman accordingly.
The Group does not follow any specific published code or Christopher Lucas standard on payment practice.
Sir Michael Rake Paragraph 12 3 of Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 requires Stephen Russell disclosure of trade creditor payment days.
Disclosure is required by the Frederik Seegers Company, rather than the Group.
The Groups principal trading subsidiary in Sir John Sunderland the UK is Barclays Bank PLC, the accounts for which are prepared in accordance John Varley with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The components for the Patience Wheatcroft trade creditor calculation are not easily identified.
However, by identifying To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company.
as closely as possible the components that would be required if Schedule 4 To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
of the Companies Act 1985 applied, the trade creditor payment days for Barclays Bank PLC for 2008 were 24 days 2007: 27 days.
This is an To authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make political arithmetical calculation and does not necessarily reflect our practice, donations and incur political expenditure.
which is described above, nor the experience of any individual creditor.
To authorise an increase in the Companys authorised share capital.
Essential business contracts To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities.
There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other Special Resolutions arrangements that are considered essential to the business of the Group.
To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot equity securities Research and Development for cash other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders and to sell In the ordinary course of business, Barclays develops new products and treasury shares.
services in each of its business units.
To renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares.
Financial Instruments To permit General Meetings to continue to be called on 14 clear days notice.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including This is only a summary of the business to be transacted at the meeting the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which and you should refer to the Notice of AGM for full details.
hedge accounting is used, and the exposure to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are set out in pages 75 to 126 under the headings, Barclays By order of the Board approach to risk management, Credit Risk Management, Market risk management, Liquidity Risk Management and Derivatives and in Note 14 and Notes 46 to 49 to the accounts.
Events after the Balance Sheet Date Lawrence Dickinson On 2nd February 2009, Barclays completed the acquisition of PT Bank Akita, Company Secretary , followingtheapproval 5th March 2009 | 156 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
