Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER continued pressure on their currencies.
It also started to become clear that the European Union, the main trading partner for these countries, was likely to head into recession, depressing estimates of future economic activity in the region.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW Investment conditions were exceptionally difficult during the reporting period.
Your Company was able to deliver returns ahead of both the index and comparable peers, but the weakness experienced in markets still meant that the portfolio declined in value along with equities across the Emerging Europe region.
Stock selection was the main factor behind this better performance, highlighting the importance of focusing on high quality investments.
The Investment Managers research efforts allowed a concentration of portfolio holdings in investments where confidence was high.
Asset allocation also had a positive effect, but this year it was less important than stock selection.
The stocks contributing most positively to returns during the year were ENRC a producer of ferrochrome in Kazakhstan, Tekfen Holdings construction and fertilizer in Turkey, International Personal Finance personal lending in Central Europe and Eurocash Polish food retail.
These companies, along with others which contributed positively, share key characteristics: strong focus on shareholder return: high management quality: and an ability to generate free cash flow.
These are the main points on which our investment process focuses.
The main detractors from performance were Gazprom Russian gas producer, Peter Hambro gold mining in Russia and Ferrexpo Ukrainian iron ore producer : all three of these companies suffered from a collapse in investor confidence and sharply falling commodity prices during the reporting period.
While strong businesses, all these companies were overwhelmed by global events.
The majority of the portfolio 54% at the end of the period remains invested in Russia.
The second largest exposure is Poland with a 12% weighting, followed by Turkey and Czech Republic with around 10% each.
The Hungarian exposure remains very limited due to economic concerns.
The country allocation has not added significantly to performance.
However, the timely disposal of Hungarian assets and a reduction in Russian exposure did benefit marginally.
The underweight position in Turkey and Poland relative to the index detracted from performance, although stock selection in these countries added value.
At a sector level, the largest absolute exposure has been to energy, financials and telecommunications, whereas the largest contribution to performance has been from the consumer, industrial and utility sectors.
We remain slightly cautious on the energy sector since cash generation by Russian producers is likely to be less positive than previously.
Nevertheless, we are less cautious than we were, as share price valuations in the sector are now compelling, in our view, and deep value has started to emerge.
Materials exposure was a major driver of performance earlier in the year, and our decision to take profits and move to an underweight position proved well timed.
In particular, we have been actively reducing exposure to base metals such as copper, nickel and aluminium in anticipation of weakening demand in a recessionary environment.
We also reduced exposure to banks and real estate during the period, as the economic downturn is expected to reduce earnings growth in these sectors.
The Emerging Europe banking institutions have not invested directly in low quality bond investments, but they do feel the ripple effects in the form of reduced access to funding and overall negativity towards the banking sector.
