Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER for the year ended 30 September 2008 INVESTMENT APPROACH At Baring Asset Management, we believe that a sound research process is the starting point of any successful investment approach.
Some investment managers like to concentrate their research resources either on analysing companies, or on an assessment of which countries offer the most attractive returns.
In our view it is most effective to analyse both companies and countries, with the goal of investing in the most attractive companies in the most attractive countries.
Furthermore, we look at both companies and countries in the same way, in order to identify the optimal mix.
Our research focuses on Growth at a Reasonable Price, on sensitivity to currency movements, and to other external factors: on the soundness or otherwise of government policy in the case of a country, or business plan in the case of a company : and last but not least, on the level of valuation.
This research gives rise to an assessment of the fundamental drivers of return, and to this we add our own judgement as to the level of return we expect from each asset in which we might invest.
We also check that the resulting rankings are consistent with the broader thematic developments we expect as a firm.
These rankings then allow us to construct a disciplined, concentrated portfolio of our most attractive candidates.
Construction of the portfolio also takes into account the risk side of the equation.
Your Board has laid down for us certain limits and guidelines on the Companys investments which are designed to control excessive risk.
We also pay close attention to the need to run a diversified portfolio, which is at the core of any approach to risk management.
We invest in traditionally volatile markets, and it is important that your Company is not excessively exposed to any one company, country or sector.
REVIEW OF THE PAST YEAR During the year under review, the NAV per share of your Company decreased by 22.8% from 921.43p to 711.41p, while the MSCI Emerging Europe 10 40 Index decreased by 24.8%.
Although the absolute return is clearly disappointing, there was a relative out-performance of 2.0% during the period.
Both asset allocation and stock selection contributed positively to this result.
Although the global investment backdrop has deteriorated rapidly during the year, your Company made a number of portfolio changes in order to protect capital and maintain its investment focus on robust companies in difficult market conditions.
NAV per Share Performance 30 September 2007 to 30 September 2008 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 Sep-07 Oct-07 Nov-07 Dec-07 Jan-08 Feb-08 Mar-08 Apr-08 May-08 Jun-08 Jul-08 Aug-08 Sep-08 Source: Barings as at 30 September 2008 7 Net Asset Value % Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER continued Markets Investment Summary The past financial year proved to be very challenging for Emerging European equities, as both domestic and international investment conditions deteriorated rapidly.
The crisis did not start in Emerging Europe, where markets remained relatively robust until the summer.
It was only as the tremors from the credit crunch in the developed world brought financial institutions to their knees that investors began to understand that the combination of frozen credit markets, leveraged investors and worsening economic conditions were a toxic cocktail for emerging stock markets as well.
Although the effects have been very severe, the causes are familiar: excessive amounts of borrowing and poor lending practices in the financial system globally triggered a crisis of confidence.
Investor appetite for risk collapsed, and banks stopped lending to each other, concerned at the risk of default in this environment.
The authorities around the world undertook measures to restore confidence in the banking system by committing more than US$1 trillion in support of the sector.
This financial rescue was crucial in order to avoid a collapse of the banking system.
However, the global economic outlook remains bleak.
Many economies are either in recession or rapidly revising downwards their short and medium term expectations.
As described, the Emerging European markets proved to be quite resilient in the early stages of the crisis, as Russia was supported by high commodity prices, while strong economic momentum in Central Europe and Turkey delivered good earnings growth.
This was not to last, however as it became apparent that banking problems were not isolated to a few developed countries but would spread to most, if not all, asset classes globally.
The first evidence that the crisis was spreading came as commodity prices fell on the back of worsening news from the real economy or Main Street as the Americans call it.
Speculative capital which had exaggerated the upturn in prices was recalled by lenders as their own balance sheets deteriorated.
The Russian economic situation and investment climate was also hurt by political interference in business and by the military intervention in Georgia.
The Central European and Turkish case would have normally benefited from what were now falling energy prices, but the decision of many investors to reduce exposure to risky assets put substantial Fund, Benchmark and Country Returns 30 September 2007 to 30 September 2008 10% -24.8% -22.8% -40.2% -4.5% -24.4% -36.4% -32.2% 0% -10% -20% -30% -40% -50% Benchmark Bee PLC Russia Czech Poland Turkey Hungary Republic Source: Barings 8
