Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER continued COUNTRY REVIEW AND OUTLOOK Although the current global environment does not provide a great deal of comfort for equity investors, we believe the long-term fundamental drivers for Emerging Europe remain intact.
Short-term developments may bring further deterioration as investors adjust to the idea of global recession, but we believe there will still be scope to generate returns from careful stock selection.
Investor confidence is very low, but so are valuations.
Once the scale of the downturn is more apparent, we believe that equity markets will be able to make progress.
Russia The Russian equity market was disappointing during the period as it declined by 40% in US dollar terms, underperforming regional and global peers.
The perfect storm for the Russian equity market unfolded as a string of negative events took place in fairly rapid succession.
The global credit crunch dramatically reduced investors appetite for risk and Russia could not avoid experiencing rapid capital outflows.
As the crude oil price climbed to a record US$147 per barrel in July 2008, investors expectations for superior economic performance rose.
The sharp reversal to below US$100 per barrel by the end of the period quashed these expectations.
Meanwhile, the military intervention in Georgia further damaged investor sentiment and prompted capital flight, although it had no economic impact on the investment case.
Finally, Mr Putin added fuel to the fire by openly criticising coal company Mechel for its pricing policy.
This combination of international and domestic developments put severe selling pressure on Russian assets, including the Rouble, which had benefited from petro-currency status.
Economic performance in Russia is as always largely dependent on the direction of the oil price and the global liquidity squeeze will inevitably exert pressure on growth.
Russian GDP is still on course for a 7% increase in 2008, but the outlook is less buoyant with the oil price at the time of writing at around US$50 per barrel and with talks about a gradual rouble devaluation into 2009, GDP growth is expected to fall to between 3% and 4% in 2009, although this is still impressive in a global context.
There is a caveat, however, which is that forecasting is very difficult at present: global banking worries are not yet resolved: and the oil price needs to stabilise after its very turbulent performance since the late spring.
Russian foreign exchange reserves of US$540 billion at the end of the period are expected to serve as an economic cushion during the global slow-down.
They will be used to help maintain currency stability, to shore up bank capital and to invest in important infrastructure projects which will raise potential growth in the future.
The political landscape in Russia changed in spring 2008 as Mr Putins second term as President ended and Mr Medvedev took over as the new leader.
As expected, Mr Putin has not departed the political scene and continues as Russias Prime Minister.
The current situation remains stable.
Responsibilities are divided between the two camps, and future political stability relies on the ability of these two leaders to act in concert.
This is likely, in our view, as Mr Medvedev behaves like a loyal protg, while the vast majority of power is still concentrated in Mr Putins hands.
Although the macroeconomic and political backdrop remains supportive for Russia, your Company is currently underweight its benchmark in Russian equities.
In this highly uncertain world, where investor appetite for risk is likely to remain low, and where economic growth everywhere is likely to slow or turn negative, we believe a degree of caution on the immediate prospects for the Russian market is warranted.
10 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE INVESTMENT MANAGER continued Turkey The return from Turkish equities during the reporting period also proved to be disappointing, with a 36% decline in US dollar terms.
Turkey remains one of the highest risk opportunities in the region because of its large current account deficit and inadequate access to funding.
The deficit is largely driven by high energy prices, as Turkey imports around 90% of its oil and gas needs while reliable funding from foreign direct investments and portfolio flows is likely to be severely challenged in an environment of risk aversion.
Although the falling oil price provides relief to Turkey, it still remains at a high level in absolute terms.
We believe further deterioration would trigger weakness in the Turkish Lira and a further erosion of investor confidence.
After a positive outcome from elections in 2007, the Turkish political landscape looked to be stable.
During spring 2008, the market was surprised by an unexpected court decision against the ruling AKP party on the basis of its anti-secular policies.
Although in the end, the decision was reversed, the political uncertainty pushed Turkish assets lower and resulted in capital outflows.
The credit crunch provided a fresh set of worries.
Although Turkish banks did not expose themselves to poor quality US debt and retain high capital adequacy ratios, they have been unable to avoid the global weakness in equity markets.
Turkey has been a favourite market for investors who chose to participate in the so-called carry trade borrowing money cheaply in a foreign currency such as the Swiss Franc or Japanese Yen, and investing the proceeds in high yielding assets such as Turkish bonds or bills.
This worked well while markets were relatively stable, but in the current environment, investors have sought to reduce their investment risk.
Turkish assets have not been spared, in spite of the value they offer.
Your Company remains underweight its benchmark in Turkey, because of economic uncertainty and heavy reliance on external funding.
Stock selection, though, has been positive, and we are monitoring investment opportunities which enable exposure to the broader Middle East region.
Examples include companies like Enka and Tekfen.
Central Europe Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic The equity returns for the three main markets in Central Europe accurately reflected their economic performance.
Polish and Czech equities were the regions best performers, as economic activity in these two countries remained robust.
GDP growth in these economies is also expected to moderate in 2009 although at this point we do not forecast a recession, but rather an orderly slowdown to 2-3% in Poland and 1-2% for the Czech Republic.
Hungarian equities, on the other hand, fell sharply as an already weak economy was further depressed by currency headwinds and high commodity prices.
The Polish economic climate remained fairly robust even through global turbulence.
The three structural forces for growth held steady.
Domestic consumption, EU-driven investments and remittances from overseas workers, all contributed positively.
The Polish consumer operates without significant levels of debt and, because of significant labour shortages, real income growth continues to support economic activity.
Funds from the European Union channelled to  projects continued to flow in.
The outlook is likely to deteriorate in-line with the weakening global cycle, but the financial sector in Poland remains healthy and the economy is not burdened with debt, so we expect the effect to be relatively mild.
Although the Polish Zloty has come under some pressure, the countrys low dependence on foreign trade exports are 25% of GDP compared with 50-60% in the Czech Republic, should help insulate it from the storm outside.
The portfolio is positioned to benefit from relative economic stability in Poland, and has notable exposure to Polish banks.
